           THE INSPECTION PANEL



                The Inspection Panel Report
                            on
                  Request for Inspection
  Nepal: Proposed Arun III Hydroelectric    Project
                            and
Restructuring of the Arun III AccessRoad    Project
                     (Credit 2029-NEP)


                    RequestNo. RQ94/1




December 16, 1994
Washington, D.C.

       ABBREVIATIONS AND       ACRONYMS



ACRP  -    Acquisition, Compensation   andRehabilitation Plan
BP    -    Bank Procedures
EA    -    Environmental Assessment
EAP   -    Environmental Action Plan
HMG/N -    Kingdomof Nepal
IDA   -    InternationalDevelopment Association
IEPS  -    Initial Executive Project Summary
LCGEP -    Least Cost GenerationExpansion   Program

MOP   -    Memorandum andRecommendation        of the President

MW    -    Megawatts
NEA   -    Nepal Electricity Authority
NGO   -    Non-governmental Organization
OD    -    Operational Directive
OMS   -    Operational Manual Statement
OP    -    Operational Policies
OPN   -    Operational Policy Note
PAF   -    Project Affected Family
PIC   -    Public Information Center
PID   -    Project Information Document
POE   -    Panel of Experts
RAP   -    Regional Action Plan for Arun III Project

SAR   -    Staff Appraisal Report
SPAF  -    Seriously Project Affected  Family

                                                  TABLE OFCONTENTS

                                                                                                                         Page

Preface                                                                                                                          2

A. BACKGROUND     .....................................                                                                          3

PR     OPOSED
            PROJECT3                                                                         .................................... 4
THEREQUEST ..................                                                                                                    3
REGISTRATION..................                                                                                                   4
OPERATIONAL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES.....................................                                                         4

B. THE REQUEST and THE RESPONSE .....................................                                                            5


I. Economic Analysis of Investment Operations .....................................                                              5

    ALTERNATIVES
               .....................................                                                                              6
RISK ANALYSIS ...................                                                                                                 6
POVERTYREDUCTION ...........                                                                                                          ,6

    Environmental Assessment......................9
         II.

ALTERNATIVES.                           .....................                                                                    9
ALCCESSROAD ALIGNMENT.............1...........
CUMULATIVE EFFECTS AND INADEQUACIES....................................                                                        13

III. DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION ....................................                                                            15

PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT ("PID")....................................                                                        15
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT ("EA') ....................................                                                            15
FACTUAL TECHNICAL INFORMATION....................................                                                              16

IV. Involuntary Resettlement ....................................                                                               16

HILL ROUTE......................               .             .   .   .             .    .        ,               .              17
VALLEYROUTE .....................                                                                                              17

V. INDIGENOUS PEOPLES .....................                                                                                    19

ANNEX A: NOTE ON APPLICABLE OPERATIONAL POLICIES                                 AND PROCEDURES

ANNEX B: ACCESS ROAD ALTERNATIVES - COMPARATIVE                                 TABLES

ANNEX C: THE REQUEST FOR INSPECTION

ANNEX D: MANAGEMENT RESPONSE




                                                                  1

                                          PREFACE


       This is the Inspection Panel's Report     on the Request for Inspection (the "Request")
relating to the proposed Nepal, Arun  III Hydroelectric Project and restructuring  of the Arun III
Access Road Project; Credit 2029-NEP,     granted under Development Credit Agreement,        dated
August 8, 1989 between the Kingdom     of Nepal and the International Development     Association
("IDA") (collectively referred to as "Arun     III"). The Request was filed with the     Panel on
November 2, 1994 and registered by the Chairman      on November 3, 1994. On the same date      the
Notice of Registration and text of the  Request was transmitted to the President    of IDA. The
Chairman and Panel members note that     prompt registration is required by IDA Resolution     93-6

(the "Resolution").

        The Panel received the Management Response       (the "Response") on November 22, 1994:
it addressed the substance of the Request    rather than impeding and delaying an     independent
review of the issues by questioning formalities.     The attached report likewise deals with    the
substance of the Request.

        The Panel's initial findings are based on  the information contained in the text together
with a limited review of supporting or  referenced documents in the Request and the     Response;
and in addition, supplementary clarifications   from the Requesters, Management, the     proposed
borrower and the executing entity. On the basis      of this preliminary review and in accordance
with the Panel's Operating Procedures   of August, 1994 (the "Procedures"), the Panel   is satisfied
that conditions required by paras 12-14 of the Resolution have, in substance, been met.

        In accordance with the Resolution the Panel      consulted the proposed borrower and the
Executive Director representing the Kingdom    of Nepal on the subject matter of the Request.

        The Panel wishes to thank all those who        assisted them both in Kathmandu and in
Washington, D.C.




                                                  2

A. BACKGROUND

PROPOSED PROJECT

1.     Managementof IDAis planningto     seekapprovalforan SDR    99.5million development
creditto the Kingdomof Nepal  ("HMG/N"- the borrower)and the    restructuringof an existing
creditfor SDR 24.4million(ArunIII   AccessRoad Project- Cr.   2029-NEP)to help financethe
proposed Arun III HydroelectricProject.!    The revised project components  include a 122
kilometer access road through the Arun Valley,    constructionof a 201 MW      run-of-river
(includinga 68 meterdam)hydroelectricpowerscheme(thefirstphaseof     the ArunIII 402 MW
scheme)in the Sankhuwa-SavaDistrictand      122kilometersof transmissionlinesfromthere to
Duhabi. TheArunbasinis about170kilometerseastof Kathmandu.

2.     Theproposedcreditwouldbe    on standardIDAtermswitha 40     year maturity. HMG/N
would onlend to the implementingagency,the      Nepal ElectricityAuthority  ("NEA"), the
Nepalese rupee equivalentof   US$136.1million plus   US$34.3 million (available  under the
existing Arun III Access Road Project) at a rate of 10.25percent for a period  of 30 years
includinga 9 year graceperiod. HMG/Nwouldbearthe foreignexchangerisk.       The remaining
US$4.6 million would be  utilized by the Ministry ofWaterResourcesto finance    a Regional

ActionPlan("RAP").

3.     Total project costs are estimated at about US$800 million.   The project would be
cofinancedbythe AsianDevelopmentBank,KreditanstaltfurWiederaufbau,the Governmentof
France,the SwedishAgencyfor    InternationalTechnicaland EconomicCooperation,the    Finnish
InternationalDevelopmentAgencyandotherdonors.


THE REQUEST
4.     Summary: ThePanelreceiveda Request,datedOctober24,       1994,fromcitizensof Nepal
(the "Requesters") who  claim that their rights and interestshave been or  are likely to be
materiallyand adverselyaffectedbythe actsoromissionsofIDAduringthe designand appraisal
of ArunIII. Two of the Requestersclaimthattheyhavebeendirectlyand adverselyaffectedby
the design and implementationof  the resettlementprogramrelatedto Arun III. The Requesters
claim to be, or likely to be affected by alleged  violationsof provisions of,inter-alia, the
followingpoliciesandprocedures:

        * Operational Policy/Bank    Procedure 10.04: Economic   Evaluation of Investment

           Operations

        *   The World Bank Policy    on Disclosure of Information,  September 1994; Bank
           Procedures17.50and 10.00,AnnexA

        * OperationalDirective4.01:   EnvironmentalAssessment

        * Operational Directive4.30:  Involuntary Resettlement

        * OperationalDirective4.20:   IndigenousPeoples

 5.     The two Requestersfrom the   now abandonedHill Route askedfor     anonymityand, in
 accordancewithNepaleselaw,    appointedMessrs.Siwakotiand    Ghimireof Kathmandu,Nepal
 (theothertwo Requesters),torepresentthem.   (ForfurtherdetailsseeAnnexC)



                                              3

REGISTRATION

6.     EligibilityIssues:Para17of theProceduresrequiresthe Chairmantoregisterthe Request
"[I]f the Requestappearsto containsufficientrequiredinformation...".While recognizingthat
there were deficienciesin the formalities,in accordancewith this para, the Chairman, on
November 3, 1994, registeredthe Request in the Panel Register; notifiedthe Requester,the
ExecutiveDirectorsandthe Presidentof IDAof the registration;andtransmittedto the President
a copy of the original Requesttogetherwith faxed copiesof the attachmentsand evidenceof
representation. Upon receipt, on November 8, of the originals of the accompanying
documentation,copieswereforwardedtothe PresidentofIDA.

7.      ThePaneljudged that the seriousnatureof the substanceof the Request as a whole and
its timing in relationto the projectprocessoutweighedoutrightrejectionof the Request onthe
groundsof doubts on the standingof the Requestersand incompletecompliance with formal
procedures. Managementapparentlycameto the same conclusionsince, as noted before, it
addressedthe substanceof the Requestwithoutquestioningits eligibilityunder the applicable
termsof theResolution.


OPERATIONAL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
8.      Giventhat a periodof about sevenyearshas elapsedsincethe inceptionof Arun III, the
evolvingnatureof IDApoliciesand proceduresand the timingof their applicationin relationto
variousstages of this proposed projectis a source of disagreementbetweenthe Request and
Response. Thesequestionsare addressedin AnnexC and referredto,as necessaryinthe textof
thisReport.




                                              4

 B. THE REQUESTandTHE RESPONSE
9.      The Request lists a number of statements of    policies and procedures which the Requesters
believe IDA has failed to follow in the course of   the design, appraisal and initial implementation
of Arun III. The Response provides information       indicating that Management believes it has    not
failed to follow the relevant policies and      procedures.    The Request and the Response are
reviewed briefly below and are followed by the    Panel's initial comments.


1.EconomicAnalysisof InvestmentOperations

ALTERNATIVES

10.     THE REQUEST states that IDA "has violated             its operational policies regarding the
Economic Evaluation of Investment Operations,        as a basic criterion for acceptability. For   the
project to be acceptable on economic grounds,       'the expected present value of the project's net
benefits must be higher than or equal to the     expected net present value of mutually exclusive
project alternatives.' By not undertaking the      relevant studies of the alternatives..., the World
Bank has not fulfilled this very basic criteria for acceptabilityof the project".

11.     The Request also complains that IDA violated this     Directive throughout the project cycle
by not considering alternative sequencing until     1993/94 and that the study is incomplete as    the
comparison was made with only very preliminary           costs for the alternative schemes; that the
earlier Least Cost Generation Expansion Plans      ("LCGEP") of 1987 and 1990 failed to take       into
account that the same amount of power generated        from Arun III could also be generated from a
series of smaller alternatives in the 1MW        to 100 MW range; and that by not completing
feasibility studies of the 30 or more smaller     alternatives identified by HMG/N, IDA has not
fulfilled the policy requirement to compute       the LCGEP for additional power generation         for
Nepal. The Request also states that "there        is every reason to believe that once the detailed
studies are completed, the smaller alternatives     can be built at prices lower than or competitive
with Arun III"..2

12.     THE RESPONSE, while answering the Request             in line with OP/BP 10.04 suggests, in
its Annex A, that this policy was not in effect     at the time of identification and appraisal: that
only those instructions in this OP/BP which         are identical to those in force at the time are
applicable. It indicates that the basis for the     LCGEP was the initial consideration of "some
3000" alternative generation and expansion        plans of which 11 individual hydro investment
project candidates of varying sizes were       examined to the pre-feasibility level or "beyond."
However, "in response to questions, additional       alternative strategies were investigated in order
to check the robustness of the standard least-cost     analysis. This involved the consideration     of
project candidates that preliminary analysis       had previously screened out."        The Response
concludes that the cost of an alternative was         higher than the cost of HMG/N's proposed
program.3

 13.    The Response also states that there are no hard      and fast rules on how many alternative
proposals should be investigated to the "pre-feasibility"      stage, it is a question of professional
judgment. The number of hydro candidates         explored to the pre-feasibility level is considered to
represent "a very respectable effort for    a country such as Nepal"--given that the determining
factors are the extra cost and associated    delays. Noting that the project contains funding       for
further pre-feasibility and feasibility work for  smaller hydro projects4 - which, if attractive,  will



                                                    5

be accommodatedperiodicallyintothe LCGEP-        it is pointedout that thereis no evidencethat
suchfurtherstudywoulddisplaceArunIII fromthe      LCGEP.5


RISKANALYSIS
14.   THEREQUEST complainsthatthe risk analysisisfaulty,inparticularthat:

      * one largenaturalcatastrophewouldvirtuallyruintheNepaleseeconomy;

      * noaccounthasbeentakenof the riskof undertakingsucha largeprojectin             relationto
          the sizeof theNepaleseeconomy;

      * while over 80% of the catchmentarea of        the Arun River lies under the controlof
          China and a proposedChangsunBasin IrrigationProject is         pending,no accountof
          upstreamdevelopments(riparianrights)hasbeenincluded;and

      * there is no bilateralagreementwithIndiaeventhoughPhaseII           of Arun III and future
          developmentinthevalleydependon surpluspowersalesto          India.6


15.   THERESPONSEexplainsthat:

      * underOP 10.04treatmentof risksassociatedwithlargeprojectsis           not mentionedand
          there isnoexplicitpolicywithrespecttothe valuationof risks-      as distinguishedfrom
          the analysis and/or managementof risks       - associated with large projects. But
          "recognitionof Arun's magnitude and       importanceto the Nepalese economy was
          whatledthe Banktoundertakesuchcomprehensiveanalysisofthe project.";'

       * the analysisdoesnotconsiderthe risksto     projectviabilityof the possibleconstruction
           of the ChangsuoBasinIrrigationProjectbecausethe appraisalteamjudgedtheserisks
          to be minimal;recentlythe Chineseauthoritieshavereconfirmedtheir non-objection
          to the projectand that the small size of   the projectis likely to have no effect on
           downstreamwaterusers;8 and

       o withrespectto salesto India: inthe past bilateralagreementshavenot beennecessary
           and suggeststhat evenif nosurplussalesoccur,therewouldbeonlya          1%drop inthe
           project's economicrateof returnwhich remainsabovethe       project's opportunitycost
           of capital.9


POVERTYREDUCTION
16.    THE REQUESTsuggeststherewillbe immediateandthreatenedlong-termirreversible
adverse impacts on the already absolutepoor    inhabitantsof the Arun Valley, as a result,      in
particular,of NEA'slackof capacityto implementenvironmentaland socialsafeguards.

17.    At the nationallevel,the Requestsuggeststhat the largesizeof the      projectin relationto
Nepal's annualnationalbudgetwill not directlybenefitthe poor as its     high cost will crowdout
investmentsin socialservicesandtargetedpovertyinterventions.    10


18.    THE RESPONSE acknowledgesthat 450,000inhabitantsof                the Arun Valley lead a
"harsh subsistencelife;" it states that the primary objectiveof the projectis to meet Nepal's
growingpowerrequirementsin the mediumterm at         least cost so that this constrainton growth
and poverty reduction can be overcome.        Referring to the EnvironmentalAction Plan       the
Response suggeststhat it aims to limit negativedirect impactsand to       maximizethe Valley's
prospectsfor sustainablegrowthand povertyreduction."

                                               6

       THE PANEL

ALTERNATIVES

19.     With respect to examination     of alternatives, the   Panel notes that previous   policies and

procedures would appear     to be applicable. Apreliminary      review (see Annex C)   of thosepolicies

and procedures suggests    that thefundamental requirements        are substantially the same as those

in OP/BP 10.04. In particular    it is noted that OMS 2.21, para    8, states that:

        "Considerationof altemativesis         the single most important feature      of proper
        projectanalysisthroughoutthe       projectcycle, fromthe     developmentplan for     the
        particularsectorthroughidentificationtoappraisal."

It is also noted that  the Response deals     with the issues of alternatives  and analysis of project

risks in the context ofthe requirements of     OP 10.04.

20.     It is clear that Nepal's  hydropower potential      is considerable (estimated at 25,000 MW).

However less than    1% of the resource has       been developed and    there is no complete   inventory

that could be used reliablyfor   long term planning.

21.     Out of about 107 potential      hydroelectric sites   that have been identified,  technical and

economic screening      criteria yielded only     18 projects for which      pre-feasibility or further

engineering studies   have been carried out.     The latest LCGEP considered      only 11 projects. It is

a matter of judgment     whether this is an     adequate number     of options that should   have been

considered in the 30-80   MW range.

 22.     The Panel notes that the MOP     recognizes that:

         "Theonlyrealisticalternativetothe       hydropowerinvestmentprogramproposedby
         the Governmentis a     seriesof hydro investmentsin       the range of 10MW to      100
         MW. Whiletheseare certainlysmallprojectsbyinternationalstandards,most                are
         similarinmagnitudetothe two previousmajorhydroinvestmentsmadeinNepal;
         namely, Kulekhani (60      and 32 MW) and          Marsyangdi(69 MW).         Past pre-
         investmentstudiesinNepal's       majorriver systemshaveidentifieda        largenumber
         of suchpotentialinvestments.       Pre-feasibilityand feasibilitywork hasbeen done
         on some 18of the 93 sites      identified. About halfof    the 18are under 100MW;
         these have alreadybeen takeninto        accountin the least cost generationanalysis.
         Hence, the effort to developan       alternativehydropowerinvestnent       programhas
         had to drawfromamongthoseprojects,mostlyin              the 30to 80MW range,which
         had previously been    screened out (on the basis       of rather crude technical and
         economiccriteria)as lessattractivethan        thosefor whichpre-feasibilityworkhas
         beencommissioned.
         The alternativeinvestmentprogramthusidentifiedhasbeenlabelledPlanB                 (SAR
         Annex 5.4, [paras 41,    42]) The costsof Plan        B are estimatedto be    about 5%
         higherthan the Government'sproposedinvestmentprogramunder assumptions
          about the future consideredmost         likely, and 5% less in     the scenariowhere
         demandgrowthfollowsthe         lowloadforecast.12

 23.      There is reason to believe   that if a less restrictiveassessment, including  a wider range of

 hydro resources, could    be undertaken it would      result in expanding the  number of economically

 and environmentally    acceptable options.


                                                       7

RISKAANALYSIS

24.     IDApolicies provide for evaluation    of investmentprojects to ensure that    theypromote the
borrower's development goals and        that the economic analysis be conducted           to determine
whether the project creates more     net benefits to the economy than        other mutually exclusive
optionsfor the use of the resources   in question; and state that assessing     sustainability includes
evaluating the project's financial     impact on the implementing/sponsoring            institution and
estimating the direct effect onpublic finances   of the project's capital outlays and recurrent    costs.

This process also includes an      analysis of the sources, magnitude        and effects of the risks
associated with theproposed project.    3

25.     The Panel notes that, with the       information available, the comparison         of the risks
associated with theproject and its alternatives is   very difficult due to the large number   offactors

involved including:

        * natural catastrophic events such      as Glacial Lake Outburst Floods (GLOF)         and high
            monsoon rains leading to high riverfloods       which constitute a permanent risks in    the
            project area These risks were considered       a majorfactor in the original decision     to
            choose a Hill Routefor the accessroad;

        -   the steep tariff rate increases that NEA    must implement, likely cost overruns,      lower

            economic growth;

        -   major risks associated with the economic performance         of the project are associated
            with the rate of growth of demand,        which in turn is related to the unforseeable
            response to price increases and export      sales The lack of a long term power         sales
            agreement with India poses a potential      long term risk to the project.. This risk    has
            been highlighted by IDA, particularly       in the case of Nepal, in the 1986        Project
            PerformanceAudit Reportfor the Kulekhani         Hydroelectric Project (Cr. 600-NEP and
            600-1-NEP) which concludes that:

                "Agreementson exportwouldbe requiredprior              to the start of any large
                scale development, and because         most countries are reluctant to        be
                dependenton others for electricalenergAy,        negotiationson such matters
                maylastoverextendedperiodsof time".14

         The MOP contains a rather detailed discussion      of risks and concludes that:

                "Comparisonof the overallrisks of        the alternativestrategiesshowsthat
                both have problemsrequiringcarefulmanagement.              There is simply no
                low riskwayto meetNepal's powerrequirementsoverthe nextdecadeor
                so.

26.     All power development options require      careful risk management unprecedented         in Nepal
and therefore institutional capacity    building is critical to the success of    any strategy. Major
risks associated with institutional  capacity in the NEA and HMG/N emerge            as significant in a
variety of ways: to oversee construction,      long-term O&M, reorganization of        the power sector
management, and ability to sustain       appropriate tariff increases. Each         could endanger the
 viability ofArun III at any time. Whilefunding     agencies can supplement institutional     capacity in
 the short-term, the strengthening  of institutions will still have to develop rapidly and extensively;

 27.     The Request cites, as a potential   risk thefact that 80percent of the     river lies in China
 The Response refers to the small size   of theproposed Changsuo Basin Irrigation        Project. At the

                                                    8

request of the Panel, Management         has provided satisfactory evidence         showing that the
Government of China does not oppose Arun     III

28.     Risk assessment must include all factors    that might have a bearing on the project,      and
compare them with those of the alternatives.     IDA has attempted to deal with those      issues, but,

the environmental and social impacts    of the alternative have not been systematically      analyzed;
therefore a realistic comparison of risks associated with theproposed     project and its alternatives
could not have been carried out.


POVERTYALLEVIA TION

29.     OP 10.04 states that the economic      analysis examines the project's        consistency with

IDA's poverty reduction strategy.

30.     The Panel recognizes two levels  ofpotential impacts on poverty.

        Thefirst relates to the localized effect of Arun III on the Arun    basin 'spoor, particularly
the people whose land, like that       of the Requesters on the abandoned             Hill Route, was
expropriated; and those on theproposed     ValleyRoute whose land might be       expropriated

        The second relates to the likely macro  economic impacts on the country as a      whole due to

the large size of the investment  to be undertaken in relation to    the size of the economy. These
impacts on a national level might  result in:

        (a) an initial increase in poverty because      the opportunity cost of capital to     address
        poverty directly and the resources      needed for other targeted interventions        may be
        consumed byArun III;

        (b) a reduced consumption due to the      effect of rising electricity tariffs on consumers as
        they devote a larger share of their disposable income to electricity; and

        (c) a constraint on public expenditure       and investment - as noted in a       recent Bank

        document:

                " The power sector as a whole     is expected to absorb 15 percent      of local
                resources and 40 percent of foreign    resources, and AHP [Arun III] alone
                will absorb close to 20 percent of total   development resources during the
                peak implementationphase in FY97-FY99."'6

 31.    The high priority of poverty alleviation      in Nepal has been reiterated by        the Bank
 However, steps already taken by   IDA and HMG/N suggest it will be       more difficult to implement
 thepolicies on poverty. Future   steps, such asfurther cancellation     of "low priority projects" in
 social sectors and the largefiscal demands of Arun III may contribute      to the risk thatpolicies on
poverty cannot be implemented.


 11.EnvironmentalAssessment

 ALTERNATIVES

 32.     THE REQUEST           states that the environmental and         social issues and available
 alternatives to Arun III were not integrated into decisions on whether to    proceed with the project.
 Citing the 1991 Basinwide Environmental         Impacts Study ("RAP"), it states       that: "the road
 alignment [hill route] and dam site   were already decided and the study       team did not have the
 mandate to change these decisions;"    and the 1992 study17of the valley      route was conducted to

                                                   9

detennine whetherit "might providetime and cost savingsin providingaccessto the Arun III
hydropowersite. Servingthe needsof the population...is a secondaryconsideration... and that
the need for and the siting of the powerprojectand thereforethe justificationfor the road, is
takenas a given." It is notedthat, inresponseto pressureto investigatealternativesadequately,
and after the EIA process was completed,the Bank commissioneda studyknown as Plan B
whichwasconductedfromthe standpointof whetherArunIII isthe "leastcost"optionforNepal
- withoutconsiderationofthe environmentalandsocialcostsof eitherArunIII or its alternatives.

33.    TheRequestalsopointsoutthat:

               "[t]heso calledEIAof the Valleyrouteof the accessroadfailsto takeinto
               considerationand comparefromenvironmentalstandpointany alternative
               approach to build this road. For example, applying environmentally
               friendlyapproach in buildingthe roads in the Himalayanfoothills by
               employing simple and conservation-orientedtechniques and labor
               intensivemethodshavebeenprovedsuccessful. Thepaceof the proposed
               constructionof the road and the approach adopted, thus, is a serious
               environmentalconcernthatthe EIAignores.18

34.    THE RESPONSE questions the applicability of the policy on Environmental
Assessmentfortiming reasonsbut then statesthat Managementneverthelessproceededas if it
were applicable. As evidenceof compliance,the Responsecitesthe considerationof three dam
sites in the Arun valley and two differentaccess roads. The Responsenotes that the 1993
Environmental Assessment Executive Summary'9 ("EA Summary") clearly states that
identificationof Arun III was basedonleast cost studiesundertakenupto 1990andthat "these
studiesaddressedenvironmental/socialissuesatthe reconnaissancelevelforallfeasiblesites.20

       THE PANEL

35.    Notes that while the current policy was not in effect when the Credit 2029 for the Hill
Access Road Project was approved, it was in effect at the time when it was decided to change the
access road to the ValleyRoute.21

The 1993EA Summarystatesthat:

               "The Arun III...was identifiedas the best majorhydropowerschemefor
               early addition to the Nepal InterconnectedSystem under the LCGEP
               completedbytheNEAin 1987....

               [This] choice was confirmedby an LCGEPUpdate Studycompletedin
               1990....This study included estimates of resettlement costs in its
               comparativeanalysisof the various projects,but not the costs of other
               environmentalimpactsor economicbenefits".     22


36.     The Panel notes that the major environmentaland social impacts of the Arun project are
due to the construction of the access road, and not due to the hydroelectric generating   facility
itself Given the timing of the change of the choice of road alignment the social impact has been
magnified and the environmental impact assessment studies dealt primarily with the original
route (Hill Route).

37.     The Panel finds it necessary to look at this decision in more detail, particularly in view
of thefact that almost all of the land of thefamilies on the Hill Route had already been acquired.




                                                 10

ACCESS ROADALIGNMENT


38.    In 1987, a detailedfeasibility study was    carried out by the Department of    Roads for the
so-called "Hill Route". Detailed     designs and tender documents were       completed in 1988, in
anticipation of an early start of construction, and further refined in    thefollowing years. The
final alignment chosen, designs and       construction methods were referred      to in the SAR as
environmentally the "state of the art" for  a major roadproject inNepal.


39.     The SAR for the Arun III Access    Road Project of May 12, 1989 refers    to the selection of
alignment for the access road inpara   3.08:

               "The route selected as being most economical      in terns of construction and
               maintenance, consistent with sound           enviromnental planning, is in
               mountainous terrain and follows the    ridges wherever possible, descending
               only for crossings of the Piluwa Khola     near Chainpur, the Sabhaya Khola
               at Tumlingtar and at the sites of     the powerhouse, adit and dam.       The
               streams and rivers of this area are   unpredictable and can be very violent
               and destructive. They cause excessive      steepening of the valley sides and
               consequent instability of the slopes.   The route has therefore been chosen
               to avoid rivers as far as possible,   and to follow the contours closely    in
               order to minimize the quantities of     cut and fill, and to reduce negative
               environmental impact. The contract      documents for road construction also
               incorporate environmental conservation     measures."23


 40.    The Panel notes that within three years    of this decision, the project designfor  the road
 took the opposite approach, selecting    a route where more than 50 percent       runs close to the
previously described unstable, steep,   unpredictable and hazardous slopes    of the Arun River.


 41.    In 1992, according to the EA Summary,following         a decision to revise Arun III's design
 and reduce initial expenditure and given   the sole criterion ofproviding access  to thepower sites
 as quickly as possible, thefeasibility of a "Valley" route was investigated     again. Engineering
 and construction planning studies had      shown that although the construction     costs would be
 similar to those of the Hill Route, there would be a time saving of one     year and a total length
 construction of only 122 KM.2" The   EA Summarypoints out however, that:

                "The speed of construction of a    project can have a considerable effect  on
                its environmental impact.

                    Slower construction of the access road       would allow a less capital-
                    intensive approach with a higher      local labor demand (and therefore
                    local benefits), and modified construction        techniques with lower
                    physical impact

                * Slower construction of the hydropower        components of Arun III would
                    reduce the size of the labour force     required, reduce the volumes of
                    spoil to be excavated and disposed       of annually, and pernit more
                    gradual institutional development."25

  Comparative data on the tworoutes    is given in Tables 6.1 and 6.2. are in Annex B.

                                                   11

42.    The proposed change in routes was presented to the       Panel of Experts (POE) and
approved inprinciple by them.26 However, the POE     pointed to the apparent disadvantages of
the Valley Route:

               "- increaseof forestedland in the RoW and possiblyless disturbedand
               higher quality forest and protected wildlife habitat in the       ROW:
               approximately209havs. 145ha

               - closerproximitytotheMakalu-BarunConservationArea

               - losses and uncertaintiesresulting from the circumstance that      land
               compensationforthehillrouteis already94percentcompleted

               - additionalimpactsassociatedwith futureconstructionof spur roads     or
               other connectionsto hill villagesthat wouldhave been connectedby the
               hill route."27

The POE also concluded, inter alia, that:

               "The recommendationfromthe environmentalperspectivetherefore is to
               proceedwiththe designandtenderingof the projectusingthe valleyroute,
               to dropthe hillroutefromfurtherconsiderationatthis time,to establisha
               clear and equitablepolicy concerningthe families within the hill route
               whohavealreadyreceivedcompensation,and toupdateandamendproject
               environmentaldocuments,in parallel with the detailedengineeringand
               alongthe followinglines,toreflectthe changeinroute.

               1.      It wouldbe usefulif the September1992JointVentureEIA of the
               valleyroute wouldmakea moredetailedcomparisonof the impactsof the
               hill route and the valley route, including implicationsfor associated
               changesin transmissionlineimpacts,if any,and optionsand implications
               for familieswithinthe RoWof the hill route who have alreadyreceived
               compensation.

               2.      Regardlessof which route is adopted,the recommendationsand
               cost estimates(aboutUS$14million)of the KingMahendraTrust report
               on "EnvironmentalManagementand Sustainable Development in the
               Arun Basin" should be released to the public, reviewed, screened and
               prioritized to facilitate the development of an action plan for
               implementation.Withoutsucha plantherewillbe nomechanisminplace
               for controllingoff-siteimpacts (especiallyencroachmenton forests and
               wildlife)in the vicinityof the accessroad and power station, southand
               eastofthe Makalu-BarunConservationArea."28

43.     The decision to pursue the Valley Route led NEA to commission   a study to "revise and
 update the existing environmental impact assessment studyof the access road in accordance with
 World Bank guidelines " (Terms of Referencefor JV Consultants).   This update was supposed to


                                               12

be carried out in a period offour months although     the road alignment had    not been completed

Thefollowing clause   was included in the Terms of   Reference:


               "In order to completethe     update of the EIA withinthe       four months of
               Period A, it is mandatoryto     have a preliminaryalignmentor       alignment
               options availableat the    latest six weeks after the  commencementof the
               serviceswithrespectto      the accessroad, and in   the first week of August
               [1992]regardingthe transmissionline."29

Also included in the terms of reference is  thefollowing disclaimer:

               "The timeavailablewillnotallowit        to performa detailedsocio-economic
               and ecologicalsurveyalongthe entire alignment.         Rather,surveyswillbe
               of a qualitativenatureandwill      concentrateon selectedareasfromwhich
                                                                                     30
               conclusionswillhaveto      bedrawntothe totallengthof      alignment."


44.     The Environmental Impact      Assessment for Arun   Access Road-Valley Route    published in

September, 1992, concludes      that the impact on biological    resources is significant   since the

Valley Route transverses forested    areasfor the major part   of its length (71 Km  out of 124 Km),

and that most of the    areas show high species      diversity and presence    of rare, endemic and

endangered species of    trees and other plants.     In addition, the loss  of habitat will result in

significant impact on vertebrae.   The ELAfor the access   road concludes that:


               "The road runs close        to the Arun River for       67 km and therefore
               construction of the road      will have direct impact     on mammalianand
               reptilianwildlifedue to     directhabitat,severanceof     territory,disturbance
               and increasedaccesstohunting.       Quantitativedata onpopulationsizesare
                not available."31


45.     The Panel finds the process     of choosing the access  road has created uncertainties   of a

serious nature with  regard to IDA's ability tofollow    OD 4.01 on environmental    assessment. The

Response cites three major     components to the Environmental      Action Plan: an Environmental

Mitigation Plan, A    Land Acquisition Resettlement       and Compensation Plan      and a Regional

Action Plan ("RAP").      During consultations    with the proposed borrower     and executing entity,

 the Panel learned that the updated RAP will not     be completed until January   1995. On the basis

 of the evidence reviewed,  the Panel concludes that   the environmental assessment    and processing

 of the proposed loan   do not appear to be      consistent with the provisions   of OD 4.01 and its

 annexes. Thepotential    of direct, serious long-termdamage    is significant.


 CUMULATIVEEFFECTS             AND INADEQUACIES

 46.     THE REQUEST states          that cumulative impacts  of all three Arun Valley    hydropower

 schemes (i.e. Arun   III, Upper Arun and     Lower Arun) have not     been evaluated and that   there

 should be a comprehensive      study of the long term    effects including those   of additional road

 construction; that other inadequacies of the EIA    include no thorough  assessment of the impact  of

 the transmission lines,   mitigation plans for   natural disasters, effects  on fish and disposal  of
 construction spoils.32



                                                   13

47.    THE RESPONSErefersto the 1991basin-wideenvironmentalsustainabilitystudy                   as
meeting the Bank's requirements.33 "The effects of Upper          Arun which are likely to be
environmentallymore sensitivethan Arun III       were studied separatelyin a 1991 feasibility
study." It notesthat LowerArun"is generallyrecognizedto       have less significantimpacts"; it
is acknowledgedthat furtherworkwillbeundertakeninthe         firstyearof the projectto verifythat
effectson fisheriesareminimalandidentify mitigationmeasuresasnecessary.3

48.    Mention is also made of the approval of environmentalmitigationmeasuresby                the
project's POE35, refefringtoparas3.23.and3.44(b)of theSAR.

       THE PANEL

49.    Observes that, according to the SAR, the POE included    a single "expert in environmental
management and resettlement" 6 and that in June 1994 a     decision was made to "reconstitute the
POE by the end-December 1994for review of       assistance and guidance on the critical technical
and safety aspects and dam safety monitoring during construction     and supervision." It is also
noted that the reconstituted Panel will be "expanded      to include environmental expertise to
advise effectively on detailed RAP and resettlement  issues."37 In addition the MOP states that a
POE, "both international and Nepali, will advise,     on, inter alia, the RAP and resettlement
implementation, and propose modifications where       appropriate." It is pointed out that the
reconstituted Panel will "include a core of      specialists in area development, resettlement,
biodiversity and agriculture management;" and that other    experts will be consulted as needed3  8


50.    Applicable IDA policies provide for Regional Environmental        Assessments and special
provisions relating to Dam and Reservoir projects.3   9    In particular Environmental Advisory
Panels are recommended:

       "For major, highly risky, or contentiousprojects with       serious and multi-dimensional
       environmentalconcerns,the borrower should normally           engage an advisory panel of
       independent,internationallyrecognized,environmentalspecialiststo         adviseon (a) the
       terms of reference(TORs)for the EA, (b)key issuesand methodsforpreparingthe              EA,
       (c) recommendationsand findings of the EA, (d) implementation of                   the EAs
       recommendations,and (e) developmentof environmentalmanagementcapacityin                   the
       implementingagency."    4


51.     Given that OD 4.01 was applicable when the     Valley Route was chosen and the Arun III
Hydroelectric Project appraised, the environmental         assessment should have included a
comprehensive approach to the Arun basin, including          a long term perspective that also
considered the Upper and Lower Arun Projects, access       roads (including the Valley Route and
additional spurs), as well as transmission lines.    Environmental     assessments     should    be
integrated into project design from its inception     and, must go beyond descriptive studies,
focusing on the interaction of all project components   and decisions that affect the natural and
social environment, including mitigation plans      and the institutional capacity to develop,
implement and monitor them. It is not clear that the   composition of the POE properly reflected
the requirements set out by IDA policies.

52.     Given the nature and complexity of the environmental   and social risks of the project, IDA
policy would appear to require the existence of a POE       solely devoted to environmental and
social issues. Instead, IDA and the borrower agreed in   1994 to consolidateplanning for such an
environmental panel into the existing POE.




                                                 14

Ill. DISCLOSUREOF INFORMATION


53.     The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of    Information, September 1993, states in     part that
the Bank "recognizes and endorses        the fundamental importance of accountability             and
transparency .... Dissemination of information to local groups affected by the projects    supported
by the Bank, including non-governmental      organizations, particularly as it will     facilitate the
participation of those groups in Bank-financed           projects, is essential for the effective
implementation and sustainability of the projects.... It follows that there is a presumption  in favor
of disclosure."4 '


PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT                  ("PID")


54.     THE REQUEST complains that the        PID was not prepared before January 24,       1994 and
has subsequently not been updated to include  all the information required by BP 10.00 Annex       A.

55.     THE RESPONSE states that the "content           and dissemination of the Arun PID were
substantially in line with Bank policyandprocedures."

        THE PANEL

56.     IDA's Procedures for operations in     which major changes are made after          appraisal,
require preparation of a final revision ofthe PID following appraisal.42

57.     The Panel notes that the PID is an effective       means of providing timely and concise
information on proposed projects. It is highly   desirable,for projects that command this degree
of interest at the national and international level, that this document be updated in     accordance
with emerging Bankpolicies. The September     1993 BP 17.50Annex D required a completed           PID
for all projects beyond the IEPS stage   but not yet presented to the Board by      January 1, 1994.
The document was not available at the Public   Information Center ("PIC") until March;        and not
subsequently updated or expanded after   the issuance inJune 1994 which of BP10.00 Annex         A.


ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT                ("EA'9

58.     THE REQUEST asserts that this provision         was not followed by IDA and notes that the
environmental impact assessment was     one of the documents for which release       was requested in
the law suit filed with the Supreme Court on  December 31, 1993.43

59.     THE RESPONSE          claims that the "dissemination of the results     of the Environmental
Assessment was substantially in line with  Bank policies and procedures.4

        THE PANEL

 60.    Notes that the 1993 procedures on information      disclosure require that "before the Bank
proceeds to appraisal, the EA [Environmental        Assessment] must be made available in          the
 borrowing country at somepublic place   accessible to affected groups and local NGOs. "



 61.     The Panel notes that the EA for the Hill Route     (the RAP in this case) was completed in
 1991; that the EA Summary was published      in Kathmandu in May 1993, and the "Due           Process
 Manual" prepared in Nepali by NEA       in November 1993 is restricted to information         on land
 acquisition and compensationprocedures.     While the Response provides detailed      information on

                                                 15

the timing and applicability  of specific IDA policies on disclosure     of information, it does not
refer to the relevant policiesrelating toEnvironmentAssessment.

62.     Considerable efforts have been made    to gather and release environmental     data about the

project and the IDA appears   to have made substantial efforts  to make it available in Washington.
However, much of the relevant information was not     available inNepal.


FACTUAL TECHNICAL INFORMATION


63.     THE REQUEST claims that         factual technical information was    requested during project
preparation to enable the Requesters to  have aninput into the design   and promote alternatives but
such information was received    too late (after appraisal) to allow  input. In particular it is noted
that the study of alternatives was not released until after   appraisal and the completion     of loan
negotiations.45

64.     THE RESPONSE mentions          initial delays in implementing   the new disclosure policy in
this respect but notes that sections of the SAR have been available      at the PIC since September

1994.

        THE PANEL

65.     IDA policy allows for the release,     by the Country Director concerned,        of additional

factual technical informationfor  projects underpreparation through      the PIC.  46.


66.      The Panel notes Management's     prompt disclosure of relevant     parts of the SAR but the
Request suggests this is not available   in Nepal.    In light of the high degree of    interest in the

project in Nepal it appears unfortunate   that delays in implementing the    newpolicy occurred and
that no mention is made in the     Response of supplying such factual        technical information to
NEA 'sArun Information Center.

 67.     The Panel is concerned about   the seriousproblem of enforcing      release of information in
borrowing countries; and notes     a gap in the availability of   information in Washington, on     the

 one hand, and in the country    where the project is located    on the other - in particular    in the

actual project area.

 68.     With regard to overall disclosure  of information, the Panel recognizes    theprogress made
 by the Management in last two    years in relation toprojects   such as Arun III. In the borrowing
 countries progress varies, as evidenced  by the need to take cases to   the Nepalese Supreme Court
 twice thisyear to obtain release ofproject information.

 69.     Disclosure is not an end in    itself, according to Bank policy,     but rather a means of
 enhancing the ability of affected people  toparticipate in the design and    consideration of project

 alternatives.

 70.     Meeting the requirements of Bank policy     on release of information in     Nepal appears to

 have been difficult. The Panel  urges continued attention to this   evolving issue.


 IV. InvoluntaryResettlement

 71.     THE REQUEST claims that         (a) specific violations of IDA's      policies or involuntary
 resettlement have occurred (Hill  Route) and that (b) violations of   the policies are likely to occur

 (Valley Route).

                                                   16

HILL ROUTE

72.      Withreferenceto the cash compensationraisedby      two of the Requestersit is claimed
that the central objective of improvingor   at least restoringaffected people to former  living
standardshas alreadybeen violated.47It points out that the  effect of ACRPhas been to inflate
prices far beyond compensatedvalue.;and that    in violationof para 14 of the policy, land has
been undervalued. TheRequestalsocriticizesthe factthat landfor
                  48                                                landcompensationwas not
appropriatelyoffered


VALLEYROUTE

73.     The Request notes that the proposedproject     benefits will be electricitybut affected
peoplewill not benefit49 that employmentbenefitswillbe     temporarybut the adverseeffectsof
displacementare permanent- SPAFsare to      be givenonly first priorityfor employmenton    road
construction." The Requestalso notesthat the    EIA showsthat cashcompensationwas       already
failingin case of the Hill Routeand that the ValleyRoutepeoplewill     have even lessabilityto
deal withcashbecausetheyare poorer:     thisraiseswholequestionof landforlandcompensation
and actual implementation. According to      the Request the law is basicallylimited    to cash
compensationandPAFsare not beinginformedof a         landoption. TheRequestersare not aware
that any socio-economicsurvey has     been done to determinevalue of    land.52 In additionthe
Request notes a violationof the policy    as no resettlementplan has been   establishedbefore
appraisalforthosetobe displacedbythetransmissionlines.

74.     THERESPONSEexplainsIDA's compliancewiththe             OperationalDirective("OD")on
Involuntary Resettlement in relation     to the Valley Route, noting that       implementation
arrangementshave been agreed at negotiations;      SPAFsare to be offered and are to      chose
replacementlandto be purchasedby      NEA; PAFswill receivecashcompensation;         a cadastral
survey of all areas expectedto be       affected by the project was completed     prior to land
acquisition.53

75.     Furthermore,the Responsesuggeststhat     the OD contains no requirementsas      to how
projectbenefitsshouldbe shared;  54  nor doesit requirethatpermanentemploymentbeprovided
todisplacedpersonsbut inthiscasetheACRPprovidesthatat         leastonepersonfromeverySPAF
is to be offered temporaryemploymentby       NEA;35full socioeconomicsurveys       covering all
PAFs were carriedout for the Hill   route in 1990and the Valley Routein    199356;resettlement
planning was timely and that only 8     familieswill be affected by transmissionlines.57The
Responserefers to preparationof a Due     Process Manual in Nepali which describes   the ACRP
policiesandproceduresanddesignedto      informaffectedpeopleof theirrights.58




         THE PANEL

 76.     The Staff Appraisal Reportfor theoriginalAccess Road (Credit 2029-NEP)    describes the

 resettlement plan:

                "Resettlement. To provide necessarycompensationand         rehabilitation
                measures for the     population whose land, buildings and     means of
                livelihoodwould be either temporarilyor     permanently affectedby the
                road/damconstruction,the projectincludesimplementationof      an ACRP.
                The ACRPcontainsan overallplanfor       the resettlementto be carriedout
                under the project as well as details on the nature and magnitudeof the
                operation, compensation packages offered      to the affected families,

                                               17

                 developmentplans for relocation sites,     transfer/transportarrangements,
                 implementation timetable      and costs.      The legislative basis for
                 implementingthe ACRP is containedin       the LandAcquisitionGuidelines
                 2045approvedbyHMGonJanuary5,            1989."59

77.      When the Hill road was designed   IDA approved a resettlementplan     regarded as a model
at that time. The resettlementplan   for theproposed Valleyroute    is based on it.

         Hill Route

78.      A very large number offamilies     (estimated at about 1600)   were deprived of their land
for purposes of thisproject.   After the change in access  route alignment it appears  that this land
is not needed for project    purposes. Nevertheless,    the "Hill Route RoW will      be retained in
government ownershipfor     future road construction purposes."   60

79.      The POE Report No. 7pointed      out that among the apparent   disadvantages of the Valley
Routewere"lossesand uncertaintiesresultingfromthe circumstancethat landcompensationfor
the hill route is already 94   percentcompleted,"and concludedthat         "[i]f the valley route is
selected,NEA's 'EnvironmentalAssessmentand ManagementExecutiveSummary'                    shouldbe
updatedand amended to       reflectthe selectionof the    valley route, [and] address the   issue of
impactsonfamilieswithinthe RoWof thehillroutewhohavealreadyreceivedcompensation,"1                 6


80.     A decision was made, in   1992, to change the Arun    access road to the Valley Route.   The
Panel notes that apart    from the reference to completion       of a socio-economic survey,      the
Response does not address      the issue of impacts on families      within the RoW of the now
abandoned Hill Route who     have already received compensation.     Those affected appear to   have
beenforgotten which gives   rise to a number of issues:
            land has been purchased    from those who will not    longer share in any benefits    the
            construction of an accessroad   might confer
        .   there is no systematic information     on what adverse impacts     the acquisition has
            caused exceptfor the claimsof   the two Requesters
        * there does notyet appear    to be any mitigationplanfor   the Hill Route people
        * under Nepalese law it     appears that HMG/N is      supposed to return land    no longer
            neededfor theprojectfor   which it was acquired.

    ValleyRoute

81.     Although no foreign exchange     resources have been   utilized under the Arun   III Access
Road Project of 1989.  thisproject triggered actions  by HMG/N that could have     negative impacts
on local populations since  the land of a large number   offamilies was expropriatedfor    the RoW
of the original route.

82.     By the time the change  of route was introduced   in 1992, most of the landpurchases     had
been completed for the   original route. According     to the Panel of Experts'    Report No.7, by
September 1992, 94 percent    of the landpurchases    of the RoW had been completed,     supposedly
according to specific  Land Acquisition Guidelines    approved by HMG/N.      The total number of
affectedfamilies by the Hill Route is estimated at 1661.

83.     Therefore, the comparison between    the number offamilies  affected by the Hill and  Valley
Routes must clarify thefact  that over 1600families   have already been affected  in the Hill Route,
while an additional 1146families   will also be affectedby the RoW of the Valley route.


                                                 18

84.     The Panel has received a specific requestfrom two people who claim to be directly and
adversely affected by acquisition of their land for the now abandoned Hill Route. This claim
requiresfurther study. Prima facie these material adverse effects appear to be a direct result of
omissions by IDA during preparation and appraisal of the project and appear to be a serious
violation of IDA 's resettlementpolicies.

85.     Because this gives rise to uncertainfuture implications regarding implementation of the
resettlementprocess for theproposed ValleyRoute, steps need to be taken to ensure the apparent
adverse effects of the Hill Route will not be repeated


V. INDIGENOUSPEOPLES
86.     THE REQUEST claims that there are no benefits provided for the Indigenous peoples,
who will suffer only adverse impacts and lists those impacts; there is no mitigation or indigenous
peoples plan--it     is unclear whether documents contain actual work plans or just
recommendations--many recommendations in EIA are not taken into consideration; there are
many issues to be resolved in bidding documents - which are secret; mitigation of negative
effects on indigenous peoples does not constitute a development plan; land appropriation on the
Hill Route started before completion of the cadastral survey; the policy on participation in the
decision making process was violated as stated in 1991 EIA - "the road alignment and dam site
were already decided and the study team did not have mandate to change these decisions".62

87.     THE RESPONSE explains that all aspects of the policy have been met, mostly by
reference to documents.        It notes that the cadastral survey is nearing completion in
Sankhuwasabha and acknowledges that, despite all precautions "a close watch will be necessary
throughout project implementation to ensure that the objectives of the OD are met. To this end,
the project supervision plan involves careful monitoring and evaluation of the impact of project
related activities on vulnerable groups in the valley"63

88.     IDA's policy on Indigenous Peoples requires a specific              "Indigenous Peoples
Development Plan" that is comprehensive, that avoids or mitigates potentially adverse effects
and ensures that the indigenous people receive culturally, socially and economically compatible
benefits.64

        THE PANEL notes that:

89.     There are a variety of different ethnic groups along the Arun basin.         The original
regional action plan (RAP) whichfocuses on the Hill Route reviews an extensive range of social
and environmental issues including vulnerable groups, indigenouspeoples and women. Some of
these groups are unfamiliar with a cash economy which poses additional risks to their welfare
requiring special attention.

90.     IDA 'spolicy is that an Indigenous Peoples development plan should be prepared. The
NEA has informed the Panel that a revised RAP will be ready in January 1995: it may be that
this will contain an appropriate Indigenous Peoples development plan and provisions for
implementation. Provision for technical assistance to support the RAP Secretariat at base cost of
US$2million aimed atfacilitating implementation of the RAP was introduced and agreed during
June 1994 negotiations.6  5




                                                  19

  ENDNOTES


  l The President  of IDAhascirculatedtothe   Board,forinformation,a MemorandumandRecommendationon           Arun
  III (ReportNo. P-6381-NEP,datedAugust29,        1994,hereinafterreferredto as"MOP"),andthe    StaffAppraisal
  ReportNo. 12643-NEP,datedAugust29,         1994(hereinafterreferredtoas "SAR").
  2 Request,4.A.
  3Response,   Chapter3, paras2-3:   unlessotherwisenotedreferencestoparasintheResponsereferto      Chapter3.
  4The HydroFund      (basecostUS$5million)toprovidefundingtoassistNepal'sprivatesectortoundertake
  feasibilitystudiesof micro/minihydroschemesandtoimplementviableschemeswas agreedto            asanadditional
 projectcomponentduringnegotiationsin       June 1994.(SeeAgreedMinutespara     4.(b))

 5 Response,para4.
 6 Request,para4.A.
 7Response,   para8.
   Ibid, pam 6.
 9Ibid, para 7.
 10Request, para   5.A.
 "IResponse,Chapter1,paras 8, 10,11.
 12MOP,paras     47-48.
 13 OP 10.04,paras    1,5and6.
  4 Seepara24.
  5 MOP,para 54.
 16 See "Nepal   - Fiscal Restructuring and Public Resource Management  in the Nineties",Report No. 1228
                                                                                                       1-NEP,
 datedMarch171994       (para8at p. iv). Thesamedocumentrecognizesthat:
           *   "thehighcostsand    financingrequirementsof AHP[ArunIII]poserisksto       theorderlymanagementof
               theNepal'soveralldevelopmentprogram,includinginvestmentsinhumanresourcesandrural
               infrastructure."(para3.6)

           *   "Thesimulationshowslocalresourceavailabilitycomingunderseverepressure....Thelocalfinancing
               gapwouldbeequivalentto      3.1percentof GDPor approximatelyUS$125millionayear,whichwould
               betoo largeto befilledbyreasonablerevenueeffortandadditionaldomesticborrowing,andsteps
               wouldhavetobetakentoredresstheimbalance.Inevitably,expendituresotherthanArunwouldhave
               to contract. Itisdifficulttomap outtheexactnatureof theexpenditurecontractionintheabsenceof a
               meaningfulprioritization,but basedonpastexperience,non-wageO&Mactivitiesandcapitalintensive
               programswouldbethemostvulnerable,andthiswouldaffecttherecurrentcostfnancingforvarious
               sectors,suchastransport irrigation,forestry,agricultureservicesanddrinkingwater,therebylimiting
              theproductivityof theseactivitiesandthegrowthprocess.Alsowiththelimitson localresources,
              aidedactivitiesand on-goingprogramswouldhavelongerimplementationdelays."(para3.7)
          *   "...acutbackinsocialprogramswouldbeunavoidableforaccommodatingthelocalfinancinggap."
              (para3.8)
 7 "Environmental    ImpactAssessment-    ValleyRoute"- MainReport,September,1992.
18 Request,4.D.
    "Arun III Hydroelectric  Project: Environmental Assessmentand  Management    -Executive Summary",  National
ElectricityAuthority,Kathmandu,May 1993.
20Response,para 15.
21 OD4.01 AnnexB, para(f)requiresa "systematiccomparisonof theproposedinvestmentdesign,site ....in        terms
of their potentialenvironmentalimpacts;capitalandrecurrentcosts;suitabilityunder localconditions;and
institutional,trainingandmonitoringrequirements.Foreachofthealternatives,the      environmentalcostsandbenefits
shouldbequantifiedtotheextentpossible,andeconomicvaluesshouldbeattachedwherefeasible. Thebasis forthe
selectionof thealternativeproposedfortheprojectdesignmustbestated."
22EASummary,para6.1.
23 For details see SAR(para3.26).

                                                        20

   EASummary1993,para 6.32.
2 4


25  Ibid,6.2.3.

26  At itsseventhmeetingof September26-October2,     1992. (See:Panelof ExpertsReportNo. 7)
2 7 Panelof ExpertsReportNo. 7, p.21 .
   Ibid,pp. 22-24.
                                          Arun Access Road - ValleyRoute" Volume    2, September1992,Joint
29  "Environmental Impact Assessmentfor
VentureArunIII: AnnexA, p A-1.
30  Ibid. AnnexA,p. A-3
                                                                                September,1992,pp. 4-13.
31 ''The Environmental Impact Assessmentfor  Arun Access Road-ValleyRoute    ',

    Request,para4.D.
32


3   Response,para 17.
34  Ibid,paras 18-20.
    Ibid,para 19.
36  SAR,para3.23.
37  Ibid,para 3.44b.
3 8 MOP,para 32.
39  OD4.01 para5callsforRegionalEAs "wherea numberof similarbut significantdevelopmentactivitieswith
potentiallycumulativeimpactsareplanned... [and]areparticularlyusefulwhentheyprecedethefirst          ina seriesof
projects ... in an undeveloped region ..wherecumulative impacts are anticipated ..."See also, OD 4.01 ANNEX B
EnvironmentalPolicyforDamandReservoirProjects:allprovisions(4/89);
40  OD4.01,para 13;para 15of AnnexB"EnvironmentalCapacity of         National and Sectorial Institutions: Major
damandreservoirprojectsshouldbeusedtohelpbuildenvironmentalcapacity(analytical,regulatory,and
enforcement)inthe institutionsatthenationalandsectoriallevelsthroughtraining,consultancy,and policydialogue,
andto fostercoverageof damsandreservoirsby environmentallegislation."Formoredetailon theselectionand
functionsof thepanel,seepara 18of OD4.00,AnnexB.
41   SectionII, pp.2-3.
42  BP17.50(para4).
    Request,para4.C.
 44 Response,para 14.
 45 Request,para4.C.

 46 BP 17.50para 5 (andtheSeptember1993documentonDisclosureofInformation,para 12)
    Request,para4.E.
 47


 48 Ibid.

 49 Ibid.
 50Ibid.

 5' Ibid.
 52 Ibid.

 5  Response,paras22-25.
    Ibid,para26.
  5 Ibid,para27.
    Ibid,para28.

  5 Ibid,para29.
  58Ibid,para 31.
    SARpara3.11.
  60EA Summaryat6.3.2
  61 POEReportNo7, pp.23-24.
     Request,para4.F.
  63 Responst,para36.

  64OD 4.20

  65AgreedMinutes,para4.




                                                         21

                                                                          ANNEX A



 Bank Policies and Procedures Applicable to the Different Items of the Request for



       TheResponsestatesthat anumberof policydocumentsreferredto in the Request
are not applicabletothe proposedproject(seeits AnnexA). Accordingto the Response
this approach means that OP/BP 10.04, "Economic Evaluation of Investrnent
Operations,"wouldnot be applicableto this projectbecauseit was issuedin September
1994. The applicablepolicy, accordingto Management,is to be found OMS 2.21,
"EconomicAnalysis of Projects," issued in May 1980, and CPN 2.01, "Investment
Criteria in EconomicAnalysis,"issued in June 1977. If such is the case however,a
number of other CPNs as expressly referred to in OMS 2.21, such as CPN 8.01,
"Contingency Allowances in Project Cost Estimates," CPN 2.04, "Economic Analysis of
Projects with Foreign Participation," CPN 2.02, "Risk and Sensitivity Analysis in
Economic Analysis of Projects," etc., as well as several OPNs, such as OPN 2.05,
"ForeignExchangeEffectsand ProjectJustification,"OPN2.06,"Useof the Investment
Premium and DistributionWeightsin ProjectAnalysis,"etc., all of which have been
supersededby OP/BP 10.04, could also be applicableto the economicevaluationand
analysisofthe proposedproject.

        The applicabilityof policy statementsother than the existingODs and OPs/BPs
raisestwo fundamentalissues: (a) whatkindof informationis availableto the publicin
general, and to potentially affected parties in particular, about IDA policies and
procedureswhichare notcontainedin themostrecentlyissuedandmorewidelypublicly
availablepolicystatements;and(b)inthe eventthattwoor morepolicystatementsonthe
same subjectcould be applicableduringthe design,appraisal,and implementationof a
particular project,what are the substantialpolicyprovisionsto be followedby IDA in
eachof suchstages:

        (a) It is apparentthat currentIDA policystatementsare not widelyavailable in
        areas, such as the ArunValleyinNepal,wherepeopleaffectedby IDA-financed
        projectslive. It is alreadya heavyburdenfor such people to identify--evenin
        substance--whatpoliciesandproceduresIDAmayhaveviolatedwhencausing--in
        fact or potentially--harmto their rights or interests. This problem would be
        compoundedif theywererequiredtobe awareof old policystatementsthatdo not
        seemreadilyavailableto IDAstaff,let aloneany internationalNGOs that could
        be assistingtheminthe preparationoftheirclaims.

        Thisproblemmay arise in an array of scenariosranging frompolicy statements
        issuedright beforeBoard presentationof a given project--asin the present case
        concerningeconomicevaluationof projects--tostatementsissuedmanyyearsago
        (see discussionbelow). In any event,this problemis one of many facedby an



                                           I

          affectedparty whentryingto lodge a validrequestpursuantto                  the terms of the
         Resolution.

          (b)Whenpolicystatementsavailabletothe publichavebeenonlyrecentlyissued,
          it would not be appropriateto make them immediatelyapplicableto                       a given
         project and assess IDA's performancein accordancewith the                     standards and
          proceduresstated in them. To the extent that new policy statements become
          applicable in the midst of project processingand implementation,and                    to the
          extent that these are not followedby IDA in their entirety,the questionswould
          then be: (i)do the newpolicystatementsdeviatefromIDA's pre-existingpolicy
          in a substantialway? and (ii) are the provisionsin the new               policy statements
          different and mutuallyexclusive with the provisionsof the                  old policy. In
          reviewing the different policy documents referred to by the                  Requester and
          Response,thefollowingquestionsbecomerelevant:

                  (i) OP/BP 10.04, "Economic Evaluation of Investment Operations":
                  fortunately,in this casethe basic premiseof projecteconomicevaluation
                  that "[floreveryinvestmentproject,Bankstaffconducteconomicanalysis
                  to determinewhetherthe projectcreatesmorenet benefitsto the economy
                  than other mutuallyexclusive options for the use of the resources                   in
                  question"' hasremainedunchangedthroughthe yearsand it is, therefore,
                  fully applicableto the reviewof the factsallegedin the Request. Several
                  policy statements reiterate and fuirtherdefine this requirement.                   For
                  example, paragraph 8 of OMS 2.21 provides that "consideration                       of
                  alternativesis the singlemost importantfeatureof properprojectanalysis
                  throughoutthe projectcycle,fromthe developmentplan for the particular
                  sectorthroughidentificationto appraisal,"and OD.4.01,"Environmental
                  Assessment," stresses the importance of a "systematic environmental
                  comparison of alternatives in investments, sites, technologies                     and
                  designs."2 The Panel believes, therefore,that regardlessof the specific
                  policy statementapplicableto the design of the projectin question,the
                  Panel believesthat IDA policycalls for a systematicand comprehensive
                  analysis and comparisonof all existing mutually exclusive options                   to
                  attain the objectives of the project to be financed                        by IDA.




 Paragraph 1 of OP 10.04, seealso paragraph 8 of OMS 2.21

2OD   4.01, paragraph 4(c), See also Annex B, paragraph2(f). The applicability of OD 4.01 is discussed
later in this Response.



                                                    2

(ii) OD 4.00,  "Environmental  Policies," Annexes  A and B; OD     4.01,
                                                                     OD
"Environmental   Assessment"; OD 4.20, "Indigenous    People"; and
                                                                  issued
4.30, "Involuntary Resettlement."  All of theses documentswere
betweenApril28,    1989and October 3,   1991,that is, betweenmore than
fiveyearsto almostthreeyearsbeforethe dateonwhichthe MOPand the
SAR were issued for   Board distribution. Thesepolicy documentswere
also issuedbeforethe  date on which a   decisionwas madeto    changethe
major individualcomponentof    the project,interms of environmentaland
resettlement and  financial impact.   The Panel sees   no merit in the
allegationsthatthesepolicydocumentsarenotfullyapplicableto      ArunIII,
becauseof themerefactthatthe IEPSwasissuedbeforethe date onwhich
the policy documents   were issued. The    applicabilityof  new policies
shouldbe interpretedin   a manner consistentwith   their objectives. For
example,the Responsestatesthat     OD 4.01 on Environment    Assessment

would not be   fully applicabletothe new valley route alignment(which
raises a numberof    environmentrelatedissues)becauseof    the mere fact

that the IEPS was   issuedin 1987.   In the Panel'sview, the new   valley

 alignmentrepresenteda  majordeparturefromthe    projectdescribedin   the

 IEPS and, as such,cannotbe   exemptedfromthe     standardsor policiesin
 force when the  new project design  and executingstudy   for the Access
 Roadwereagreeduponandevaluated.        In facttherewasplentyof time    to

 conformtothe newpolicyrequirements.

 (iii) New policyon disclosure and BP 17.50,  "Disclosure of  Operational
                                                               this policy
 Information."   The Panel agrees with IDA Managementthat
 cannotbe appliedretroactivelyin  the caseof ArunIII but  it notesthat the
 new informationrequirementsmust     be adheredto  as soon as possible, to

  be consistent  with the overall  aims of the  policy on disclosure    of
  information. Forexample,sincethe   PID is the most  accessibledocument
  on project information--bothbecause    of its comprehensive and      yet
  condensedformatandthe factthatit   is widelyavailable,evenonInternet--
  the Panelconcludesthat everyeffortshouldhavebeenmadeto        updatethe
  PID ontheproposedproject,in   linewiththenewrequirementsset forthin
  Annex A of BP    10.00. The fact that the PID has  not yet been updated
                                                                         it
  accordinglymay   not constitutea  seriousviolationof  IDA policy but
  maybeconstruedas suchbythe public.




                              3

                                                                              ANNEX B
                                                                             Page 1 of 2


                          NEA's Environmental Assessment
                                    and Management
                                   Executive Summary
                                        May 1993
                                    (pages 53 and 54)



                Table 6.1ARUN ACCESSROAD - COMPARATIVECHART:
             DISTANCE, LAND USE, LAND TAKE and FAMILIES AFFECTED


                                                              Route Options
                                                      Valley'
                   ITEM                        (includingpowercavern         Hill
                                                      access)
    Distance(km)      New construction                 121.9'               197.2
                      Travel(Hile-Intake)              116.8'               171.4
                      Forest                            27                   28.5
                      ShrubandGrazing                   30                    16
     LandUse          Cultivation:Khet                  27                    41
        (%/0)         Cultivation:Bari                   16                   15
                        Totalcultivation                43                    56
                      Abandoned/Other          __0.5

                        Total                           100                  100
                      Forest                            106                  145
                      ShrubandGrazing                   119                   81
     LandTake         Cultivation:Khet                  106                  209
        (ha)          Cultivation:Bari                  63                    77
                        Totalcultivation                169                  286
                      Abandoned/Other         __3

                    .   Total Land Take                 3944                 510
          AverageLandTakeha/km'                         3.2                  2.59
           AverageHouseholds/km                         9.4                  8.6
           TotalFamiliesAffected                        1146                 1661




       ThiscolumnfromdraftACRPReport,April 1993
2      Recommendedalignmentforaditaccessalongrightbankof Arunriver
3      Thisfigureisbasedon preliminaryengineeringandcouldincreaseby 1%to 2%duringdetailed
       engineering
4      3375hapermanentplus 19hatemporary
       HillRouteRoWchangesfrom30mto 20 mat Chhyangkuti,alsopowerhousespur
n.d.   Nodata(availabledatanotdisaggregated)

                                                                              Page2 of2



 Table6.2ARUNACCESSROAD:HILLVERSESVALLEY-                A QUALITATIVEASSESSMENT

                                                                       HillRoute
            Topic                      ValleyRoute
                                                                        Longer
Length:                                   Shorter

PhysicalImpacts:
soils,slopes,naturalhazards                High                        Moderate

BiologicalImpacts:                    Direct:Moderate            Direct:Moderate/Low

forests,habitat,wildlife               Indirect:High            Indirect:Moderate/High

SocialImpacts:                           Moderate
landtake,familiesaffected       (approx.twothirdsHillRoute)              High

Construction:
                                                                        Longer
(i) time                                  Shorter
                                                                         Equal
(ii) costs                                 Equal
(iii)constructiondifficulty                 High                       Moderate

(iv)riskof off-sitedamage/injury       Moderate/Low                   Moderate/High

EconomicBenefits:
                                                                          High
(i) immediateconnectivity                 Moderate
(ii)long-termregionalaccess                  High                       Moderate
         Conclusion:ValleyRouteispreferable,assumingsoundmanagementof impactsandrisk

                                                                                                               ANNEXC



                          ARUN CONCERNED                                     GROUPRECEIVED
   ORIGINALSecretariat:                         c/o INHURED International                4  OCT   31 Ptl5: 22
  uORxINA\18
         IGlJ^ ffL                                 P.O. Box2125
                                                Kathmandu. Nepal
                                      Tel: (977-1) 419610 * Fax: (977-1) 412538


                                                                                                     October 24, 1994

 The Inspection Panel
 The World Bank
 1818 H Street, NW
 Washington, DC    20433
 United States

                                       REQUEST FOR INSPECTION

We, as the Arun      Concerned    Group, the local residents          of the Sankhuwa-Sava          District, and the
 citizens of Nepal. claim the following   against the proposed       controversial Arun     III Hydroelectric Project
which is to be partly  financed by the World      Bank:

 1.      INTRODUCTIONOF THE         PROJECT

The World Bank,      with other lending      agencies (Asian Development            Bank, KfW. France,        Finland,
Sweden), is planning    to finance the proposed        Arun III Hydroelectric      Project in the Sankhuwa-Sava
District of Nepal with  the total cost of US    $1082.3 million for the       first 201 MW stage     of 402 MW. The
Bank is proposing    to lend US $175.0     millions in International       Development Association        (IDA)funds.
The Nepal Electricity   Authority (NEA)is       to invest US $290.7       million from its internal     sources. The
major project component     includes a 122 lan       access road, a 68      m dam and power        intake, desanding
basins and appurtenant      structures,   an 11.4 km headrace          tunnel, a surge tank      leading to a power
cavern to house    three 67 MW turbogenerators,          a downstream surge         tank and tailrace tunnel,      and
outlet structures.  Transmission     equipment includes        a 120 km, 220 kV       double-circuit line    to a 220
kV/ 132 kV sub-station    at Duhabi. Because       of its size and complexity,     the project has implications     for
the entire country,  including significant    risks relating to crowding       out of high-priority   investments in
other sectors due to  cost overruns, "worse-than-expected"          management       of the Government      budget, or
failure  of the NEA to meet        its share      of investment,      unforeseen      delays in implementation,
unsatisfactory    design and implementation           of Environmental        Management       Plan, including     the
Regional Action Plan,   and others.

2.      RELEVANTPOLICIES AND PROCEDURES                  OF THE WORLDBANKWHICH HAVE
        BEEN VIOLATED
2.A.    Economnic Evaluation      of Investment Operations
*       OP 10.04
2.B     Policies on World    Bank Role in the Electric          Power Sector and         Energy Efficiency and
        Conservation in the Developing          World

2. C    The World Bank Policy       on Disclosure of Informnation,           March 1994
*       BP 17.50, page 1,  para. 4, updating     Project Information     Document:
*       World Bank Policy    on Disclosure of      Information, March        1994, page 5, para.      10, content of
        PIDs (see also OD 10.00   Annex A. page 1):
*       BP 17.50, page 1, para. 5, releasing     Factual Technical Information;
*       BP 17.50, page 3, para. 12, availability    of environmental     assessment;
*       World Bank Policy     on Disclosure       of Information,     March 1994, Section         II Policy, page 2;
        importance of accountability,     dissemnination of    information in order      to facilitate participation,
        and presumption   in favor of disclosure.
*       BP 17.50 Disclosure   of Operational Inforrmation

2.D     Environmental Assessment
*       OD 4.01, Annex B,   para. 2(f): analysis   of alternatives (see   also para. 3 in 4.01)
*       OD 4.01, para. 13:  engaging advisory     panels for highly risky     and contentious projects

                                                         1 '

      ORIGINAL
 *      OD 4.01, para. 5: regional environmental assessments
 *      OD 4.01, para. 19 and 20: involvement of affected groups       and non-governmental     organizations
 *      OD 4.01: disclosure of information
2.E     Involuntary    Resettlement:    Land Acquisition,    Compensation      and Rehabilitation
 *      OD 4.30, para. 3(a)
 *      OD 4.30, para. 3(b)
 *      OD 4.30, general violations
 *      OD 4.30, para. 14
*       OD 4.30, para. 11

2.F     Indigenous    Peoples
*       OD 4.20, general violations
*       OD 4.20, para. 3
*       OD 4.20, para. 15(d)
*       OD 4.20, para. 11

2. G    Wildlands    Policy: In addition to the policies listed above and   discussed herein, the claimants
        request   the Inspection    Panel to investigate    whether there are violations       of the Bank's
        Wildlands Policy OP 4.04 and the Bank Operational Policies        on Investment Lending OP 10.00
        in connection with the Arun III Project.

3.      OUR RIGHTS/INTERESTS

A.      Effective participation in policy-making and decision-making      processes:
B.      Timely access to information;
C.      Balanced development:
D.      Adequate analysis of alternatives:
E.      Adequate compensation and rehabilitation:
F.      Fair access to electricity supply at affordableprices.:
G.      Freedom from debt:
H.      Freedom from inappropriate lending conditionalities:
I.      Right to development;
J.      Maintenance of adequate living standards: and
K.      Healthy envirornment and sustainable development.

4.      VIOLATIONSOF ITS OWNPOLICIESAND PROCEDURES                    BYTHE BANK

4.A.    Violations of Operational        Policies: Economic        Evaluation    of Investment
        Operations

4.A. 1 Criterion     for Acceptability:     The Bank has violated its operational         policies regarding
Econormic Evaluation of Investment Operation, as      a basic criterion for acceptability. For the project to
be acceptable on economic grounds, "the expected       present value of the project's net benefits must    be
higher than or equal to the expected net present      value of mutually exclusive project altemative".     By
not undertaking    the relevant studies of the alternatives     such as those listed in Plan B, the World
Bank has not fulfilled this very basic criteria for acceptability of the project.
4.A.2 Alternatives:    The Least Cost generation and Expansion plan        (LCGEP)of 1987 and 1990 failed
to take into account that the same amount of      power generated from Arun III could also be generated
from a series of smaller altematives      in the 1 MW to 100 MW range. It was only          in the 1993/94
Argonne National Laboratories (ANL)study        (Analyses of Options For the Nepal Electrical     Generating
System, May 1994) that such an altemative sequence         was even considered. However, the ANLstudy
was clearly incomplete as the comparison was made         with very preliminary costs for the alternative
schemes. Even though there was an arbitrary        addition of 20% to the cost of the alternatives    on the
grounds that 'costs always go up with more detailed          studies', the study concluded that the cost
difference between the sequence of doing Arun         immediately versus doing it in 10 years was        only
percent. Thus without undertaking      relevant studies of the smaller alternatives    to get more accurate
costs, and depending solely on "costs always    go up with more detailed studies" ground, the criteria    for
acceptability of the project cannot be concluded to   have been fulfilled.
Over 30 schemes in the 10 MW to 60 MW range           have been identified that can produce in total over
1,000 MW of power in studies conducted by the His      Majesty's Government of Nepal (HMG/N). Recently
constructed or ready for construction    schemes such as Jhimruk (12 MW),Khimti (60           MW1,Modi (14
                                                      2

ORIGINAL
    MW)for    which accurate    costs are   now known      have per
    that are significantly                                            unit installation
                            lower than                                                    and energy    production
                                          that of Arun                                                               costs
                                                         III. There
    studies are                                                      is every reason
                  completed,                                                           to believe
                               the smaller                                                        that once
                                              altematives                                                     the detailed
    Arun III.                                                 can be built
               Feasibility                                                   at prices
                            studies                                                     lower than
                                      of the altematives                                             or competitive   with
                                                             must be
    policy requirement                                                  completed
                          to compute                                                 for the Bank
                                        the LCGEP                                                    to have fulfilled
                                                      for additional                                                    its
    other World                                                        power generation
                    Bank least                                                              for Nepal.
                                 cost energy                                                            (For violations
                                                 requirements                                                            of
    Resources:                                                     see also
                 Tenth Replenishment,                                          IDA 10 Agreement,      Additions
                                           March 1,                                                                to IDA
                                                       1993; and   World Bank     Energy Policies).
    4.A.3 Risks:     The weak    Nepali economy       faces numerous
   Arun III.  Due weightage                                               risks in
                                has not been                                        taking on   a project
                                                 given to                                                   of the size of
    could be                                               these risks
               taken to                                                  in preparing
                          reduce the                                                     the project
                                        risks have                                                    for and steps
                                                       not been                                                       that
                                                                   taken.
   importance:                                                               The following    issues are    of particular

   i.       Riparian   Issue with     China: Over     80% of the
   Autonomous                                                       catchment
                   Region of                                                     of the Arun
                              the Peoples'                                                     river lies
                                             Republic                                                     in the Tibetan
   China to                                              China. The    HMG/N
               maintain                                                          does not
                          the present                                                       yet have
                                          dry season                                                  a guarantee    from
                                                         flow over
   objection"                                                        the lifetime
                which China                                                          of the project.
                               has reportedly                                                         The letter
                                                 sent to the                                                       of "no
   water flow.   The fact                                       HMG/N does
                           that a proposal                                      not constitute   a guarantee
                                              is pending                                                        of Arun's
                                                           in China
   the Arun                                                           for the Changsuo
              (Punggu)   river with                                                         Basin Irrigation
                                     a proposed                                                                Project on
   half the                                         comrnmandarea
             dry season                                                of 9.000  hectares
                           flow of Arun                                                     that could
                                           presents                                                     withdraw
                                                       a serious                                                    up to
   project. This                                                   risk to the
                  risk has                                                       projected
                            not been                                                         economnic
                                       taken into   account                                              retums of    the
                                                               in the sensitivity  analysis.
   ii.     Lack of    Power Sales      Agreement       with India:
  future development                                                    Since Phase
                          in the Valley                                                It of the
                                          have been                                              Arun III project
                                                       predicated                                                     and
  not be approved                                                   on the sale
                      until a bi-lateral                                          of power  to India, the
                                         agreement                                                         project must
                                                       has been   reached.
  iii.     All Eggs   in One Basket:       By the time    they are
  constitute                                                         completed.
               50% of the   total power                                            Phase I and
                                           supplied                                              II of the Arun
                                                      to the national                                             III will
  the HMG/N                                                              grid under
                  agreed to                                                           the present
                             by the Bank.                                                           investment
                                              A natural                                                          plan of
                                                            catastrophe
  landslide,   or a Glacial                                                such as   a very large
                              Lake Outburst                                                         flood caused
                                                 Flood (GLOF).                                                      by a
  project would                                                     or an earthquake
                  virtually  ruin the Nepali                                               that might
                                               economy.                                                 affect this  one
                                                            This risk
  national                                                             of "putting
            economy    needs to                                                     all the eggs
                                  be taken                                                        in one basket"
                                             into account                                                          to the
                                                             in performing    the economic    analysis
  4.B                                                                                                   of this project.
           Policies  on World    Bank Role      in the Electric     Power Sector
           Conservation                                                               and Energy     Efficiency
                            in the Developing                                                                      and
                                                    World
 The World       Bank's Energy      Policies require     the Bank
  development                                                          in the energy
                   of integrated                                                         sector to
                                     sustainable                                                     be based    on the
                                                      strategies
 components                                                        which     include
                 such as                                                                demand
                            energy conservation                                                    side management
                                                      or efficiency
 Agreement,                                                           (see also
                Additions                                                        policy requirement
                            to IDA Resources:                                                           under IDA
                                                   Tenth Replenishment.                                               10
 been paid    to end-use                                                        March 1.
                          efficiency                                                        1993.) Attention
                                      in the formulation                                                        has not
                                                             of the Arun   III.
 4.C       Violation   of Information     Policy
 Late in   the project   preparation     process,    the Bank
 including                                                        released
              a study on                                                     some factual
                            alternatives                                                      technical   information,
                                            known as
 claimants                                                "Plan B".   However,
              to influence                                                         by then
                            the design                                                       it was too
                                          and planning                                                     late for  the
 and loan                                                   of the project
            negotiations                                                     as the appraisal
                           between   the Bank                                                    had been    completed
                                                 and the HMG/N       had been    completed.
The issue    of timeliness   of information    release in   a meaningful
goes to heart                                                                way cannot
                 of the issue                                                              be overstated.
                               of who participates                                                          This really
                                                       and who
for this project                                                  benefits in   a project.
                   were not  participatory                                                  The design
                                             at the national                                             and planning
                                                                or local level.
4.C. 1 Arun      III Project  Information      Document
the main                                                      (PID): In
             public document                                             the early   stage of the
                                  available                                                        project, the
                                               on a project                                                      PID is
According                                                       in addition
             to the Bank                                                       to the environmental
                            Policy, when   it is first                                                   assessment.
                                                       created,
elements                                                          a PID should
            of the project, including                                             contain information
                                        the project's                                                     on the main
                                                       objectives,
financing,                                                           expected
              environmental                                                     or probable   components,
                                issues,   status                                                             costs and
                                                   of procurement
undertaken,                                                             and consulting
                implementing                                                                services,
                                agencies                                                               studies
                                           and relevant                                                          to be
                                                           contact points.    (See also Attachment
In addition                                                                                           - I).
                to these  points,   OD 10.00     Annex A:
Document     requires                                          Outline for    an Investment
                       that PIDs   contain   country and                                        Project Information
learned from                                                  sector background,
                the past  operations                                                 project sustainability,
                                       in the country/sector.                                                  lessons
and project                                                        Updated
              risks.                                                          PIDs should    include project  benefits
Despite a   high level of interest  by Nepali   NGOs in    the project,
of the components                                                         the Arun
                      required                                                       III PID does
                                 by the Bank                                                       not contain   many
                                                 policy, for  example,
critical information:                                                     it does not  contain any   of the following


                                                           3

ORiGiNAL
 i.       background   description    of the country, region    or the Arun Valley or       exact location of the
          project;
 ii.     justification for Bank involvement;
 iii.     background on the sector     and sector strategy and   how this project fits into    the    overall
          planning for the energy sector   in Nepal;
 iv.      information on project    sustainability  or lessons from previous      experience of large scale     darn
         projects in Nepal;
 v.       information on the Arun    Valley and its unique ecosysterns;
 vi.      information on the 450.000     people, including the  indigenous groups living      in the Valley;
 vii.    information on project   benefits or risks;
 viii.   project alternatives which    were considered;
 ix.      a discussion of issues and   actions;
 x.      information on a cost-benefit     analysis; and
 k.      relevant contact person    in the World Bank and     in the regional office in   Nepal.
According to Bank Procedures       BP 17.50, PIDs are supposed     to be expanded and updated        as the project
 progresses. For all operations,   the PID is supposed to be    updated before appraisal.     The PID for Arun III
 was prepared only in early    1994 (January 24) and     has never been updated.
 4.C.2   Environmental       Information:      Under the Bank's information         policy and procedures,       the
 environmental impact     assessment for IDA funded      category A projects is supposed      to be made publicly
 available in the country   "at some public place    accessible to affected groups"      and in a local language
 before the Droject proceeds    to appraisal. The claimants    believe this provision    was not followed by the
 Bank. In fact, a law suit    was filed with the Supreme      Court on December 31,         1993, in order to get
 access to information      about the project.      One of the documents         listed as demanded        was the
environmental     impact assessment.     On March 8, 1994 the Court       decision required the government        to
release information, but   this was after the appraisal    was started. (See also    Attachment - II).
4.C.3    Factual    Technical    Information      on Arun III: Paragraph        5 in Bank's Procedures        17.50
requires the release    of factual technical information      upon request on project       in preparation. This
provision was meant to provide      interested people with more     factual technical information      between the
time the PID is released and     project approval when    the final staff appraisal is   released. The claimants
attempted to obtain factual     technical information   during project preparation      in order to have input in
the design or promote      alternatives   to the project. However,    it was not until project      appraisal was
almost finished that the   claimants received factual     technical information.
4.C.4    Staff Appraisal    Report:    The claimants     have repeatedly requested        the copies of the Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR)which         is now final and has been     sent to the Board of      Executive Directors.
Under the current Bank        information policy, final   SARs are only released        publicly after the Board
approves the project. Under      the Bank's current definition    of "factual technical information"      does not
include draft SAR (see    Office Memorandum. Jan      Wijnand. June 20. 1994).        The claimants understand
that failure to release   the SAR before the Board       approval is not a violation       of the Bank's current
policy. However, the claimants      wish to challenge this aspect     of the Bank policy, because       the SARis
the basic technical document       of a project and should    be classified as factual technical      information.
The small amount of confidential      information contained in    the SAR should be excised        and the rest of
the document should be released.       The SAR contains the     basic justification for the   Bank's involvement
in the project. Without access     to the SAR before Board     approval, it is impossible     to understand how
the Bank uses, manipulates,        or misrepresents     other factual technical      information to support      its
involvement in the Arun III    project.

4.1D     Environmental     Impact Assessment
4.D.1 Analysis of Altematives:         The ELAreport should        include "Systematic       comparison     of the
proposed investment design,      site, technology, and operational     altematives in terms of      their potential
environmental      impacts,   capital  and recurrent      costs, suitability     under   local conditions;     and
institutional  training and monitoring     requirements.    For each of the alternatives,      the environmental
costs and benefits should       be quantified    to the extent possible and       economic values should         be
attached where feasible.   The basis for selection   of the alternative proposed     for the project design must
be stated".
An essential part of any   environmental     assessment process is the      investigation of alternatives    to the
project. to discover whether   there are options which are    more viable from an environmental         and social
standpoint. As stated   above, the Bank's OD requires      an environmental analyses        of alternatives to the
proposed project. Unfortunately,      in the case of Arun III,   the environmnental issues      at stake and the
available alternatives have   not been integrated into decisions    about whether to proceed        with project.

                                                        4

ORIGINAL
                                                                     to investigate   alternatives   to the dam    site or
 During the    1991 EIA,    the team did    not have a    mandate
                                                                                                                   which
 the road   aligrunent   (hill route) at the timne.The     King Mahendra      Trust for   Nature Conservation
                                                   Impacts Study     stated "the   road alignment     and the dam     site
 undertook    the Basinwide      Environmental
                                                                                to change these    decisions".
 were already    decided, and    the study  team did not     have a mandate
                                                                      for the purpose    of determining    whether this
 Later in 1992,    an EIA for   the Valley  route was     conducted
                                                                                   Arun III hydropower      site. Serving
 route "might   provide tirne    and cost savings   in providing    access to the
                                                                         which the    road will pass    is a secondary
 the needs    of the population      in the general     area through
                                                                -                        Report, September      1992).
 consideration."    (Environmental     Impact Assessrnent          Valley Route-Main
                                                       was preferable                    route even    though the      EIA
 This EIA    concluded     that the    Valley route                        to the hill
                                                                                                             also limited
                                                     significant   imnpacts to  the valley.  This EIAwas
 recognized    that there  would be    irreversible
                                                    and not to                III and road    itself, which   were both
 to investigating     altematives    to the road                   the Arun
                                                                                                                      and
                                                    " .... the need  for and the    siting of the   power project,
  considered    a fait accompiL     In this case,
                                                is taken as    a given".                              Limitations,    page
  therefore the justification    for the road,                           (ETA.Valley   Route Study

  1-6).
                                                               Valley route   of the access     road fails  to take into
  Still more   importantly,     the so called   EIA of the
                                                                            any alternative     approach    to build this
  consideration    and compare       from environmental        standpoint
                                                                                           the roads   in the Himalayan
  road. For example,     applying   environmentally     friendly approach    in building
                                                                                                           methods have
  foothills by  employing    simnpleand    conservation-oriented     techniques    and labor intensive
                                                               construction   of the road  and the approach      adopted,
  been proved    successful.    The pace   of the proposed
  thus, is a  serious environmental       concern that    the EIA ignores.
                                                                             cycle. the Bank     comrmissioned    a study
  After the EIA   process was     compIeted,    and well into    the project
                                                    known as      "Plan B" was    issued only    after a year  of intense
  of alternatives   to the project.    This study
                                                                                                        The Plan    B was
  local and intemational       pressure on    the Bank     to adequately   investigate   alternatives.
                                                     Arun III is   the "least cost"  option for   Nepal, without    regard
  conducted    from the standpoint       of whether
  to environrnental    and social   costs of either  Arun III or   the alternatives.
                                                                             called 23 public    meetings   to justify the
  4.D.2 Public      Participation:     The Bank     has relied    on the so
                                                          the project. The fundamental       question is   whether basic
  participation    of the local  people in designing
                                                              available to the local   people and    the public    at large
  project documents       and infornation      were made
                                                                                        only two   or three meetings      of
   before the   holding of    such consultations.       In fact, There   have been
                                                             to discussion     on the positive      side of the    project.
   consultation    nature    which were      also limited
                                                                            no elaborated    information    on the project
   Moreover,   during or   prior to the   so called 23   public meetings,
                                                                    knowledge,    there were    no public  meetings held
   in Nepali  language were      made available.    So far in our
                                                       In addition,                                  meetings were     held
   in Kathmandu      by the HMG/N      or the Bank.                  all of the above-mentioned
                                                                                            information    and document
   before the   Nepali Supreme      Court's verdict    on the disclosure    of all project
                                                                                     only after the   show-cause     notice
   on March 8,    1994. The so     called Information     Centre was   established
                                                                                    The govermnent-controlled         radio,
   was issued    against the    HMG/N and      the NEA on      the writ petition.
                                                                                                                        and
                                                               disinform  the Nepali   people about    the existence
   television  and the print    media were    used only to
                                                                  debate about    various aspects    of the project.   Most
   benefits of  the project    but were not   open to critical
                                                                       groups and    individuals    as well as    the local
   importantly,    the mere     participation    of some selective
                                                            influence  cannot represent     the whole   Arun Valley,    and
   government     authorities   through governmental
                                                             of the size  and complexity       of the project.   (See also
   for this matter,     the people    of Nepal because
   Attachment-III).
                                                                         and discussion      in the absence    of the basic
   Therefore,   we strongly     claim that  the holding     of meetings
                                                                any sense              of meaningful    debate about     the
   project documents       and information     do not make                  in terms
                                                                                    to information    and genuine     public
   positive and   negative aspects     of the project,   and meeting   the access

   consultation    policy requirements      of the Bank.
                                                           the cumulative    impacts to   the environment      in the Arun
    4.D.3   Cumulative       Impacts:     Furthermore,
                                                                                           The World     bank has    argued
   valley of Arun    III, Lower   Arun and    Upper Arun     have not   been evaluated.
                                                                                 1,044 MW can      be generated    from the
    that the benefit   of the 122    km road into    the Arun    valley is that
                                                            to the environment      will thus   be confined    to one river
    three schemes      in Arun and     that the impact
                                                                              it is widely   accepted (including      by the
    basin rather    than scattered      among diverse      sites. However,
                                                          the cumulative    impacts of   all three schemes    will result  in
    Environmental     Department      of the ADB)that
    "irreversible  environmental     damage to   the valley".
                                                                                                     (EIA).The   Arun III is
    The Bank has      violated OD    4.01, Annex    B on Enviro=nental       Impact Assessment
                                                                           Arun Valley.    Despite this,    environmental
    only the first   phase in    a plan to   build three    dams in the
                                                                     Arun III,   and therefore,     there is a   need of a
    studies have      only covered     the adverse     impacts of
                                                    cumulative     impacts of    building the    other two   schemes and
    comprehensive      study of the     long-term
    additional   road construction     in the Valley.

                                                                  5

ORIGINAL

 4.D.4     General    Violations:   There are clearly noticeable inadequacies    in the EIA studies of the
 various components        of the project. For example, there is no thorough      assessment    of the likely
 environmental      impact by the 120 km high-voltage transmission    lines. In the analysis of risks due to
 GLOF and land-slide floods it is claimed that the risks are minimal. However small the expected risks
 are, there should be a mitigation plan for the same needs to be developed. The environmental studies
 lack such mitigation       plans for natural  disasters.  Similarly, no mitigation measures      have been
 developed for the adverse impacts on the fish populations. There are no mitigation plans for the likely
 adverse environmental impact to be caused by the disposal of construction        spoils of project elements
 like dam, tunnel, power house, access road and the like. The impact of dumping construction spoils
 into the river has not been studied. Though this is definite to have significant adverse impact on the
 down-stream side of the river.

 4.E Involuntary Resettlement: Land Acquisition, Compensation and Rehabilitation
 In 1990, the Bank established an involuntary resettlement plan because "development projects that
 displace people involuntarily      generally give rise to severe economic,     social and environmental
 problems." One of the main objectives of the policy is to provide people displaced by a project with the
 means to improve, or at least restore, their former living standards,    earning capacity and production
 levels. This central objective has already been violated in the case of Arun III.
 4.E. 1 Under Valuation of the Compensation:              The EIA states "For the majority of households
 compensation with cash would not enable them to recover from the loss of a significant proportion of
 the family land holding, unless the money were used to buy an equivalent of land In the vicinity.
 However, the effect of ACRP on the hill route has been to inflate land prices far beyond the
 compensated value, thus making the purchase of replacement land impossible for most PAFs" (Project
 Affected Families), (see, Arun III HEP: Environmental       Impact Assessment     for Arun Access Road -
 Valley Route; Volume 1/2 Main Report; Sept. 1992; p. 5-4). The report also confirms that land has
 been undervalued       by the District Land Revenue Officer, therefore,     making it impossible for the
 displaced people to recover their losses. The report further states that "The filed surveys for this report
 found that land values fixed by the local Land Revenue Offices seriously underrate             the reported
 market value." (see Ibid.). This action also violates para. 14 of OD 4.30 which states 'Valuation of lost
 assets should be made at their replacement cost."

 4.E.2 Opportunities        to Share in Project Benefits: The benefit of this project will be electricity.
 but it is not electricity, however, for the Arun Valley. One section of the EIA(6-11), however, describes
 the expectation of local people to receive power from this project at affordable rates. The modification
 made in the project which corresponds with this expectation has been an increase in the width of the
 transmission     lines so that sometime in the future the Valley can benefit from a future electrification
 program, as of yet undeveloped. In no way will the main benefit of this particular project - electricity
 -  be conferred to people who are directly affectedby the project.

 4.E.3 Employment           to the Seriously    Project Affected Families       (SPAFs): Noting that the
 displacement of project affectedpeople would be permanent, earlier versions of the EIArecommended
 that permanent employment be made availablefor at least one member ofthose families expected to
 be severely affected by the Arun III project. In later versions, this recommendation seems not to have
 been carried through. Localpeople affected by the project are to be given first priority for employment
 in the construction of the access road. This employment opportunity, however, is not permanent
 whereas adverse effects ofdisplacement are permanent.
 4.E.4 Land        Based    Resettlement:    The World Bank experience and policy on involuntary
 resettlement states that replacement ofresettlement land ("landfor land strategies") is far superior to
 cash compensation. In fact, experience has shown that most people who have been displaced by the
 Bank projects that received only cash for their land have not regained their standard of living, but
 instead have become impoverished (see Resettlement and Development, April 8, 1994; also Involuntary
 Resettlement in DevelopmentProjects, MichaelM. Cenea, 1988). In addition, the EIAhas shown that
 cash compensation is already failing in the case of people displaced by the hill route in the Arun III
project. The ETAhas further stated that it is expected that the Valley route Project AffectedFamilies
 (PAFs)will have been less ability to be able to deal with cash compensation because they are poorer
than the people along the hill route. Despite the overwhelmingevidence against cash compensation.
 it is still the centrepiece of the HMG/N land acquisition guidelines.
The updated Land Acquisition, Compensation and Rehabilitation Plan (ACRP)has attempted to cope
with this issue by requiring that the project affected people be given the option of receiving land
instead of cash. However, the burden of identifying land has been put on the displaced people
themselves and they also must arrange for the HMG/N to purchase the land. Furthermore, those

                                                       6

ORIGINAL
  already displaced     do not have the    option of receiving  land. According
  Awareness Group                                                                  to the Sankhuwa-Sava
                        that is raising                                                                       Peoples'
                                          its concerns   about the project    within the Arun
  documented     that the people                                                                 Valley has recently
                                    who received   cash compensation      earlier have not
  about whether                                                                             been informed
                    they would prefer                                                                        or asked
                                         land, and not   the cash. (See   also Attachment    - IV).
  The HMG/N      has now given     on October 5,     1994 a 30-day    public notice
  Land Acquisition                                                                   of land acquisition
                      Act, 1979 in                                                                          under the
                                      Manakamana      Village. However,    the notice does
  whether the                                                                               not say anything
                  families are                                                                                  about
                                 eligible to ask   for land for  land compensation
  limited to cash                                                                        since the law
                    compensation.                                                                         Is basically
                                      The claimants    believe that many   Valley residents'
  decrease as a                                                                               standard of living
                  result of cash                                                                                  will
                                   compensation,     and the loss  of land.
  4.E.5    Surveys:    In violation of   section 11 of  OD 4.30, there     has not been
  completed on                                                                             a socio-economic
                  the Valley route                                                                             survey
                                      to determine    whose lands    will be affected  or to deternmine
  the land.                                                                                              the value of

  4.E.6    Resettlement      Planring:     According to   the Bank policy,    the resettlement
  before appraisal.                                                                               should take   place
                      However, no     resettlement   plan has been    established for
  houses due                                                                           families who
                to the power                                                                           will lose their
                               transmission    lines.

  4.F      Indigenous     Peoples
 There are over     24 different  ethnic groups    within the Arun     Valley. Some
 cultural identities                                                                   of which maintain    separate
                       and are organized     under a network    of ethnic groups   in Nepal. These
 and Limbu tribes                                                                                    include the  Rai
                      who maintain     communal types      of land ownership.
 in the Arun                                                                     Many of the
                Valley can be                                                                  ethnic groups living
                                classified as  indigenous people    using the characteristics
 Bank Operational                                                                                described in World
                        Directive 4.20:    Indigenous People.    These people
 natural resources                                                                have a close   attachment
                       in the Valley.                                                                          to the
                                        They are considered     as a series of
 have well established                                                          distinct cultural
                             customary                                                              groupings. They
                                           social and political   institutions   and are primarily
 oriented producers                                                                                    subsistence-
                        (The World Bank      Operational Manual;    Operational Directive
 p. 1).The original                                                                         4.20; September
                      EIAdescribed                                                                              1991;
                                       the communities     of the Arun   Basin as "predominantly
 little influenced  by outsiders.                                                                    traditional and
                                    They are unique    in themselves    and practice
 cultural practices.                                                                   diverse socio-economic    and
                        Many local     people have never     been outside     the Valley."
 Mitigation Plan,                                                                           In the Environmental
                     a reference is    made to protecting     indigenous    people. These
 within the rubric                                                                           definitions clearly
                      of OD 4.20. Operational                                                                     fall
                                                    Directive 4.20   has as its basic
 indigenous people                                                                       tenant "a] to
                        benefit from                                                                    ensure that
                                        development    projects, and    b) avoid or
 effects on indigenous                                                               mritigate potentially   adverse
                           people caused     by Bank-assisted    activities." At
 the policy is to                                                                 its centre the  main objective
                    "ensure that indigenous                                                                        of
                                                 people do not   suffer adverse
 process, particularly                                                            effects during   the development
                          from Bank-financed       projects." (See  ibid., p. 2). In
 indigenous                                                                          the case of the
               communities                                                                             Arun III, the
                               in the Valley     will be adversely    affected by the
 assessments                                                                            project. But,
                 do not demonstrate                                                                      the impact
                                        any local benefits  for the indigenous    commnunities.

Adverse impacts     identified by  the EIAinclude:
i.       a further deterioration    of natural resources    upon which local     comrnmunitiesdepend
         population growth                                                                               because of
                               related to the  project:
U.       further marginalization       due to the introduction      of an unfamiliar    cash economy
         proposed road                                                                                    along the
                          route;
iii.      the introduction    of disease, through   work camps    in an area where
iv.      introduction                                                                 epidemnicsare    unknown-
                        of income inequality      between comnmunities      situated close   to the proposed
         route and communities                                                                                  road
                                     further from  the road;
v.       further   income inequality      between original    inhabitants    and migrants      and entrepreneurs
         attracted by the   labor and market     opportunities:
vi.      severe food deficits:  and
vii.     cultural disintegration    resulting from   the employment     of up to 6000  non-local workers,
         of whom will                                                                                         some
                        settle permanently.
The cumulative     risk to the well-being     of the indigenous    peoples in the
higher. Yet, no                                                                     Valley could not
                 risk seems to                                                                          possibly be
                                 be great for the   Bank. Perhaps    the reason the
even though                                                                           Bank is willing
               the risks are very                                                                       to go ahead
                                    high Is because   in essence the   Bank does not
people, including                                                                      bear the risk   The Nepalis
                    the claimants    do.
4.F. 1 Lack     of Mitigation    Efforts:    The HMG/N and       the Bank has
which mitigation                                                                  produced three     documents in
                     efforts are discussed.    These are the    Environmental
Action Plan and                                                                    Mitigation Plan,   the Regional
                    the Land Acquisition,      Compensation     and Rehabilitation
each of these                                                                          Plan. The effectiveness
                 plans in coping                                                                                  of
                                     with the above    problems is     questionable.
documents                                                                              It is unclear
              represent                                                                               whether the
                         work-plans     or only reconunendations       for work-plans.    Many of the mitigation

                                                          7

   ORIGINAL
     recommendations       made by    relevant   experts
     of the three                                          in the EIA
                    plans. Lastly,                                       have not
                                    many issues                                     been taken     into consideration
                                                     are outlined
     explicitly  raised                                             as needing                                           in any
                          in bid documents.                                       to be resolved    in tender
                                                  Whether                                                       documents     or
     documents                                                 or not
                   are kept                                             this has
                             secret.                                                happened      is unclear    as the   tender
    4.F.2    Preparation      of the    Indigenous        Peoples'
    peoples   development                                             Plan: As    required
                              plans have                                                       by OD
                                            been prepared                                               4.20, no   indigenous
    RAP do    not constitute                                  by the project.
                               a regional                                        The mnitigationrecommendations
                                            development                                                                  in the
    Mitigation                                               plan or
                 of negative                                          a special   indigenous
                              impacts    on indigenous                                          peoples    development
                                                            peoples   do not constitute                                   plan.
                                                                                            development.
    4.F.3    Lack    of Adequate        Cadastral     Survey:
    recognize   property                                           The World
                            rights should                                         Bank,    OD 4.20,
                                              be taken                                                  states  that steps   to
    recognized                                             before
                  land titles.                                     other planning
                               In the case                                             steps that
                                             of the Arun                                            may be     contingent
    cadastral                                               III, land  appropriation                                         on
               survey   was completed.                                                  for the   project  started  before the
    Section   15.d of  OD 4.20    calls for indigenous
   project                                                 peoples
             planning,                                              participation
                         implementation                                              in decision-making
                                             and evaluation.                                                 throughout     the
   process    was in                                              According
                       question                                                to the
                                  because                                              1991 EIA,
                                              "the road                                             the value
   study team                                              alignment                                             of the whole
                   did not                                              and dam
                            have a                                                  site were
                                     mandate                                                     already
                                                 to change                                                 decided,   and the
   4.20, but   other Bank                                      these decisions."
                             policies                                                 This is
                                       as well.                                                 a violation  of not only    OD
   5.       ADVERSE      EFFECTS     ON OUR RIGHTSAND INTERESTS
   5.A      Threatened      Direct  Adverse     Impacts     on the    Claimants
   Because                                                                          as Nepalis     Nationals
              of the size  and cost   of the Arun
   claimants                                         III project
                submnit                                           in relation
                         that the                                              to annual
                                   project                                                  national
                                             vill have                                                 budget              the
   Nepal,                                                direct adverse                                         of Nepal,
           including   the poorest                                         effects on   many parts
                                      segments    of society.                                          of the population    in
  almost    twice one                                          The total
                       years national                                      project cost   is US $1082.3
                                          development                                                       million
  claimants                                               budget
               submit                                              for Nepal                                         which is
                         that in addition                                      (US $640      million
                                            to violations                                            for FY 1993-94).     The
  violate the                                               of operational
                objectives                                                    policies,
                             of IDA   10 and                                             if the project
                                               IDA's country                                             goes ahead,    it will
  Arun III                                                       assistance
              is completely                                                    strategy
                              out of proportion                                          for Nepal.
  that a project                                     to the size                                       The total  cost of
                    of this size                                   of the Nepal's                                          the
                                                                                     economy.
                                 and cost                                                         Cormnon
                                             that will                                                       sense dictates
  development                                           not directly   benefit
                   at this juncture.                                            the poor
                                        The claimants                                       is not appropriate    for Nepal's
  poverty                                                  further
            alleviation                                              believe
                          in Nepal,                                            that the
                                     rather                                               project
                                              it will contribute                                    will not  contribute
  project requires                                                 to more                                                  to
                                                                              poverty
                      higher investment                                                 because
                                             conmnitment                                            of the high
  investments                                                 from the                                           cost of the
                  in social                                              HMG/N
                            sectors                                                 and that
                                      such as                                                   threatens
                                                health   and education.                                      to "crowd   out"
  5.A. 1   Project   Cost and      Crowding      Out of
  countries                                                 Social
              with a                                                  Sectors:
                      per capita                                                  Nepal
                                   annual                                                 is one of
                                             income                                                    the world's
 malnutrition,                                        of only                                                        poorest
                                                                US $180.
                   overpopulation                                           Nepaii people
                                      and illiteracy.                                         suffer from   severe poverty,
 investment                                             Health
                is a priority                                    and social   services
                               need for                                                  are currently
                                           targeted                                                        inadequate,
                                                      poverty                                                            and
 services                                                       interventions
            and education.    According                                           and for   health
                                            to the Bank's                                           and family     planning
 objective                                                   country
             in Nepal                                                  assistance
                        is poverty                                                   strategy,
                                    alleviation.                                                IDA's main     over-arching
 intensive                                        In order   to achieve
             projects   which                                              this there
                                generate                                               should
                                            income                                               be investments
                                                      opportunities                                                 in labor
 health,   nutrition,                                                   for the
                        and family                                               poor and
                                      planning.                                               investments
                                                  Investments                                                in education,
 investments    in these                                           in the Arun
                           areas. (See                                             III project
                                         also Attachment                                        will threaten
                                                              - IV).                                             to prevent
 5.A.2    Institution      Building:      All the   components
 international    contractors.                                       of the   project
                                  This will                                             are proposed
                                              directly   adversely                                         to be built    by
 country   capacity   through                                         affect efforts
                                public                                                 by the   Nepalis
                                        institution   building,                                            to increase
 local management                                                 increasing                                              in-
                        and control                                            private
                                      in undertaking                                    sector capacity     and promoting
of the size                                               hydropower
              1-60 megawatts                                             schemes.    Altemative
                                 which are                                                         smaller   scale projects
the Alliance                                  being promoted
                for Energy                                        by Intermediate
                             and others                                               Technology
                                            are already                                             Development     Group,
sector companies                                           being built
                      in Nepal.                                          by local   government
                                  Alternatives                                                      agencies
help build                                       for an IDA                                                    and private
              local institutional                              Credit for  smaller   and medium
                                     capacity,    as well                                             size projects  would
sector companies                                            as generate    income
                      in Nepal  employ                                                for local
                                          local expertise                                        private   sector.
                                                            and create                                              Private
                                                                         jobs for  Nepalis.
5.A.3    Crowding      Out of   Small    and Medium
that financing                                             Scale Hydroelectric
                  the Arun    III will                                                Projects:
                                       directly
scale hydropower                                 and adversely                                    The claimants     believe
                                                                   affects
                      in Nepal                                              the development
                                 by crowding                                                      of small
size. Smaller                                    out research,                                               and medium
                                                                   development
                projects   have the                                                 and financing
                                      advantage                                                       for projects  of this
self-sufficiency.                                   of bringing   electricity
                    Smaller                                                    to rural
                               projects                                                  communities
                                          are much
appropriate                                              less environmentally                              and promoting
              for Nepal's   development                                             and financially
                                            at this juncture.                                            risky and    more

For fulfilling the requirements      of the national
1 MW to                                                grid, the
           100 MW range                                            small and   medium
                             can be                                                       hydropower
                                      developed   in a number                                             schemes    in the
                                                                   of river basins   spread throughout       the country.
                                                             8

Pre-feasibility and reconnaissance     studies for such alternatives     that can produce over 1,000    MW of
power have already been      completed by the HMG/N.          Feasibility studies for a  large number of the
alternatives including   a full EIA, could be completed     within the time period needed    just to build the
road for the Arun project.   Additionally, the schemes       that are studied and ready    to go now could be
already built. Over 500   MW of schemes in the 1        MW to 100 MW range have        already been identified
close to existing roads.

5.A.4    Underrnining    Democratic     Processes     Inside Nepal: The formal      and meaningful debate    of
the project in the sovereign   Parliament is a fundamental      requirement under the    Constitution and the
laws of Nepal since the  project involves riparian    issues with China, power-sale   agreement with India, if
any, and huge investment        from internal    sources    as well as other socio-economic,     natural   and
environmental risks. This   has never taken place.     (See also Attachment - V).

5.B      Threatened    Adverse Direct Impacts       to Claimants     in the Arun Valley

Violations of the Bank policy     on environment, indigenous       people, and resettlement,   combined with
the fact that the NEA does     not have the capacity to     implement environmental     and social safeguards
threatens to cause long-term    irreversible direct adverse   impacts on the claimants.   The impacts include
the following (See also  Attachment    - VI):

A.       Increased Food Deficit, Loss   of Income and Increased     Unemployment
B.       Fall in Food Availability.Prices Rise and Fall in Nutritional    Level
C.       Loss of Forests
D.       Adverse Health Impacts
E.       Deterioration of Living Standards     as a Result of Cash Compensation

6.       RESPONSIBILITYOF THE        BANK

         We believe that some of the   main responsibilities of the    Bank are:

A.       To ensure    that  the proposed      project promotes     just.  balanced    and equitable   national
         development:
B.       To justify the achievement   of its originally stated goals  and objectives;
 C.      To address the priority needs   and sectors of the country;
 D.      To be accountable in its assessment      and analysis leading to the   investment;
 E.      To guarantee transparent    and democratic decision-making       processes;
 F.      To protect, promote and    respect the other rights and    interests of the country and  the people as
         stated under the title "Our  Rights and Interests" above;     and
 G.      To fully ensure, at least,  the compliance with its own       policies and procedures   in the design.
         planning and implementation       of the proposed projects.   (See also Attachment-VII).

 7.      PREVIOUS COMPLAINTSTO           THE BANK

 A.      We wrote the Bank in Kathmandu         or in Washington, DC numerous       times;
 B.      We made our formal presentations         during a one-day consultation     meeting held on June 28..
          1994 at the Bank's Headquarters;
 C.      We submitted letter of memorandums          to the Bank Staff/Management       as well as a number of
         the Executive Directors   of the Board:
 D.      We met the Bank officials    in Kathmandu, in Washington,       DC and in Madrid (during    the recent
         annual meeting) and raised     our concerns; and
 E.      We made our concerns        public through      the publication   of booklets and pamphlets,     press
         conferences, and public meetings.      (See also Attachment -VIII).

 8.      RESPONSE ONTHE PREVIOUS             COMPLAINTS

 All our requests were either    turned down or ignored       or misinterpreted,   and we have found most     of
 their answers unsatisfactory    and/or unreliable - not      based on facts, and not reflecting   transparency
 and accountability.   (See also Attachment - IX).




                                                          9

ORIG!!Nl          AIl
 9.       ADDITIONAL       EFFORTS

 9A       We wrote and/or     contacted   several times   to the NEA.
 Residential                                                             the Arun
               Office in Kathmandu,                                                  III Project Office,the Bank's
                                         and its Headquarters      in Washington,
 document    and information                                                          DC in seeking
                                as well as satisfactory                                               basic project
                                                           answers to
 replied by                                                             our queries.
             the concerned                                                              But, mostly
                              authorities,                                                          we were never
                                            or our requests    were rmisinterpreted,
 and unsatisfactory                                                                     or we only
                       answers. (See                                                               received partial
                                       also Attachment     - X)..
 9.B      On December     31, 1993 we   filed a law  suit against   the HMG/N
 information   and documents                                                       for the disclosure
                                 about the                                                            of all project
                                             project . The   Court ordered
 to provide                                                                    the defendants
             all project  documents                                                             on March 8,    1994
                                       and information     about the
 laws of Nepal,                                                        project under
                  and has further                                                        the Constitution
                                    established                                                            and the
                                                  a set of procedures
Even after                                                               for the disclosure
              the Court's                                                                     of such information.
                            verdict in our   favor, the   HMG/N has
complete list                                                             still been denying
                of project information                                                          the release  of the
                                         and provide   documents.
We, therefore,    believe that  the above   actions/ornissions
procedures                                                         which are
               have materially                                                 contrary to   the above
                                  and adversely                                                         policies or
                                                    affected our   rights/interests
recommend      to the Bank's                                                            and request
                              Executive Directors                                                    the Panel    to
                                                     that an investigation
order to resolve                                                               of these matters
                   the issues                                                                    be carried
                              and problems                                                                   out in
                                              prior to any   final decision.
As advised    in your Operating   Procedures,    this Request    for Inspection
provide you                                                                       is intended
              with more details                                                                to be brief.
                                  and particulars.                                                         We can


Signature:                       /    1D

Name: Gopal     Siwakoti
Affiliation:Arun Concerned   Group
Status: IndirectlyAffectedClaimant;   Lawyer.Human     Rights Activist
Permanent Address:   Hwaku 4, Terathum     District, Koshi
MailingAddress:   c/o INHUREDInternational.     P.O. Box 2125.   Kathmandu.
Tel: (977-1)                                                                   Nepal
             419610 * Fax:   (977-1) 412538


Signature:

Name: Ganesh     Kumar Ghinire
Affiliation:Arun Concerned  Group
Status: IndirectlyAffectedClaimant  from the Arun    Valley;
Environmentalist/Sustainable   DevelopmentActivist
Permanent Address:   MaltaVillageDevelopment     Committee 5.   Sankhuwa-Sava.
MailingAddress:                                                                    Koshi
                  P.O. Box4067.   Kathmandu,    Nepal - Tel: (977-1) 526722

                ARUN CONCERNED                                  GA&"D
                      Secretariat:     c/o INHURED InterjtR              8 P1 2:    12
                           P.O. Box 2125. Kathmandu, Nepal
                           Tel: (977-1) 419610 * Fax: (977-1) 4TR` INSPECTION     PANEL

                                                                             November 2. 1994

Ernst-Gunther   Br6der
Chairman, The Inspection   Panel
1818 H Street. NW
Room No. MCI 1-103
Washing'ton. DC 20433
Unites States

Dear Mr. Chairman:


With reference to your fax message     of 24 October and 1 November      1994. we are sending
herewith the Attachments    l-X of the Claim filed at the Inspection     Panel on 24 October
1994 and the evidence of the     letters of authority to represent     the two of the directly
affected people from the project-site.    Please replace "Attachment-IV"     by "Attachment-
IV.A"under "5.A.1: Project Cost and     Crowding Put of Social Sectors" in   the Claim.

Regarding the use of the terms    "directly" and "indirectly" affected  people in the claim, we
would like to clarify that all  the four claimants,      including the undersigned    who also
represent  the other two claimants, are      the "directly affected" people from   the Arun III
project. The term "directly affected"  and "indirectly affected" have only   been used in the
claim simply to make distinction       between the claimants       who have been eligible for
compensation   from the project for their acquired       land from those who are directly   and
adversely affected due to the impacts     of the project at national and regional   levels. The
undersigned claimants fall in the   latter type.

Therefore, we would like to request    you to use the term "directly affected    people" for all
the four claimants for the purpose    of the Claim.

Please contact us for any further    Information that you may need.      We would also like to
request you to contact Ms. Lori    Udall, Washington Director of the      International  Rivers
Network. 1025 Vermont Ave.. NW#300,         Washington. DC 20005, tel: (202)    8794280.    fax:
(202) 879-3186 for additional information       and documents     regarding the Claim and the
Attachments.  Ms. Udall is our representative    in Washington. DC.



                                       Sincereh, yours,



               Ganesh Kumar Ghimire                               Gopal Siwakoti
                     Claimant                                       Claimant


enclosure

U[lUINAL
                                                                RECEIVED

                                         INTERLfl             $ov-8 F'M2         12
                   INTER-CONTINENTAL
                                                    LAW ASSC
                  P.O. Box 2809    - Putaltsadak.  Kathmau       LR 7C       226325


   The following       is an unofficial     translation   of the  authorization
                                 to Mr.                                            letter of
                                          Ganesh     Kumar
   filing of                                                 Ghimire
              a claim  at the Inspection                                in connection
                                           Panel.                                        with the
   legyallyvalid                                   The original  Nepali
                  authorization                                          version   (attached)
                                   letter according                                            is a
                                                      to the National   Code of  Nepal.




  I,
                                         the resident
                      *.                               of Khrang  Village  7, of Sarnkhuwa-Sava
  District havereceived the   cash compensation   of my land that
  of Nepal                                                         is acquiredby the Government
            for the access road    for the proposed   Arun III  Hydroelectric  Project.
  adversely                                                                             This has
             affected my   economic   condition since I was  not used to the cash economy
  already  spent the                                                                         and I
                     money    that I received.  In the process  of compensation,
 informed nor                                                                      I was neither
                asked whether   I could  choose  land to land compensaion.    In addition,
 not been able to                                                                          I have
                   know what    are the direct benefits of the project tome. I am also
 aware of                                                                               not well-
            relevant laws and    rules. Iam hearing    that there have been   many debate
 controversies                                                                               and
                about the   project at local, national and international levels. I,
 authorize Mr. Ganesh                                                               thus, hereby
                         Kumar   Ghimire,   age 34, the resident of Malta Villaae 5, Sankbuwa-
 Sava Districtpresently   leavina  in Kathmandu    Municipality  10, Kathmandu District,
 member   of the Arun                                                                      and a
                        Concerned    Group,   to represent  my rights  and interests
claim against the World                                                              by filing a
                           Bank at  the Inspection Panel.  I have fully accepted
defend                                                                           that a claim
        my rights                                                                             to
                   and interests  by direct and indirect  effectsof the project at present
future be                                                                                  or in
           filed on my behalf.    I or my  representative  will be  ready to furnish
further informationthat                                                              the Panel
                          it may may   require.Dated October   16, 1994.




                Chandra  Mani Adhikari,   Attorney,  Supreme   Court of Nepal
                                      October  26, 1994

ORiu IixAL                                                           RECEIVED

                                         INTERLRWS 94NoHj-8                    PM2:12
                    INTER-CONTINENTAL               LAW ASSOCIATES, Inc.
                   P.O.Box 2809 - Putalisadak.     KathmanduilEiMi;1JQkANEL



     The following is an unofficial translation        of the authorization letter of
                   ~-    to Mr. Gopal Siwakoti in connection        with the filing of a claim at
     the inspection Panel. The original         Nepali version (attached) is a       legally valid
     authorization letter according     to the National Code of Nepal.



     I,    .                            the resident of Baneshwor Village7,      Baneshwor Guthi

     of Sankhuwa-SavaDistrict have      been denied the compensation     for the Guthi (trust) land

     that is acquired by the Government    of Nepal for the access roadfor the   proposed Arun HII

     Hydroelectric Project. This has   adversely affected my economic condition.      In addition, I

     have not been able to know what    are the direct benefits of the projectto me. I am also not

     well-aware of relevant laws and   rules. I am hearing that there havebeen many     debate and

     controversies about the project   at local, national and international levels. I, thus, hereby

     authorize Mr. Gopal Siwakoti,    age 33, the resident of HwakuVillaae4,     Terathum District

     presently leavingin Kathmandu     Municipality 32, Kathrnandu District,and   a member of the

     Arun ConcernedGroup, to represent       my rights and interests by filing a claim against the

     World Bankat the Inspection      Panel, and to take necessary steps  for the adequate and/or

     land to land compensation. I    have fully accepted that a claim    to defend my rights and

     interests by direct and indirect impacts of the project at present or in future befiled on my

     behalf. I or myrepresentative will   be ready to furnish the Panelfurther irformation    that it

     may require.Dated October 16,     1994.




                       QrafU:U'            A&\Vtk.i        N 3\T S'
                                                              .t

                     Chandra Mani Adhikari, Attorney, Supreme       Courtof Nepal
                                           October 26, 1994

     THE HISTORIC          DECISION        OF THE      SUPREME
            COURT IN       FAVOR OF       THE RIGHT        TO
   INFORrMATION          ON THE      PUBLIC LITIGATION              OF
           ARUN III     HYDROELECTRC              PROJECT

       On May       8. 1994     the Supreme       Court     Issued    an
 order    In favour      of the    petitioners    and    against     the
 defendant:       Mini.stry   of Finance.       Ministry     of Water
 Resources.       Nepal   Electricity    Authority     and    Arun    III
 hydro-eletric      project.   T-his came      after   the series     of
 hearings on      the historic  public Interest    litigation filed   by
 the   Executive      Director     of INHURED         International.
 Advocate    Copal Slwakoti      'Chintan,     and a human       rights
 activist   Dr. Rajesh      Gautam.      demanding      the right     to
 information       regarding      the    controversial      Arun     III
 hydroelectric     project as   the dispute    comes under      article
 88 (2) of    the Constitution      of Nepal which       providles for
 such    litigation    andi the     solution    of the     legal   andl
 constitutional     disputes   regarding   the project.    Accorling
 to the dlecisiorn    madle by    Joint   Bench of Justices         Mr.
 Haragovinda       Singh   l'radhan     and Mr. Keshab         Prasacd
 Upadlhyaya,        the   dlefendants      shoulcl      provicle    all
information       regarding    the Arin      III according     to the
article 16   of the Constitution.
      The Supreme        Court has     made a new       and historic
Interpretation      of legal principles     in the context      of the
lack of necessary      laws for the   enforcement      of the right  to
information      In Nepal  and the situation      In which several
provislons     of other   existing   laws are    yet to come       into
force.    It has     decidled    that   Lip   to the     time    when
appropriate       laws   are   not   enacted,     the   government
agencies     should     provide    Information      to the     Nepali
citizens     by applying       the   following    gulilelines      and
procedures:

1.    The applicant        should    first demand        the   list of
documents      from the dlefendants.
2.    If the defendants     provide the    list within  seven clays.
the applicant       should     demand     an inspection        of the
concerned     documents.

3.    If the dlenianicl   is miadle  according     to clauses     2 of
these   procedures.     the dlefendants     should    se( the time.


                                 22

  t~~&%2l-i                         GLOBE
            ictLz r iorenz.Member.        EC
                            Member. GLOBE EC
   Carlos      Pimenta, Vice-Pres..                         GLOBAL
                                   GLOBE EC                              ENVIRONMENTAL               GROUPS       ON
                                                                     ARUN       III HYDRO-PROJECT
   Kaneshige     Wakamatsu.    Member.GLOBEJapan
  Eva Quistdorp.                                          As the  debate  on the  status of
  Eva gulstdorp,      Member,                                                               the Arun   111hydro-electric
                      Member.   GLOBE EC
                                GLOBEEC                   project  is Intensifying
                                                          groups                     in Nepal.
                                                                   have been                    global  envtronmental
                                                                                expressing
  Tamako        Nakanishi.Member.   GLOBEJapan            the World                         their critlcal concerns
                                                                         Bank.                                        to
                                                                                  other   donors
                                                          government                                 and
                                                                        authorities.                       the Nepali
                                                                                       Such major
 Kiyoko Ono.                                                                                         concerns
                   Member,  GLOBE Japan                   adverse                                              such as
                                                                    impacts   on society,
                                                          cost and                         culture
                                                                      beneflt,                      and environment,
                                                                               debt burden,
 Anatoly      Shabad.                                                                          donors'
                       Member.  GLOBE Russia              conditionalities.                              Inappropriate
                                                                              heavy use
                                                          absence                         of foreign   manpower
                                                                     of local                                      and
                                                                               human    resources.
 Noboru      Usaml.  Member.   GLdOBEJapan          NIo U.participation                              lack of  effective
                                                                         of the local people  in decision-making
                                                    '     Implementation.                                          and
 Vitaly SevatYanov.                                                         Some of   theseorganizations
                         Member.  GLOBE Russia                                                             Include:
                                                          1.   Both Ends    (MTeNetherlands)
Constance        Morella. Member.  GLOBE USA              2.   Friends  of the Earth  (USA)
                                                          3.   Global  Legislators
Jolene                                                                             Organization
           Unsoeld,Member,GLOBE       USA           J'UedMmrGUEnvironment                        for a Balanced
                                                                              (Japan)
(printed from                                            4.    International
                   the originaltext)                                          River Network  (USA)
                                                          5.
                                                         6.    Netherlands
                                                               United  StatesCommittee
                                                                              Environmental
                                                                                         for IUCN   (The Netherlands)
Address:                                                                                       Protection Agency
Ginza  Form 21      Bldg.. 7th Floor                     7.   Women's    International  League
8-13-4                                                                                          for Peace
           Cinza,                                                                                         and
                   Chuo-ku.                                    Freedom   (Switzerland)
Tokyo,J-     100 Japan
Tel: 81-3-3545-9555
Fax: 81-3-3545-8620




                               20
                                                                                       21

                                                        I
                                                                                       2

    INTERNATIONAL SOLIDARITY                                      assessments have not adequately taken Intoaccoupt the
                                                                  adverse social Impacts of opening up this isolated area
         ON ALRUNIII CAMPAIGN                                     of the Arun valley by constructing an access road    and
                                                                  bringing thousands of people to the remote projectsite.

                                                                  We urge the Bank to give serious consideration to
  LElTER      OF CONCERN TO THE WORLD                             alternatives put forth by Nepalese NGOs that utilize the
              BANKBYTHE GLOBE                                     extensive small-scale and mini-hydro potential of Nepal.
   GlobalLegislators Organisatlon for a Balanced Environment      Such an approach would be considerably less expensive
                                                                  and result in a lower debt burden for the Nepalese. be
                                              March. 8. 1994      less detrimental to the environment and probablywould
Mr. LewlsT. Preston                                               not require the construction of new roads into this
President                                                         pristine area. and would be decentralized and smaller  in
The World BanK                                                    scale than the Arun Ill proposal, Finally. this type of
1818 H Street. NW                                                 approach would make greater use of local materials and
Washington. DC 20433                                              expertise. and could Involve a greater number          of
                                                                  Nepalese in all levels of the project decision-makingand
Dear Mr. Preston:                                                 Implementationthan the current plan.

Wewrite to express our concern overthe proposed Arun              We strongly encourage the World Bank to carefully
Ill hydroelectric dam project on the Arun River             In    reexamine the economic, environmental, and social
eastern Nepal. It Is our understanding that this project          implications of the Arun IlI project and to give the same
Is scheduled to come before the Board for a vote            In    levelof consideraUon to alternative approaches. We    also
April.                                                            ask the Bank to evaluate whether Arun Ill Is the "least-
                                                                  cost" approach to meeting the energy needs of Nepal. a
We recognize that detailed environmental               Impact     critical criterion of the WorldBank's energy policy.
statements have been prepared for the Arun project and
that the Government of Nepal supports the building          of    Weappreciate your consideratUonof this important Issue
this hydroelectric facility. While we are sensitive to the        and lookforwardto your response.
Government of Nepal's desire to meet the energy needs
of Its country, we are concerned that the                Arun
hydroelectric dam and Its accompanying access road                Sincerely.
and associated transmission lines, as currently planned.
may pose serious economic, environmental and social               Takashi Kosugi.President GLOBEInternational
Impacts that have not been adequately addressed.
                                                                  Akiko Domoto, President. GLOBEJapan
Arun Ill would be one of the most expensive hydro        power
projects in the world. As you know, the cost of the               John Karry, President. GLOBEUSA
project at present Is estimated at $764 million, an
amount    greater      than    Nepal's    national    budget.      NikolayVorontsov,President. GLOBERussia
Furthermore, there are reasons to believe that. although
lengthy. the environmental Impact statements               are     John Edward Porter.Vice-Pres.GLOBEUSA
Incomplete. Finally. we are concerned                that  the
                                                                   HormoMuntingh, President. GLOBEEC


                              18                                                             19

   technically  and economically
  to 42.000                            feasible       is put
             megawatts.                                       at 24           Hydroelectric       Projects
                                                                             Studies                            of which     Detailed
  The existing                                                                            are Complete:
                  Installed     hydroelectric
  the country                                         capacity
                (including                                        in
                              small,                                         Nae
  individual                          big. government                                            District
             plants)   is about                                and                                                Capacity
                                  250 megawatts.                                                                             Production
                                                                                                                                Goal
                                                                                                  Ram   hhap      eo.oo0  KW
 Hyd                                                                                                                           1998
        roelec    triHydroelectric
                      c      'Projects
 Constructed:                 Projects                 Al re
                                                       Alreadyn-1II(1st
                                                              ady                Kalandi -A      Snla140.ooo
                                                                             Aiun-Ill 2ndphase)
                                                                                          hase)  Syannkliwaab             KW   1999
                                                                                                 sankhuwasabha    201.000
                                                                                                                   0.000
                                                                                                                          KW
                                                                                                                          KW   2002
                                                                                                                               2005
 Name          District                                                 Cnt eThe
 Ph arI                          Capacity         Production                        total  capacity
              Kathmandu                                      Year            megawatts                   of national     grid
 SuhnaTin                         500                                                                                          is 280
             KatLhfmndu                               1                                      (hydroelectricity
 PaSouUi                                                                                                             and    electricity
              Kavrepalanchowk     6400KW              1911pouedb             produced    by diesel    plants   and
 Pokhara                          2.400         KW                                                                  Nepal   Electricity
              Kaski                                   1965
                                                                             Authority                             oaou
 Thishul                           1,020        KW    1967                                supplies   electricity                0.0
 Sunkoshi     Nuwakot                                                        famrlies                             to about
              Sindhupaichowk      21,000         KW   1972                             from   this capacity.                  300.000
lnau                             10.050         KW   1973                   cent of    the people              A total  of only  9 per
Gandak                            1.upandchf1020                                                      of Nepal
             Nawalparashi                       KW    1974                                                        are benefitted      by
Kulekhanl-l                                                                  electricity.
             Makawanpur           15.000KW            1979
Devighat                          60.000
             Dhadng                              KW   1982
Set          Kaskl                14.100        KW    1983
Kulekharn-2                       1,500 KW
             Makawanpur
Marsyandi                         32.000        KW
             Tanahu                                  1986
Andhkhola                         69,000
             Syanga                             KW   1990
Tatopani     lyads                5.100         KW   1991
                                  1.000 KW           1992
Hydroelectric
                              Projects
Construction:                                           Under

Name        District      Capacity              Production  Goal
Jhrlmrook
                          Pyuthhan              12,000KW
            1994 June




                           16
                                                                                                          17

  2.   We appeal    to the   Honorable    Members
       Parliament.   the political                   of the
                                    parties                                "LETSBRINGARUN-1ll
       people                                and all
               concerned                              other                                        PROJECTTOANATONAL
                            to Initiate  a wide                                                   COUNTRY
       this Issue                               debate
                   In the                                on             DEBATEANDSAVETHE                     FROMCOMMISION
                            forthcoming                                              AGENS
       Parliament.                         session  of the                                    ANDCORRUPTION."


  3.  All the   informnation                                                 SOME
                               regarding                                             BITTER FACrS      ABOUITARUN      III
      aspects                               the differentThavrgcotfrIklwtofydeetiiy
                of the  Project  should   be made
      by the                                        public
              government     without                                   The average
                                       further                                                  1 kilowatt
      discussion                                delay                                cost for               of hydroelectricity
                   should                              and
                            start
      levels                       at national                         is US$  2,0000
                (Sankhuwasabha,                 and local                               In the   Icase$
                                                                       CiabotU$400adi                      1o500   n Indt a and
                                          Bhojpur
      Dhankuta                                                                                     sU$150i.ni
                  districts)                          and
                              Immediately                              China.                                                n
      the local                              by Involving
                bodies.  A national                                   According
                                       consensus
      made   only                                  can be                          to the   estimated   cost  of Arun-III,
                    after such                                                                                                10
                                  debate                              mlliion
                                           with                                Nepali
                                                 effective                             rupees   shall be spent   every
      public participation.                                            10 years.                                       day for
                                                                      In general.  there
 4.  A decision                                                                           Is a 10  per cent
                  has to  be made                                                                            loss of electricity
                                      regarding
     and national                                regional
                     level  benefits                                  produced
                                       from                                      In its transmission.
     Such                                                                                                In Nepal,
            concerns                         the Project.                                                           the loss  of
                        and benefits                                  transssion
     imposed                             should                                      and leakage-amount
                either                            not be                                                     to 30
                        from                                                                                        per cent.
                               above                                  It is generally  assumed
     countries.                         or from   foreign                                          that in
                   Programs                                                                                 the international
                                should                                aid business,
     and developed                        be formulated                                the commission       cost
                       immediately                                    ways                                        in different
     and Infrastructure               for local                             can be
                                                benefits                            up to  15 per  cent.   In case of Aiun-111,
                             development                              the Comnimssion
     Inception                               before
                of the                                the                                cost of  10 per   cent of
                         Project.                                                                                  the official
                                    It Is Important                   cost  estimates   amounts
    the people                                        for                                           to 3,800
                  of Arun    valley                                   rupees.                                  million
                                                                                If the                                  Nepali
                                                                                        decision-makers
    mechanisms                       to know    by what                                                     are purchased
                    they    can be                                                                                            at
                                       involved                       the cost  of 10 million  rupees
    decision-making                              in the                                                each,  it can
                        process.                                                                                     purchase
                                   It is also                         380 decision-makers
    for                                       important                                       of this country.
          them    to know      what     developmental
    benefits   and necessary      Infrastructures                    The proposed
    they entitled                                    are                               117 kilometer
                   to and  how?                                      be the                            road for   Arun-Ill
                                                                              costliest                                     will
                                                                                         road In  Nepal
                                                                     per kllometer).                      (50 million  rupees
5.  Arun-III   Is an   attractive   Project
    technical    point                        from the
                          of view.                                     HYDROELECTRICITY
    preparations                        So   necessary                                                IN NEPAL
                    like                                                                                             (1993)
                          road   construction.
    development                                    local
                   and the   search                                  Nepal                   to be
    understanding                     for International                     is considered           rich in  water resources.
                      on financial     resources                     The waters
   other                                                                                              which
          necessary                                 and                             of our    rivers          fnow  from
                      studies                                                                                               the
                               should                                altitude  of the  Himalayas
   before  lmplementing                 be undertaken                                                to the  Terai (lowlands)
                            It.                                      which   is     tly Higher      th
                                                                     which                               the
                                                                             Is slightly                      sea levl.   T
                                                                     total hydroelectric  higher   than
                                                                                            potential   oftheNepal
                                                                                                              sea level.  Thel
                                                                     MW.                                           is 83,000
                                                                              The    hydroelectric     potential   -which    Is
                           14
                                                                                                15

              . ..I
;~~~~~               II
             assuniptions    -   -AA   k Iv
                                 about       ,s,.tvvw.t1ibt-r   L
                                           GLOF                   kfAl  UlJAy
                                                             and the             9u


            caused                                                        floods
                        by the   stoppage     of river                                              Wnternational
                                                                as a result
            landslide.                                                             of                                 tmnancialInstitutions   lkec the
                            Such a     risk can                                                    World
                                                            be avoided                                    Bank are                           decasions
            regular                                                          if a                                     to makc   their funal
                        study Is   made about                                                       in March
                                                          the level                                            1994on     such a    unclear
            In such                                                    of water                                                               statc of
                         glacial  lakes and                                                        thcngs
                                                  arrangements                                             whcle other
                                                                           made                                           efforts  are underway      to
            for the     flow of  water at                                                          conclude
                                              an appropriate                                                  an agreemcnt       wcth Inteowatronal
            The country                                                    time.
                              lacks the                                                            contractors
                                           capacity           for such                                           forcing
                                                                         works                                            the country     towards   an
           at present.        Such studies                                                         unbearable   commitment.
                                                     have so
           prepared                                                   far been
                          only on    the Initiative                                           10. At
                                                               of foreigners.                          the moment,     Nepal   has foreign   loans
           So the                                                                                                                                    of
                        question     of follow-up                                                  USs 1,800,000,000.
                                                               and detailed                                                  Arun-III   will add
           examination          and control                                                        million                                         540
                                                       are beyond                                          more on
           reach.                                                            our                                      this amount.     If we estimate
                       In this sense,  the first          condition                                the loans to be acquired    for other   projects
           constriction                                                 for the                                                                     by
                              of Arun  III is to                                                   the year
                                                         develop                                             2000 the   total foreign
           capability.                                                our own                                                           debt of
                                                                                                  will reach                                     Nepal
                                                                                                              US$ 24,00,000.000       easily.  Even if
       9.  The present                                                                            the whole    revenue
                              cost estimate                                                                               of 300  million
                                                    for the        proJect                                                                  a year   Is
           only for                                                            Is
                        the first  phase.    It Includes                                          used for  debt services,
                                                                    the dam,                                                the country   can only  be
           one tun      el, a power                                                               free of debt after eight
          201MW                       house wIth                                                                            years only.
                         thnelatowransmissionline            the capacity
                                                              uapatoiDuhabof                                                              By the  year'
                                                                                                  2000, the  per capita
          andMWtheacesroad.miThere                                                                                        national  debt burden    wfil
                                                    lise sptilo                                   be 36,000   rupees
          abotfnacn                                                        iDeab                                      which   includes   every Ncpall,
                           the                                                                    those enjoying
          about                                                                                                    electricity
                       fTnanceng ihe      scesraTeonds       phase nof                                                          and those    deprived
                                          second                            thea
                                                             phase     Of the                     of It.  At that
                                                                                                  ahead   of Braziltime,   Nepal   Is certain   to be
          acquiring                                                                                                    In terms
                          a soft loan                                                                                              of hydroelectric
                                        forlhesecond
          the projeca.                                              phase of
          the crompetioSeveral        donors                                                      resources
                                                    are talking                                              and the
                                                                        about                                           highest  per capita   level of
          the completion         ofvratheors           renphaseg                                  foreign debt.
                                 Of the                                 aofuth                                    is it proper
                                            second            phasc                               in the name   of development?to  add foreign
         construction                                                  of the
                             only by                                                                                                It Is a
                                        commercial                                                gaecnest                                  matterdebt
                                                                                                                                                    of
                                                                loans. It
         also said                                                            is                                       Uo     s
                        that the   second                                                         grave concerns
                                             phase            of the                                               to all Ofus.
                                                                       project
         Is not    attractive    for such    loans.                                                        OUR CONCERNS
         phase                                                If the second
                   of the    project  can not
         any reasons,                                be completed
                              the rushed                                    for
         first phase                         construction
                           of the  project                             of the
                                              will only           mean the                   l.  The country   should   not make
         destruction                                                                                                               a hasty   decision
                           of the landscape                                                       on Arun-III
                                                    of the                                                     which
                                                                valley,                                                 requires  a big amount      of
                                                                                                 Investment.
                                                                        destructio
                Similarly.    the double                                               ofhe anscaeftmadeafter    The final    decision    should   be
                                             circuit                                                          a national  debate.  We appeal    to all
         transmission                                          220 kilovolt
                               line   up    to Duhabi                                            concerned    groups    to expose    the scheme
         sufficient.                                                  is not                                                                        of
                             Such    transmission                                                making
                                                                 lines                                     the country
         required                                                         are                                             committed      to such
                        up to  the east    and west                                              high sounding                                     an
                                                                                                                   project. which    if Implemented
         The necessary                                          of Duhabi.
                              expenditure      for this                                          in its  present
                                                                purpose                                            form,
                                                                             is                                             Is going    to result  in
         still unaccounted       for                                                             unforeseen
                                       On the          other hand,                                                 economic,
                                                                          the                                                        social      and
                                                                                                 developmental   consequences.

                                   12

                                                                                                                       13

    Implementation       (10 years).                     --
                                        possibly                      hlzimecIaIilsin
                                                   forcing                                arid with   only a   window   dressing
    the people   of one of                                            In saying
                             the five poorest                                         that attention
                                                countries                                               shall be given   to such
    of the world    to revert                                         things during
                                back to   other cheaper,                                   the period   of the construction     of
    depletable    and environmentally                                the project),          the construction
                                               unfriendly                                                           of Arun    Ill
    energy sources.    Instead of                                    project can
                                    a hasty                                             create long
                                              decision                                                  term and      permanent
    the construction                                    on
                         of Arun                                     negative
                                   Ill, we should                                   effects on
                                                    think                                        the environent.
    of taking   up small    and medium       size hydro-
    electric  projects                                           7.
                           Immediately                               It Is widely
                                             which                                       known that
                                                      can                                                 a large   part of   the
    supply electricity  before the                                   waters
                                      year 2000                                   to be used
                                                  cheaply                                          for Arun-ilI     flows down
    and    with    lower    investments                              from the        Chinese   autonomous
                                              by    using                                                       region of  Tibet
   available     financial      resources                            and that
                                              and                                   80% of
                                                    local                                     this river    basin lies  in Tibet.
   capabilities.     Otherwise,                                      It has been
                                     it is difficult                                     widely discussed
                                                        to                                                      that there    are
   imagine   how the                                                 several
                         Nepalese                                                    projects
                                     will use                                                     (Irrigation
                                               electricity                                                        and    hydro-
   at such   alarmingly                                              electricity)
                          high prices.                                                 in operation     in Tibet    to use   the
                                                                    water of         the Arun      river. It   has also
6. The Arun      valley comprising                                  proven                                                 been
                                         the whole                               by International
                                                        of                                              experience     that the
   Sankhuwasabha.                                                   agreements
                         many areas     of Bhojpur                                     and goodwill
                                                     and                                                of both countries    are
   a large    area                                                  necessary
                       of Dhankuta                                                     for hydro-electric
                                          districts,    is                                                       development
   considered    to be rich                                         projects
                                In natural                                        on a comnmon
                                              resources.                                             river. In  this context   of
   The blo-diversity     In Its Northern                            Arun 111.adequate
                                             parts as                                          homework                be done
   result                                                a                                                   needs to
            of variation     in altitude,                           In this       regard
                                             Its micro-                                     and HMG        of Nepal    has not
  climatic   zones, its                                             made any
                           still intact                                               efforts to
                                         plistine  forest                                         secure the     agreement    of
   in the valley   with rare                                        the Chinese
                                 wildlife                                              govemment.
                                          and valuable                                                  At present    there are
  medicinal      plants,   Its greenery.                            no big projects
                                              river and                                     In Tibet   utilizing  the water   of
  streams     are unique                                            the Arun
                               and they                                             river. However,
                                           need to     be                                               we can not     say with
  protected.     These                                             certainty
                          cannot     be protected                                   that such     big projects
                                                       by                                                          will not   be
  simply giving      directives                                    Initiated
                                   to the contractors                             within a    period of   40-50 years    In the
  who are    to do the                                             future.
                          construction                                           So. it Is
                                           work of                                             necessary
                                                      the                                                      to secure    the
  project.                                                   3
             For about                                             agreement
                           450,000     people living                                   of the    Chinese
                                                       In                                                     government      in
  this valley   these environmental                                advance.         For such
                                         resources                                              long term     agreement,    the
  factors                                            are
            closely                                          s
                      linked                                       parliament
                                to their  livelihood.                                 must play    a significant    role.
  proper way                                            A
                 of mobilizing    these resources   In a
  sustainable                                                   8.
                 way should                                        In spite
                                be developed                                     of many     arguments
                                                with the                                                    of safety  against
  participation     of the                                         geographical
                              local people.                                            risks like
                                                A basic                                              Glacier   Lake Outburst
  framework     can be created                                     Flow (GLOF)
                                   within a   few years                                 and earthquakes        by the
  by conducting                                                    authority,                                           project
                      programs                                                       experts
                                   for environmental                                           are not    satisfied   with the
  protection   and the                                             information
                          use of resources     with the                                and studies      available    and they
  participation   of local                                         say that
                            people. Without                                      the studies
                                                a sound                                          and research     done so   far
  basis     for     environmental                                  are Incomplete
                                           protection                                     and unsound.        No project   can
                                                                   be fully      free of risks     and there     is always
                                                                   room for                                                   a
                                                                                  additional   study and      research.  From
                         10
                                                                                                   11

   dimension.     In our     country   where    a new          that India will buy
   political system based                                                               the electricity generated
                              on the participation   of        from Arun project     at a market rate)    and other
   the people has just     been initiated, the  future         congenital          conditions          prior
   of the country                                                                                                 to
                       can    not be bright     unless         Implementation.      The future    holds enormous
   development and politics      are complementary.            uncertainties        with     bleak      prospects.
   In such a context, the     lack of clear direction          Infrastructures   must first be developed,      since
   regarding    the   available    resources    to be          It takes   considerable time     for the completion
   mobilized    for development      will lead to a           of attractive projects,     especially big projects.
   bleak future. The     popular slogan     few years         It Is an established    fact that donors propose
   ago. "Green Forest                                                                                              a
                         is the Wealth of Nepal"   has        hike In electricity     tariffs as a pre-condition
   now become senseless.      Our forests Instead    of       for loan negotiations.        The construction      of
   being assets for development       have become a           roads,    the development        of local capacity.
   liability for the   country   as they are to be            mitigation      measures        for   deteriorating
   protected   with loans     and assistance      from        environmental        and    social    balance,
   other countries.                                                                                              the
                      It is necessary    for all to be        Infrastructure    for housing in areas
   conscious                                                                                             with high
                about   the process      of gradually         population     density,    community
   developing                                                                                            and. local
                  water     resources.     the    only        development      (agriculture,     health
   remaining                                                                                              etc.) are
               resource in Nepal,     In a least cost         things which must       bc given top priority     and
   optimum    manner.    Otherwise, like the    forest        developed     first.  These    preconditions
   resources,                                                                                                   will
               water resources     will prove to be a         determine          and      create       necessary
   burden to the country.    If we go on undertaking          infrastructures
   hydro-electric                                                                 for a huge project
                    projects                                                                             like Arun
                              beyond our capacity.            III. to be     Implemented.        In the    present
   depend    only on foreign consultant      services         situation,    when      attention    needs
   and contractors .and                                                                                     to    be
                           focus our attention    only        primarily     focused      on   developing      these
   on big projects,   the time will come    when we           preconditions,   it will not be in
   have                                                                                             the interest of
            to  be   fully    dependent     for    the        Nepal to decide      on the construction       of the
   maintenance    of such hydro-electric    projects.         project     while    completely      ignoring
   Arun III and its                                                                                             the
                       presentation   In the present     '    development of basic      infrastructures.
   shape and formnhas      Ignored the present    and      5. Arun    Ill,  which     is supposed       to supply
   future need of the   country and It Is to     push         electricity after 2000     cannot be the solution
   the country    further    towards    the brink   of        for the     present    scarcity    of power      load
   national disaster.                                         shedding. We must       look for other alternatives
4. Although   Arun III may be       projected   as an         such as Khimti. Bhotekoshi         and Modi Khola
   attractive   project  by Its proponents,       this        project to supply electricity
   project can only                                                                            before that period.
                      be beneficial to   the country          The electricity rate   is expected to reach
   when we can sell                                                                                            US $
                        the electricity produced    to        12 cents/KWh or Rs.      6.20 per unit, a very   high
   the northern    parts   of India (Bihar UP     and         price even by the      standards     of a developed
   West     Bengal).   In   the   absence     of the          country. The implementation         of Arun III will
   commitment of the    buyer (such as a guarantee            further   burden     the people with more        rate


                        8                                                              9

     zou mw at    present to    about 700                              _.__"vOAJ
                                             MW by 2005.                              &A& LAC   uAl AcAACAIILAILUL;IUZC  LAC  IllIAdI
     In the future    all aspects                                      decision on
                                   of national                                         Arun III (US
                                                  life such                                              Dollar 764       million)
    as development                                                     implementation
                         works. Industries,                                                  is taken.
                                                transport,                                                  If the country          Is
    commerce,                                                          committing
                        health,      education                                        Itself now to     this project
                                                        and                                                              with the
    administration                                                     help of commission
                          sectors                                                                agents
                                      as    well   as                                                        and corrupt
                                                         the                                                                   and
    Individual     and                                                vested Interests,
                           domestic                                                         this commitment
                                          llfe  of   many                                                             needs to be
    Nepalese                                                          fulfilled
                 will be dependent                                                  by any party
                                        on the supply                                                    which        forms
                                                           of                                                                   the
    electricity.                                                      government
                  In this situation,                                                    in the future
                                           the electricity                                                   and the country
    supply system                                                     cannot retract
                       of the country                                                      or escape
                                           will be highly                                                  from the      adverse
    dependent                                                         effects. A
                  on Arun III.                                                       national   debate
                                  If there are                                                               Is necessary
                                                  any big                                                                         on
    problems     In this                                              Arun III before
                             risky                                                         any further
                                     project                                                                commitments
                                                or If the                                                                       are
    electricity                                                       made and
                cannot be                                                             It is. Imperative
                             supplied due     to hitches                                                       for all to    work
                                                           It
   will be difficult                                                  towards a
                       for the country                                              national consensus.
                                          to get over   the
   subsequent     negative Impacts.      Although Arun
   III Is now    claimed to     be a 'safe'                                  All the agreements
                                              project. the                                              and accords        to be
   'safe' project                                                     concluded
                     Kulekhani                                                        or commitments
                                   HEP was       damaged                                                        to be fulfilled
   considerably                                                       regarding Arun
                     by the recent                                                        III should   be postponed
                                        floods and      the                                                               for the
   country Is                                                         time being
                 still suffering                                                      to enable
                                   from load-shedding.                                             wide national         debate.
   The big question                                                  There
                          Is whether                                            Is a provision
                                        the country                                                  of about
                                                       can                                                            10% local
   withstand                                                          Investment
                  this    particular                                                  (about US
                                          risk                                                      $ 142 million)
                                                 and     its                                                                to be
   potential                                                         made
                Impact.     In view of                                          by the government
                                            the low risk                                                      and the      Nepal
   bearing                                                           Electricity
                capacity                                                            Authority
                            of the      country,                                                  (NEA) for-the
                                                     It Is                                                              Arun III
   reasonable      to                                                project. This
                         broaden                                                        Is a huge
                                     the                                                               amount
                                            bast    of Its                                                           and It will
   electricity                                                       have to be
                 supply                                                             diverted from
                           system,                                                                     many priority
                                      i.e. the national                                                                    social
   capacity    should                                                sector programs
                         be Increased                                                       needed to
                                            through                                                         uplift the
                                                        the                                                               people
   construction                                                      from poverty.
                    of many      medium-sized      hydro-
   electric projects                                              3. In a developing
                         spread throughout                                                 country like
                                                 different                                                    ours where      the
   geographic    regions of                                          rate Of growth
                               the country.                                               Is mcntmal
                                               In such a                                                     the adoptoon         of
   manner the                                                        sophisticated
                  element                                                                technologies
                              of risk will   be reduced.                                                    and the      use of
                                                               ,
   Serious thought                                                   expensive      International
                       towards constructing                                                           contractors
                                                 Arun III                                                               without
   should be                                                         proper
                 given at                                                        attention
                            a more appropriate                                                to local        resources
                                                      time                                                                   and
   when the      country                                             capacity has
                            has    attained                                           been proven
                                               sufficient                                              wrong. Development
   capacity and                                                      does not mean
                   capability.                                                            a combination         of activities     to
                                                                     be carried      out only
2. In a country                                                                                     on the          strength
                   like Nepal.                                                                                                    of
                                 the annual    budget is
   about US                                                          external
                Dollar 400                                                        resources
                               mllion inclusive                                                 and      capability.
                                                    of all                                                                 Quite
   development                                                      contrarily,
                      expenditures                                                  it Is an Internal
                                         for   the   year                                                   process to     make
   (including                                                        the Nepalese
                 salaries,                                                               society
                              allowances.     graft,                                               more self-reliant.
                                                       the                                                                       to
   profit of contractors                                             Increase     the standard
                             and the contribution                                                     of living       of Nepali
                                                         of
   poor Nepalese).                                                  people and
                        There has                                                     in totality
                                     been no specific                                                to transform         Nepali
                                                                    society      to a higher       economic         and social

                            6
                                                                                                7

As the financial    viablilty of Arun  III Is contingent         -   If any other small,
 on export of                                                                             medium or big projects      are
              electricity to India  over and above     the          really less expensive,
committed                                                                                    have multiple
             exchange     of 50 MW currently                                                                  usage and
                                                  agreed
 upon with India.                                                   are conducive     to national
                     the donors insisted                                                            and local welfare,
                                             Initially on
an agreement                                                        such projects
                  to be in place                                                      should be Implemented
                                     for the export                                                                 In a
                                                        of
power. However.                                                     proper cost effective
                    this has yet to                                                           and timely manner.
                                      materialze.                                                                      In
                                                      The           reality,   a national   concensus
huge financial                                                                                            is needed in
                   resources    necessary    for project            determining    water resource
implementation                                                                                        management
                     and                                                                                               as
                            the  funding    constraints             part of a well-planned      national
necessitated                                                                                               development
                  the    postponement       of project              agenda.
construction.   This was one     of the major reasons.           -  From      the
for                                                                                long
      changing                                                                             term     perspective,
                     the    project                                                                                  the
                                      site    and     the           Implementation
implementation                                                                         of Arun
                    schedule   for the Installation                                                III In Its present
                                                        of          form    may    not
the 402 MW single                                                                       be justified       to increase
                      stage and the  268 MW, and      134           electricity consumption
MW two staged      construction                                                                 and generation
                                   to be completed                                                                 in the
                                                       by           country.
1996/1997                                                                       It would therefore
             and 2000/2001                                                                               be proper     to
                                 respectively. The   201
MW Baby Arun                                                        develop the necessary     infrastructure
                    has been tailored                                                                          In a less
                                           to meet the             expensive       manner
financial                                                                                       and
             requirements                                                                               with     public
                                and   fit  Inside     the          participation
macroeconomic                                                                      at different levels.
                  resource affordability    envelope of         -  In a poor country
the poor country.                                                                       like ours, It is
                        It must                                                                           a well known
                                   be noted     that   no   ,      fact. that
unbiased LCGEP                                                                    development
                    has been conducted                                                            with    the   help   of
                                          to justify the           external      agencies
project  as being In                                                                          Is largely decided
                          the least cost                                                                              by
                                            generation
sequence in the                                                    commission agents.       corrupt
                   changed context                                                                    decision-makers
                                      of delay. revised            and businessmen
load demand.     export constraints                                                       and biased     International
                                       and availability            interests.   These selfish
of latest                                                                                       elements
           feasibility                                                                                      are always
                         reports   of other attractive             Interested    In big projects
projects    suited                                                                                  that Involve    only
                      to    the   country's     current            few people. For
development                                                                            them, many
              needs. (In the                                                                            small projects
                                LCGEP study     Arun III           and the involvement
was Included  as a project to                                                                 of many people
                               be constructed                                                                     in the
                                                by 1997
at a cost of                                                       decision-making
                 720 million     US Dollars                                            process is problematic        and
                                                 with a            not profitable.
capacity of 402 MW In                                                                 According to
                          a single phase.)                                                            our experience.
                                                                   large numbers of     small and medium        projects
         INDISPUTABLE               FACTS                          can be conducive       to national     interest
                                                                   helpful to the people.                           and

-   Water       is  considered     to   be   the   most
    dependable     factor in the natural   resources   of            CONTROVERSIAL                    ISSUES
    Nepal.    There     Is a necessity      of proper          1. The proposed        implementation
    development     and multipurpose                                                                      of Arun III
                                          use of water             proJect In the    present   changed
    resources   In Nepal where                                                                             context wIll
                                   available resources             push the country
    for modernizatIon                                                                  to a great risk.   The addition
                              and   development      are           of 402 MW of
    scarce. This Is an                                                               electricity by
                         indisputable fact.                                                           a single project
                                                                   like   Arun     III will    increase    "the    total


                            4                                                           5

  Development    Bank and Germany     assured US $   550      be constructed
  million    as  assistance                                                     at Num Fyaksinda
                                for the                                                               in the northem
                                          project.      A     part of Sankhuwasabha          district
  recmnfermation                                                                                        to divert the
                       study     or   Arun    III   with      waters   of the Arun       river   through    two 11.5
  commencem
  manipulationsentpuint199
                   were again mademade
                        w       ae thn     whlprojeid
                                              .
                                       which projected        kilometer long  tunnels of 5.6               diameter to
 Arun III as                                                  the underground
                the least cost  sequence. Though                                    power housemeters at Pikhuwa
                                                      the                                                            of
  Iniltial LCGEP                                             tiding Danda
                  looked at the                                              Village. Six unts
                                 402 MW development                                                of 67 MWcapacity
                                                              wil  proda
 and envisaged                                                                  402
                  construction                                                                 MW
                                beginning In                                                                capacty
                                              1990 and
 completion of                                               will produce       402
                  works by flscal                                                     MW of electricity
                                  year 1996/1997.                                                              to be
                                                     the
 reconfirmation                                              transmitted
                         study                                            to Duhabi In
                                   considered                                              Sunsarl district
                                                     the                                                     by a 220
 Implementation                                              kilovolt transmission       line.
                       of 402     MW single                                                     120 km long.      The
                                                 phase       construction
 alternative   and the 268                                                  of a 117 km.     long access
                               MW and 134                                                                   road from
                                               MW two
 staged                                                      Hile of Dhankuta
            development                                                           district to the
                              alternative                                                          power station
                                             with                                                                 and
                                                      all
 infrastructures                                             the dam is also
                     needed for                                                 considered to
                                  the 402 MW                                                     be an integral   part
                                                  to be
 constructed                                                 of this project.
                in the first                                                   Though the
                             phase itself.                                                    full capability
                                           The revised                                                         of 402
                                                             MW will generate
 Inple1.entation                                                                   2885 GWh
                    shedule                                                                      of energy. the   first
 Inm2001.eneatof              taJorgetedcoummonsIng
                        tchedlmajrgee assmptsionsing         phase of 201
                                                             1744 GWh outMW will        generate average
                                                                                of which 1513      GWh willenergy   of
                                                                                                              be firm
 Justifying Armn    11 was the  expected export   of all
 jsurplus                                                    energy. The
            power, more                                                    first phase will
                       wa   tha    half                                                       have only one    tunnel
                                           e Installed
 capacltya to                                                and power house
               India.                                                            for 3 generating     units only. The
           capacity.
            to India.                                        total cost for
 Following the                                               US $ 764 million.
                                                                            201 MW first      phase Is estimated
                 World Bank's                                                      As a result,                     at
                                loan of about                                                     the 4.5 meter  wide
                                               US $ 34
 million                                                     access road
            to construct                                                   will become
                             the                                                           a very costly
                                   access                                                                  road (1.25
                                            road,   the
 Department                                                  million US $
               of Roads His                                                 per km as comnpared
                             Majesty's Government                                                     to the average
                                                       of
 Nepal (HMG/N)                                               US $ 0.2 million
                   Invited bids for                                               per km), in
                                    the roads In                                                  fact, the costliest
                                                  1989.
Though the                                                   road built in
               lowest bid received                                           Nepal to date.
                                    was nearly double                                           In the construction
                                                             program
 this amount,                                                            of the project,
                 due to reasons                                                                powerful     Chenuk
                                   proven only   to the      helicopters
World Bank      and the authorities,                                       are to be regularly
                                        the bids were                                                 used and the
                                                             simultaneous
 rejected and                                                                construction
                 the access road                                                             of the entry
                                    construction                                                            road and
                                                   was
 integrated with                                             the dam are
                   the Hydroelectric                                         to be done       by the same
                                      Project activities                                                      foreign
                                                             contractor.
 to be undertaken                                                         During the      construction
                       under the Ministry                                                                 period. the
                                             of Water
Resources.                                                   number of people
               HMG/N responsibility.                                               to be employed
                                          The present                                                 for daily work
estimated financial                                          will vary from   3.000 to 10,000.
                       cost of the access                                                           To complete
                                          road Is said                                                            the
                                                             construction
to be US $                                                                     work
                 149 million,                                                           as    early
                                twice the Initial                                                     as    possible.
                                                    bid      sophisticated
amount.                                                                      machines      and latest    technologies
                                                             are to be     used    with minimal        use   of local
                                                             manpower and
       DETAILS OF                                                              resources. The      dam, tunnel
                            THE PROJECT                                                                           arnd
                                                             access road  components
                                                             a single package             have been combined     Into
                                                                                   and contracted
For the run                                                                                             to a foreign
                of river hydroelectric  scheme    a 68
 metertallrund                                               contracting joint
                Of                                                               venture depriving
                        meter
                         hydroe                                                                        the local and
meter tall and                      concrete dam   will
l                 155 meter long    concrete dam             International
                                                   wlll                    contractors of
                                                             road only.                      bidding for   the access

                            2
                                                                                        3

                        ARUN-III:

                AN INTRODUCTION

                            AND

              ISSUES OF            CONCERN


 According     to the Koshi   basin study     undertaken     by
 the   Japan      International      Cooperation      Agency
 (JICA) in     1985, six   sites of the     Arun river    were
 identified   as attractive    for further    studies  with a
 view to generate     electricity.  The third   hydro-power
 site among     the six as  counted     from the   north was
 named as     Arun III.  The study     also concluded      that
 altogether    3 projects   -Arun      III, Arun II  which is
 called upper     Arun and      Arun IV      which   Is called
 lower    Arun      -    could     also     be   financially
 competitive.    On the basis      of this conclusion,      the
 pre-feasibility   study of Arun       III was Immediately
 undertaken     in 1985 and      was completed      by 1987.
 Based on     the conclusion    and suggestions      of these
 study reports    preparcd by     foreign consultants     with
foreign aid,    efforts were   made to     acquire financial
assistance      for this 402      MW project      with their
cooperation.       A comparative           study   of other
candidate     Hydro Electric    Projects was     undertaken
In 1988 (Least      Cost Expansion       Generation    Plan-
LCGEP)      wherein     manipulations        were made       to
justify Arun     III project  as the least     expensive    by
arbitrarily    padding    the costs     of other   attractive
candidate     projects. With     that objective    achieved,
Arun III   was treated      as a prlorlty'    project and     a
detailed   engineering     study   was undertaken        with
financial     assistance    from     foreign    donors    and
lending    agencies     (hereinafter     "donors").   in the
meeting    held in Paris     in May 1988.        the (don(ors

                    FOREWORD


      Arun-III    hydro    electric    project   will have
tremendous       long-term     Impacts     on the     socio-
economic life     of the Nepalese     people.    In view of
the effect that   such an undertaking         may have     on
national      development        needs,     environnment.
realization    of human      rights   and   promotion      of
participatory     democracy.      the Arun     Concerned
Group    (ACG) has      evolved    from among       citizens'
groups and     lindividuals  to raise concerns.      ACG Is
an open participatory       platform   of individuals    and
organizations      for equitable      and    participatory
development          approaches.         enviroinmential
conservation,     sustainable     development      and the
realization     of human        rights.      This    GroLup
advocates        that     Nepal       needs     adequate
infrastructures   and local capabilities     to pursue the
path     of   sustainable         and    people-centred
development.     ACG firmly       believes  that creating
huge superstructures       like Arun III   shall not meet
any worthwhile     cause of the    Nepali nation    and Its
people.

This document      has been prepared        by a group     of
professionals,     nanmely Bikash        Pande,     Ganesh
Chimire.     Gopal     Siwakoti,      Copi    Upreti     and
Pitambar   Chhetri, for   the Arun Concerned       Grotup.

                  Contact Address-,
           cdo INHURED       INTERNATIONAL
     International   Institute   for Human    Rights,
           Environment     and Development
                     P. 0. Box 2125

II~~~


                                 *4
                                                '',>''''t                  2d
                                                                                                           ,.

              0                                                                                                                            '''
                                            tr--rV01ivv0'u;00
                                                                            A
                                                                                                   0s
                                                                                                                  Dd         0L




            r,,,
             i                               e.
                                           t   4




         :",    .'  -'         ', "        A     .
                                                                              "   ''
                ,     .''@,''''     ,.                                                                   -
                                        .,.                                                                   t
                                              ''.                                                                  .
                                                          '''                                                           '
                                                               '                                                            -:
                                                                  .'.    ''   ,'                                                            ..
                                                                                        ,,   ".  .                                                         '
                                                                                                     '   ''    . '  '     ''   ,    ,.
                                                                                                                                          '      ',   "  ,,    -,.'    '
                                   e n=S'i                                                                                                                                  ' ,
                                                  ; ,       L,

   BOOK REVIEW                                                             DEAR MEMBERS               AND
                                                                               WELL-WISHERS,
                 JUSTICE DENIED!

               HUMAN RIGHTS AND
                   INTERNATIONAL                                   WE WOULD LIKETO      EXPRESS OUR APOLOGYFOR
          FINANCIAL INST111TUTIONS
                          FINANCIAL
                              INSTITUTIONSREGULAR                  NOTBEINGABLETOPUBLISHNEPALTODAYON
                                                                                 BASISDUETo SOMETECHNICAL
          The book is indispensable     for anyone who wants                   ANDFINANCIALREASONS
   to understand    how the global economic      system works
   today and the terrible    toll it is taking on   the world's          THIS IS GOING TO   BE THE LAST ISSUE
  people and environrment.                                                         OF AEPAL TODAY
          Based on presentations    bymore than 25 speakers               THATYOUWILLGET       FREE OF COST.
  ataPublicHearingheldduringtheUNWorld              Conference          WE WILLBE FORCED      TO STOP MAILING
  on Human Rights in       Vienna in June      1993, the book       THE NEWSLETTERFROM         NEXT ISSUE UNLESS
  addresses obstacles to    the realization of civil. political.       YOUR MEMBERSHIP      / SUBSCRIPION FEE
  economic, social and     cultural rights and the     right to             IS PAID INADVANCEAS    BELOW:
  development around       the world. Speakers        cover the
  effects ofdebt, structural  adjustmentand      otherpolicies
  oftheWorld Bank. the     International Monetaxy     Fund, the                      "STUDENT$10
  General Agreement on     Tariffs and Trade, transnational                        INDIVIDUAL$15
  corporations,     donor    agencies     and    governments                         "FAMILY$20
  on children,     youth,   students,    women,      peasants.                      INSTITUTION$30
  indigenous peoples,    workers, and the environment.                                 uF   $100
          In easy-to-read language,    the voices of the people
  from all regions of the world help make the     connections            CHEQUE OR MONEYORDER        SHOULD
  between human rights,     the environment, development.                           BE MAILEDTO
  peace      and    security,     and     democracy        and
  popular participaUon     In national     and international
  decision-making.                                                     NEPALHUMANRIGHTS        COMMITEE-USA
         The book is a contribution      of NGO discussions            P.O. BOX 53253. WASHINGTON,    DC 20009
 and actvities     related to the 50th anraversary       of the                     (703) 519-1728
  Bretton Woods Institutions,    the 50th anniversaxyofthe
 United      Nations,     and    UN     events     including             WE APPRECIATEVERY MUCH YOUR
 the International        Conference        on   Population             COOPERATIONANDPARTICIPATIONIN
 and Development,           the     World      Summit       on
 Social Development,      and the World Conference          on               T COLLECTIVEEFFOR1
 Women.

         The book has been     edited by Janet Bruin,     and             NEWS. COMMENTS ANDARTICLES
 published by Kathmandu-based         International Institute                     AREWELCOMEI
 for Human      Rights. Environment        and Development
 (INHURED International)      and Geneva-based Women's
 International League     for Peace and Freedom       (WILPF).
 Copies of the 185-page     book can be ordered in     US$14
 or equivalent     from: INHURED International,           P.O.
 Box          2125,           Kathmandu.               Nepal.
 tel: 977-1 419610. fax:    977-1-412538       (for Asia and
 Africa) or WILPF. C.P.       28, 1211 20. Switzerland.          MailingAddress:
 tel: (41-22) 733 6175, fax: (41-22) 740-1063 (forEurope)        Nepal Human Rights Committee-USA
 and Laxman Sedhai, 2705      S. Fern St. # 12,Arlington.  VA    P.O. Box 53253
 22202, tel: (703) 683-7501     (for North America).             Washington, DC 20009




Page No. 16

                                                                                                                 Nepal   Today
                        NEPALESE         ABROAD
                                                                         a caretaker
                   CONDEMN                                                            government
                                    DISSOLUTION                                                     must be   formedwhich willbe
                  OF PARLIAMENTIN                NTINNEPAL              acceptable   to all theconcemed
                                                 NEPAL                        ~~~Anational consensus
           Nepal                                                       .byallthepoliticalforcestosafeguardNepalinationalism.
                                                                                                      and parties.
                                                                                                            goodwillmust   beforged
                    Human      Rights     Committee-USA                 monarchicalmulti-party      democracy    and human    rights
       August                                                           inNepal.
                   2, 1994,     Washington,         DC
                                                                               Wehopethatthe      concemed
               TheNepal Human      Rights                              people's                               partieswlllfulfiUthe
       like to express                    Committee-USAwould                     aspiration.
                        its deep  concems                                      Weexpress
                                             regarding                                       our solidarity
       dissolution                                      the recent                                          with the
                     of the                                            sisters                                       brothers
                            'sovereign'  Parliament                             back homeIn                                    and
                                                                                               Nepal.
       upon thesocalledrecommendationofthePrime        by the  King
       which                                               Minister
               was done   without  proper   consultation                  CONSTITUTIONALPROVISIONS
       poliUcalparties                                    with  the
                         in the Parliament.   We viewit
       than  a consequence                                no more             REGARDING
                                of the  defective                                                   DISSOLUTION
      provisionsthat                                Constitutional
                        didnot                                         OFPARUAMENJ7AND"SOVE
                               guarantee   the real                                                                      GNY
      the Parliament.                               sovereigntyof
                        but retained   the absolute
      Kingin                                          power
               manyaspects                                   ofthe
                              such as this. In thelongrun,                     ArticLe42:   Special  provisions  Conceming
      Nepal needs is                                          what                                                             the
                      struggle  forthe                                Council ofMinisters:
                                        amendment
      controversial,                                  ofthe  many
                      undemocratic     and unclear   provisions
      the present                                                of
                   Constitution   so that                                (1)Ifno one party
                                          the sovereignty                                    has a clearmajority in
      peopleand                                                                                                      the House of
                  the basic                                  ofthe
                             characteristics                            Representatives.    His majesty
      monarchy    can be                       ofa constitutional                                        shall appoint  as Prime
                          miaterialied
                      monarchy~
                          ~     ~        in real                        Ministeramemberwhoisabletocommandamajority
                                                 sense.       has
      been the                         ~
                position                    ~~~~~~~hThis
                                            ra    ene                   with thesupport
                          of NHRC-USAsince                si    a                          oftwoormore     parties
                                                 it submitted               House.eilvdi                           represented  in
      critical                                                  its
                  recommendations                                       the House.
                                              to     the
      Constitution                                           then
                    Recommendaion                                        2)Ifno member     isable to command     a majorityin the
            Withregards                 ConmmissIonin     1990.
                          tothe  present
      USAwould                            politicalcxisis,NHRC-         House ofRepresentatives     evenpursuant
                   like to                                                                                           toclause  (1)
                           urge all                                                                           PrimeMAinster
     groups                          poliUcalparties,                  above,HisMajestyshall
               and the                                   citizen's
                           people                                      leaderoftheParliamentarypartythatholdsthelargestthe
                                                                                                  appoint as
                                     of Nepal
     the establishment                            to work      for
                         ofa healthy                                   number
                                       and trustworthy                           ofsets in the House
     environment                                         political                                      of Representatives.
                    so that  free, fairand impartial
     processes                                          electoral
                can be   ensured   for the November                    (3)APrime Ministerappointed
     guaranteeing                                      elections                                         pursuant             (1)
                    the possibilities                                  or (2) above                                 toclause
                                       for the                                        shall  be required   to obtain
    democratic,                                 victory  of more                                                       a vote  of
                       honest      and                                 confidencefromthe      House of Representatives
    generation                              dedicated                                                                    within
                 leadership                                 new
                             who have                                  tirty days.
                                         long-term
    human                                            visions
             rights and                                       for
                        democracy that
    need.                                 Nepalisin   desperate       (4)If a  Council ofMinisters    constituted
                                                                      the provisionsofclause                        pursuant  to
                                                                                                 (2)above fails toobtain  a vote
              Alliance       for Democracy                            of confidencefromthe     House   ofRepresentatives.    His
          and Human                                                   Majesty   shall dissolve the
                               Rights                                                               House
                                            in Nepal                                                        of Representatives
  July27.                                                             and issue
              1994. NewYork                                           months.     an order   for holding   elections within  six

           TheAllianceforDemocracyand        Human
 Nepal     expresses                                  Rightsin
                      Its outrage  and condemnation                 ofRepresentativesontheMajestymay dissolvethe
                                                                           Article53(4):His
                                                                                               recommendations
 dissolution   oftheHouse                                of the    Mirister.                                       oftheHouse
                                                                                                                         Prime
                              ofRepresentatives                                His Majesty    shall,
 Sabha                                            - Pratinidhl                                       when    so dissolving  the
            onJuly  lOth.
 the undemocratic          1994 by His Majestythe                  House ofRepresentatives,specifya
                                                       Kingon
                      and immoral                                  months,                                date, tobewithin six
byPrime MinisterGirijaPrasad          recommendaUonmade                          for new      elections      to
                                                                   of Representatives                            the   House
                                     Koirala-
tendered                                       whohad
             his resignation.                           earlier
The conspiracy       and 'Grand     Design'                               The Preambleofthe     Constitution   states
various                                       enacted
            reactionary                                by the
                         forces                                    source
                                to weaken                                   of sovereign                              that -the
                                              democracy                                  authority
                                                           and                                       of the independent    and
-crush   the people'saspirations    is obvious.
a direct   violation of the                     This action is     sovereignNepalisinherent in
                                                                   Constitution                    thepeople'. Article3ofthe
                            goals and
Jana Andolan in                         spirit realized                          providesthat
                                                        by the
                     April 1990.                                   vested  in theNepalesepeopleand
                                                                                                SThesovereigntyofNepalIs
Aslongas     thisgoveznmentremains                                 accordance                            shall beexercised
                                        in power,nofairand                      with the                                     in
                                                                                         provisions of the   Constitution.'
and impartiality
Impartialelectionswillbeheld. Toguarantee the         fairness
                      of the    November                                 Alandmark
                                              1994                                     interpretation
                                                     election.    expected from                        of these
                                                                                   the Supreme                   provisions Is
                                                                                                 Court in  fewweeks.



                                                                                                                   Page   No. 15

                 These    initiatives  have
          best                                been
               examples                              considered
                           ofNGO-govemmentco-operation             as           NHRChasreceivedareportfromNDRSGthatLhe
         effectiveimplementaLionofvarious                      in the    donation
         rights                                international                       has  been
                treaties  which                              human                            used
                                  Nepal                                  to the                     to provideimmediate
                                                                                 flood victims                             supplies
         conventions                     is aState Party  (including                            of Gadhou
                               relating                                  Nipane                               VDC (Routahat)   and
         discrimination.                      torture,                           VDC(Sindhuli).
                           slavery,discrimination             racial     support                   NDRSGis
                                                                                  these                         planning  tofurther
         and  covenants                             against                             two
                          on civil,political,               women,                           villages
                                                                         medical care,                 in housing.   schqoling and
         and  cultural                        and economic.                            including
                       rights.) Children                      social                              income-generation
                                                                                                                        programs.
        oftheNational Planning            and WomenDepartment                  Anyone   who   Is interested
        finalizing the             Commissionisin                       donation                              to make   a generous
                        report  with                  theprocess of                in this effort can   send   a cheque
        Watch                         the representaUves                order  payable                                    or money
               and   ChildAwareness                        of Child                    to the Nepal Human      Eights
        and                              Group.                                                                       Committee.
              organizations                      Interested                    NHRCwould
                                can                         people                           liketoexpress    itssincere
                                      contact                                                                            thanks to

        Kathmandu.
        co INHUREDIntemaUonal.P.O.Box2125.Putalisadak.
                                               to:  Child   WVatch,    to this
                                                                        thefollowingindividualsfortheirgenerous
                                                                                humanitarian                         contribution
                                                                                                cause
                      tel: 977-1-226325.                               vicUms                           in support
                                            fax: 977-1-412538.                  in Nepal:                            of the
                                                                                            Audrey                           flood
                                                                       Shanker                       Chapman.
                                                                                Shrestha.                          Pure
                                                                                            Ganesh                       Chimire.
               HUMAN                                                  Bishnu                        LalKayastha,
                             RIGHTS                                             Paudel.                             BalramAryal,
                                          YEARBOOK                                      Rita  Tiwari.  LaxmnanSedhai.     Sanjeev
                         1993                                         Singh.
                                  RELEASED                                     Sukhdev
                                                                      Bir.B.Adhikari.MinaCheetri.Kharel,
                                                                                        Shah.   RC.             Sunita
                                                                      B. Le.                                            Siwakoti.
                                                                              Annie                    MadhusudanGiri.
                                                                                     Goorman.                              Huyen
              Informal                                                                           Morique     Voisin.
                           Sector   Services                          Burton.                                        Barbara   R.
      has                                                                      Quazi
           released                            Centre                                 M.Haflz.
                     its 1993 Human                      (INSEC)      Santos.                    Emil  M. Sunley.   Joao  D.E.N.
      documented                                                               Ania&  Nirmala   Bhatia.
                    seriesofhumanrightsviolationsand
                                        RightsYearbookand     has    Schultz.                            Beryl
                                                                                Ram                             Jeffey.Johannk
      by police,   with  special                          abuses                      C. Malhotra.
                                                                     Whitesell.                       Louise   L. Boume.    Luke
      of untouchability.           highlight  on discrimination                   Homnath     Subedi,    Mahid
                             The
      be available                  512-page                         Chubuki                                      Mejid.   Tarek
                   from:                         Yearbook
                                                                                                                        Bhaskar
      Nepal.Tel:977-1-270770.
                           INSEC.P.O.Box2726,                can     Giri.     BipinKarld.PawanG.C..SonuRegmi.
                                                                             Helen
                                                   Kathmandu,                          Abadzi.
                                                                     Acharya.                      Meena
                                                                                 Kablndra                      Sharma.     Devi
                                                                                               Sitoula.
                                                                     Netra  Chishing.                       Udaya
                                                                                       Suresh                         Mainali.
                                                                                               Baral.
                  NEPAL DISAPPOINTED
        UN   COMMITTEE                                                ARUN
                                  AGAINST                                       III  COMMISSION
                                                TORTURE                                                     & ACTIVISTS
                                                                             UNDER       PHYSICALTHREAT!
           TheGeneva-based
                                UN Commritteeagainst
     a  treaty   monitoring
                    a tratymoniorig
                                 bdy.                   Torture.           eNHRC-USA
                                 body.                                                  is concerned
    serious                               has
                                           as
             concernsoverNepal's2-pageinltialrepotabout its
                                               expressed
                                                 xpresedItsclaiming                                    that  a group
                                                                   Ilaattagdtm themselves                            of people
                                                                                      fjeo   as
    the implementation                                             IIIattacked   the office     htheepeppomsino
                                                                                                       'supporter'    of Ar-un
                                 of                                ArxunIII Hydroelectricof the
    AgainstTortureratifled           the    UN    Convention                                 ProjectPeople's  Commission
                                                                                                      and   mishandled      on
                                                                                                                         some
    has                       byNepa2in                            members
        requested   the                   1991-TheCommittee                    of the   Commission
                         government                                in Kathmandu.                        on   July   22.   1994
    report                              to submilt
             within    one                         Its detailed                     However,no    serious   injuries
                              year.                                The  mob   then                                  occurred.
   judicial.                          including                                    moved
             administrativeand                     legislative.                             towards
                                                                   Intnational.                      the officeof   INHURED
   for the                        othermeasures                                    the Secretariat
            abolition                             undertaken
                       of the                                                                       of the  Arun
                               pracUce                                                                             Concemed
   punishment                            of torture               Group.withthreatsofphysical
                    to  perpetrators                in Nepal.     but                              attacks
                                                                      were   interrupted                    toltskey officials.
   crinme.adequate                        of  torture                                    bythe
                      compensation                       as  a    alsosearchingforactivistswhoareleadingthe
                                                                                                 police.The hooligans    were
   victims                             and
           of torture                        rehabilitation
                      and   their                           to    and   those                                       campaign
   law-enforcementagencies.       familiesas  well training                    who  came                                           t;
                                                            to                             to the
                                                                  present                         World
                                                                           their                           Bank
                                                                                arguments                         in June  to     i
                                                                  tourge                     on Arun   III. NHRCwouldlike         i
       REPORI       OF SUPPORT                                   measures  the Nepaligovermmentto     undertake
                                                                             for the
                                          TO FLOOD                                  safety                         necessary
                                                                                            and  physical  integrity
                  VICTIMSIN                                      who are   expressing                                of those
                                     NEPAL                                             their concerns  on Arun
                                                                legal                                            Illand
                                                                       action                                            take
  NepalHuman                                                    activities.    against  those  involved
                 RightsCommitteelunchedafund-raising                                                     in such    unalawful
  campaign   to support
 The amount               flood victims
               of$2,680                  in Nepal last  year.
                           fromthe                                 ELECTIONOBSERVATIONIN                          EPAL
 ($253                               total
        as per                            amount
                expense)                           ofS2.933
                            has
 Disaster                         been sent                             Nepali
               Relief                        to the                             human
                                                    Natural                                rights
                         Support                                a National                         groups    have   formed
 a non-governmental                    Group                                 Election
                                                 (NDRSC).                             Observation
                         relief organization                    coordinate
 socialworkers.humanrightsactivistsandpoliUicalpartyof
                                              composed                       local and  international
                                                                                                    Committee (NEOC)to
                                                                duringtheupcomingelections.Washington. elecUon    observers
 leaders.                                                       National   Democratic                             DC-based
                                                                                         Institute
                                                                get involvedin                      is also    planning
                                                                                the monitoring                            to
                                                                                                 process.
PageNo.   14
                                                                                                                        PageNo.14

                                                                                                                         Nepal    Today
        Gautam                                                                                                                               -
                        (publication).
        (cultural                             Prabha
                   coordinator),                             Bhattarai
                                   and Suresh                                any political
        and                                      Baral.                                      party
              Niva                                        Ram
                    Pradhan                                     Malakar                             and ideology
                                                                                                                                  concemed
                                 and                                         with                                   and is  only
                                       Paul  Gallmgher                               national       issues
        at-large.                                          as member                                           of
                                                                             and                                    common
                                                                                  democratization                                 concerns
                                                                                                      ofNepalisocietywithfull
               The annual    meeting                                                                                               respect
                                       of theAssociation                     their human    rights.                                         to
       in the   Americas                                    ofNepalese
                            (ANA)also     elected
       Committee.                                  its new    Executive
                      Dr. Amar     Giri                                             HUMANRIGHTS
       Washington.                       as President,    also
                      DC in                                     held                                            TRAININGTO,,
                             July.                                    in
                                    The representatives
       Concerned                                            of the
                    Group                                         Arun            LAW-ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS
                            and theAlliance    forEnergy
       issues  relating                                    highlighted
                         to Arun   III controversy                                 Kathmandu-based
                                                                                                            International
       benefit  of Nepalese                           In Nepal                                                                InsUtute
                              living                             for the                                                                  for
                                     in the                                 Human
                                            United                                     Rights.
                                                      States.                                      Environment
                                                                            aNHURED                                   and    Development
                                                                                          International)
                   BHUTANESE                                                                                organized   a three-day
                                         REFUGEES                                                                                       long
                        NUMBER                                              human        rights
                                        1,00,000                            80 law-enforcement study
                                                                                                   officials(police,judges, for
                                                                                                                sessJon              about
                                                                           prison  and    administrative                      prosecutors,
              The nurnber                                                                                   officials), and
                             of Bhutanese                                                                                     lawyers   and
                                              refugees
      increased                                          in Nepal          NGOrepresentatives
                   more                                            has                               in Kathmandu
                           than                                            prograni   was  supported                  in June           The
      to continuingsuppressionofNepali-speakingminorities
                                  one   hundred      thousands                                           by the
                                                                  -due                                          UN Voluntary1993.
                                                                           the     Victims                                        Fund   for
     in Bhutan.                                                                                   of    TortureU
                     Bi-lateral  talks                                     tevict                                      and          Swiss
     refugeeproblemwithBhutanhavebeenheld,butwithout
                                         for the  resolution                                      ofrtortures
                                                                of the    Deveopment          Cooperaton/Nepal.
     significantprogress.
                             The main                                      on international                                     Lectures
                                         question                                              human     rights
     classify                                       remains:                                                    norms
               refugees                                                                                                  and   standards,
                          and ensure                           How to     minimum
                                         their                                         use offorce,   measures
     home-country.                             safe  return                                                      for the aboliton
                        These                                 to their
                               days.                                      practice
                                      refugees                                         of                                            of the
     disease,                                                                                            investigation
              malnutrition,                      are suffering                               torture,
                                                                 from                                                        of human
                              and lackofadequateshelter                   rights  violations     and
    the relief                                                                                           compensation
                support                                        despite
                         ofUNHCR                                                                                             to victims,
                                      and other                           and experiences     ofhuman    rights
    tion   to children                            agencies.   Educa-                                            educationand
                         has become                                       in other
                                        a serious                                       countries                                 training
    people                                          problem.                                           were
             are complaining                                    Local                                          delivered      by Nepali
                                 of increasing                            and international    experts,   including
    adverse                                     deforestation,                                                        Prof.
              impacts                                                                                                       Reynaldo
                         on social                                and     ofthe
                                      and                                       University
                                           cultural                                          ofthe                                      ly
                                                      environment.                                  Philippines,   and Ahmed
   TInternal  disagreement      and  infighting                           of London-based                                       Othmanl
                                                                                                      Reform
    Bhutanese                                    between                                      Penal            International.
                  political                                 different
                             parties  and                                        The     training
   have                                    human                                                       was
          further                                     rights                                                  found
                   deteriorated                               groups                                                                 and
                                  the situation                          useful                                          unique
                                                                                 according
   camps.    Formore    information               ofrefugeesin                                to the participants.
                                                                  the
                                      in US.
   Refugees                                   contact
               Solidarity                                Bhutanese
                            Group.                                       on
                                                                         programsareunderwayvwththepreparation ofa manual
                                                                                                                    Follow-up    training

   02114.                            73 Phillips                              human
             tel:                                                                                                  and
                  (617)                           SL. Boston.                             rights    education
                         742-1942                                 MA                                                     training     for
                                     VJ.Stephens).                       law-enforcement      officials in the country.

                 NATIONALCONCERNS                                         CHILDREN'S            RIGHTS
                    SOCIEIY                                                    FORMATION                      SEMINARSAND
                                    FORMED                                                           OF CHILDWATCH

          Inspired   by the work  and achievement                              INHURED      International,
  Concemed                                              ofthe                                                 Child
                 Group                                         Arun                                                 NGOFederation.
                        in raising                                      Children
                                     hydro-power                                   at Risk  and UNICEF-Nepal
  related                                                                                                          jointly
           issues                                   development-
                   in Nepal,                                                                                               organized
                             a gatheringof                              national   seminar                                             a
                                                                                                on the
  lawyers,                                   concerned                                                     implementation
                journalists,                               citzens.                                                             of the
                                  human                                 UN Convention
  and professionalshavefformedaNationalConcernrights                                      on the
                                                         activists                                Rights  ofthe
                                                                       in March                                 Child
                                                                                   1993.                               in Kathmandu
                                                                                           The main
  followed                                                                                              purpose
             by the                                                                                              of the  seminarwas
                    protest                                 Society
                              of Indian
 Nepal                                   army's                        to review and
         a fewmonths                              intervention                         make   comments
                         ago. The                                in
                                    Society                            of the                               on the draftinitial
                                                                                 government                                      report
 fundamental                                 has identified
                  issues                                      some                                on the     Child
                          of national                                  be submitted                                   Convention
                                                                                       to the                                         to
 sincerely                               concerns                                              UN Committee
                and                                  that                                                        on the
                        immediately                        need  to    Child  which                                      Rights
                                                                                      is based                                   of the
 the government.                           be   addressed                                        in Geneva.   The 200
                      political                                 by     including
 Theseissuesinclude:adverseeffectsofforcedcitizens
                                parties  and                                       30 children,                         paricipants
                                                         of Nepal.                                 coming   from
                                                                      Nepal                                        different
                                                                               have                                           parts
                                                                                        made                                          of
 andforeign                                          pnvatization                                various     recommendations
               aid:  structural                                       the
                                  adjustment                                government                                               to
 donors'                                                                                                   realizaton
          condiUonalities,                       programs                                     for   the
                                                               and
                             accountabilityand                         ights  (parcuarly                                    of child
 ofgoverrmentand                                   transparency                               survival,   development,
                       parliament                                                                                          protection
                                     reguJation                       ad      (participatin  a     frmedal
India                                             of open                                                      follow
       border:                                             Nepal-                                                      uprfedtion
                and control                                           anld   paticipation)
                             offree-flowoflndian                                             and   fored
to Nepal:                                                                                                   a folow   up federation
               resolution                            immigrants
                             of citizenship                           I
the issuance                                     problem
                 of national                                 with     its KathmanduDeclarationontheRightsoftheChildin
permit                        identity
         for foreign                    card  followed
                        nationals;                       by work
                                     cancellation                     Nepal-INHUREDlnternationalastheCoordinatorand
treaUes   with                                       of unequal
                India,  eg.                                           Secretariat
                             so called
treaty                                   peace                                      In addition,
        of 1950.                                and friendship                                       the same
                    and  several                                      another                                    groups   facilitated
                                  others                                       week-long      national
water                                      relating                                                      seminar
        resources.                                    to Nepal's                                                    of children,
                      and   cut in                                    children                                                     for
                                     defense                                    and by    children   with
Society                                        spending.                                                   the establishment
         is said                                             The
                  to remain                                          Child                                                        of a
                              completely                                     Awareness
                                            independent                                    Group    and
                                                            from                                          a separate
                                                                     Declaration.                                      Kathmandu




                                                                                                                         Page    No. 13

     therefore,   the project    must go   ahead-this      can not be      complete   a bachelors
     accepted as                                                                                     degree and
                    an adequate                                                                                    the time
                                      defense. The                                                                           it takes to do
                                                     fact is that   the    so is considerably
     Government                                                                                  longer than
                     is experiencing                                                                             the normal
                                        something                                                                              four years.
                                                     entirely new-it        Because going
     isextremelyrareinNepalforacitizens'groupto                                              for a post-graduate     education    is not as
                                                             question      much coveted
     Govemment's                                                                            in America
                       judgment                                                                          as it is in
                                     on public                                                                      Nepal, a majority
                                                 sector investment                                                                       of
                                                                           those finishing
     priorities,                                                                             up college
                 much less    takinglegal                                                                 do not go on
                                             action and                                                                  to do a Master's
                                                          demanding        or Ph.D.
     explanation!      However.     if we believe                                                                                     :
                                                   in a more      open
     systemof government.                                                         Despite the  hardships    manyyoung
                                citizens'involvementin                                                                      Nepalese face
                                                           the Jssues      in America.
    of   national                                                                       they still find itattractive
                        interest      should                                                                          to come for   college
                                                 be     encouraged        here.especiallysincethealternativesofstayinginNepaI
    andappreciated.        It follows    then that    Government's        are not all
    response                                                                          that great.
                to ACG should      be viewed  as an opportunity      to
    build public                                                                 This perception.
                   support for                                                                        however.
                                  the project                                                                     can change
                                              and make                                                                           if we can
                                                           necessary      offer quality
    adjustments                                                                         college education
                     if that becomes                                                                          in Nepal.
                                          apparent                                                                       Better still.ifwe
                                                      after debating      can      import
    both sides                                                                                   an
                 of the Issue.                                                                         American
                                 It will build                                                                           standard
                                               democracy                                                                                of
                                                             and also     university  education
    will help build    a better project.                                                            to make available      to our college
                                                                          bound. afiluentlids    theAmerican-style     college education
                                                                          right inside  of Nepal.
                                                                                 Many        of
                   CONSTRAINTS                                                                     us      may      remember
                                                 OF                                                                                    the
                                                                         American    UniversityofBerult.
                                                                         war that                             BeforetheLebanesecivil
      NEPALI STUDENTS                                                                erupted   in 1975,
                                             INAMERICA                                                      this university      was the
                                                                         magnet for promising      young kids     from throughout      the
                                                   -  S.D.- Shah
                                                              S.D.Shauniversity
                                                                         MiddleEast    was as muchofcoveted
                                                                                        and some parts        Asia.Adegree      fromthat
                                                                                                                         as from      the
           Growing       affluence      of the     upper     middle
    class familiesclassfamlies                                           best universities   in America     and Europe.
                         i
                         In Nepal'ss
                              Nepl        urban
                                          uban       centers
                                                      enter      and                           giveserious
    most especially                                              anduniversities
                       in Kathmandu                                              Letusinthen
                                          has tended                                       Nepal in    collaboration
                                                                                                              consideration
                                                                                                                        with American
                                                                                                                                tohaving
   imnportsof luxuryitems.                              to boost the     universites    In
                                 Oneofsuchiltemnshasbeen                                      eal  in collaborto
                                                                  the                                                   wit akerucan
                                                                         universities
   college education     in American      .onofucitmshsbenhemuch                       and campuses.        It would not    take up too
                                         universities,                             of
                                                                          much         urour    own      money.       Many       of   the
          Accurate                                                                              ownemoney.pMayothe
                        statistics    are not available       but    t  American
   Is suggested                                                                     universiiues   maybewl
                       that                                                                                 a
                                the                                                                               ingtoprovidehelpin
                                       number       of    Nepalese            ding sth ca
   college undergraduates                                                                       s awel      as makig
                                 in American                                                                             available  their
                                                 universities    has     t         s
   increased                                                                             a
               from only    a few hundreds      a decade   ago to at
   least two  or as much     as four thousands      currently:          NEWS         IN BRIEF
          There is little    doubt that    the Nepalese     parents
   whoappreciateand       can affordqualityeducation        fortheir
   children are                                                                           INFEDOPENSITS
                   making a right      decision in   sending their                    KATBM.ANDU
   children  to American                                                                                      OFFICE
                              universities.  However,     it may be
   too much   to expect   that these    young kids    can so easily
   be transplanted     in a foreign   land and   achieve their   full
  potential.                                                                    The InternaUonal     Federation    of Nepalis   PNFED)
                                                                       has opened    its liaison
         The harsh                                                                                office in Kathmandu.
                        truth is that   most of these                                                                      INFED is an
                                                         kids get a    aliiance ofNepalis
  plane ticket                                                                               and theirorganizaUons
                 to America     and probably                                                                             based outside
                                                 a little of pocket    Nepal. Its   main objectives
  money. You                                                                                           and activities
                  must appreciate                                                                                      are: to work
                                        the fact that                                                                                 for
                                                         flve lakhs    the rights     and
  rupees is stll                                                                             benefits
                  a princely                                                                            of Nepalis
                                sum in Nepal                                                                           living abroad.
                                                but Its equivalent     to encourage
  of ten thousands                                                                       and   facilitate
                         dollars may                                                                         their  contribuUon
                                         be just enough                                                                               for
                                                             for the   the development
  plane ticket   and one year                                                               of Nepal. to  campaign
                                  of the college                                                                      for effective and
                                                  expense.             secure    labor-supply
         The truth                                                                                  laws    and
                      then is that                                                                                 instituUons
                                     most of the                                                                                    and
                                                   affluent family     to undertake    programs
  kids coming     to America                                                                        for a democratic
                                 for college                                                                             Nepal. Those
                                              education     have to    who would
  take upmenlal                                                                     like to know   more about
                    jobs after    a few months                                                                    INFED. and     receive
                                                    of arrtval.  To    its newsletter   can write
 economize                                                                                          to: P.O. Box
              on the tutUon                                                                                         2809. Kha    2/407
                                  costs. they   choose less   than     Putalisadak.
 high class                                                                            Kathmandu,
              colleges and                                                                             Nepal. Tl:
                               take fewer                                                                             977-1-226525.
                                            than the full   load of    Fax 977-1-412538.
 courses. It   is not unusual       to see four   or five of them
 sharing     one room                                                                                 OF
                               apartment       and      arranging                ELECTIONS
 work schedules                                                                                             ANS &ANA
                     in order to     minimize    overcrowding     of           IheannualmeetingoftheAmerica-NepaliSociety
 their limited   ltving space.    As the time    passes, most     of   held in July
 them find itdifficult                                                                in Virginia    has formed
                         to balancetheireducation                                                                   a new Executive
                                                         and work      Committeeforthe
 time and.                                                                                 1994 term.bTheCommitteeis
             because of    the pressing                                                                                     composed
                                           need to earn   a living.    of: Vijaya
 their education                                                                  Shah (President).
                     suffers. Probably                                                                 Linda Shrestha      (First Vice-
                                             no more     than one      Presidnet), SarojPrajapati
 fourth ofthose    coming toAmerica                                                                  (Second Vice-President).     Kush
                                          fora college  education      Mainali (Secretary).    Gajendra    Aryal (Treasurer).     Surid


Page No. 12

                                                                                                  Nepal Today


factorsofproduction (land.labor.capital,environment).      public sector. It should be noted that, despite
Generally, this theory states that .a countly finds it     only moderatedomesticinflation, electricitytariffswere
cheaper toproduce those things which make use ofits        increased by 60 percent in 1991. 25 percent in 1992,
most      abundantly          available     factors     of and by some 40 percent in March 1994.To beginwith,
production. Because of the low cost of production of       the Government should have more vigorouslyperused
goods made out of abundant and. implicitly, lowcost        the reform ofthe NepalElectricityAuthority (NEA)with
resource, the countiywould tend toexportits abundant       a view to substantially reducing personnel coSts and
resource intensive products and import those products      ensuring     the efficient utilization   of its repair
whichare likelytoutilizeits scarcefactors ofproduction     and maintenance expenditure. Anindependent review
more intensively and hence can be more costly to           of the NEA'sperformance relative Its counterpart in
produce.                                                   neighboring countries would have suggested ways to
        Since the electricity weproduce is based on our    improveoperating procedures and cut costs.
mostabundantresource-thehydropower-itis          unusual          Becauseofthewell-knowninefficiencyof(Central)
that our electricity costs should be the highest in the    Govermnent investment         in the energy sector,
region and, probably, in any other country for which       more consideration        should    have   been given
data are available. The problem can be stated more         to investments by localgovernments and by theprivate
generally:Nepalhappens tobeoneofthemostinefficlent         sector. Operations of the non-governmental entitles
countries in the world in terms of the provision of all    wouldhave provided a healthy competitionto the NEA
public servicesand notjust the electricity. It isnot that  and forcedit to improveefficiencyor goout ofbusiness.
the Government does not spend enough money,relative        At the least, the NEAshould have been required to
to its budgetary resources, on the provision of public     privatizeits billcollectionoperations. Itis believedthat
services-water, sanitation, health, education, roads       large commercialand industrial users ofelectricitypay
and, of course, electricity. The more serious problem      significantly less than what they actually consume
seems to be that the Government is spending it too         because oftheir substantial resources to influence the
inefficiently.The result, invariably, isthat the qualityof concerned officials.atis rumored that the SoalteeHotel,
the publiclyprovided services is lowwhiletheir cost, in    for severalyears, paid as little as 50 rupees per month
some cases, extremely high.                                in electricity charges to the NEA)
                                                                  Bccause of the lumpiness of Investment in the
l   Available Options
     V.                                                    development of hydroelectricity. it may be difficult to
V. Available      Options                                  attract local entrepreneurs. Therefore. consideration
                                                           should be givento encourage private investment from
        In  the   context     of structural      reform,   overseas, with or without local participation. In this
the Government. over the past few years, has been          connection, the       Government should       look Into
making     vigorous    efforts   to privatize     public   the possibility of foreign private investment through
sector enterprises. Under private management. it Is        build-operate-and-transfer(BOl)and build-operate-and-
hoped, they willmake an effortto becomemore efficient      own(BOW)arrangements. Such investments Inseveral
and competemore successfully or, fallingthat, theywill     countrieshaveplayeda catalyticroleinthe development
go out of business. Several industrial and commercial      oftheirhydro resources. Notonlywouldthe Government
entities havebeen privatizedunderthis program and. in      avoidthe burden ofdebt and risks ofstructural damage
due course, theprogram isbeingexpandedtoincludeall         to facilities from floods and earthquakes but also the
oftheimportantremaining such entities. However,there       operation of these facilities would providea,yardstick
has been little discussion of the privatization of public  against which the efficiencyof similar facilities in the
utilities even when they are widely perceived to be        public sector, including that ofNEA.,can bemeasured.
wasteful     and    inefficient    because     of their
monopoly position     in the    domestic    market    and  VI. Concluding        Remarks
an absence ofcompetitionfromoutside. In fact. about a
dozenofthepublic enterprises have been excludedfrom
the privatization program. of which the electricity and    In a statement to the press on the Arun controversyin
water corporations are the main ones. However,if the       February 1994 the Government accused ACG for
privatization program Is concerned about improving         their     obstructionist       activities    and     for
efficiencyand reducing waste, the electricity and water    creating misunderstandings in public minds about the
corporations should have on the top ofthe list ofpublic    Arun Project It further added that ACG'sactions may
enterprises to be privatized or, at least, moved from      leadtodelaysintheimplementationoftheprojectwhich
central to localjurisdictions.                             may prove very costly for the country-total        cost
        Coming back to Arun Project the Government         may increasetolUS$S1.1billionfromthepresentUS$764
shouldhaveshownmoresensitivitytothepubic          concern  millionestimate ifthere is evenone year delay.
aboutpoorqualityand high cost ofelectricityservices in            Ifthat isall the Government has tosayin defense
Nepal before undertalkng any new investment in the         oftheArunproject-thatthedelayswillcobtmoneyand,



                                                                                                          Page No. 11

                                                                                 cost (forreasons     of higher wage     and service
 5.   An    unnecessarily         large    amount-some            variation in
                                                                                                           comparison with      oLher
 US$140 million-is       being spent   on the 117-kilometer       costs in richer   countries), Nepal's
                                                                                      more unfavorable.
 access road    to the project. The proposed      road will be    countries looks
                                                                                                question. then,     is not only that
 almost ten times     more costly   than other similar    road             The fundamental
                                                                                      should make       investments     in the Arun
 projects in Nepal.                                               whether Nepal
                                                                  project but     whether it should       at all the&,business      of
 6.TheGovernmentshouldhaveentered.an.agreement
 with China     for assuring    the uninterrupted       flow of   producing electricity!
                                                                  Economic      efficiency in     an environment         of an open
 watertotheprojectsinceabout80percentoftheArun
                                                                                      requires that   a country should     specialize
 River's catchment        area   falls in Tibet.     However,      trading system
                                                                                        ofoonlythose things      thatltcanproduce
 no contacts     with the Chinese        have been        made     in theproduction
                                                                                   than any other     country and.     conversely.   it
 and. reportedly.    the Chinese   Government      has its own     at lower cost
                                                                                            thingswhich      others can produce     at
 plans to develop    hydroelectric  resources in   the region.     should importthose
                                                                   a   lower     cost.     Usually.      the     services     items,
 7.Theprojectliesintheseismicallyactivezonewhich
                                                                                                  are    not     tradable     goods
 poses great     risks to the    long-term viability     of the    including     electricity.

 project. Also,    the risk of flooding    from the sudden         and. therefore,wouldneedtobeproducedlocallyatany

 breaks of. glacier    lakes has not   been evaluated.             costifthecommunitydesirestousethatservice.               However.

                                                                   in the case   of Nepal. because       of its location.  electricity
  8.Thefeasibilityoftheprojectwilldependinsomepart                                                    good, probablyamenable         to
  on the sale of   surplus electricity  to India for   which a     can be treated    as a tradable
                                                                   more        convenient           transport           from      the
  long-term       sales     agreement         should      have
                                                                                   countries than     the normal tradable      items.
  been concluded.     This has not    been done.                   neighboring
                                                                            If so. then   what is the      problem if we      let the
  9. Because ofthe    distance involved  betweenthe      project

  site and    Kathmandu       where most       electricity   will  NepaleseconsumersuseBhutaneseorlndianelectricity
                                                                                                       hour than making         them
  be consumed      (some 200 kilometers).     the Arun Group       at one rupee       per kilowatt
                                                                                            electricitywhich      costs four, and  up
  contends that     as much as     30 percent    transmission      purchase domestic
                                                                                                                              we can
  loss can be    expected, compared     with the normal        10   to 6.2. rupees     per kilowatt     hour? Certainly,
                                                                   manufacture                      and airplanes     in Nepal but    if
  percent. Other     feasible sites   closer to Kathmandu                            automobiles
                                                                                 be bought      at a fraction      of the cost   from
  should have    been investigated.                                these can
                                                                   elsewhere then      why bother producing         them at all?   We

                                                                                                                        on producing
III. Cost Effectiveness                                             should. instead,    concentrateourresources
                                                                    only those    things in which        we have got.      to use an
                                                                                         a comparative     advantage.     Thissurely
       Finally,     there   is  the    concern     about     the    economicjargon.
                                                                    makes good       economic sense      and may also       help our
cost effectiveness        of the    Arun      project     which
                                                                                                          countries.
ACG mentions      but does not    elaborate. However.       from    relations with    the neighboring
                                                                            However,     before we can           be serious     about
the author's    point of view,    this is the most      decisive
criterion against    which the usefulness       of this project     this particularoption.weneedtoknowwhetherthecost
                                                                                       Nepalishlghbecauseofthenatural             and
and, indeed.    of all hydroelectricity    projects. past    and    ofelectricityin
                                                                    technical factors    or. so to speak,    it is man-made.    In my
future-should      bejudged.
                                                                                  It Is entirely  thelatter as    Is reflected by  the
       The table belowpresents       electricitytariffrates    for  judgment,
                                                                                                      development      in Nepal vis-a-
household use      for regional countries    and for two non-       relative cost of hydropower
                                                                                   and Vietnam.       Bhutan's 384      MW Chukha
regional        countries         to     emphasize            the   vis Bhutan
                                                                    hydroelectricity     project. built   during the 1980s.       cost
international   character ofthis   comparison.    Itis assumed
                                                                    about 200 million     US doLlars. includingthesettingup           of
that households      are the predominant     user of electricity
                                                                    the transmission       lines: this works      out about US$0.5
in developing        countries    and.    therefore,     this   is
                                                                     million per MWcapacity.       Vietnam's 1.920       MW capacity
the representative     rate.
                                                                                                      project. completed     this year
        It is rather surprising    that the cost   of electricity    Hoa Binh hydroelectricity
                                                                     after 15 years'    work, cost about       US$1y400 nillion       or
 (which is     assumed      to be reflected      in the     price
                                                                                          per MW   capacit          Even,400 uming
to consumers)    is highestin Nepal    evenwhenthe      country.     after 15
                                                                     US$.73 million       per MW capacity.          Even assuming
reportedly.      possesses     the    world's     largest    and
                                                                                       cost overruns,    the Arun III   project in the
more accessible      hydroelectricity  resource. the    cheapest     no significant
                                                                     fir'stphase (201   MWwill costat       leastUS$800      million or
 of    all    primary       energy      source.        (Nepal's
                                                                                                                            that such
 estimated hydroelectricitypotential       is said to be 83.000      US$4 million     per MW capacity.      It is unlikely
                                                                                               evenafterdlscountingfor       inflauon.
 MW or equivalent        to that of   the Unlited    States and      huge costdifferentlal.
                                                                     can be attributed     solely to the  relative difficulties  of the
 Canada combined).       The cost per   kilowatt hour    is lower
                                                                     terrain which,    probably. can    be considered     worse in the
 even in Bangladesh.     which has very  little ofthis resource.
                                                                     case of Bhutan.
 The most surprising      comparison    is with Bhutan:      even

 though       both     Nepal     and     Bhutan        depends
                                                                     IV. Public       Sector Efficiency
 on hydroelectricity    resource to   about the same      degree.
 per unit cost    in Bhutan     is only about      one tenth    of
                                                                                     of the      principal      theories    governing
 Nepal's. In terms    of per capita  income. which     takes into             One
                                                                                        nations is their  relative endowment      ofthe
 account factor    price differential  as'a possible    source of    trade between



Page No.    10

                                                                                                       -NepalToday.


never been available to Kathmandu residents on a
24-hourbasis.    Even duringthoserestrictedhours                 II.Issues    Raised by the Arun Concemed
when electricity is available (presently, two hours              Group
each in the morning and evening), the incidents of
brown outs, black outs. and periods of unusual                   In a pamnphletissued in February 1994 entitled     -Arun
surges in the flow of current (requiring the use of              III-An Introduction and Issues of Concerrn ACGhas
surge suppresser for sensitive appliances) may be                made several assertions which raise serious doubts
almost      a  daily     occurrence.             Inadequate      whether the project. as presently conceived.is really in
and unreliable supply of electricity in the Valley.              the best interest ofNepal.The main points made in the
and also in the rest of Nepal, not only add toalso          the  pamphlet are the following:
                difficultiesof
                       daily     livng            but                .The project is too large relative to the size of
difficulties      of   daily     living           but     also     economy.Estimated costofjust the first phase     of the
                                                                                                                       the
hamnper commercial and industrial activities               and     project-some 764 millionUS dollars-is almost       one
discouragetheintroductionofimproved                technology      quarter of Nepal's current GDP.ConcentraUonof       the
based on the use of electricity. This limits                the    country's meager resources on just one         project
growth of productivity and makes it difficult                 to   is contrary to the curmnt development theme     which
improve     living   standards,             locally  as    well    emphasizesdiversification.ACGcontendsthat.     instead
as nationally.                                                     ofspending such a hugeamount ofmoneyon a single
       It should      be    good           news   then    that     project, preference should have been givento small
the Governrnenthasfinallydecidedtodo                something      andmediumsizeprojectschosenfromvarioussitesin
to relieve the shortage of electricity in Kathmandu                the country.Thiswould havereducedrisk (notputting
and probably sell it at a cheaper to the consumers                 all your eggs in one basket) and benefited a wider
than the current price whichisprobablythe              highest     segment ofthe population.
in the world (see below). The case in point              is the    2 .Goverrment'spreferrnceforlargeprojects,inACG's
Arun     III   hydroelectricity             project    which       view. Isrelated tothe expectation ofhugekickbacks
the Governnmentintendstoimplnementintwophases                      fromcontractorswhichmaynotbepossible, oras         big,
each having 201 MW capacity. (Nepal's                 present      ifthe'projectls relativelysmall.Also.ACGargues    that
generating      capacity     is  about            300    MW).      the large size and romplexnature oftheArun project
The estimatedcost of the first phase of the            project     will require the use ofsophisticated technologyand
is 764 million US dollars and it is expected              to be    skilled manpower which will need to be Imported
completed by the year 2000: the second phase                  of   rather than supplied locally . More local resources
the project may be completed five or seven years                   would have been used if several smallprojects     had
laterbutthatwill    depend onthe success ofthefirst                been implemented instead.
phase ofthe project.                                               3. ACGIsconcened about theimpactofthe projecton
       However, the current news is that all is not                thefrgileecologyoftheArunValley. homefor450.000
going      well     with      the            project.      still   people. Upto 10.000 peoplewilllwork on the project
awaiting inplementation.      A citizen council called             duringitspeakimplementationperiodbutno provision
the'Arun Concemed Group (ACG)' has petitioned                      has been made for their housing. education. and
Nepal's Supreme Court to order the Government                      health care needs. It Is feared that the squatter type
neplsSpeeCut to                orderdwitthe       Goec
                                                     vries'ertan   setlment s wil followinwa-rdmiigrationand this will
not to proceed with the project unless                 certain     devastate local forestry resources and intensify   soil
conditions aTemet. Under Article 15                of the new      erosion. Surprisingly,knitscurrentformtheblueprint
Constitution      containing      citizen          rights     to   of the      Arun project includes no plans for
public    information         (similar              to     the     thedevelopmentoftheArunValleyitself-plans         that
American Freedom of Information Act).                the ACG       willcontinue tobenefitthelocalpopulationafterwork
has asked the Court to require the Government                 to   on the project infrastructure is completed.
make public all information pertaining to the            Arun      4. The foreignloan commitments for the project     will
III project. Further, ACG is using the provision              of   burden    the    country   with    unpayable     debt.
Article 86 of the Constitution dealing with             'public    ACGestimates thaL including loan commitments        for
interest litigation' to raise issue with the         technical     some otherprojects. Nepal'sforeigndebtwlll    increase
andfinancialviability3oftheproject.            InACG'svlevw.       fromUS$1.800 milion to US$2.400 million        overthe
the Govemment must seek a national consensus                       next fewyears, which willmquire the Government       to
before making a final decision on theArun project.                 spend most ofIts revenuejustfor debt servicing.ACG
        Reportedly, the Supreme Court has sided                    perceives that     the   country will be pushed
with ACG and has ordered the Government                       to   into bankruptcy if the Government takes up Arun-
make available to them all relevant information              on    type projects with their heavy dependence      on loan
the Arun Project. The Govemment is contesting                      capital.   foreign technology and         equipment,
that decision.                                                     and dubious return on investment.


                                                                                                                Page No. 9

      l   i     I                         i
                                                                                                                                      i.


     preparation   for November     elections, particularly:           went even further    and stated
     1.invesUgateviolations                                                                              that denial ofinformation.
                                of the Bank's    Information  Policy   fully or partially on any grounds
     and operational                                                                                         that there may   be. can
                       procedures     by the Bank    Management;       be challenged    in the Court
     2. study of issues                                                                               within 7 days
                         and concerns                                                                                  from the date
                                          raised by NGOs     during    of such     denial.
     the June 28th                                                                           The Court
                     consultation                                                                           did not believe
                                     meeting held                                                                                  that
                                                      at the Bank:     the government     has fulfilled its constitutional
     3.review the                                                                                                           and legal
                  compliance   ofthe Bankls     policy. procedures.    obligations  byreferring
    guidelines and                                                                                to some public
                      standards relating                                                                           meatings and
                                             to the project                                                                         the
                                                             as the    setting up   of library    after the case
    obligations                                                                                                     was filed in    the
                 of a borrower     country. and     access to basic    Court.
    projectinformationbytheaffectedpeopleandthe             citizens          The Supreme     CourtJustces
    of Nepal:                                                                                                   Hon. Hara Govinda
                                                                       Singh     Pradhan
    4. ensure the                                                                              and     Hon.
                    debate of the                                                                               Keshab
                                     project in the                                                                          Prasad
                                                       next elected   Upadhyay delivering
    Parliament                                                                                  their landmark
                  (November                                                                                       judgment
                               1994) and its                                                                                  on the
                                                 approval:             right to information,
    5. respect the                                                                            have also established
                    decisions of                                                                                        the following
                                   the Supreme      Court of Nepal    procedures    and guidelines
    on access to                                                                                     for the demand
                    information                                                                                        and release of
                                    on Arun III     as well as the    information    until appropriate    laws are made:
    intemal democraUc      process;                                    1.The applicantshould    firstdemand
      6. take into    account                                                                                  thelistof documents
                                 the detailed      information    to  from the defendants.
    be provided  byNGOs InNepalonvarious            Jssuesrelating    2. If the defendants
    to    Arun                                                                                provide the
                    III.    particularly                                                                    listwithin seven    days.
                                                 environmental        the   applicant     should
    impact assessments                                                                              demand      an   inspection
                           and mitigation                                                                                            of
                                              measures as   well as   the concemed     documents.
    alternatives  toArun III: and                                     3. Ifthe demand    is made according
   7. saUsfy withotherunresolved                                                                               to clauses 2  of these
                                       issues relatingto    the life  procedures.    the defendants
   and sustainabilityoftheprojecL                                                                      should set the    time, date,
                                          e.g. riparian issuewith    and place and
   China,                                                                                provide information
               glacier       outburst.                                                                            to the applicant
                                              alternatives       to  within three    days.
   energy development,      adverse impacts      in social sectors.  4. If the applicant   wants to make
           For more information                                                                               a note or copy  of the
                                     on Arun III,   contact: Arun     document after    inspection,
   Concemed Group,                                                                                   he or she should
                          c/o INHURED                                                                                   request the
                                             Intemational.     P.O.  specified authority    for the same.
   Box 2125,    Kathmandu.       Nepal. Tel:     (977-1) 419610-     5.lntheabsenceoflawsforprovidingcopies.thecopies
   Fax: (977-1)'412538.       In United      States:   Lori Udall.   should be certified   byacceptingtheexpenses
   Washington   Director, Intemational                                                                                    forcopies
                                           Rivers Netwvork    1025   as fees.
  Vermont Ave.,     NW #300. Washington,          DC 20005.    Tel:  6. Ifthe defendants    have to deny
   (202) 879-4280                                                                                          the zight to provide
                        * Fax: (202)                                                                                              the
                                          879-3186      * E-Mail:    list, full or part, or inspection
  lmdc@igc.apc.org                                                                                        or for providing   copies.
                                                                     theyshould    indicate thereasonand      inform the applicant
    SUPREME                                                         within three    days.
                     COURT VERDICT                 ONARUN            7. In condiUons
        III AND RIGHT                                                                     under clause      1 and 6. where
                               TOINFORMATION                                                                                     the
                                                                    applicantisdenied     therighttoinformation.     the applicant.
                                                                    if not satisfied  with reasons   for denial. can  Illea petition
          Denial     of    basic     information         by    the  intheSupremeCourtwithinsevendaysafterthereceipt
  Nepall    Government,             particularly           Nepal    of theinformaonofdenial.
  Electricity   Authority       (NEA),     about      the   Arun    8.Theprocedurefortheactiondescribedaboveshallbe
  III Hydroelectric   Project has    been one of      the serious   made according
  matter of eoncers                                                                     to the rules  of the Supreme
                        for the people                                                                                   court.
                                         and NGOs      in Nepal. A           This Supreme
  formal request                                                                              Court precedent
                    was made                                                                                      has established
                                   by the Kathmandu-based           therighttoinformatlonforallccitzensonNepal
  Internatonal   Institut   forHuman                                                                                     according
                                          Rights. Envirohnment      to the Constitution.     It has also   outlined the   possible
 and Development      (INHURED International).        Secretariat   framework for     a future law on
 of the Arun                                                                                            the right to informaton.
                   Concerned     Group,     on Decernber       10,
  1993 requesting    for all information     about the project.                        ARUNIIIAND
 and copiesoftherequest      letterwas also sent    to ministries
 offinance. and    water resources    as well as to  the donors.                 NATIONAL INTEREST
         ApublicinterestllUgation      was filed bytwohuman
 rightsacUvists,   GopalSiwakotiand        Dr. Rajesh Gautam.
 in the Supreme      Court on December                                                                         - Vijaya Shah
                                               31, 1993 under
 articles 16 (right to information)   and 88.2 (right    topublic   I. Introduction
 interest litigaUon)  of the Constitution     of the Kingdom    of
 Nepal. Byexercising     its extra-ordinaryjuxisdiction,      the         Those of us having
 Supreme Court                                                                                     the experience
                    delivered a                                                                                       oflving in
                                  verdict on May      8. 1994 in
 favor     of the     petitioners       and      ordered     the    Kathlnandu
 Nepali Government                                                                  need no convincing
                            to provide                                                                         about the acute
                                              all documents         shortage of    electricity in
 and information                                                                                   the Valley. As     in the case
                    about the project. The       Court decision     of municipal     water supply,     the electric power     has

PageNo. 8

   djjM                                                                                                    NepalToday

  to hydropower generation that      recognizes the comple-     Party in the Parliament     -  Communist Party of Nepal
  mentarity of private and public    sector elements. It also   (IJML)-issued     an statement and said thatitwill     neither
  acknowledges the interdependence        between. and com-     approveproject norassumeanyresponsibilityinfuture
 plementarity   of, the large. medium/small        and mini/    if the matter is not debated    in the Parliament with the
 micro sectors in the industry.      It is a process-oriented   disclosure of project information.
 rather than product-oriented      approach, which places               There are several other issues    involved relating to
 equal importance on theestablishment        of greater hydro-  the design. funding and     implementation of the prgect
 power capabilityas on increased      power capacityperse.      that need approval of     the Parliament, e.g. approval      of
        The aim of this approach     is to plant Nepal firmly   agreement with China on       riparian issue (since 86%      of
 on the path toself-sufficiencyin   hydropower generation,      the water flows from China):      status of agreement with
 and to reduce the country's    dependence on foreign      aid  India on the sale of energy.   if it exists; approval of  10%
 and technical assistance    in the long tem.                   investment by Nepal of      the $764 million project      and
                                                               other questions relating to     the cost. conditionalities of
        The essential charactenstics     ofthis approach are:  donors, and environmental        and social impacts. So     far
  Focusing    on schemes       that     use   and   enhance    the Parliament has not    been provided this opportunity.
   the country's existing  capability                          and significant pressure       on the government       for the
  Investing in building   up local capability.   in both the  disclosure of project    documents and a fruitful      debate
   public and private sectors                                  was expected in the present      session of the Parliament.
 *Switchingtoadecentralizedmodelofpower           productiorL  including independent      reports by the Opposition     Party
   which ensures a sharing     of risks among a number      of and the People'sCommission         on Arun III. which    is not
   schemes, and promotes    local management      and control  the case anymore due     to recent political developments     in
   of projects                                                 the country.
 *Removing the barriers     to private sector investment.              The recent dissolut1on of the    Parliament, and the
   and creating an environment       which is conducive to     calingofmid-termelections       on November 13, 1994      have
   growth, maturation and    expansion ofprivate industry      created further uncertainty     ofArun IIIproject if it is not
  Adopting       an    evolutionary         approach       to criticallyrevieved bythedonors        to win the consensus of
   hydropower development.     wherebytheindustrymoves         the fragile political parties   and the confidence of the
   aheadinmanageablesteps,takingonlargerandmore                Nepali people. The final     decision of the loans     for the
   ambitiousproJectsasitscaPabilltygrowsand          matures.  project will be viewed    as undennining the      democratic
                                                               internal    process    In Nepal       as   well as     seizing
        Thisapproachisrealistic.     Nepalhasthe    technical  of -opportunity    dunng poliUcal turmoil.      The status of
 capability totake iton. thoughitwill stUllrequire   support   the project willfurther   degrade if the existing   members
 for some years before It Is totally self-reliantL Flnancial   of the Cabinet and the ruling      party get defeated in the
and instituUonalarrangements,      however, require serious    November elections leading     to new opening of debate     on
 consideration. as the currentmechanisns      cannot provide   Arun I.
the necessary support.                                                 in conclusion, the information       release process
        Based on the large number     ofconcerns regarding     hasjustbegan    and itneeds moretime      fortheir availability
the Arun project wewould     urge your agency to consider      in local language for public    consultation with the    local
utilizing your funds for   supporting small and medium         people as well as national      debate in the Parliament.
hydropowerschemesoflessthan          IooMWcapacitywhich        Since a thorough       discussion     of the project in the
are more economically,      environmentally     and socially   Parliament and its approval     is highly significant for  the
sound for Nepal's current    situation.                        better future of Arun III as  well as a secure investment
                                                               of donors, it Is Important   that this opportunity is   given
NEED OF PARLLUAENTARYDEBATE                 AND APPROVAL       to the forthcoming new       Parliament to be elected       on
       Another disturbing issue regarding       PArunIII has   November 13. 1994 as the existing       Parliament has been
been the lack offruitful debate   in the Parliament andIts     dissolved on July 10. 1994     due to political infighting in
approval.     e gcoverniment has never        presented   any  the ruling party. I would     like to assure you that      the
documents        and     Information.         other     than   postponement     of the Bank date will be viewed       by the
                                                               people, political parties    and NGOs in Nepal as the
policy statements    and general information      about the    sympathy and support      of the Bank and other    donors In
construction   of the project. in the    Parliament despite    stablllzing the hard-won    democracy in Nepal.
repeated    efforts  of Members        of Parliament       for
the disclosure of project    documents       for debate and    WHAT NEEDS TO BE DONEI
approval. Agroup ofMembers       ofParliamenteven     issued
a public statement     on January     12. 1994 with other             It wlll be essential for the   borrower country, the
public figures and demanded       for the release of project   people and the donors to postpone       the July 26th voting
documents     and review of the whole        project by the    of the project by the Bank    and reviewthewhole project
ParliamenLAroundthesametime,thelargest            Opposition   with careful attention during       the period of electoral



                                                                                                                  Page No. 7

petitions  from the business     community      for tariff reduc-                                                                     to
                                                                            T*he engineering      and management         capability
tions.                                                                                     project like Arun does    not ex:ist in  the
       The high    tariff is seen to be a direct   consequence            build a large
                                                            Arun                             means that    the entire  scheme will   be
of the high     cost of power     generation     from the                 country. which
                                                             with         built by international     contractors.
scheme and     is doubly   unpopular     because together

the tariff increase  people can   expect more     load-shedding
                                                                                                      with large   hydro projects     in
for the foreseeable      future. The    further 50%     tariff in.           Previous experience
                                                                      Nepal    managed        in   this   way     (the    Marsyangdi
creasethatisexpectedtobeneededtopayfortheenergy                                                                                    that
                                                                      and Kulekhani          schemes)        demonstrates
produced     fromArunwillmeanthatNepalwillhavethe
                                                                                            onextemal    technologiesand      expertise
highest energy     prices in    South Asia    and threatens      to   such dependence
                                                                      does nothing    to help local  capability   grow and mature      -
destabilize   the country     politically.
                                                                                   reverse is   often the reality. While    there were
     *There has    not been enough     preparation     fordetailed    in fact, the                                                   the
                                                                      token provisions     madeforlocal    capability   buildingin
     plaxininghas nothbeenenoutighapreparon
                                          mdetalled                                                                    developed    into
                                                       needed to      two projects    named above,      they never
     planning     of the mitUgation       measures
                                                                                             building.   It Is hard  to see how    Arun
      counter the   serious adverse    environmental      impacts     genuine capability
                                                                      will enhance    the hydropower      capability   of Nepal.
     of the access    road to the   Ar-un Project.
                                                                              The shortcomings       of this approach      are already
The Arun      Valley is    a remote    area of vast     biological
                                                                                           experts had   to be brought     in to assess
diversity   and ecological    fragility. The  valley is inhabited     clear. Japanese
                                                                                                               stock (washed    away in
 by 450.000     people comprising     10 ethnic    groups. These      the damage     on theKulekhanipen
                                                               and    the floods  of 1993) and    fouryears   after the completion     of
 people will    be extremely     vulnerable    during road
                                                                                  German technicians       are still needed   long term
 project construcUon.      Over 1000    families will  be affected    the plant.
                                                               Pre-                                   power plant.     The Japanese
 by the loss   of their homes,    lands and     livelihoods.          to run the      Marsyangdi
                                                            people    experts havepointed      outthe lack   ofroutine    maintenance
 project mitigation    activities  to prepare    the local
                                                                      on the Kulekharii     project and   almost no    record keeping
 for the effects of the construction     of the road  has not even
                                                                      of the maintenance       that was done.
 begun and     there are   only some     months left    before the
                                                                                             in hydropower     has been growing      and
 proposed beginningof        construction.   The Nepal    Electric-      Local capability
                                                                the      maturingrapidlyoverthelast          10years.particularlyin
 ity Authority    which is    in charge     of co-ordinating
                                                               over      theprivatesector.      Localcompaniesarenowtaklingon
 mitigation    acUvities   and has      full responsibility
                                                                                                                plenty big   enough to
                                                                and      50-60MW      schemes.     which are
 environmental      management        during construction                                                                      However.
 after commissioning       has no capability     or experience    in     meetNepal'srelativelymodestenergyneeds.
                                                                         local initiatives require supportrather     than competition
 this area.  There are serious    doubts that    NEAcan execute
                                                                         from schemes      like Arun.
 these functions    effectively  in spite ofthe    unprecedented

  level of planning   of mitigation    for this project'.
                                                                               GGiven Nepal's        current    development       status

                                                                            and priorities.   Arun could    do more to    damage than
    Public participation     both at a local  level in the affected
                                                                                                                                 overall
                                                                            enhance             the        country's
    district and  at a national   level has been    insufficient  in
                                                                                            prospects.
    the development      of the Arun    project.                            development

                                                                                                                                       Its
                                                              Sawa     Nepal is one    of the 10poorest   countries    in theworld.
  Serious questions      that the people     of,Sankhuwa
                                                                                                                     services of    clean
                                                               have    most urgent      needs are    for the basic
  (the district   where the      project is    to be sited)
                                                                                                                       While electricity
                                                              to the   water, sanitation.    healthand   education.
  regarding    the alignment    of the'road.  and benefits
                                                                                                                           for   Nepal's
                                                                       is   high     on    the   list  of priorities
  localpopulaUonofjobs,trainingandaccesstoelectricity                                                                          90%     of
                                                                       rural    communities         (which     represent
  have not    been adequately       answered.     The one    Public
                                                                                                                                   access
  Hearing that    was held     in the district   was not publicly      the population).theystandlittlechanceofgaining
                                                        their ques-    to Grid electricity    even in the    long terrn.    Stand-alone
  announced.      When satisfactory       answers to
                                                                       mnini-and    micro-hydro      schemes offer   the only realisUc
  Uons could     not be provided      during the    Hearing. local
                                                                       option for    many of these     communiUes        ever to benefit
  leaders asked    the organizers.    more than     once, to termi-
                                                                       from electricity.
  nate the meeting     and go back     to Kathmandu.       No docu-
                                                                                Given the Bank's    emphasis    on'poverty    alleviaUon'
  ments regarding        the project    (including    the Environ-
                                                                        strategies   for development      and the     recent concerns
  mental Impact      Assessment      in the local  language)    were
                                                                        raised in the   Wapenhans      Report about    the 'sustainable
   available to  local people    before the   Hearing.
                                                                                        impact' of   its projects.  it is difficult to see
          The project     affects all    the people    of Nepal     in  development
                                                                                            the construction      of Arun. which       will
   different ways   -as consumers     of the produced     electricity   how it justifies
                                                                                                                                      and
                                                                        benefit so   few, generate    no income    for the country
   or as those  carxyingthe     burden ofthe    loan. Government
                                                                                        rden        debe
                                                                                                    o
   officials boycotted    a Public Hearing      in Kathmandu       on   inefits
                                                                        increase its   burden Ofdebt
   the project  organized    by NGOs     on February     11th. 1993
                                                                        ALTERNAMlEAPPROACH
   and have     not organized      one of their     own. A Public
                                                                  the
   Hearing needs     to be held   in Kathmandu       to discuss                                                                          t(
                                                            and the             The          alternative            approach
   risks of the   project to    the naUonal     economy
                                                                                                                                approaci
                                                                         hydropower     development    focuses onasectoral
   alternatives   to Arun that    are available    to Nepal.

                                                                                                           Nepal Today

  measures      implemented      for   the   original   ridge   made available on concessional         terms. It is still a huge
  route alignment. Despite this.  no land has been identified   burden for a countTy with       such a limited budget. One
  to offer the option of land for land compensation.            third ofthe country's national    revenue already disappears
                                                                into loan repayments.      Since only 9% of the population
  4. Agreements with Neighboring                Countries       has access toelectricity. the    whole countrywill bear the
                                                                debt burden for the benefits        enjoyed by a few.',Large,
 A. Power Sale Agreement Must        be Reached with India      centralized power schemes        like Arun will not help the
         Since phase II of the Arun IIIproject    and future    remaininig 90% gain access to electricity.
 power developmentin thevalleyhave       been predicated on             Even to thosewho willbenefit      from Arun, the cost
 the sale ofpower to India, the  project must not go ahead      will be very high. Despite       concessional terms on the
 until an agreement has been       reached. India currently     loans from the World Bank          and Asian Development
 buys power from the Chukha        dam in Bhutan at prices      Bank to His Majesty's Govemment           of Nepal (HMG/N).
 significantly below cost price.    The high cost of Arun's     the Nepal Electricity Authority      willbe required to make
 power means It is highly     unlikely that any power sale      payments to HMG/N forthe          loan at an interest rate of
 deal with India will make    econormic sense.                  10.25%.      This cost will ultimately     be borne by the
                                                               consumer, who will pay        very high electricity tariffs.
 B. The Riparian Issue    Must be Resolved     with China.
         In  the   Nepali    parliament      recently,    the          The scheme will cost       $3,800 per installed      KW.
 Water Resources Minister      announced that China      held       Private companies       in Nepal can and are      building
 'noobjection'toNepal'splanstobuildArunMIl.        However,         small and medium       hydro schemes (up      to 60MW)at
 this does not constitute   a promise to guarantee    Arun's        half that rate.
 water supply for the Iffetime of the  project. Even now, a
 proposal is pending    in China for the Changsuo      Basin           In the light of the high   cost of power producUon.
 irrigation project  on the Arun (Phung      Chu) river. In    itissurprisingthatArun        came outas thebest      option for
 addition, there are   a large number of    glacial lakes in   Nepal topursue in the      Least Cost Generation    Expansion
 Tibetwhich could produce     GlacialLakeOutburstFloods        Plan (LCGEP). The        LCGEP did not consider          all the
 to which Nepal has    no access. Going ahead     with Arun    possible options for    hydropower development        in Nepal.
 without      a   firm    commitment         from     China    and largely Ignored     the small/medium scale       sector.
 markedly increases    the risk of the project.                        Local private sector     initiatives are consistently
                                                               building schemes for      less than $2.000 per kW installed
 5. Conclusion                                                 in the small (1-15MW) and       medium (15-100MW)         hydro
                                                               ranges, and $1,500       per kW in the mini/micro-hydro
        The Bank's failure to ensure    that its policies on   range. The 20 to 25MW         of annual incremental       power
EnvironmentalAssessmentand          Information Disclosure     needs ofthe national grid     can easilybemetwith     a basket
are beingfollowed is underminingdemocraticprocesses            of 1-100MW schemes coming         on line one after the other.
in Nepal. Webelieve the   unresolved issues surrounding
this project, and the    lack of public consultation     and     InvestirginArunmeans        puttingall Nepal's hydrpower
access to information     makes it highly unsuitable      for    eggs in one baslket. This     makes it a high-risk option
Board consideration      at this time. We also question          and provides no answer to       the current load shedding
whether a project of this       magnitude    and cost Is a       problem.
reasonable use of IDA      funds. If the Bank is to     take
seriouslyits publiclystated   commitment to sustainable        Ivesting in more, smaller       schemes would spread         the
development then     thereshould   bea full investigationof    isks of investment      and energy proision.      If anything
alternatives which are    more suitable for Nepal's     long   goes wrong       with    Arun,    the    country   Will have
tenI energy needs.                                             construction of Arun      has already been    shifted and is
       If the concerns      outlined   in this letter are     lilkl    ob    urhrdlyd           Shre-getto              me
not addressed adequately     by Bankmanagement.       NGOs       eikyto be further ddayed.      Shorter-gestaton     projects
be forced to submit    a claim to the Bank's     Inspection   w    relieve load sheddingmuch
Panel.                                                             ' Political stability in the country willbe threatened
OTHER CONCERNS                                                     if tariffhas to be raised   tothe level being insisted   on
                                                                   by the World Bank for      this project to go ahead.
  e With a current price tag of $764   million, the Arun III
    hydropower scheme      will cost as much as   the entire  Since the newly elected     democratic government       came to
    national budget for    one    year.  This is a major      po       electricity tariff was
                                                                        der.                     raised 61% in November
    financial commitment     way beyond Nepal's     limited   1991 and again 40%        in February 1992. This      has been
    resources.                                                followed with an increase       of 38% in early 1994. This
                                                              increase of over 200% in      the electricity tariff has led   to
Although much of the    loan for the Arun project  is being   political protests in all    the major cities in Nepal      and



                                                                                                                   Page No. 5

                                 ~~~~~~


   came about following a court case    filed by NGOs which      least six months. The World Bank       Board date and Road
  led   to a    Supreme      Court   decision     demanding      construction must be postponed until       all portions ofthe
  their disclosure.   Despite the ruling. which demanded         Regional Action Plan are completed         and are in place.
  the release of all documents      related to the Arun III      PreviousBank experienceinwhlchprojectconstruction
  project. many of the key documents          are still being    was     started    before    to environmental         studies
  withheld bythe Nepalese Government.         precluding any     were completed and implemented          have failed as in the
  meaningful debate.                                             case of Narmada.
         The library which was established       by the Nepal    B. A Realistic Implementation       Program and Tumetable
  Electricity Authority after the law   suit was filed in the    for the Regional Action Plan and        Road Construction
  Supreme Court does not contain many        key documents       must be Established
  such as the. Memorandum        of Understanding     between            Road construction is currently planned      ata rapid
  the Government ofNepaland      the World Bankor the draft      rate, which will adversely impact         on the     450.000
  project appraisal documents. In aprojectof     this sizeand    indigenous people living in thevalley.    through an influx
  cost which wi)l affect the whole     nation of Nepal, the      of up to 10.000 construction workers,        which will put
  public should be able to access        information about       pressure on precious food and water        resources. There
  existing agreements between the      Govenmment and the        are no mitigation measures in place     to ensure that these
  World Bank. Thefull environmentalimpactassessment              people are safeguarded. The people      oftheArunvalley     fit
  has not been made available in         Nepali. which is a      the    Bank's   definition    of -indigenous     people'    in
  requirement of Bank policy.                                    its operaUonal directive OD 4.20.       OD 4.20 states that
                                                                 .successful planning for indigenous      peoples frequently
  C. Failure to Release Bank Documents                           requires long lead times, as well      as arrangements     for
         Both the Bank's Environmental     Assessment Policy     extended follow-up'. For the    Regional Action Plan to be
  (OD4.01) and the Information Policy      (BP 17.50) require    effective, itmustbestarted    well inadvance ofthe project
  the   timely   release    of information       about     the  The     rapid    speed     of   road    construction      will
  project. especially beforepublic consultations   take place.  further undermine the Regional AcUon         Plan's ability to
  This has beenviolatedconsistentlyhiroughoutall       project   cushion this sensitive region from       the long-term and
  planning and design. The Bank's    new information policy     indirectimpactsonthevalley.      The construction schedule
  requires therelease ofthe ProjectInformation     Document     for the road must be extended to mintimizedisruption         to
  and the release ofall factual technical information    about   local communities and the environment.
  the project. While the projectinformation   documentwas               Moreover. wequestionwhether        the Nepal Electric
 readilyavailableinWashington.ithasnotbeen           available  Authority which has Its primary interest        in promoting
 in Nepal. Requests for factual technlical   informauon on      the    project   has    the   capability   or the     will  to
 the project, including studies on alternatives        to the   properly implement the Regional Action        Plan.
 prject   were denied until June      10th. when the Bank
 released a study on alternatives     .by Argonne National      C. Long Term Cumulative Environmental             Impacts of
 Laboratories.   NGOs have not had sufficient         time to   Arun Ill and Subsequent       Projects
 analyze this document and many         of the assumptions              Arun III is only first phase in a plan  to build three
 used in the document are not explained.                        dams in the Arun Valley. Despite this.       Environmental
        Requests forthegreen-coverstaffappraisal       report,  studies have only covered the adverse       impacts ofArun
 and other technical information such        as hydrological    III. Before the     project Is approved there should be
 studies have also been withheld. The        staff appraisal    a comprehensive      study of the long term cumulative
 reportis the basic technical documentofa      projectwhich     impacts of dam building and road construction           in the
 contains the project justification   and rationale for the     ent     Arun Vaey
 Bank's involvement in the projecL It is    critical that this
 document be released, before it becomes      final. While we   D. The Acqusition.      Compensation and Rehabilitation
 realize there may be a small portion        of confidential    D-CRPe            shon,           Rensed tEnsrelit
 information within, we believe these sections     should be    Fami       ReCeP) Should be Rcvised to Ensure            That
 excised, and therest ofthedocumentshould        be released.   Families Receive Equitable Compensaton          and Tat    the
 The Project Information      Document      has never been      Program is in Compliance With Bank         Policy.
 updated and it contains so little information       that it is         Families whose land willbe acquisitioned       for the
 useless     for  NGOs      who    are   questioning      the   projectarebeingcompensatedataratethatiswellbelow
 basic assumptions     and objectives of the project            the market rate fortheir land. In    this respect the project
                                                                is failing to complywith the Banks Operational      Directive
 3. Environmental           And Social Issues                   on Involuntary      Resettlement      (OD 4.30.     para   2).
                                                                In addition.     Bank     policy   advocates      -land    for
 A.The Regional Action Plan Must Be Completed                   land' compensation. which is particularly       important in
        The King Mahendra Trust follow-up        study to the   the Arun valley where people are not      linked to the cash
 MBEIS report, which        is essential   groundwork      for  economy. Seriousproblemswerehighlightedinproject
 the Regional Action Plan, will not be     completed for at     documents after the earlierround of cash      compensation



Page No. 4

                                                                                                                       NepalToday

    approved by     the Parliament    before it gets   a go ahead.        taken to the     board for a
           Recently.NGOsfromNepalandothershaveraised                                                     vote. Unless     this is done    Lhe
                                                                          Bank will not     have fulfilled
    a series ofissues                                                                                         its policy requirement
                        and concernsat                                                                                                    to
                                           theWorld Bank.      These      compute the      Least Cost analysis     for additional
    include the                                                                                                                       power
                  dernial of basic    project information      to the    generation     for Nepal.
   public. violations     of the Bank's    operational    standards
   and policies.   and lack ofstudy    onaltematives      toArun li.     2. Public           Participation
           Nepali                                                                                                      and
                      NGOs      say                                                                                              Xccess
                                      that    sinice the      release
   of information    process hasjust     beganafterthe     Supreme            to Infornlation
   Court verdict   of May 8, 1994,    there can be   several Issues
   to be taken      to the Court      in future    for review    and     A. Publie Participation
   consideration                                                                                     and Consultation:
                    according    to the Constitution     and laws of             Public Participation
   Nepal.                                                                                                 in the project    has not been
                                                                         adequate.       The    project
          Due                                                                                              Is being
                  to the effect                                                                                           portrayed      by
                                      of campaign        on issu,es      the governmentofNepalas
   and concerns                                                                                          havingbeen
                    on Arun III   at national                                                                            chosen through
                                                and international       a transparent      and open
   levels, this                                                                                        democratic
                is the fLrst                                                                                          process.
                              time that the                                                                                      However.
                                              World Bank      invited   only in the     last six months
   representatives                                                                                         (with project
                         of                                                                                                   preparation
                             the    Arun    Concerned        Group,     almost      at     completion)
   the Alliance                                                                                             has     there
                    for   Energy                                                                                              been     any
                                     and   other.    NGOs/INGOs         serious   discussion    in Parliament
   to express   their concerns                                                                                   orwith the    publicwith
                                  at a one-day    consultation     on   the benefit    of accurate
  June28.                                                                                            information.
              1994 pertaining                                                                                        Prior to that.
                                 to long-termrepercussions                                                                            Arun
                                                                    of  III was consistently      presented
  the proposed       projecL                                                                                    to the public
                                (Members                                                                                          as a fait
                                            of the Nepali      non-     accompli.     The discussions
  governmentaldelegationincluded:                                                                         that have    taken place
                                            GopiUpreti.                                                                               have
                                                            Ganesh      been forced      by concerned
  Ghimlre, GopalSiwakotiandArjunKarkifromtheArun                                                          groups    rather   than at the
                                                                        instigation    of the Government
  Concerned                                                                                                     of Nepal
                 Group and      Bikash                                                                                     or the World
                                         Panday.     Dr. Pitambar       Bank. For    example NGOs
  Chhetri. RajendraDahaL                                                                                organized   a public hearing
                                 Ravi Pradhanfrom                                                                                       in
                                                       the Allinace     February    1993 which
  for Energy. including                                                                           was boycotted
                            Deepak                                                                                  by the Ministries
                                      Gyawali as                                                                                         of
                                                    independent),       Water     Resources
  and Lori Udall                                                                                    and    Finance
                     of the International                                                                                and      by   the
                                              Rivers Network       in   National PlanningAssociation           which meant
  Washington.DChasbeenactiveasthekeyfacilitatorfor                                                                              there was
                                                                        no   opportunity        to   challenge
  local and international                                                                                            the    government
                               NGOs.                                    about project.

  FUNDAMENTAL                                                                   The alternatives
                       ISSUES                                                                       to the project    (along the   lines of
                                                                        Plan B) that     are available    to Nepal have      never been
                                                                       presented
  1. Adequate                                                                       to the people
                      Analysis                                                                        or the Parliament.
                                     of Altematives                                                                           The Nepali
                                                                       government      claims to have    held 23 public    meetings.    11
                                                                       of which were      in the Arun   Valley. While
         The very high     unit cost of                                                                                   it is true that
                                          construction     and the     therewas    one public    hearinginTumlingtar.
 corresponding      high tariff that                                                                                         manyof the
                                      consumers      of the energy     other meeting      being classified
 from Arun                                                                                                   as public hearings
              III will have                                                                                                          were
                             to pay remain    a serious   concern.     meetings    strictly to inform
 Lack of study                                                                                          people about     compensation
                  of the altematives     during the    eight years     rates fortheirland.     NGOs who     tried to raise
 of preparation                                                                                                             issues in the
                    of this project   continues     to be a major      meetings    about the adverse      environmentaJ
 criticism      of                                                                                                            and social
                      this    project.     The      Least     Cost     impactsoftheprojectwerepreventedfromdoingso.The
 Expansion     Generation    Plan exercise   that has been     used    Government       has also misinformed
 tojustify the                                                                                                     people in the
                 project to date                                                                                                    Arun
                                  has been admitted       by Bank      Valleyabout     the project. leading them
 Managementnot                                                                                                       to believe theywill
                      to show conclusively     the superiority    of   receivejobs    and electricity.
 the PlanAoption                                                                                        In reality there
                     (theArun                                                                                              has been no
                                 projectas  cunientty    designed)     concrete commitment        to supply electricity
 over Plan B (which                                                                                                        to the people
                        proposes   to have the project    come on      in the Arun   Valey and only
line in the year                                                                                         a small number
                   2009 after the                                                                                            ofjobs will
                                     construction    of a number      be created forlocal     people. because
of small and                                                                                                     outside workers
                 medium                                                                                                               will
                           hydropower      schemes)     to supply     be brought     in.
thenationalgrid.     ThecostoftheplanB       projects compared                This lack of consultation      represents
with the Plan     A option are                                                                                             a violation of
                                 extremely     preliminary.    The    the       Bank's         Operational
study 'Arun                                                                                                         Directive
               III -Cheaper                                                                                                            on
                               Energy for Nepal'     put to Bank      Environmental       Assessment,     which
management                                                                                                          requires
                 in April 1994                                                                                                  that the
                                  indicates    that hydropower        government       take into account
schemes     in the under                                                                                       the views of     affected
                              100MW range       that have been        groups and     NGOs in the      preparation
studied ingreaterdetail                                                                                              of project design
                             in the lastyearhaveall      come up      and implementation        (OD 4.01, para
with energy                                                                                                        19) and to publicly
               costs lower than   Arun m. Therehas        been no     release the   draft environmental      assessment.
response    to this document     from the Bank
        In the interests   of generating   energy for    Nepal at     B. Failure to   Release Information
leastcost. Itisimperative    thatthe   studyofthe    alternatives             Despite repeated     requests
be taken to                                                                                                   overseveral
              atleast  the feasibility                                                                                       years. only
                                        level to allow   a proper     in the last few  months have
comparison                                                                                             any project documents
               with the Arun                                                                                                        been
                                 project before    the project is     made available      to the Nepali  public.   Their release     only



                                                                                                                             PageNo. 3

                                                                                   Notwithstanding
       TABLE OF CO7NTENT                                                                              PMKoiralas above      remarks. LhcHioirala
                                                                           Government     has pushed hard    for the Arun   Ill project which   will
                                                                           use huge amount
              EditonaL Mid-Term                                                                 of foreign aid  money. However.
                                        Election in Nlepal!                                                                          the .Arun III
                                                                and        projecthasgeneratedagreatdealofcontroversyandthefuture
              Arun   mIControuersy
                                                                           of the project  looks uncertain.
              Controersial Aru
                n               ContoverialAr-u
                                       m Project: Major
                                       11 Proect:Majr
                                                             Issues
                                                             IsuesSome    Arun Concernedyoung  Groupactivists
                                                                                                       had brought calling                      the
              and Concerns                                                                                             a civilthemselves
                                 -Gopal Siwakoti                                                                                spit against the
                                                                          Nepali Govemment
       '      Suprerne Court                                                                    to force ittodisclose
                                  Verdict on Arun                                                                      information
                                                     I and Right                                                                     concernin gI
                                                                          the Arun IIIProject   and clarify issues
              to Information                                                                                         that the Group    considers
                                                                          as vital for thy  long-tern interest
       *                                                                                                         of the country.
              Arun 111Project                                                                                                      An article on
                                 and National    Interest                 the Arun controversy      appears in this     issue of Nepal     Today
              -  Vgaya Shah                                               which. in our    view. makes    a fair assessment     of the concerns
              Constraints    of Nepali   Students   in America            raised by the   Arun Group.
                                                                                  From our point    of view, the  Arun controversy      presents
                                                                          a test case
              'NJMewsin Brief:                                                           for the Government        to extend    the concept      of
              INFED Opens                                                 democracy from
                             Its Kathmandu                                                    the realm of
                                              Office                                                         politics to economics. We       have
                                                                          fought for democracy
              ElectionsofgANSand                                                                  tobring transparency
                                     ANA                                                                                    and accountabiliry
                                                                          to political decision-making:
              BhutaneseRneSoietNw                                                                          debates such
                                            ored                                                                            as for Arun
                                                                          will   help
              NationalContcernsSocieWForrned                                             us   extend     the   concept      of transparency
                                                                          and accountability
              HumnartRighr.synigtoLawErcnet                                                      to economic spheres.
                                                             OfiolsWe
              Children's RighLs Semtnars                                               are not for or against the
                                            and Child Watch                                                        Arun Project    per se. What
                                                                         we desire is that   the issue be debated
              Nepan Rightsaiearbookn1993eReleased                                                                    in press and parliament
                                                                         in order to
              Nepal Disappointed                                                         reach a national    consensus.
                                   LINCornnuttee Aga                                                                         The small group
                                                        rtst 7borture    of burcaucrats
              Report ofSutpport  to Flood Victims                                           and cabinet officials
                                                   inNepal                                                          making decisions     on the
                                                                         projectwiilbelonggone
              Arun                                                                                  before the mistakesare
                       III    Commission                                                                                        discovered and
                                                 and     Activists       then the Nepaiese
              urder PhysicaUttack!                                                             public willbe  left holding the   bag. It should
                                                                         be noted that    some USS500
              Election Observation                                                                        mnillionof the
                                    in Nepal                                                                              project costs  willbe
                                                                         financed by   multilateral loans.
              NepaleseAbroa4CondemnnDissolutionofPrlarner-t                                                 There is no forgiveness     forsuch
                                                                         loans and multilateral
             ConstitutionalProvisionsRegardingDissolutionof                                        creditors never   take responsibility    if the
                                                                         investment fails.
             ParlamuentandSovereignty
                                                                                 Most pertinent    issues highlighted
             Book Review:                                                                                                in this issue of Nlepal
                               Justice Denied.   HumlOanRights           Today byGopal Siwakoti       and Vijaya Shah
             and International                                                                                            provide the   detailed
                                   Financial Institutions                background of     the project, and   the efficiency   of public sector
     EDITOMALBOARD                                                       investmnent in   the energy sector   respectively. Our    view is that
     RoshanPokharel.                                                     the Governmentmust
                         KabindraSitovla.    PurushottamSubedi                                    findways toachieveatleast      a comparable
                                                                         level ofefficiencyasin   theneighboring    countries before    it takes
     CORRESPONDENCE:
                                                                         up another
     NHRC-USA.P.O. Box                                                                 rupee worth   of investment
                            53253                                                                                    in this sector.
     Washington, DC 20009                                                       CONTROVERSIAL
    (703)519-1728                                                                                                    ARUNIII
    Mailing address    in NepaL-                                           PROJECT: MAJORISSUES
     clo INHUREIntemnational.P.O.Bobx2125.                                                                                          AND
                                                     Kaurnandu                                  CONCERNS
    MEMBERSHIP /       SUBSCRIPTOIVO
    Student SI 0. Individual    $15
    Family$20 IrastitutionS30.LifeSIoo                                  Compiled by Gopal                 Siwakoti
    NHRC    - USA:EXECUJTE       COMMIT=EE                              Executive Director,         INHURED Intemational
    Dr. Balram Aryal    (President), S.D. Shah (Vice-President).
    KabtndraSrtouia(Secretary).SharkerShrestha        tereasurer).           ('Thefollowinginformation
    Members: Suresh                                                                                               are based on       issues
                         Baral. Puru    Ghi.mire. Bhaskar     Ginn.ocrL
    Canesh Lal    Kayastha. Deepa                                                           ta
                                      K.C..AnupPahari.Brinda                                        aebe
                                                                        and concerns                                oie        yteAu
                                                                                            that hae been
    Sitoula, Copal   Siwakoti.                                                                                     raised by the Arn
                                  HornnathSubedi      Bir Thapa.        Concemed Group,
    Shal Upadhya.Roja                                                                               the Alliance      for Energy
                            Upadhyay. GopiUpreti                                                                                        and
                                                                        other INGOs       in Nepal and at
   Honorary Members:                                                                                             the World Bank.)
                           Kathleen Johnson.    CliffordPhilipps.
    KirnberlySrnith.indaShrestha.MarkZuckermrni.Karmit                          TfheWorld Bank        has postponed        the vote on the
                                                                        controversial Arun      Illhydroelectric
   Zlysmanrl                                                                                                          project in Nepal      up
                                                                        to October 1994.     Reportedly this    Is becausethe      Japanese
   (Views expressed     in this newsletter are strictly personal).     Government        is reluctant to   be listed as    a donor until       it
                                                                       is fully satisfied    with the project.     and has completed           a
                                                                       study mission       to Nepal recently.
 be maintained      in the countries     receiving their   aid. and             Other reasons
 yettheyimposesuch                                                                                  may be that        Nepal is facing
                            conditionswhich                                                                                                    a
                                                 putdemocracies        political crisis   due to the resignaUon
 like ours in                                                                                                           of Prime Minister
                trouble. I feel   they are themselves      not sure    and dissolution      ofthe Parliament
 ofwhattheywant.'                                                                                                the mid-term       elecUons
                         PrimeMinisterGiryaPrasadKoirala               are    scheduled       for November
 in an interview                                                                                                    13.
                     to SUNDAY,CaLcutta as                                                                                1994.        There
                                                    published in       is widespread      concembothinsideand
 WEEKEND,May                                                                                                            outsidetheWorld
                      28, 1993, Kathmrandu                             Bank that       the   project should      be fully debated        and


Page No. 2

    Nepal
                                                                    A Publication of the

    Today                                                  NEPALHumAN RIGHs COMMnTEE-USA
                                                                       P.O. Box 53253
                                                                 Washington, DC 20009
                                                                        (703) 683-7501

  VOL. 5                                                   No. 1                              SUMMAR 1994


  E.DITRAL                                                         But. instead of resigning     from the govenmment
                                                             and giving his own party            and the opposition
      MID-TERM ELECTION                IN NEPALI             an opportuniityto forma     newgoverznment.Mr. Koiral
                                                             chose to surrender the      constitutional powers   to the
        The people of Nepal wlll     go for the mid-term     king todissolve the'sovereign     Parliamentwhlchmade
 electionson November13,     1994which isaboutyearand        It possible for him to remain    as the care-taker Prime
 ahalfbeforetheflve-yeartermofthedissolved     Parliament    Minister to conduct mid-term      elections. The anger in
 Last general elections  were held in May 1993. Serious      the ruling party, the oppositions    and the people have
 questions have been raised     in Nepal and around the      reached to such levelthat they    are callingfor protests
 world regarding      the   way the Parliament         has   and demonstrations around     the countryand demanding
 been dissolvedandtheunpopularmethodthattheKing              for the all-party govenmuent     to ensure free and fair
 chose    to form     a care-taker       government      to  elections. Theworst victims    ofPMKoirala'sunpopular
 conduct elections.Thequestionsisbeingasked:IsNepars         steparetherulingpartyltselfand      alsothe kingwhomay
democracy in dangei?                                         use Mr. Koirala as a conduit    to regain absolute power
       The violent pro-democracy        struggle of 1990     against the willofthe people   and politicalparties in the
abolished the partyless     Panchayat dictatorship     and   Parlent
reduced the ibsolute power      of the king.The people of          It is a sad moment for Nepal and      itspeople that
Nepalhoped that the newpolitical       process will begin a  they may have to undergo     further suffering because   of
newea ofdemocratization      and economicdevelopment.        the personal infightingof the   ruling party leaders who
theNepaliCongressgovernmentestablishedwithpeople          s  seemtohave losttouchwith      peoples.WhatNepal needs
mandate wNlltake strong    measui      agaist corCrption    now Is a new generation       leadership with visions for
andanepotlsmand snplementbasicreformsin        educar oru   democraUcNepal.and who canworkwlth alldemocatic
                heath scia
                   thear~ ad prgrms.Onthecotray,forces             tomeet theneeds oftheNepalipeopleand prepar
corptiha       s incresed   ecgratio    and saectory
corruptfon has increasedo education                         the country to enter twenty-first     century as an equal
                                        and soci sectors    partner with other dynamic     countries ofthe world.
have suffered. economic     situaUon has worsened     and          For   iths.Nepal Human Rights      Commiittee-USA
human rights abuse has not stopped.     However.ourview     wouldFor thi.           bestH     ights   Committhele-s
isthat the presentisleaersip
                    leadership rather than
                    tat te pesenrthe   tha edeocrcy
                                             democracy'isi  woli 1ke to send Its best
                                                            resolvethepresent crisis through
                                                                                          wishesconstitutional means
                                                                                                   to all the leaders to
responsible for this unhappy    situation.                  and    ensure     free   and      fair  elections.     The
       The main problem is that our    democraUcleaders     foarnd      g election.ifnotcanceledduetothe      Supreme
continue to work with outdated     vision and attitude. In  Court verdict on the controversy       In near future, wil
fact. during 30 years of strugge      for democracy, the    providean opportunity to finallyget     rid ofthe country
current oldand family-styleleadership neverdid     enough   outofcorruptand feudalelements which.hopefully,will
homework to run the state affairs,     and they are only    makeltpossibleforatrusted      and democraticleadership
fighting among themselves for their    self-interests after to emerge forthe betterment     of Nepalipeopleand their
the   Installation     of democracy.       Neither     the  democratic future.
new Constitution nor the    party workers and ordinary
citizens are responsible for   the inter-leadership fight.             ARUNIII CONTROVERSY
The infighting within the   NepalhCongress reached      an
anti-climaxwhenthedemocatsandllke-mlndedyouths                     I am a bit disappointed with       the World Bank
of the ruling party voted    out their own leader. Mr-      because sometimes they say      one thing and sometimes
Koirala. in the Parliament in  July.                        another.    They say they prefer           democracy to



                                                                                                             PageNo. 1

So far, several applications  have been made     to the government    authorities according   to
the Court decision,  but they have been    continuously denying     the disclosure of complete
lists of project documents   and information and    facilitate the process of  their disclosure
to the claimants. Another   petition has been considered     to be filed again in the Supreme
Court on October 31.    1994 against the Nepali  government demanding       for the compliance
with the Court's previous  decision in favor of the  claimants.

Most importantly, the    Supreme Court's verdict   has established its jurisdiction   that aily
Issues and concerns that   are to be generated from    any projects or performance    in which
the Government of Nepal     is a Party, they can be   brought In the Court     challenging the
constitutionality  and legality of such    governmental     policies and actions,    including
violations of the State's Policies and Directive Principles   under articles 25 and   26 of the
Nepali Constitution as   well as other constitutional   and legal rights, e.g. the  acceptance
of inappropriate   conditionallties   of lenders and donors       in the case of Arun III    or
compromise of Nepal's    sovereignty and national    interests. This judicial  remedy may be
used by the claimants    as the last resort In defending the rights and     interests that are
being and to be affected  by the project Ifother measures are found to     be unsuccessful or
ineffective.

The foDowingdocuments     are also included for reference:

1.      Arun m.An Introduction     and Issues of Concemn,Arun      Concerned Group, June
        1994. Kathmandu.
2.      Nepal Today, Vol. 5. No. 1. Summer 1994. a publication      of the Nepal Human
        Rights Committee-USA,    Washington, DC containing      analytical information
        about the Arun m.

                                            ATrACHMENT-X

                                   Under 9: Additional         Efforts

  Series of efforts have    been made in resolving     the above-mentioned     issues and concerns
  that have effects in   our rights and interests    through the Government       of Nepal, the Nepal
  Electricity Authority,   the Arun m Hydroelectric     Project Office, the Bank's   Residence Office
  in Kathmandu, the      Bank's Headquarters      and other prospective     lenders. (Copies of some
  of the relevant correspondence       enclosed.)

 A first-ever public    interest litigation of this nature was ified by Advocate     Gopal Siwakoti,
 Executive Director of       INHURED International,       Dr. Rajesh Gautam.        a human rights
 activist in the Supreme       Court of Nepal demanding       for the disclosure of   all information
 and documents         relating to the Arun       III project and review      of other issues      and
 controversies surrounding        it. On May 8. 1994 the      Supreme Court issued        an order In
 favor of the petitioners,    namely the Ministry    of Finance, the Ministry   of Water Resources,
 the Nepal Electricity    Authority and the Arun      m Hydro-electric Project. This     came after a
 series of hearings on    the right to information    regarding the project under     article 88(2) of
 the Constitution of the      Kingdom of Nepal. Article    88(2) provides for such      litigation and
 the resolution of any      legal and constitutional     disputes on matters      of public interest
 under article 16 of      the Constitution     on the right to information.       According to the
 landmark judgment         delivered by Justice      Haragovinda Singh       Pradhan and Justice
 Keshab Prasad Upadhyaya,            the defendants    were obliged to provide       all Information
 regarding the Arun III.

 Through this verdict     the Supreme Court       has made a new and      historic interpretation   of
 legal principles In the    context of the lack of   necessary laws for the     enforcement of the
 right to information      in Nepal and the situation      in which several provisions        of other
 existing laws are yet       to come into force. It     has decided that up      to the time when
 appropriate laws are     not enacted, the government      agencies should provide       information
 to the Nepail citizens    by applying the following     guidelines and procedures      In all cases,
 including the Arun     m:
 1.      The applicant should      first demand the list of  documents:
 2.      If the list is provided  within seven days the    applicant should demand       an
         Inspection of the relevant      documents.
3.       Ifthe demand is made       according to clauses   2 of these procedures,    the concerned
         authority should set the     time. date. and place    and provide information      to the
         applicant within three     days.
4.       Ifthe applicant wants      to make a note or copy    of the document after    inspection.
         he or she should request      the specified authority   for the same.
5.      In the absence of any     other laws for providing    copies, the certified copies of
        documents should be        provided by charging   fees, if necessary.
6.      If the concerned authority       have to deny the right  to provide the list, full  or part,
        or inspection or copies.     they should indicate   the reason and inform      the applicant
        within three days.
7.      In conditions under     clause 5. where the    applicant Is denied the   right to
        information. the applicant,      ifnot satisfied with reasons    of denial, can file a
        complaint in the Supreme        Court within seven    days of such denial.
8.      The Rules of the Supreme        Court shall be applied   as the adjudication   procedures
        In such cases as described       above.

The Supreme Court         has established     the right to information     for all Nepali citizens
regarding the Arun m      as well as other matters    of public Interest.

                                                                                            X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


                                                                                          j::r'.; s '1 :; '
                                                               -*
                                     *A.9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
                                                                                      f! I
                                    W- B.flc4
                                          an    C~19eq-




                                                                 . .he   pleaset.)g     thctl    - C.
                                                                                                    fu
                 -1Z. uw
                       s e,     ,    --:   Z......

                                                                                    t
                                                Sincerehey1maoer



                                           Slslce r*1y   you:rq,




                                            Ann 0.




                                      MT)~~        V'




                   ''-   _         (ElntX?)



                                        laz''ton,      Creves         ,etF!:?
                   *  ~c~~'jqSAt'V;
                                         I O'Leer.y    (S&iiEI:          *t-$.:'-
                  .,-Wae3r,r  (i.ST)
                            *>~~~~~~~ter
                                 ~       ~        ~      S l


                   -.  tio
                        **.f   ,-       .t




                           .          ~J                '**)~(

     ,,~~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~




..

>~                            ~~~-.
                              -
                                                                                                 -Z.3
                                                                                                       -
                                                                                                                                                         Tune   17.   1P
                                                                                                                    3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



                       !:  thet69
                           :-r                   4W MAttyAngdt
                  r:
                  r                                                             Pro'?!-t,
                             ors          under                                                   viiich
                                                       KF.A's                                                wars   cect^truictcd'
                                                                     direction.                                                                      Ltsw4
                                                                                                                                                     i-Io
              -ths                                                                                                                                                 01
                           of                                                                was     completed                                                         '
                                    the       target          somplotion                                              wthin              buLg,1Jt and      wlr
              ,:allewl                                                                 d4c.
                                with                                                                The
                                              Ohe                                                          prom.jton
                                                      Arun         Prmj4ct,                                                      of private
                                                                                      would                                                           praJeet,
            9    :-eeo=ended                                                                      foster
                                                in yossr                                                      the     development
                                                                   letter.                                                                      of loca.        c:^Ua



                     tre   agroq             it    i. important                  for      your
              - t-br      public                                                                   Gooeriuwent
                                             andi    to give                                                           teuexplain
                                                                        interested                                                              thIoAr=n       Project
                           :t .n                                                               purtUew
                                            -e(u                                                             opportuMnities
                                                    ,#rot-to              me,                                                                to express
                                                                                  7c.u     met                                                                 theWr
               r:>'.f'.L'                                                                         AVE.
                                        iti K                                                              IDA    ao,
                                                         r,andu      on MAy                                                PFXW        staff     In. the     World
             b '                                                                     26.
                     * X,                                                                    Aul'
                       T   w              focr                                                      I understand
                                                  E:v.
                                                     *             psatticlpatLei                                             that         roprewentatives
               i ddanr.p                                                                       in the                                                               froat
                                et                                                                         publ
                                           t= I        2 -ar                                                      lc mtet          .^ig
                                                                   or: J                                                                    with     Arun    Valley
           - "'                                                             'qi
                      -!1.^.                                                          .      Duritag
                                 rS                                                                     ouI
                                                 v                                                              recent
                                                           ou. ;rnzterr indic.it,d                                              risRIun         t7A
                                                                                                  that                                                  an'.
                                                                                                                              - un-
                *   :f
                    U.     %      e-:..1                                                                   the    eniv.
                                                           '.;:Ject         d,i:cum1enr9                                                        impact
                                                                                                 would      lhe available
                                   -                              'bulda         piblic                                                    to  the
                                                                                               ciseting                                              public
                                                                                                              on thn                                             it  ?4LA
                                                                 i.'orn                                                      Artin
                                                                           tentatively                                                    Proj#r:t.         Ths
            :?d      !     r '                                                                     ech.du;ll         for
                                  F' r''   .  .             ar.                                                                 lete         ugu1r.,At'---
                                                            -'you           agalRi
                  -1''
                     s'p                                                                  in K*tlunandu,          aiid
                                                         m.)
                                                         rte     snd                                                        yut,
                                                                          miy   colleeglies                                            wouldr    of coi%::!
                                                                                                      here    should                                             -
                                                                                                                               youjvLt
                                                                                                                                                                 ;
                  -      -*1.''...       arid       e      .;-     ir:arit.  Psior,        tles

                                      n i:4     :,eZe     ^oncfirIned             theut      a large
                                      .:                                                                  powor
                                               :4-.!lLy                                                            1l.''FtJfPI,t
                                                                   progreas,                                                                   progre,Y7
                                                                                         pecrticulazly
                                                  .,i    evetal                                               In hsiUth
                                                                           etudioqq                                                    mnd    eC4acr1.2.i
                           I li.                                                            f    the
                                        'i!t'v                                                          pu-'er
                                                   !a-!)conduiu;ed                                                 p:'?w:."a'
                                                                                      in pr.A.llel
                         .-       r'.
                                  ~tA        ~'irronzmntal                                                           the        technict-?:
                                                                            gt    lt.u
                                 Je                                                      R .     A
                                                                                                 As       .
                                             *t    conf    iguLet,.In                                                           t hiL         cQ''
                                                                                   eri:i   ,
                                                                                                         ..       ,. !j.:     l.'         -:


                                                               *',*-^  1 ' ,  - t    .n    *,   J,-.i      ai     rfe(L, . ,:tya
                                                                                                                               .,,t

                                                                                :i;p.---      !--    reement       w t ,        your        Go-0   -.r:!.n-
                                                                                                      -ther      higii       priority          -     .... '.




                                                                                      ':.apymert       of     L-:.        .ivr       f i:          ,        '
                                                    '     o          ##      ',!: highly
                 *.;..                                                                            c:onceaslonAl
                                                a*n*':   !        ,                                                         tnrt.:!
                                                                          pt      for      40   years,
                                        .*..'?e                                                              whith
                                                   ...s                                                               e
                                                              2.                                                           J3.11fer
                                                                       VTe     proje'           t expecte-         beni!'itL               ft


                                             .      al:-believe            that       tha     relatively
                           -il:h          Itvq      s.--er,                                                      scv,l          prlruLlo::
                                                                     0o electricity                                                               f ;:
                                                                                                   should
                                               fu
                                               o:i  -i        .'r=er-al                                        w)         o subealtz49
                                                                                   basis.
                            ' 1.                                                                  7bls
                                 Jlc                                                                        is wI
                                             be    1-.-     ed frcm                                                  '    :       e,'!>'%4l
  Ii-l       ::;erket                                                         -our       Goverr.n
                             ;-rael           --                                                          .:.o
                                                    ot                                                            UZA
                                                               -Wit?                                                    on           teo.n
                                                                            t'e      benefit.
                    c.;;
  --     ev*.'*:                  ere3                                                                     9uclh
                                                oathe:                                                              aqi
                                                               than                                                          I-
         r' ::r                                                            to the
                       .    Furtlprmvre,
                             ?                                                             tpale6e,         -~ple
                                                              NEA                                                     thr-
      :~ ''4.-.:                                                       n^ed!                                                                    r
                         e 8                                                         to become
                                   It!      '-*.'!e                                                    cirm-erclall)
                                                         cut'    ';.m.tt!    fU            L't.'-etly                                            .7..
                                                                                                        '~tr'plX'i!4u'_
                                         /
                                                                              *
                                                                                                                      ,
                                                                                                                                                  .


        .       I,


                                                   .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I

                           !..   t'trd.y
                                                                                                   -   2   -
                                                                                                                                                                 Jun        Dt. 19U
                                 ; . *..      d at,      parr       of      th'
                         :    4.-Aea                                                appra
                               iI                                                             Lea
                                               take                                                    a proceae.
                                                           account                                                     a
                                                                             of    piro)                                               2V
                                                                                               cts                                             . -        t^t
                                                                                                         enerRy                                                  out       _1t.   1,
                         .a'                                                                                                                  ;-i'
                                 ?Xthe       high                                                                                                           cog
                                             '                                                                                                                       xrc.
                                                                                                                                                                        i.-
                                                        ratio         of
                 \ * 1'-                                                     firm
                              L                                                        t r
                                      lte      In    lew                                                   odrior.gyg
                                                             anergy                                                        ,          .       Ai
                           tloo                                               pr                                                                  j;
                             i'                                                                                                                          F! JSaCr  -
                                                                                              '.                                                                         ^tvd
           !-iA-1e                 .      Thi*      rieans                                             .
                                                                   that                                      '     ;
                                                                                                                                     .      ..
                               oF                                             .
                                     the      dry      ae4FtRon,
       _).5tir-         lined.                                            '                                                   .                       -
                                            In   c-nipe:                                                                                                      ;:.'irsv
                                                                                                                                                                         ..
                                                                                                                                           : p                  Ity    CVATh  be
                               * y,w:t.s4tb
(.

                                                               ..                                                                                                nearctar
                                   ,     'i
                                          h p     .;
        C           ,     .    ;-                                                                              -
       . a!..                                                                                                                                      greement                                t.
                                         .                                                                                                                           on    your
                                                                             ~.                                                   J'     ' Vnet-la          durilg
                                                                                                                     -    -;.      i cl-.at.e                           the
                                                                                                                                                   tlh.t     tAiis
                                                                                                                                 !.ergy                               program',
                                                                                                                                                        gonsei-vaticon     and
                                                                                        , ..    . ,                                                                                I
                                                                                                      - .   '-    , -    <R-     -''d     and
                                                                                     ! .                                                           t7a'      -11.tttit.n       vf
                                                                                            -         :        . .a                                                                 .,Xr'C
                                                                                                                                     V  e t
                                                                                                                                                                ,W1
                                                                                   * ~r~       ;t-tt    and
                                                                                                                                     frra
                                                       Thi    '*,tjr.i!'-?
                                                                c1                                                                                      9r
                                                                           '
                              j  .-;.'                                         . t-_L-;
                                          ^      aws                                             should         play
              --                                           8                                                                 atSL1,
                          w .                                  turp)yyInd
                                       i !fli                                                                                                        .'.  !.
                                                l.I.z-tft8X                               -irtln&
                                                               ~~gerii-tio                              the     1YiQOtPtid',
                                                                            ;+                                                             .
                                                                                         --al:;paclcv^                                            tJ:
                                                                                                           r?eseorsy                                                       -;
                                                                                                                                    tv    rp
                                                                                                                                           v      .i
                                       ': os  ,~ v :,r       LcveLfr
                .?                                                                   ',a-     !:ecent.ly
                                  4 I.           j                                                                mo'IfJted
                                                               a, SD
                                                                  ,     s b  9t
                                                                             -@     e                                                   the
                                 * '.-S.ulsrt                                              '    @0XU.|Jizivcoi**,nt'#flf                        11ec'rlcir
                                                        -' , rn4         e:.d                                              in      developing
                                                                                                                                                          hydi
                           : >:.g~
                                 ~!~e                                           *-     !;ik     Snd      Lhe                                                     r,
                                                     *n-i                                                         Q;erianent
          .                                                   8 '2                                                                          cLle    LmtpvrtaL:..:
                       . :,otS;;
                          .. Ji                                             ,   f
                                         !                                               ratgulatory
                                                I      pe                                                        frezeiwork
                                                                I,uwC:                                                                   to
               -.                                                     =,'.*z;,                                                                 ericourage
                         ']~                                                            ;4."gt                                                                    pz:
                                   biig       -o                                                      )
                                                    ide:it                                                cvppnrt
                                                                fE-                                                         the
                                                                               set                                                     a-tiuns
                                                                                             f-ztrther                                                  takeii
                                       o ,, 4i                                                                                                                    Li
                                                 projct                                                       ettep.
                                                                            -                                                         wouever,       the     '-,
                                        / '}r;"fIs.                                      in     Nepal
                                                            nesarl                                            ro     far
                                                                           4     :i-ioe                                       has       a   CapaOIt.y
                                         !.;is                                                tr.,
                                                 :r 1glit                                               and                                                         '
                                                               be       eijti..                                   sL Art" IVqt             e!z
                              ;,                                                 i.*-'
                                    the                                                     :e;
                                            Vcrld                                                    '2Ytle
                                                          'e;z's                                           Internation,al
                                                           eJ              priv&            ote                                             Flnmv-
                                                .A-:.ll                                       -- tor
                                                           *Sits*s                                        affill.ote,
                                                                        a s-.1;          tJe.                                          momongo.h%:
                                                                                                   atdt
                                                     !tIe                                                   ;limited
                                                             i-spe1cty                                                          experience
                                                                                  ttJ   LvCtt                                                           In
                         -  ) tlrl.se                                                              Ne'-
                                                      #AiLl.o                                                 l6S    grLToWirr
                                                                     t1:t?   ptritlrte                                                  pow.e         ne-
                                                                                                 4e!cLvr                                                    '
                                                        '-   !n t     )i,it"                                   .R    potentIol.ly
                                                                               "e 11ApI'                                                         a
                                              --    ^-::.                                       a POWer            e.pp     ly
             r7 .                                        ~, r:efi.       ofon,tia                                                  IeISdJ1
                                                                                          for     private                                                  '
                                                        #      to        earn                                        pzojects             and      the             %hs .
             --   .'.:...!                                                         L   rcercial
                                                 .IL                                                       ratoa6
                                                               i,v'.                                                    of
                                                                             IntnL:                                              rEturtia
                                                                                         sIgrilfIcar:tly                                          t&     4tl8r..-J
                                  -      we    prc4j
                                               .,          ; ecrs.                                                      inc-reage                ;h9.'
                    7 :-i'n                                                   Ou.,    view                                                                       ,
                                            Your                                                 is                                                                  4.
                                                       letter                                           therefore
                                                                        at;d                                                    thst.
                                                                                the                                                        pz.c
                                   -.etler
                                        t                                                Arun      Project
           ,'A     u
                                                                                                                     should
     .- 'r-:.                                             ianmutus31y                                                                  be    ret,-ait
                              ,-trategy-                                         exC:)uf       Jv'      eliemente
                                                                                                                            of      !lepa!             r:
                 .       ,on_:          IZ:ternttLnnsl
                                                                      Contractors

             'hoj'it              the     Arun       ?roJect
               .(:!       . *.!^;     '-o                               wo'lddbe
                                            the                                            Conatruf:t'
   ;                                                 la;k                                                             by      IrrAt
       ;~ tr                                                    of
                 hss                                                    local       capuicity                                                  'nnl
                                                                                                                                                1
                                          -7
                                          ,     red                                                     nc)|:d
                                                           and                                                        In     your
     tI   E.ec:                                                     w-n       l h1                                                       leer,
                            :    i                                                      dev.'el(ope-i                                                     t'
                                          Nut'hor.lty                                                          u:nder        the
              tt a:n                                            (NRA).           For                                                   _I:ect2'Y:
                            t                                                             the
                                              Ar ut.                                               first
                                                                    -:                                          time        ev-!l,
       ,,,_11                                               (i !e                                                                         0.1!1    ph
                  _!,,_,                                                       :                 (flne
                                               ,cAfE.           i:'                                                 i4tIrr1
                                                                                                                     :1
                                                                                                                     V'i.;Jr'
                                                                              s.
                                                                              .                                                             Iaef
                                                                                                                                              17
                              n t-r<F                                                     ::irt~s..                                                     -J
                                          *     4_I                                                        t.-
                                                          atlt3
                                                           Zvi.                                                   overr-i
                                                                         *                                                            the
                                                                                      .                                                       ptc"ert
                                                                                                                      S            J
                                                                                                                                                     !

                                                                                                       June    17,    15993




     ' rr''        .- r    Energy


                     Itathmandu




              w,rtasodt;ry




           .he:nk 7t-! fcs             your lwttar                                  of fisy 16         otircevniii&l;               .oi                4S
          .'!t:- :-.a        Project             11uNepaol.                              I dn also) respo-.idling Lo                   cli              ,;l     31k  5:sears
       -i,l        .    Kies;vr.          Lewis                            T.   rL-,,tnrI,      D, JosepltiT     ltcoJ      and                           E1:.:**!r;
                                                                                                                                                            J
           * :u
              W -          IVA
                           irF        td     oeverai                           o. thr        sfnfc an ciets         ka v
                                                                                                                    h        ialP
                                                                                                                              J.npL'.Ai                            - >
                     .,aZ
                     t               f. -. pxosnibDl                              fJnar.eL;AK stipFoort.             tne    are     revisawl.g, :he'*n
'--  <-     <         .- u;     ~~~eL-s,.ds piarl of our apptatisel                                            1;szocers,          arid   lndevtd w:
                 -^      o;.'                                                         .lhyOUt       'hA^hliglit;.        I AmspleaOsd               -:hat 1
                   *:      t    & 9     , r w~~~~~~~he                                       At:P.      -DAand F*fU wete              ablt        6 nieet ,
                                                                            .lepal,
                                                                               N-z;          as   MIr. Grovts        bad     8suggep!.                 !l         .
                             c yt:               ........................L'   X;tLike to   reiterate        sofna    Or      lie po L;;'I-.
                           q~         ~
                                      s      ^x*;e o sc,.,mient on .t.e sein
                                             -!                                                                  isew-1         railsed             ,     .'

                ,       .- iDse u
                              *                ntStrategy

                                           -- ir atdditi.nn                                to tot;rism,        hydropow,!r            tuit :1A1
                                                 .- e,o.:;Le.                                *iou:- GuviLmlm&nL Ut:etefore                    [<%
                               .* :',           rping thls                              zestJurcii     efficiently           t] 1jvercL:,1
                                 :'.    .- ! !                             iluta and t;Il:pport         more     rapid       ez,onoxic             e     s
                                : : : t eks @ 6iould                                    atlst^ %-vnsfit,      fyom exporting                V..*       t..




                                * ' _ ;S*r '    twCX                           necAuse        Llie    Asuri River       is      g1fi   ie
                   . -n     y-ea-cL           * 6                                   tho-      -f.;wrivers      r"e;te   sulbjer;.         t)i   C-.

                                 '..:I cetsct   dtve!.j:'-                                :    . Arusl call ':.              hve       viery      J.-'
                        Itill ent:,ES         (which) can !!L.t:ly                                     be ouppile.l          cni a........................zLet....
                   iszn-al        vrariatlion,s                               1ti    :; ufqll)        tat i.t,Aat l;F                  The en             l
                          - JP' s1t.~~~e hsIen.                                    in:viestic-,             jrea            _'.111)1,1Y' Lll      !'  '%

;    .                         ~~~~~~~~~'*Rw
                                         tut3I.d                            1i   NXepal.      On.:          inv%.           *    :l        Ite1!'.


   g                             ;;         s { ;~~~~;*rjul,!                         als-,   protvi            5         .       9       l
                                          - !nR' Nepal                                  the   opr10K !                  '.-'      lopl\ I,rig
 ;  ;           .                                  .rw;>l~~~-IT             'guovusI;*              --                    :i        t^

                                                                                 zulv!~~
                                                                                      r.        o.cr:                   .e1

                                     '- "-=J-
                                        J                             UCtODe   -L., .LY3



the Ministry of Water Resources. I was concerned by the implication that the
Alliance was not invited since their participation and air transportation to
the Tumlingtar meeting was paid for by the Nepalese authorities.          I was also
concerned by your statement that satisfactory answers were not provided to
local participants' serious concerns regarding the project's potential
benefits to the residents of the Arun basin, since our staff who attended the
meeting, including Nepali speakers, repotted that the local residents
expressed support for the project and indicated that they were looking forward
to the employment opportunities it would provide for them. To clarify the
situation, we would be pleased to review with you the video recording that NEA
made of the meeting.


     Once again I would like to thank you for communicating your views on
these important topics to us at the World Bank. Because of their interest in
these matters, I am sharing this letter with the officials of the Nepalese
government and the donors listed below.



                                          Sincerely yours.

                                                          .~~~~~~~~~~~~



                                          Ann 0. Hamilton
                                              Director
                                       Country Department 1
                                         South Asia Region




cc: Dr. T.N. Pant, Ministry of Finance, Kathmandu
    Dr. B. Bhadra, Member, National Planning Commission, Kathmandu
   Mr. S.N. Upadhyay, Secretary, Ministry of Water Resources, Kathmandu
   Mr. A.J.S. Thapa, Dr. J.L. Karmacharya, Nepal Electricity Authority,
       Kathmandu
   Messrs. Kinnemann, Brinkmann, KfW, Frankfurt
   Mr. Offermann, BMZ, Bann
   Hessrs./Mmes. Morita, Bohun, Addison, ADB, Manila

   .j..  .
                                          2lueyz                      October 13.      1993


              capabilities.  As I have indicatedto      ITDG and my colleagues
              reiteratedto you, we would be      pleasedto work  with concerned
              parties to undertakea diagnosticstudy of       local capabilitiesfor
              preparingand implementinghydroelectricprojectsand         to support
              developmentof  the local industry.

         I am pleasedto note that we seem to agree      that the privateand  public
 sectorscan play    complementaryroles  in developingNepal'shydroelectric
 resources. However,as     I mentionedin  my previousletter       to you, the largest
 non-governmentalscheme    commissionedto       date is the 5.1MW Andi Khola
 hydroelectricproject,while     the largestnon-governmentalschemeunder
 constructionis    the 12 MW Jhimrukhydroelectricproject.        The Butwal Power
 Companydevelopedboth     of these schemesand      is also preparingthe  larger 60 MW
 Khimti Khola hydroelectricprojectwith          extensiveforeigninvolvement.   The
 Butwal Power Companyhas    estimatedthe  KhimtiKhola project'sfirm       capacityto
 be approximatelv22    M?: bared on detailed      ys;temnplanning       ':cr':,NEA h..s
 estimatedthat    by the time it is commissioned,it      will meet the system's
 incrementalpower   and energy demandsfor       only one year.

        With respectto the Arun projectitself,you        suggestthat it  would
 create a *drought-floodresponse'to     electricityshortages.       In fact one of
 the advantagesof   implementingprojectssuch        as Arun is to get out of this
 syndrome. Experiencein    mobilizingresourcesand        undertakingthe  Kulekhani
 and Marsyangdihydroelectricprojectspointedto           the need to undertake
 projectswhich   could satisfyNepal'spower        demand for a number of years rather
 than undertakingsmallerprojectswhich     could be absorbedvery       quicklyinto
 the grid.

       You also suggestthat   the environmentalimpactof       the Arun project has
 not been adequatelyaddressed.    As the EnvironmentalExecutiveSummary
 provided to the Alliancefor   Energy indicates,the      direct socioeconomic
 impactsof the hydroelectricprojectcomponentare          low (no familiesto   be
 resettled)and modest    for the accessroad (about112       familiesto be
 resettled). Direct   effectson naturalresourcesand         ecologyare also
 relativelylow.    The level of planningof      mitigationmeasures for  the project
has been unprecedented.    The RegionalAction      Plan to addressthe  project's
inducedeffects    is based on the recommendationsof      a study commissionedby        the
World Bank and conductedby    the King MahendraTrust      for Nature Conservation
-:4thUN!DPsupport.    'e lo0: fcrw-rdtc  clc::azccpcrat,cnand      involve2nt with
the Trust and   the Makalu Barun ConservationProjectduringexecutionof         the
Arun project.    I would also like to assureyou      thatwe regard  the Regional
Action Plan as   an integralpart  of the Arun project;we      will not supportthe
projectunless    adequatearrangementshave       been made for the plan's
implementationand   funding.

       I am pleased tonote that the Alliancefor       Energy has participatedin
severaldiscussionswith    HMG/NEA, the donors,local representativesand        other
NGOs on the Arun  project. While   a good start has     been made, we believethat
public participationand   consultationshouldcontinueon         a regularbasis
during project implementation.

       I was, however,surprisedat your  characterizationof       the publicmeeting
in Tumlingtarin   the Arun valley,which  was attendedby       representativesof        the
Alliance for Energy  and which was chairedby       Hr. S.N. Upadhyay,Secretaryof

 tNit.:Nt'AliONAL bANK FOHHiCONSIHULIIUN ANU UtVtLUI-t'LNI           Ivasjiingtori,
INTERNATIlONALDEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION                                               U.%-. m-.J'eJ
                                                                                             ,   -
                                                                     U.S.A.                       Cable Address:INDEVAS




                                                             October13,            1993


     Mr. Bikash Pandey
     Alliancefor        Energy
     P. 0. Box 2772
     Baluwatar
     Kathmandu,Nepal


    Dear Mr. Pandey:

              Thank you  for vour letterof         August 29,         1993,which        reiteratesvour
    concernsabout        the developmentof         Nepal'spower             sectorand
    particular.                                                                            the Arun projectin
                       I am pleasedthat       you and Mr.        Almond of         ITDG had an      opportunity
    to meet Donal       O'Leary,Fred     Templeand         their colleaguesfrom                 the ADB and
    during their                                                                                                KfW
                       currentvisit     to Kathmandu.           I am writingto           commentfurtheron
    some of the      issuesyou    discussedwith          them, as well            as on some     points in      your
    letterwhich        were apparentlynot        coveredin        your discussions.

              You cite severalpossibleadvantagesof                   undertakingschemesof               less than
   100 MW. I understandthat             there is currentlyone                small schemeunder
   implementation(the         12 MW Jhimrukproject)and                   two under active         preparation
   (the 60 MW       Khimti Khola   and the 10-15MW           Modi Khola projects).                Thus, some
   schemeswith         short gestationperiodsare              likelyto come            on line prior      to Arun.
   In consideringthese         and other possiblesmall schemes,the                        followingfactors
  need to be taken         into account:

             *     In terms of   firm energy      production,up             to nine schemescomparable
                   to KhimtiKhola     would be neededto             approximatethe             energy
                  productionof     the Arun project'sfirst phase.

             *    We agree that,     all thingsbeing           equal, the          reliabilityof       power
                  supply is enhancedby         buildingpower            plantsclose         to the load
                  centers. The     Arun project,in           the EasternRegion,is                 locatedabout
                  14201= by   trinnnmiton       line from       Eiratn-aar.the           second largest
                  load center    in the country;other projectsunder                      considerationby
                  HMG/NEA in   the Centraland         WesternRegions,includingKali                      Gandaki
                  and Khimti   Khola, are     locatedsimilardistancesfrommajor                          load
                  centersin    the KathmanduValley.              If these projectscome               to
                  fruition,a    reasonableregionalbalancein                       new hydropower
                  productionwould      be maintained.          However,the main               factorsthat
                  should be consideredin         projectselectionare                 site characteristics
                  (hydrology,geology,etc.) and              economicbenefitsin                 comparisonwith
                  other projects.

            *    We agree that    it would be       desirableto            developa hydropower
                 industrywith     multiple economiclinkagesin                      Nepal. As      my
                 colleaguesnoted when         theymet you,           there are already           several
                 projectsunderwaywhich           supportthe         domesticindustry's
                 development.     However,given the            currentindigenouscapabilitiesin
                 Nepal, it   is likely    to take some         time to expand           the industry's


                                       ACA245423* WU 64145* FAX(202)477-8391

   Mr. B. Pandey
                                          - 2 -
                                                                    February
                                                                             22,1994

       Because
               of  their
  this                   interest
       letter to                   I am
                 the                     taking
                      persons                   the  liberty
                               listed below.                  of sending
                                                                         a copyof



                                            Sincerely
                                                       yours,




                                            Ann 0.  Hamilton
                                                Director
                                         Country
                                                  Department
                                                              1
                                          South  Asia  Region

cc:  Dr. T. N. Pant,  Secretary,
    Mr.  A.                       Ministry
            J. S. Thapa,                    of Finance
                          Managing
    Mr. R.                          Director,
           B.  Addison,                        Nepal
                        Asian                        Electricity
    Mr.                        Development
        P.                                                        Authority
           Brinkmann,                       Bank
                       KfW
    Mr. J. Hanickavasagam,
    Mr.                      Resident
        D. Joseph                      Mission,
                  Wood,                         Nepal
                         Vice
    Mr.                        President,
        A. Othman,                         World
                   Executive                     Bank,
                              Director,                 Washington,
                                         World                      D.C.
                                                Bank,  Washington,
                                                                   D.C.

 tilt    vU**OIN lh
                                                                    0 0   Or. ...    -  -
INTERNATIONAIBANK                                                                                  .'-.  -, -
                        FOR RECONSTRUCrbON  AND DEVELOPMENT       Washington,     D.C.   20433
INTERPNATIONAIDEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION                                                              Cable    Address: INTBAFRAD
                                                                  U.S.A.                          Cable Address:    INDEVAS




                                                                February         22, 1994




     Mr. Bikash        Pandey
     Alliance       for Energy
     P 0 Box 3934
     Baluwater
     Kathmandu,       Nepal



     Dear Mr.       Pandey:



                                 RE: NEPAL:     Arun Hydroelectric           Proiect


               Thank you  for your    letter of   December 30,       1993 to Mr.             Lewis Preston         and
     other senior       Bank officials     concerning    the Arun Hydroelectric                 Project,        for
     which the       Government   of Nepal    has requested     financing          from the World            Bank
    Group.         We welcome  the views     of parties   such as the           Alliance.       Your letter
    raises similar        concerns to     your letters    of May and       August 1993,to              which I
    responded       in June and    October 1993.      Copies of      these responses            are attached.
    I would also        encourage   you to take    up this matter        with the           responsible
    government       officials    in Nepal as   well, if    you have not            already done         so, as the
   Government         is the ultimate     sponsor of    the investment.

             The issues    you raise    have been   the subject       of much study            and discussion
   in Nepal and        in the Bank     during the   six years      of project          preparation.           They
  are complex         issues over    which reasonable,      well-intended             people can       and do
 disagree.           There are   risks to    carrying out    the project,             as well as       important
 benefits          to Nepal.    Quantitative    assessment     of costs and            benefits does          not
 definitely          favor one   option over    another.     In the final             analysis,     Bank
 management          has concluded     that the  project's    readiness,           the availability             of
 concessional          financing    to go forward    and of programs             to safeguard       the
 environment          through the    period of   project implementation               to ensure        that
 disadvantages          are minimized     and the advantages       are maximized,              and the
 interests          of the affected     population   tip the balance             in favor      of the project.

           I would like      to reiterate     that we welcome      your views            and any
constructive           suggestions    you may care    to make.




                                    RCA248423 0 WU164145 * FAX(202) 477-6391

        Given     the extensive                                                                  1579
                                          public                                                             05
                                                 interest
  goinighack                                             in the Arun
                 at least                                             project,
                                   four years,                                 indicated
                                              we are                                     by correspondetce
                                                      taking
  inatcrialsand                                              the somewhat
                   lholdingseminarsfor                                      unusualstepof   distributing
                                                   interestedNGOs.
 comnimitte(l  to broaddisclosufeunderthe                              I hopeyourealizethat we    art
                                                        Bank's
 sharingof     relevantinfonnationcan                           ncw policy, sincewe
 the intcresteidpublic.                            be beneficialto                     recognizethat the
                                                                    the Bankand its
                                     It is forthis reasonthat                        borrowers,as  well as  to
 withinterestedpartiesoutsidethe Bank, in                     we have had a   largenumberof    consultations
                                                          Nepal,
 prepareda     bookleton
.superviscdthe preparation,bythe     the mostfrequentlyasked questionsaboutthe project,and wc
                                                                  UK, Switzerlandand USA.       Wehave also

 'SustainableDevelopmentin                       AnthropologjDepartmentof       UCLA,of
                                            the ArunBasin."                                a videoentitlcd
                                                               Of course,
the oftices   of several            ExecutiveDirecitors,and                wehavealso met frequentlywith
agenciesin                                                    witli the
               Kathniandu,to                                           staff of
                                          respondto                             many embassiesand
haveengagedin                                        questionsraised                                 tlhciraid
                     extensivecorrespondenceon                        indirectlybyvariousNGOs. and we
countries.                                                  the projectwithNGOsand       individualsin  malny

      You are     invitedto           attenda
which will                                     day-longconsultationon
              start at     10:00a.m.
Street, N.W.).     This meetingwilldiscussthe
                                            in the WorldBank, room D13-605(streetaddress:
                                                                         this projectonTuesday28thJlne                 i
                                                                                                 1809G
variousalternativesfor                                      rationalefor the ArunIII
madeboth                             meetingNepal'selectricityneeds.                  projectand  the
              by World
mcictionedabove                    Bankstaffand NGOs.and                 Openingpresentationswill    hc
                     willprovidefurtherbackgroundfor          the Argonnereportand staff    papcr
                                                                    the meeting.
     Pleasedo      not hesitateto           letme know if  wc can   be of any furtherassistance.

                                                                      Sincerely yours,




                                                                     Ann 0.   Hamilton
                                                                          Director
                                                                  CountryDepartmentI
                                                                     South Asia Region  '




                                                                                                                   .: e




      -.   Ra,  a    *'.1.c.,.---..

        The   World   Bank
        INTERNArIONAL
        INTERNAriONAL  BANK FORRECONSTRUCTIONAND                 t818
                       DEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION      DEVELOPMENT        H Street,N.W.
                                                                 Washington,                1202)
                                                                            O.C.                 477 1234
                                                                                 20433
                                                                 U.S.A.                     CableAddross:INTRAFRAO
                                                                                            CableAddress INDEVAS

                                                                       June    15, 1994
           Fax:   977-1-312-538                                                                 1 579      04

           Mr.  GopalShivakoti
          ArunConccrmedGroup
                                                                         -
          P.O.   Box2125
          Putalisadak
          Kathmandu,Nepal

         Dear   Mr.  Gopal:

                I am  writingaboutthe
         -subjectof considerableNGOinterest,particularlyin
                                        proposedArunIII HydroelectricProject in
         of variouspowerexpansionscenariosfor                                         Nepal,whichis     the
         "PlanB."                                   Nepal,includingwhathas
                                                               requestinginformationonthc        atnalysis
                                                                                 cometo   bc knlownas
               *I'hlvarious  concerns regarding
        instilutional risks,                    the Arun
                            uncertainty                  project -- including
        so dominatethe                 regarding                                macroeconomic
                                                  theload
                          futurepowerinvestmentprogramin  forecast,                              and
                                                                     and  the possibility

       out --
        whichNepaliengineersand contractorscouldplaya                                     that Arin  would
               lcd us                                         moreprominent-rolewouldbecrowded
                                                              Nepalthatother smallerprojectsin
       colUflissioningof
       (fhe30-80MW range.
                      to consideralternativegenerationexpansionplans, includingsonicdeferringthe
                            Arun toa laterdateand
      versionof                 Althoughwe          introducingfirst a seriesof
                   "PlanB,"                                                       smaller-investmentsin
      rclcasethe
      making    process.
                   internalassessmentsandargumentationthatweredisclosurepolicy, wedecliniedto
                              consistentwiththe Bank's information
                                              receivedmanyrequestsfordocumentsdescribingthis

                          Wc  did,however,                            part
      assumptionsand the                     offer                          of our
                             analysisunderlyingourto provide a                     interm;ildecisionl-
                                                               technical  report providing   in detail
    - soon as  it wasavailable.                      viewof  the alternativeinvestmentprogranis,as     lie


             flicdraft
     receivedby         finaltechnicalreport,
                   thieBanksomedays           preparedby
     it availablein                     ago.
     evaluation,but the
                     our PublicInformationCenter.
                                              Althoughit is stillsubjectto
                                                          the ArgonneNationalLaboratorics.was
                                                                             revision,wehave niadc
     and                  Argonnereport              Itsconclusionsare
         containsa                                                         in linewithour   carlier
                     richer
     Center  is a           set ot-sensitivityanalyses.
                                          is more transparentin  the specificationof    the assumptions
                  staffpaper,
     explainingwhywe          "Justificationfor         Alsoavailablein
                                                Selectionof                the PublicInformlation                   *.



  draws                   decidedto

  to providcmaximumtransparencyregardingthetechnicalbasisfor
           uponthe technicalworkdoneby
                                    supportthe   Arunproject,and todo
                                                           ArunHydroelectricProject by         Nepal,"
                                              Argonne.                     so at this time,
                                                         Thepurposeof                       which
  Arunprojectdoes indeedform                                               this advancedistributionis
  Nepal.     I am                    partof
  anidthe          sendingyou via our  Kathnmandu
                                             the LeastCost PowerGeneraiionExpansionthat thc
                                                                           the conclusion

            staffpaper,                             ResidentMissionicopiesof                 Planftor
  preparedby              togetherwith the Projet  Informnation                   the Argonnerepot
                                                                                                                    :
  rclatedto                                                                     Arun IIl
                                                                 the large  numberof
- aailable    the projectand availablein
                 the NationalElectricityAutherityof Nepal,ofDocumenton                   and a  list.
                                                                                         reports
             in Washington.                Kathniandu. Many,but not all     of them,   are also

 Mr. Alex Bush,  IT UK                 -   -                     August 26,   1994


 candidates - do not make  a prima facie case that the smaller projects will   be
 less costly than Arun  III, and even if further work does uncover some  that  are
 relatively attractive,  they can easily be accommodated into the overall
 sectoral investment plan.

      You suggest that, mince  the cost difference between Plan A and Plan   B is
 modest, an appropriate  allowance for risk and for the capacity building
 consequences of the different  strategies would demonstrate the superiority  of
 Plan B.  We have looked  at this issue in soma detail.  While Plan B does offer
 some advantages in terms of  flexibility and protection against natural
 disasters, the Government's  proposed investment progrsm is more likely  to
 solve Nepal's underlying  power problem in a timely manner.  It is also  more in
 line with the Bank's Operational  Directive on the management of environmental
 risk and has better prospects  for effective response if and when envirohmental
 or social probleme arise during  the course of implementation.  The
 consequences of the different strategies  for the development of domestic
 capacityare not all  that great,  since under either approach there should  be
continued - indeed intensified  - efforts to encourage  private involvement  in
small hydro projects.

     Your letter  concludes with some comments  on the processof future
debate.  Theae are,  I believe, best left to others such as yourself  to
consider.




                                         Sincerely yours,




                                        Marie Garcia-Zamor
                                               Chief
                                     Energy & Infrastructure
                                       Country Department 1


cc: Meeure./Mmes.   John Clark,  OPD
                   Geoffrey  Lamb, World Bank Resident Representative,  London
                    Huw Evans/Anna  Wechsberg, EDSo3
                    Helga Jonsdottir/Rune  Lindholm, EDS20
                    Maria Noel Vaeza, EDSOS
                    Pietro Veglio, EDS24
                    Gerard Steeghs, EDS19
                    Bikash Pandey, ITDG, Nepal
                    Lori Udall, IRN
                   Maike Rademaker,  Urgewald

Mr. Alex Bush, IT UK                     -2 -                     August 26, 1994



-  it still would   not follow that the "unselected" small projects are likely to
have  lower  costs.


     Accordingly, we do not accept the conclusion that the least cost
analysis ie fatally flawed because of inadequate consideration of smaller
hydro projects.     We understand  thefrustration that has been expressed about
the amount of feasibility and pre-feasibility work that has been done in Nepal
in recent years on small hydro projects. It is always useful to have more
data on investment posuiiilities. Nevertheless, our appraisal of Nepal's
record in developing an inventory of potential hydropower investments doeo not
support the conclusion that its efforts have bQen seriously inadequate or
systematically biased against smaller projects. Indeed, compared to other
small poor countries, Nepal has done a quite respectable job in developing an
inventory of alternative hydropower investment proposals. Each of the major
basins has been surveyed. A total of 107 different mites has been examined,
of which 18 have had work done beyond the reconnaissance stage. Almost half
of these are less than 100 MW.

     This judgement does not imply complacency. Our last power project in
Nepal includes funds for further feasibility work. Moreover, as Government
representatives have stated on numerous occasions, support for smaller hydro
project. is seen as being complementary to, and not competitive with, the Arun
III project. As evidence that this is not merely a rhetorical position, I
would call your attention to the fact that Government hag decided to astabligh
a special Hydro Fund as part of the Arun III project. This Pund will help
finance feasibility work and actual implementation of smaller    hydro projects.


     In addition, as you know, a power purchase agreement for the Khimti
Khola project has been reached. We hope that this will be the first of a
series of smaller hydro projects to be financed by the private sector.     We
understand that US ATD is already engaged In constructive discussions with the
relevant Government agencies regarding assistance to strengthen Nepal's
capacity to negotiate future power purchase agreements.


     If and when attractive smaller projects emerge, they can readily be
accommodated in the investment planning for the sector. The Argonne Report
should not be read as determining an immutable least cost sequence. As in the
past, the analysis will have to be updated regularly to take account of new
information about load growth and the costs of alternative investments. What
is, in our view, robust about the Argonne Report is the conclusion that Arun
III is part of the least cost generation expansion plan under most plausible
assumptions about the future.

     Availability of additional, uncommitted and attractive small hydro
projects that could realistically be completed over the next several years
might - under what we think are relatively   optimistic assumptions  - add enough
firm energy to meet perhaps a year's growth in demand in the middle of the
next decade, thereby delaying the optimal commissioning date for Arun by a
year or so. The additional costs to Nepal of commissioning Arun a year
"prematurely" are very modest in comparison to the costs and risks Nepal would
incur through delay. Bence, we do not believe it    would be in Nepal's best
interest to delay the long gestation (and much studied) Arun III project while
more data is being gathered an the costs of smaller hydro   projects.   Rough
comparisons - of the mort done in the Argonne Report on the Plan B

 The World    Bank
 DIERNAInONAMBANKFOR                                         1313HScEct,
                      RECONSTRUC1ON                                       N.W.
 INItNATIONAIDEVELOFMENTASSOCLTn1ON   AND DEVELOPMENT                                  (202) 477-2l4
                                                             Washligwt,  D.C. 20433    Cablc Addre,s:
                                                             U.S.A,                                   INTDAEAAD
                                                                                       Cable Address: DNDEVAS




                                                            August     26, 1994

    Mr.  Alex  Bush
    Policy   Researcher
    Intermediate    Technology  Development
        Group
   Myson   House,   Railway Terrace
   Rugby,   CV21  3HT
   United.Kingdom



   Dear  Mr.  Bush;



                        Ra:  NEPAL:     Arun   III Hydroelectric
                                                                        Prolect


         Thank  you for  your  letter
  I am                                  of August
         responding                                  8th concerning
                      on Ann Hamilton's                                    the Arun     2II project.
                                            behalf.

         Her letter  to you  war copied
  Joe ganickavasagam,                       to Joe   Wood,    John   Resant-Jones
                          our resident                                                 and
                                           representative      in Kathmandu.

         It is helpful   to have  your   clarification
 not intended                                               that
                  as a                                             the April
                       "detailed                                                  ITDG
                                    analysis                                            study
 decision                                       of economic                                       wag
             could                                              coste
                    be made"                                              on which
                              but rather                                              an investment
 examination                                  "a prima  facie
                and study                                         case    for more
                            of some                                                   detailed
                                      of the   smalLer
 of the                                                  hydro
          least                                                    schemes
                  cost analysis."                                              within   the context
 the costs                            The foundation
              of total                                   of the      prima
                        and firm                                             facie
                                   energy                                             case
 information                                 for those                                      is that
                                                         smaller
                in available                                          projects
                               are lower                                           for which     good
                                             than  the costo      for  Arun.

        Ann Hamilton's   letter  to you     challenges
 on two   grounds:                                       this    fundamental
                      first, that                                                  cost
                                    interest                                            comparison
                                                during
 included                                                construction
            in the  project                                                  hao been
                             capital                                                    incorrectly
                                        cost   and,
 to include                                          second,     that
              the coats                                                 ITDG's
                          of complementary                                        analysis     fails
season                                          thermal
         when                                             power
               hydropower                                           needed
                            output                                            in the   winter
                                      is lowest
during                                            due to
         construction                                       low river      flows.
                         is excluded,                                                 If interest
                                         then
 (Phase                                         it ts
         1) is                                         no longer
                more                                                   correct
                      costly  in the                                              that  Arun
                                       generation                                               III
projects                                             of firm
           included                                               energy
                      in the                                                than
                              ITDG   report.                                       the other
                                                Bence
developed                                               the premise
             in the  April                                                 of the
                            report                                                  argument
                                     is faulty.
letter                                              Similarly,
         of May   6, 1994,                                           as you
                            1 discussed                                        will   recall,    in my
cost                                        the procedures
       of power.                                                for calculating
                    on this  basis,   the cost                                         the economic
Arun   III project                               of firm     energy
                     is approximatly                                    from   Phase   1 of
                                        Us14.46/kWh                                           the
considerably                                            in 1993     dollars.
                from  the VSO8.97/kWhcalculated                                    This  differ.
                                                       by you.

      Finally,   the projects   examined
selected                                     in the  ITDC   report
           for feasibility                                             are those
                             work                                                    that
                                    because                                                were
they                                           the reconnaissance
      were  relatively                                                    data
                         attractive.                                             suggested     that
                                         Even
smallprojects                                   Lf it  were    true
                  had                                                  that
                      lower                                                   theme
                             costs                                                    "selected"
                                     than   Arun  III   (Phase    1) -    which   is not   tho    case




                            RCA 2484230 WU164145 * FAX(202) 47746391

                                Headquarters; Washington, D.C. 20433 U.S.A.
                Tel. No. (202) 477-1234 * Fax (202) 477-6391 * Telex No. RCA 248423

                                    FACSIMILE COVERSHEETAND MESSAGE


 DATE:              August     26,   1994           NO. OF.PAGES-      4            MESSAGE NO.: S t-&;/3Xlo-
                                                    (Includrng this sheet)


 TO:                Mr.  Alex     Bush                            FAXTEL.     NO.:              011-44-78e-5402-70
   Title:           Policy     Coordinator
   Organization:    Intermediate       Technology    Development     Group
   City/Country:    Rugby,    United     Kingdom


FROM:               Marie   Garcia-zamor                          DIVISION'S    FAX TEL. NO.:   (202)   477-5520
   Title:           Chief                                           Dept./Div.  No.:            242-30
   Division:        Energy    & infrastructure
   Room   No.:      D 11-007                                        Telephone:                  (202)   473-8694


SUBJECT/
REFERENCE:          NEPAL:      Arun Hydroelectric       Prolect


MESSAGE:


         Mr. Bush:


                     Following       Mr. O'Leary's fax to you of Auguat 12,             1994, please find
          attached our detailed response to your letter of                 August a, 1994 to Mrs. Ann
         Hamilton.     We will be sending copies of our             response to     those who were sent
          copies of your original letter.            However, we do not have a fax number for Ms.
         Maike Rademaker,       Urgewald.      We would be most appreciative          if you would provide
         us with this at your earliest convenience.



                                                                  Sincerely yours,




                                                                Marie Garcia-Zamor
                                                                          Chief
                                                     Energy and Infrastructure          Diviaion
                                                              Country Department        1
                                                                South Asia Region




         cc:         Messrs./Mmes.        John Clark    (OPRPG): Geoffrey Lamb (EXTLD); Buw Evans
                     (EDS03); Anna Wechsberg           (EDS03); Helga Jonedottir         (EDS20)1 Rune
                     Lindholm      (EDS20)1 John Cosgrove        (EDS09); Struan      Little    (EDSO9);
                     Maria Noel vaeza         (EDS08); Pietro Veglio          (EDS24); Oerard Steeghs
                     (EDSl9): Eikaeh Pandey (ITDG-Nepal)l Barry Hudson                   (ODA); Harald
                     Rehm    (EDS05); Lori Udall        (International Rivers Network); Maike
                     Rademaker       (Urgewald)




TRANSMISSION AUTHORIZEDBY: Marie                Garcia-Zkmnor,    Chief,     SAlEI

If you experience any probleminreceivingthis transmission,informthesenderat         thetelephoneor iax no.listedabove.

The World Bank                                              Resident Office in Nepal     Facsimile: 225112

INTERNATIONAL BANK FORRECONSTRUCTIONAND  DEVELOPMENT        Jyoti Bhawan, Kantipath      Telex: 2228 INDEVA NP
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION                        Kathmandu                    Telephone: 226792/3
                                                                                         Cable Address:    INTBAFRAD
                                                                                                           KAIHvWMDJ
                                                                                         Postal Address:   P.OfK 79




                                                                                         October 7, 1994



      Mr. Gopal Siwakoti
      Arun Concerned Group
      Putali Sadak
      Kathmandu



      Dear Mr. Siwakoti:

              This is in response to your letter of October 7, 1994             requesting for a list of
      documents on Arun 3 Project. Attached is a    list of documents that is available at the Bank's
      Resident Mission. We also attach a list of      documents that are available at the Arun            3
      Information Center (managed by NEA) at the      Arun Project Office.

              You should also be aware that the Bank        has a Public Infornation Center at its
      headquarters in Washington D.C. The address       of the Public Information Center is:

                                       Public Infornation Center
                                            The World Bank
                                         1776 G Street, N. W.
                                        Washington D.C. 20433
                                      Telephone: (202) 458-5454
                                          Fax: (202) 522-1500

              If we can be of further assistance, please do not hesitate      to contact us.




                                           J   Sincerel




                                               Jan Sharma
                                        Public Affairs Consultant



      JSherma:js

                                     ATrACHMENT-IX

                 Under 8: Response on the Previous           Complaints


In addition, the members of the Arun      Concerned Group. one of the main     claimants.
have held series of meetings with the Bank's   staff at the relevant country departments,
the environmental unit, and the Bank's Executive    Directors of the Bank. However, their
responses during these bi-lateral meetings    have neither been adequate nor convincing
and satisfactory. (Copies of some of the relevantcorrespondence by the Bank to members
of the Arun Concerned Group enclosed.)

ATTACHMENT-DC

*T:~t     41t1VJ           9,                         ARUN CONCERNED GROUP
TM -Xr1    R. RlRY                                                               P.O. Box2125
 9so        q:1v5olii,  rlgTT                                  Putallsadak. Kathmandu,    Nepal

'iT    R.b4707o.      7VfV/  T:Z-V4yQ               Tel: (0977-1) 419610, Fax: (0977-1) 412538




                                                                                May 23, 1994
Aris Othman
Executive Director
Nepal Section
The World Bank
1818 H Street
Washington, D.C. 20433
United Satates of America
 Fhe4 74,,6
Dear respectable sir/madam

      The Arun Concern Group (ACG).an association of        a number of non-governmental
organizations,   and concerned citizens of Nepal formed to raise      the issues of concerns
and national interest directly related to and generated by the Arun I1 Hydroelectricity
Project to be constructed in Nepal. would like to bring to your kind notice the following
issues and concerns with respect to Arun   III project. ACG believes that you would give
a due consideration to the concems expressed     in the attached document while making
decision about Arun III Project. ACG also   requests you to kindly defer and withhold
your valuable vote until the issues and concems raised      here are resolved.

      Thank you very much. Looking forward to      hearing from you soonI.


                                                       Sincerely yours,


                                                       Gopi Upreti


                                                       Spokesperson

     3rT'7r*ttiT
  cmvr;-~
      ^,     #. RtR9                                        ARUN
                  I'ZP.O.                                              CONCERNED            GROUP
  gaws,      fovloi-   h4qy                                                                  Box2125
                                                                    Putallsadak.
       1x #70  7o,                                                                Kathmandu.
                    wv,     #7 gYr                                                              Nepal
                                                         Tel: 10977-1) 419610.  Fax: 10977-1) X4'2538




 Huw Evans                                                                            May 23.    1994
 Executive   Director
 U, K.Section
 The Wold   Bank
 1818 H   Street
 Washington.    D. C. 20433
 Fax:: 6234965

Dear respectable    sir/madam

       The Arun   Concern   Group
organizations,                      (ACG).an   association
                and concerned                                of a number
                                  citizens                                   of non-governmental
and national                                of Nepal  formed
               interest  directly                               to raise
                                  related                                 the issues
Project                                   to and                                       of concerns
         to be constructed                        generated    by the
                             in Nepal.                                  Arun IIl  Hydroelectricity
                                        would
Issues  and concerns                           like to bring to
                        with respect                             your kind
a due consideration                    to Arun                                notice the   following
                                               III project.
                       to the                               ACG believes
                              concerns                                       that you
                                         expressed                                      would
decision  about                                      in the                                     give
                 Arun III                                    attached
                            Project.                                    document     while making
your valuable                        ACG also    requests
               vote until                                  you to     kindly
                           the issues  and concerns                           defer and   withhold
                                                      raised   here are  resolved.
      Thank  you verv   much.    Looking  forward  to hearing   from you    soon.


                                                         Sincerely    yours,


                                                         Gopi Upreti


                                                         Spokespersoni     (ACG)

 '3TTZU -kibR           V
      -L"                                                  ARUN CONCERNED
              . R1Y                                                                           GROUP
  tilAws      w5Tc>1dil
                      *r-w                                                               P.O.Box 2125
                                                                     Putalisadak.
 V#;rw:                                                                             Kathmandu.
          v'!4 o,                                                                                 Nepal
                   vrwrer    :T oi?i.r                   Tel: (0977-1l419610.     Fax: (0977-1) 412538




 Yasuyukli  Kawahara                                                                    May 23,    1994
 Executive   Director
 Japan Section
The Wold Bank
 1818 H Street
Washington.    D. C. 20433
Fax:: 5221581

Dear respectable    sir/madam

      The Arun    Concern    Group (ACG),an    association
organizations,                                                of a number
                and concerned                                                 of non-governmental
                                   citizens of Nepal formed
and national   interest directly                                 to raise the    issues of   concerns
                                  related to and generated
Project to  be constructed                                      by the Arun      III Hydroelectrlicity
                             in Nepal.  would like to bring
issues and   concerns                                          to your kind
                        with respect                                           notice the    following
                                       to Arun III project.
a due consideration                                          ACG believes
                       to the concerns                                         that you would     give
                                          expressed
decision                                             in the attached
          about Arun                                                      document
                         III Project.                                                   while making
                                      ACG also   requests
your valuable                                               you to kindly
               vote until                                                      defer and
                            the issues                                                       withhold
                                        and concerns  raised here      are resolved.
      Thank you    very much.    Looking forward   to hearing    from you     soon.


                                                         Sincerely     yours.


                                                         Gopi Upreti


                                                         Spokespersoii       (ACG)

 *31~T tt19             ~T7                               ARUN CONCERNED                  GROUP
 -cm v-L    #.  Rt v
  g A fs    vlo"Iiri; *iMr
              i                                                                      P.O.Box2125
                                                                   Putalisadak. Kathmandu.   Nepal
 vk7   x &'7S410.  wVI'E   t  hoR@r                    Tel: (0977-1) 419610.  Fax: (0977-1)412538




                                                                                    May 23, 1994
Executive  Director
US Section
The Wold Bank
 1818 H Street
Washington,    D. C. 20433
Fax:: 4772967

Dear respectable    sir/madam

       The Arun   Concern Group    (ACG),an association     of a number
organizations.                                                              of non-govemmental
                 and concerned    citizens of Nepal  formed to raise
and national                                                             the issues of
               interest directly                                                         concerns
                                 related to and  generated by
Project to be                                                     the Arun 111Hydroelectricity
               constructed   in Nepal. would  like to bring  to your kind
issues and concerns                                                         notice the following
                        with respect  to Arun III project. ACG believes
a due consideration                                                         that you would   give
                       to the concerns   expressed in  the attached
decision about                                                         document while
                 Arun III Project.                                                         makdng
                                     ACG also requests     you to kindly
your valuable                                                               defer and withhold
               vote until the  issues and concerns   raised here are     resolved.

      Thank you very    much. Looking     forward to hearing   from you soon.


                                                        Sincerely yours,


                                                        Gopi Upreti


                                                        Spokesperson      (ACG)

31T:7I +Ti I1i                                         ARUN CONCERNED                    GROUP
 -c-Xr      .R                                                                     P.O. Box 2125
       SV, qPTD1iii, r                                           Putalisadak, Kathmandu.    Nepal

     7: V1d4170   WV';9r  T.   Y                     Tel: (0977-) l419610.  Fax: (0977-l. 412538




                                                                                   May 23, 1994
Fritz Fischer
Executive Director
German Section
The Wold Bank
1818 H Street
Washington. D. C. 20433
Fax:: 4777849

Dear respectable sir/madam

      The Arun Concem Group       (ACG),an association of a number         of non-govemmental
organizations, and concerned citizens of Nepal     formed to raise the issues of         concerns
and national interest directly  related to and generated by        the Arun III Hydroelectricity
Project to be constructed   in Nepal. would like to bring to    your kind notice the following
issues and concerns with respect     to Arun III project. ACG believes      that you would give
a due consideration   to the concerns expressed in    the attached document while         making
decision about Arun III Project.    ACG also requests      you to kindly defer and withhold
your valuable vote until the  issues and concerns raised     here are resolved.

      Thank you very much.      Looking forward to hearing     from you soon.


                                                         Sincerely yours,


                                                         Gopi Upreti


                                                         Spokesperson (ACG)

                      INHURED                                                 INTERNATIONAL
               INTERNATIONALINSTITUTEFOR                                      HUMVAN         RIGHTS. ElVIRONMIEN7T                         AND DEVELOPM1ENT
                          PG Bcx'2'25. Plutalisadak.                  Katrrmanou.NeDalD Tel:                 0977.     - -E          Fax: 0977. i             2538.



                    Fax: (202) 477-2967
                                                                                                                                                                          May 27, 1994
                    Executive Director
                    Nepal Section. The World                          Bank
                      1818 H St.
                    Washington. DC 20433

                    Dear Sir or Madam:

                                       INHURED International.                         a Kathmandu-based                          international                non-governmetnal
                    organization. would like                        to express its deep concerns                  about the way that the                   controversial Arun 1II
                    Hydorelectric Project                      is desinged and inappropriate                         conditionalities               have been imposed                 in the
                    process of loan negotiation.                         It believes that funding                 of such huge mega-projects                       in a country like
                    Nepal will only invite                    further economic and               environmental disasters                      in the name of development                  as
                   in other countries.                        INHURED International                        is quite familiar with               the adverse         imp acts of the
                   policies of the World                       bank and its sister organizations                        orncivil. political. economic,                      social and
                   cultural rigths. particularly                       in the Third World countries.                    and Nepal Is not an exception.
                                       In this regard. INHURED                 International would                 like to sincerely draw vour                    utmost attention
                   to the denial of the right                       to Information regarding                  Arun Ill Project. This right                  has been guaranteed
                   under artice                     16 of the Constitution                   of the Kingdom of                   Nepal as well as article                    19 of the
                   International Covenant                         on Civil and Political Rights                 which Nepal is a State Party.

                                       As you may knou. a writ                petition has been flled                 in the Supreme Court of                     Nepal against the
                   Nepall government                        authorities       for the denial of Information                          about the Project. Including                        the
                   Memorandum                       of Understanding               reached between the                   Government                 of Nepal and the donor
                  communities.                       In a hiisoric decision,                the Court has ordered                      the defendants              (the concerned
                  government                      ministries and the Nepal                 Electricitv Authoritv)                for the disclosure of all                information
                  regarding                  the Project.            However. the government                       authorities             have still been denying                     such
                  disclosure and violating                        further the human rJghts                    to know of the Nepall people.

                                       It may also be important               to mention you that some                      concerned citizens and                  pubilc Interest
                  groups are preparing                          for another round of                   legal battles in the Supreme                      Court on grounds of
                  contempt                  court and the denial of                      information in accordance                      with the Court's verdict.                       This
                  situation may cause further                          delay in finalizing the status                  of the Project.

                                       Flnally. INHUREDInternational                       would Ilie to refer to various                      declarations and conventions
                  of the United Nations                       that guarantee Nepai                  peoples' sovereigntv over                     thielrnatural resources               and
                  development modules.                         It also would like to               request that no further                   action should be taken                on the
                  part of the Bank and                         donor communities                  until all Information                  relating to Arun Ill Project                   are
                  disclosed for the publIc                       arid their participation                  In decision-making is               ensured. Lack of attention                 to
                  such issues of public                       concerns at natlonal              and International levels                     mav Interept the consturctJon
                  of the Project at any stage.

                                      Thanking you for your              prompt attention to this                    matter.

                                                                                                                          Sincyrely yours.


                                                                                                                          Gopal Slwakoti
                                                                                                                          Executive Director
                  cc: Executive Directors. German                            Section.
                  Japan Section. UK Section.                           and US Section




wil-it. :mres-  irr.rif'..-ittfi        It %,,irks Inr rhe- prnm,rhion wthIiirnt;ri indlpt'e.riit  n fii, -i      ii'    i,'..l.. ri,.-: . :ffrutruf t  e-     n.rn
           .. i...                                                                                                                                                   i    r -i.)ia.ii.ii
                         1*ftrir-u ri-r    it.)                                                                                                                          -
                                           ..... .l.rriCti .frnr,infZt     ihiiifiin'r:.
                                                                           h       tr;.i...  .vr.'i,''.:--Ii
                                                                                              F                                   .       rm-'          l,.-'v.       fir'

3) Comprehensively answer all   questions beingraised about Arun III at local,
national and international levels.

4) Ensure that the project is in compliance with all World   Bank policies
including energy, information    disclosure, resettlement, andenvironmental
policies.

5) Ensure that alternatives to the project have been adequatelyinvestigated.




                                      5

                                                                            to
It is useless  to talk,about  public participationsince   there is nothing
"participate"as  a result of the absenceof relevantinformation,particularly
in local languages.The     governmenthas    never genuinelyheld    any public

hearings or   distributed informationabout    Arun III. The  series of public
meetingsthatwereheldin      differentparts ofthe ArunValleyand otherareas
were nothingbut distributionof    a leaflettellingpeopleaboutproceduresfor
compensation.No      importantissueswereraisedor debatedaboutthe      Project
itself. SomeNGOswereinvitedto         attend,but wereprohibitedfromraising'.
any issues    other than    compensation, and    in some cases     they were

systematicallythreatenedas     a result oftheir activitiesinencouraginglocal

people to   participate in  debate on   issues of local and national  concern
relatingto ArunILl.Furthermore,creationof so calledpro-Arungroupsonly
underminedthe     image and sincerityof   the governmentand   donors.

It is difficultfor peopleto understandinformationdistributedby    government

to local NGOs      and the people  in a so called  consultationwith  the local

NGOs and     the peoplein   the ArunValleyin    preparingthe RegionalAction

Plan. Can the   governmentor    the Bankprovideany informationabout what
 weretheproceduresand methodsof        suchconsultationsandlist of NGOsthat
 were part of  it ? If so, whydid  the governmentor   the Bank did  not bother
 to invitethe ArunConcernedGroupor theAlliancefor Energy.Involvement
 of a few vestedinterestgrouporindividualswithoutopportunityfor       broader

 participationcan   only be regardedas   a manipulationto  legitimizethe Arun

 M Project.

 Beforethereare furthernegotiationsbetweentheWorldBankand theNepali
 governmentand      beforeBank managementsendsthe ArunIII        project to the
 Board of ExecutiveDirectors,werequesttheWorldBank to           ensurethat  the

 following has   taken place:

 1) Provideall   basicprojectdocumentsto NGOsand thepublic,includingan
 update of recent   negotiationswiththe Nepaligovernmentofficialsand      new

 conditionalities,if  any.

 2) Ensure   that Bank    actions inrelation to  the projectdo not undermine
 democraticprocessesinsideNepal,includingrespectingthe recentNepalese
 SupremeCourt decisions.



                                         4

After the local groups were denied basic information by the Nepali
government, the groups filed public interest litigation in the Supreme Court
of Nepal demanding the disclosure of all information related to the Arun III
project. This culminated in a legal review of the Arun III project and the
donor conditionalities. The Court has decided that all information and
conditionalities relating to Arun III are subject to the Court's extra-ordinary
jurisdiction and review, as specified by Article 16 of the new Constitution
of Nepal. The Supreme Court has ordered the Nepal Electricity Authority,
and concerned ministries.to disclose all information on the Arun III Project
to the petitioners and the public.         Nonetheless, the Government has
repeatedly ignored provisions for the release of basic documents on Arun III:
e.g. the Memorandum of Understanding of October 19, 1993; Since further
litigation is to be filed very soon to addressthis violation, any acts which the
Government of Nepal may be involved with may soon be declared
unconstitutional and in violation of the Supreme Courtjudgement. It should
be understood by the World Bank that the Nepali government must abide by
the mandate of the Nepali people, particularly as stated by the Constitution
and the judgements of the Supreme Court. Ultimately, these mandates of
national sovereignty supersede illegal agreements withoutside agents. In this
situation, the World Bank must pay full respect the Nepali Constitution and
decisions of the Nepali Supreme Court. It is also important to note that the
government has lost in all public interest litigationsin recent years, including
Arun III and the World Bank must not contravene decisions of Nepalese
courts.

There is some confusion about the role of the democratically elected Nepali
Parliament. So far, the Parliament has never been provided any information
about Arun III by the government other than general statements by the
ministers. A report on Arun Ellis expected to be submitted by the Opposition
Party in the upcoming session of the Parliament starting from next week. A
report and findings of a Public Commission on Arun III is also expected
before the vote on Arun III on July 26. If the Bank approves the project on
July 26th, this will jeopardize the internal negotiations, voting and
democratic processes and will lead to mistrust of the Bank and donors by
political parties and the public in Nepal.

Public Participation:


                                        3

Keepingin mindthe aboveconcerns,we wouldrespect liketo highlighta fewpoints
                                                               World   Bank
                               has raised with          to the
the Arun
policies of informationdisclosureand requirementsfor
           Concerned   Group                             public participation

and beneficiaryconsultations.

Access     to Information
                               to adequatelyinform   the Nepali  people, and

The  World   Bank  has failed                                   International,
                        Arun   Concerned  Group,   INHURED
 Nepali  NGOs,    (e.g.                                  regards to the A+un
 Alliancefor  Energy,Rural Reconstructionin  Nepal)with
                               Bank  office     Kathmandu    and  the Nepali
 M1project.     The   World
 Govermmentconsistentlyfailedto providebasicprojectdocuments.
                                           anyinformationor documentation
                                                                     Eventhe
 to groupswhoissuedwrittenrequestsfor                                       in
 ProjectInformationDocumentfor       ArunIII  whichis  easilyavailablehere
                                                informationwas   producedon
 Washingtonwas
 request,it  goeswithoutsayingthat the localpeoplewerenot informedof the
                   not offered.   Given that no

                                                                     however,
                        III project.       Nepali  Governmenthas,
  realitiesof the Arun                The

  mounted a   campaignof    misinformationregardingthe    alleged benefits that

                                   the Arun               The  Governmentof
  local  people will receive from            III project.

  Nepaldidnotpromptlymakeprovided in
                                availablein locallanguagesa projectsummary.
                                             the local language was   a leaflet
  The   only material  initially
  explainingthe   procedurefor   receivingcompensationfor    lands requiredby

   the ArunIII  project.

   In our understandingthat the WorldBank'sinformation".This would
                                                new informationpolicy and the
                                                                         imply
   EA policy   requires meaningful"accessto                                   be
                                                public       Arun   III will
                        informing   the Nepali          that
   more   than  simply
                                            project           understood as   an

   constructed.  Meaningfuldisclosureof             detailsis
                                                                         critical
                                   a mandate   for public   knowledge,
                                                                          When
   invitation  to participation,
    discussion,and finally--ifthe projectis a good  one--publicsupport.
                                                     participation from  project
                                             public
    "information  policies"  act to exclude
                                                    and   implementation,     the
                                 decision-making,
    formulation,   designing,
    legitimatingbenefitsof   democraticparticipationthroughinformeddecision,
                                                                      "access  to

    making   are invariably   lost. In these
    information"onlynotifiesthelackpublicoftheimpositionofprojects
                                              unfortunate situations,throughthe

    governmentchannelswhich            democraticaccountabilityand    procedural

    transparency.


                                           2

 ISSUES REGARDING ACCESS             TO INFORMATION AND PUBLIC
                       PARTICIPATION ON ARUN III

                               June 28, 1994

 First of all, we would like  to thank the World Bank    for inviting NGOs
 concerned with the proposed    Arun III HydroelectricProject   in Nepal to
 attend this consultationand to presentissuesof local and national concern
 pertaining to long term   repercussionsof the proposed    Arun III project.
 However,we are seriouslyconcernedabouttheutilityand usefulnessof this
 meeting,particularlyon  the followingmatters:

 -     Is the Bank prepared to  review the project negotiationprocess   and
 modality before final agreement,and   before the submissionof   the Project
 before the Board on July  26? If not, whyis this consultationbeingheld   at
 the final hour of negotiations?

-      We understandthat the   scopeof this consultationis limited to issues
directlyrelatedto the WorldBank, and is not    intendedto addressdomestic
issues and concerns. If  this is true, we do not understandthe purpose of
invitingNepali governmentrepresentativesto participatein   thisconsultation.
We welcomethe opportunityto      discussthe broaderinternationaland    legal'
issuesraised by the ArunIII  projectproposal.Unfortunately,we regret    that
we may have had to travelhere    to Washingtonto hearargumentsfrom the
representatives of the  Nepali government,a      government which totally
ignoredand underminedall     effortsto promotethis sort of discussionof the
Arun m project in Nepal.

-      We are concernedthat the   value of this consultationwill bedirectly
compromisedif thesituationbetweentheNepaliNGOsandtheir government
representativesbecomesconlfrontational.  Weare equallyconcernedthat this
consultationbe respectedwith regardto    the WorldBank's decisionmaking
for. the Arun m project:     we anticipate that the final   report of this
consultationwillbe publiclyreleasedandusedduringfuturenegotiationsand
also submnittedto the Board of ExecutiveDirectors.



                                     1

Action Required

Arun shouldnot go beforethe boarduntil the followingissueshave been adequately
discussed:

      *     The issuesraisedin ITDG'spaperon relativecosts

      *     The riparianissuewithChina

     *      Powersalesto India

     *      The impactof the projecton the peoplein the Arunvalley


                                                             Alliancefor Energy
                                                                          ITDG
                                                                    June 1994

                      and the
                      Geographicalbalanceof hydropowerdevelopment.Hydropowerinvestment
                                  associatedbenefitsneedto
                      the country.                               be distributedmore equitablyacross

                     Risk associatedwith         a singlelarae
                    outburst      floods                         scheme.Seismic risks,
                                          etc are                                           glacial
                                                    not specificto                                  lake
                    schemes        (particularlyif                  any particular project
                                                    there are                                 but larger
                                                               several
                    country'spowersupplyundulysusceptibleto             in a single   valley) make the,
                    concessionaryfinancingavailableto                     these risks.Puttingall of the
                    designedto                                   the country into
                                      come on                                        one large scheme
                                                  line in eightyears time   puts-the
                    terms of     unscheduleddelaysand cost overruns.                  country at risk in

    Additionally,there are
    project-                     unsettledissueswhichwill
             in particularthe                                  be criticalto
    powerexportsto                  riparianissuewithChinaandthe              the successof   the Arun
                          India.                                         lackof   agreementon further

   Future  Development

   We recognisethat,          in the long
   increasingdemandson thegridif reasonableeconomicgrowthisto
                                             run, largerschemeswill    be neededto      meet the  ever
   is alsono  disagreementthat the
   whetherthe     implementationof        Arunat
                                             roleof theprivatesector-willbe critical.Thequestionis
                                                                                  be sustained.There

  visionof                                          this point
            sustainablehydropowerdevelopment.                 intime  is consistentwith   a long term

  TheAllianceis
  thanfor  individualprojects.Moneyavailablefromthedonorcommunitymust
                    arguingfortheuseof concessionaryfinancingfor               sectoralsupportrather

  term.
  on longtermstrengtheningof thesectorratherthanonproducingmegawattsbe focused             intheshort

  The Bank      has said        that it
  corporatizationof, andprivatesectorparticipationin, developingcountrypowersectors'.
                                         will 'aggressivelypursue      the commercialisationand
  This privatisationwillnot                                                                        3

 willfirstwantto                  occurspontaneouslyand it is
                    investin
 the commercial sector           smallerschemes(say10-20MW).Thereis
                                                                  mostlikelythat theprivatesector
                                 with no                                         significantmoneyin
 development.A                             mechanismsin      place to
 Banking   regulations will
                     packageof institutionalreformswillbeneededto      utilise this  for hydro sector
                                  need to
,institutionswill                             be changed to                   sparkoff thisprocess.
                                                               allow for
                    needto       be put                                   longer term
                                        in placeto                                       loans; legal
 coveredby    insuranceand                             regulatebuy-back;schemeswill
                                   guarantees.                                            needto  be

There is  no moneynowavailableineitherthe
evenstudythese schemes.To                                 govemmentbudgetor the
                                        preventthe                                    donorloansto
that hasarisenwithArun,suchstudyworkmustbe initiatednowinorderthat thecountry
                                                       long-termrecurrenceof    the 'no-optionstrap'
has a wide rangeof        potentialhydropowerschemesavailableto             it in a few yearstime.


 rThe
    WorldBeak'srol in theelectricpowersector;WorldBank;1993

         PlanB   and   Sectoral    Issues

         The Bank's   'Plan B'

        The debateoverthe
        overa yearandthe         relativemeritsof     Arunandthe
       to table7.9  inthe  recentArgonneLaboratoriesreport).NGOshave,however,only seen
                                Bankhashadan analysisof          'planB'
                                                                     alternativeshasbeengoing on for
                                                                          sinceJuly
       anyrelevantdocumentsinthelasttwoweeksandhavenotbeengivensufficienttimefor     1993(seefootnote

      detailedcomment.

      Nevertheless,it     is clear   that
      inconclusive.The                     the results    of the
      of the               3-4%differencein                       comparisonof
             assumptions.In                        thetwomodelsis                  plans A and   B are
     that                         Aprilof
           all of the small      hydro   schemesfor
                                           this year,ITDGpresentedits  easilywithinthe marginof   error
                                                                             own

     hasmadeno responseat
     significantlycheaperthanArunintermsofthecostsitofcould
                                                         which                    analysis',suggesting
                                                                          gather  firmdata  were
                                     all to that paper.             generatedpower.Asyetthe       very
                                                                                                  Bank
     The   Bank'sexaminationof
    fromarangeof over20 possibilities.Nojustificationofan
                                      plan B   appearsto     make       arbitrarychoiceof
    In addition,the                                                                       six projects

    comparedbecausethe Bank claimsthat the        schemesin         theselectionhasbeenpresented.
                                  plan B                        plan A
    proposalto    studythese               schemeshavenot               and plan  B cannotbe  directly

    takennoaction.In orderto makeaclearcomparisonofBank sinceJuly
                                  schemeshasbeenwith             beenstudiedto
                                                               the                the sameextent.A
                                                                                     19932,yet
    be carriedout    beforeArunis      presentedto the      boardas the
                                                                    plansA and B,suchstudiesmust
                                                                                               it has

                                                                          leastcostoption.
   BeyondLeast Cost

   Giventhat    the resultsof
   imperativethat    the Bank looks
                                  the plan ANBcomparisonwere
   consideredby                           at the
                    a leastcost methodology.      widerdevelopmentalparameterswhich
                                                                       inconclusive,itis even  more
                                                                                            are not
  The key   issuesin    the contextof     this particularprojectare:
                  CaDabilitvbuilding.The
                 indigenousinstitutionsare      adoptionof    such a
                 man                               weakdoes            largeschemeas
                        hoursto     such                         nobodyany              Arun when

                 planneddevelopmentof      a projectis                        favours.Adding local

                 the countrycanimplementcompleteschemesinthe
                                               wholeinstitutionsaroundsmallerschemesso that
                                                         not 'institutionbuilding'.The need   is for

                                                                               future.




 ArunIII-CheaperenergyforNepal?;ITDG;April1994
2HydropowerDevelopment
                     in Nepal:takingasectorwideview;ITDG;July1993

                                                                     take placein the days
of the ArunEI project, more wide-reaching campaigns     are bound to

to come.

We demand   that the Arun III project be delayed until:

                                                                done (including  the King
1)     The appropriate  groundwork     for the RAP    has been
                                                                      adequate funding has
       Mahendra Trust  follow-up  study for the new  road alignment),
                                                                                      RAP
       been secured,   and the construction    schedule is   modified to  allow for

       implementation  to proceed  in advance  of project construction.

                                                                maximize   the use of local
2)     The construction  schedule for  the road is  extended to
                                                                work to commence    from a
       labour, minimize  impact on  the environment   and allow

       single roadhead.

                                                               are given a  "land for land"
3)     The ACRP    programme    is overhauled,  so that people

       option and  are offered a fair pricefor their land.

                                                     and modify  the EIA.
4)     A panel of  experts is appointed  to evaluate

 the KingMahendraTrustStudyof the Managementof BasinwideEnvironmentalImpacts-
  consultationwas limitedto discussionsof howbest to deal withafait accompli.

 * The Bank's OD 4.01: EnvironmentalAssessmentrequiresthat "the borrowerprovide
 relevant information prior to consultations ... in a timely manner and in a form that is
 meaningfulfor, and accessibleto, the groupsbeing consulted"(Art. 21). Let alone the
 timelymanner,mostof the relevantinformationwasnever disclosedto interestedparties.
 OurGovernmentwasfoundtobenegligentinthisrespectbythe SupremeCourtearlierthis
 year.

 *  OD 4.20: IndigenousPeoplestates that "Successfulplanningfor indigenouspeoples
 frequentlyrequireslonglead times,as well as arrangementsforextendedfollow-up"(Art.
 14g). This is one of the universal truths of development,yet the Bank and the
Govemment's greed for Arun's powerhasbulldozedthis concemaside. Forthe RAP to
 be effective,it must be startedway in advanceof the project. Buildingthe road at such
highspeedwillexacerbatethedifficultiesin overcomingthealreadyalmostinsurmountable
challengeof tryingtoimplementsuchanambitiousmitigationprogrammealongsideproject
construction,ratherthanin advanceof it.

I would like to remindyou, at this point, the fateof the SardarSarovarProject (Narmada
Dam) in India which had much to do with the non-compliancewith the Bank's own
requirements.


4. Many of the mitigationmeasuresfor direct and immediateadverse environmental
impactsare notjust practical. For example,the lossof fertiletop soil is supposedlyto be
preventedby takinga layer off in selectedsitespriorto the projectactivityand storingit
until it can be returnedto its originalplace. Villagersin the Arun valley wouldlaugh at
such an absurdsuggestion.

5. The RAPis supposedtotakecareof the long-term,indirectandbroadersocio-economic,
culturaland environmentalimpactsof theprojectinthe wholevalley. However,the RAP
appearsto be little more thana wonderfulshoppinglist of goodintentions. Wereit to be
takenseriously,the resourcesrequiredwouldstretchway beyondthe budgetset aside for
it ($17 million). But moneyis only partof the problem. Much more concerningis the
capabilityin the executingagenciestoexecutesuchan ambitiousand far-reachingplan. A
$14 milliongrant is sittingin Kathmandu,setaside fora clean-upprogramfor the capital,
yet bureaucraticinertia has preventedany work from going ahead. If such a straight-
forwardprojectlike this cannotbe managed,howcan we beexpectedto haveconfidence
in implementationof the RAP?

We stronglydifferwiththe Bank's assertionthatthereis littleoppositionto the projectin
Nepal. Withinthe last sixmonthsalone,oppositionto this projectfromamongthe people
at large, intellectuals,professionals,politicians,NGOs,and politicalparties in Nepalhas
growntremendously.Andoppositionwillrisedramaticallyoncelocalpeoplestartrealizing
the impactson their lives onceconstructionworkbegins. Unlesssatisfactoryanswersare
givenand the issuesraisedare resolvedwithregardto thecontroversiesof the presentform

                                                                                    of the
                            the projectrelieson  the assumptionthat  the high  cost

economic  justificationfor                                              openingup   of the

projectwill be offsetby  the Upperand LowerAriinschemes,same time, the
                                                              since the
                                                                                cumulative
                                                      at the
                   developingthese    schemes.   But,
                                                                         are given  only a
valley facilitates
environmentaland    social implicationsof  openingup   the whole valley
                                                                  and other environmental
                                                                                      high
cursory mentionin   the EnvironmentalImpactto  Assessment(EIA)tojustify
                            otherschemesare     beaccountedfor             Arun III's

studies. If ti'ebenefitsof                                          buildingthese schemes.

cost,then  the muchmore     seriousenvironmentalconsequencesof
                         considerationat the sametime.
 alsomustbe    takeninto
                                                                              more  serious
                       of construction,particularlyof       road, has  much

 2. The
 environmentalimplicationsthanpresentedinthewiththe singleobjectiveof commissioning
          rapid  pace                             projectdocuments.Theroadroute,timing
                                                        the


 and methodsof constructionhave beenchosenThis                       plannedto   be built in

 the powerfrom    Arun
                     Quiteapart fromthe
                         mIas soonas possible.coststhiswill incur(includingextensiveair
                                                      120kmroadis
                                          huge
 only three  years.
  support),managingthe    constructionincompliancewiththe proposedmitigationmeasures
                                                                             camps  of up to
                                 not impossible.  To meet the deadline,6-7
  willbe extremelydifficult,if                                       the way   upthe  valley.

  1,500workerswillneedof    to be
  Thiswillmakepolicing        the contractor'scompliancetothe mitigationplanimpossiblein
                                  set upat 10km intervalsspreadall


  practice.                                                                          policies.

   3. Preparationsfor   the projecthave failed to complywith    severalWorldBank
                                                                    bank.  For example:

   We  trustthat that theseviolationswill betakenseriouslybythe
                                                                              on Involuntary
                                          Bank's                                            a
             has  been a violationof  the         OperationalDirective4.30
   Resettlementwhich outlinesone of
     There                              its primaryaims as  "providingpeople displacedby

                                                                                     peoplein
   projectwiththe   meansto   improve,or at leastrestore,theirformerlivingstandards,earning
    capacity,and productionlevels"(Art.2).     Quitethe oppositeis happening.    The

    Tumlingtar,forexample,are beingcompensatedat"land  ratesfar belowthe marketpricewhich
                                                                                       of their
                                                                                            is
                                                           for land"  compensation,
                                                                                      the cash
    land.  Similarly, the  Bank   stronolyadvocates
                                                where  people are   not linked  in to

    particularly importantin   the  Arun valley
                                                                      highlighted   from  cash
                                                have   already  been
                                                                                       But the
    economy     and  where   serious  problems                      route alignment.
    compensationmeasures      implementedfor    the original ridge                       single
    Acquisition,Compensationanddespitethe fact that muchof
                                      RehabilitationProgram(ACRP)has     not identifieda
                                                                 the compensationhas    already

    piece of land  for this purpose,
     beenpaid.     OperationalDirective(OD)4.01 onEnvironmentalAssessmentstatesthatfor
                                                                serious and   multi-dimensional
     * TheBank's                                projects with                     be engagedin
     "major,    highly risky,  or contentious
     environmentalconcerns"No suchpanelhas beenappointedfor
                                (Art. 13),an EnvironmentalAdvisoryPanel mustproject,despite
                                                                    the ArunIII
     preparationof   the EIA.
     its classificationas a CategoryA   project.
                                                                             affectedgroupsand

      * The  sameDirectivealso expects"theborrowertoimplementation,and inparticularinthe
                                                           takethe viewsof

      localNGOsfullyintoaccountin
      preparationofEAs"(Arts. 19,20).Therewasnopublicconsultationat
                                        projectdesignand                     allinthe preparation
                                                                  there any openconsultationon

      of the  EIA  for thevalleyroute for  the road. Neitherwas

        ENVIRONMENTAL            AND SOCIAL ISSUES            RELATING       TO

                                ARUN III     PROJECIT


             GANESH       GHIMIRE,      ARUN CONCERNED             GROUP

                                     June 28, 1994
                                   Washington,DC



       The ArunConcemedGroupis         anopenplatformof NGOs,professionalgroups,and
individualsconcernedwith     variousissuesrelating to  the Arun III  hydroelectricproject.

Some of us,  includingmyself,are fromthe Arunvalley,wherethe projectis      to be located.
                                                                     Like lifeitself,Arun
The name   of the river,"Arun",meansthe     sunandit  representslife.
                                                                Within 100km,   the valley
basin is full
rises from onlya few metersabovethe sea leveltoabout 8500meters,whichgivesrise
             of diversity,bothenvironmentallyand culturally.                            to

its uniqueand rich  environmentand culture.

        TheWorldBankhasrecognizedthe Arunvalleyas           a biodiversityhotspotof global

importance. But at  the sametime,it   is allowingthe intricateand dynamicbalancebetween
the naturalprocessesand humanactivitiestobeseriouslythreatenedbythe Arunhowever,in
                                                                                III project.

The area  is very remote,and   its peopleare vulnerableand   naive,They live,

peace, socialharmonyand      tranquility. TheArun III projectdocumentsacknowledgethat
                                                                   irreversiblechanges   to
the project,  especially  the road,will bring many    negativeand
communitiesand theenvironment.Thesedocumentsbe        furtheracknowledgethatmanyof the
                                                                                      rapid
indirect environmentaland      social impacts cannot      predictednow.   Given the

 constructionplan  andthe sizeof  theproject,a vastpackageof measureshas    beenproposed

 to mitigateagainstits  likelydirectandimmediateimpacts.     ln addition,aRegionalAction

 Plan (RAP)hasbeen designedto      takecareof theindirectandlong-term.environmentaland
 social impacts.

         Despite the impressiveamountof     paperworkproduced,we     do not believethat the
                                                                              the negative
 measures   proposed   will protect  the people and the environment from
 irreversiblechangesexpected.    Themitigationmeasuresare      inadequate,misleading,often
                                                                                          is
 unrealistic,and  also exhibitnon-complianceto    the WorldBank's own    requirements.It

 irresponsiblefor  the Bank to  allow the projectto proceeduntil these issues are resolved.
                                                                                        this
 I would like   to give you   some examplesto   demonstratehow     we have   arrived at

 conclusion.

  1. Someserious environmentaland socialimpactshave beenignored,underplayedof          or in
                                                                   For example,part      the
  some cases,  removed from    early drafts ofprojectdocuments.

                  ARUN CONCERNED GROUP
                                  Address   in Nepal:
                 Secretariat,   P.O. Box 2125, Kathmandu,       Nepal
                           Tel: (977-1) 419610, fax: 412538

                             Address   in United   States:
                          1025 Vermont    Avenue    #300, NW
                               Washington,     DC 20005
                      Tel: (202) 879-3186, Fax: (202) 879-4293


                                                          July 7, 1994
Ann Hamilton
Country Department     I "SA/ 1"
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington,  DC 20005

Dear Ms. Hamilton:

I am writing to request you the complete set of documents    on Arun III Hydroelectric
Project in Nepal based on the attached    list which was made available by the Bank.

The documents    with the following "Report No." are either already available or not
needed at the moment.

Report No.                   Page

27to51                       2
218to242                     8
265 to 298                   9-10 (Video and Audio documents)

I appreciate very much if you provide the rest of the documents    upon your earliest.

       Thank you very much for your cooperation.

                                                                 S,ncerely yours,


                                                                 Gopal Siwakoti
                                                              Secretariat

If these concernsare not addressedadequately by the Bank, we may
be forced to submitan appeal to the Bank's Inspection Panel.

Thank you for yourattention to these matters.


Sincerely,



Bikash Pandey/                         Alex Bush
Alliance for Energy                    Intermediate Technology
Nepal                                  England


Arj  Ctai                              Gopal Siwakoti
Arun Conerned  Group                   Arun Concerned Group
Nepal                                  Nepal


                                    P/'Ravi Pradma'
Alliance for Energy                    Alliance for Energy
Nepal                                  Nepal


Pitamber B. Chetffri                   Ganesb K. Ghimire
Alliance for Energy                    Arun Concerned Group
Nepal                                  Nepal


Gopi Upreti
Arun Concerned Group                     PAT
Nepal                   K              Japan



Herman Warth                           Brent Blackwelder
Urgewald                               Friends of the earth
Germany                                USA


Lori Udall                             Chad Dobson
International Rivers Network           Bank Information Center
USA                                    USA




cc: Lewis T. Preston, The World Bank
    D. Joseph Wood, The World Bank
    Ismail Serageldin, The World Bank
    Ann Hamilton, The World Bank

                               7


                                                           TOTALP.06

      compensation,
                          which
     where                          is  particularly
              people    are                                  iwnport-.rnL:
                              not                                            in   Lthe   Arun
     were                           linked                                                       valley
             highlighted                      to the     cash
                               in the                           econnrey.
     of   cash                           project                                Serious
                  compensatiorn                      doc'mieerits                            problems
                                                                      aft.er   the    ea.rlier
     route                           ineasures
              alignment                            implemented                                     round
                            . Despite                                  for   the    original
     offer                                tlhis,                                                   ridge
              the   option                          nc.) land
                               of land                          h is   ye,
                                          for                                been
                                                larnd                                 ideintifiied
                                                         co.1penrsation.                                tc,
     D) Agreements        with   Neighboring       Countri    es
    1) Power      Sale   Agreement      Must    be Reached        witli   India
    Since    phase    II  of the
    the                              Arun
         valley                             project
                    have                                and
                           been                               futuire
                                   rrecdicated                            power    .3eveloprnent.
    project                                                                                            i.n
                must    not                         on thie
                             be aoproved                      sale    of power       to   india.
    reached.                                   un-il                                                 the
                   India   currenrly                     a bilatei:al       agrneeent
    at prices                             buys                                               has   been
                  significantly                   power    from    the   ClIuktha   damn   ir
   power                               below                                                    Bhutan
             means                              cost    price.
                      it   is   highly                               T-he  hiqh   c07st
   India                                  unlikely                                         of Arun's
             will   make                                 that
                           econordc-                             any    powrer
                                         sense.                                   sale    deal     vith
   2) The     Riparian     Issue    Must    be Resolved       with     China.
   In   the   Nepali     Parliament
  announced                               recent.ly,
                  that                                    the
                         China    held                          WVat.r     Resourcos       Minister
  Arun    !II.                           'nc, objection"
                  However,      this                            to Ne        Il's p' ans
  Arun's                               does   not                                           to b^ui ld
             water                                  constitute
                      supply     for                                 a proni    se to     q-guarantee
  proposal                             the
                 is                           ifetime
                      pending                              of thceproject.            Even
  project                         in   China                                                  now,     a
               on the                           for     the
                         Artin                                Chatigsuo
                                 (Phuing                                     Basin      irra1
  large                                                                                         ation
           number                          Chu)    river.
                      of glacier                                In addit:ion,         there
 Lake                                 lakes                                                     are
          Outburst                            in Tibet                                                 a
                        Floods                              which
                                   to                                 could    produce      Glacier
 manaae                                 whic.
              premature                          Lt1epal   htas
                             drainage.                            no access,         iri order
 commitment                                  Approving                                               t.c
                  from    China                               Aruin
                                   markecily                           III    witLhout
                                                increaSe's                                   a   fitLm
                                                                the    risk    of che     project.
 E) Conclusion

 The   Bank's      failure     to ensure
 assessrnent                                  thatt
                   and                                 .iLS
                          information                         Z'o.L.iCJ-5s  Onr   environmeental
 undermining                                 disclosurce
                     democratic                                 are     being       follrws?ad
unresolved                             processes                                                    is
                 issues                                  in
                            surrounding                        P;epal.      Wet   br-lieve
consultation                                 this                                                 the
                    and                              project,
                          access                                    and
for                                  to                                   the   lack    of publi.c
       Board                             information
                consideration                               makes     .t   highly     unsuitable
project                              at   this
             of this                              time.
                         magnitude                         W;e also      auest.ion      whether
of IDA                                  and                                                          a
           funds,                            adverse
                     particularly                          impacts     i-   a reasonable
If   the                                wlen
          Bank                                  viable                                           use
                  is   to take                             alternitives        are    available.
sustainable                       seriously      its
                  development,                         publicly       stated     conunitme!nt
of                                    then
     alternatives                            there    shoul                                        t.o
                          which                               i be    a full    investigation
energy                              are   more
          needs.                                   .-uitable      fr     Nepal's       long-term




                                                b

 2)    A Realistic            Implement.iLioui         Programme           and       TimCni_able for           The
 Regional       Action      Plan     and Road Construc-tion                 muot.be Established.

 Construction           of   the     122   kiin road     is     cur-i-ent.1y        ple.i         ar   ea    -.pi i
 rate    of    just    over     three     years.       The      -road wil] 1 ..          'iVeLy      imp act    on
 the people         living     in the valley,           thlroughi an influxu.,f                 up to i0,000
 construlction         workers      and their       famnilies,        whilu       w:       pt.
                                                                                            ,    przesslire     Oi'
precious        food,      forest      and   water      resources.            Many      of    the   people      of
 the   Arun     Valley     fit    the   Bank'      cdefinitio,n        of     "in.-iaen.cus        pe-p1e        in
 its    operational          directive        OD 4.20         whlich    stat      es    that     "suiccessful
planning         for     indigenous         peoples         frequ(ently            requ."   res    lorng     le,ad
 times,     as    well     as   arrangement:s         for     extende:l          follow-up".           For     the
Regional        Action      Pllan    to   be   effective,          it   mnust: be         started      welL     in
advance       of   the    project.         The   rapid      speed     of    road      constituctiorn         will
 further       undermine         the   Pegional         tit.t.ri    Plan's         ability        to   cush:Fin
this     sensitive        region       fro,m   the long-term            and in,direct              i.rnlpaOts   On
the     valley.           The       ronstruccion         schedule          fr.,:     the road         miust     be
extended         to minimize                                to    loAa] .isruItion
                                                                                 coinrniiritiea       and     the
environment,

Moreover,        we question         wlhetlher zlhe Nepaal E,octricity                    Author-ity       which
has     its      primary         interest        in    promoting            the       project         has     the
capability          or the      will     to  proi,erly        irmplenmernt the           Regional        Action
Plan.

3) Long-Term            Cumulative         Environmental             Impacts          of     Arun III         and
Subsecuent         Projects        Must be Studied

The Worid         Bank's      Environmental          Assessmient           Policy         recommends         that
regional          environmental            assessments            be      used         in      cases      wrhere
significant          developmernt        activities         with     potenit.ial.ty          cumulative
impacts       are    planned       for   a localized          area.        Arun III          is only       first
phase     in a plan        to build       j total     of three         dains in the            Arun lVallev.
Despite      this,     environmental          studies       have only           covered       the potential
adverse      impacts       of Arun III.         Before       the    project         is approved,          there
should     be a comprehensive              studv    of the loing-termT Cnniulativeimpacts
of dam building            and road        construction           in the          Tnt:.ire Arun Valley.

4) The Acquisition,               Compensation        and Rehabilitation                   Program Should
be Revised         to Ensure        that    Families        Receive        Equitable           Compensat.ion
and that       the    Program is         in Compliance           with      fiank Policy.

Families        whose       land     will be        te.ken       fo-r the-         project        ate being
compensated         at a rate        that    is well-t%elowtne nmc:rket rate                        for   their
land.       In this       respect       the   project         is   failing to comply with! the
Banks    Operational           Directive        on Trivoluntary            Reesertlement            (OD)4.30,
para    2) . In addition,             Bank policy         advocal:es          Ilancl      for   lAned"




                                                      5

Requests        for    th-e greer.      cover      st.-ft    a pris>            r*} ort:,     a I',
                                                                                                  CoLher
teclhnical         in forniation       S'l(IcL    as     hy dro-q    ir-,i;.l    st udicy.;     ,ini     the
cost/benefit          arnalysis      have     been     dCeTlied. Tht! Bank h)                xeleaFd        a
list    of    documents       on   the   ptoject       which     was    cortipiled     by, thle      NoeEPali
governmenlt,        but   it   is  not    clear    what    docwrients        the   Eiank is      prepared
to    publicly       release.       The    staEf     apprai.saL       riE;;rL       is   crit-ical       for
local       groups     because      it is      the    basic     tec.i.-ical       prcdject       docu.nt
which       contains       the   project       justification           arid     rationale         for    the
Bank's        involvement         in   the      project.       It     is     critical thatt            tr.is
document        be   released,       before       it becomes        firnal.       W4hile we realize
there     may be a small         portion of confidentrial               informa.tion         within,       we
believe        these     sections       sh-ould be        excised,        arnd the       re3t.:     of   t:he
document        should     be released.         The Projev2t        Informat;Lorn        Document        has
never     been    updated      anrld it   conltains      SO little       i1tc,!5.J    tioln that      it   is
useless        for   NGOs who are questioni.ngj                  Lhe b}.sic         assurnptions         and
objectives         of   the   project.

C) Environmental            And Social         Issues

The Arun Valley            is   a remote       area    of vast      bioloqic&1         d.iversity        and
ecological         fragility.        The Va'lley        is   inhabited         by 450,000         people,
comprising          10    ethnic       groups.       These      people        will      he     extremely
vulnerable          during      read      and     project       construct.ion.            Abour       1,760
families        will    be    affected       by   the    loss    of    thieir     homes,       lands     and
livelihoods.         Ot:her families          will   be adversely affected                by the      laerge
influx       of   workers      and   the    pressure       put.ton 1-o-etl         food, forest          and
water      resources.       It  is estinmated         -hat subsistence            farmers      adversely
affected        by the     roead will       lose   20% of      treir     incorre.

The Arun        III   project,      alorrgwith the upper and                   lowez.A-runproject
will      cause      irreversible,           long     terni    cumulative            imnpacts       to   the
environment         and    the   people.       many of thiese         cumul.ative        impacts       have
not    yet    been    assessed.       Because there            vave already          beein violations
of   the    World    Bank's      environmental          and social        policies,        we question
the conunitment          of Bank manraement.             and Ntepal Electricity                Authority
to implement            the    project.      with     proper environmental                  znd social
safeguards.

1) The Regional            Action      Plan must Be Completed

The     King      mahendra        Trust       follow-up        study       to     tLhe tMkakalu-rarun
Environmental           Inpact     Study,      which     is   essential        gr< oundwor'(       for   the
Regional         Action      Plan,     will      not     be   compited           for    at     least     six
months.         The World        Bank    Bo.rtd    date     and   road      constructlon          must     be
postponed          until     all    portions        of the        Regionail        Action Plarn are
completed        and are in place.            Previous      Bank experience             with projects
such      as    Sardar     Sarovar       in    India     where     prnject         construction          was
                                                                                         3implir1
start.ed      before     environmental         studies      were comr Ilet ed anr                     nerited
have     failed.

 T'his lack       of   cors u1. t..itc-*l
                                       ion                             V.    t       .          f     t bh'     W:z5k' z
 Operaticnal        Li rectlve      onrit     rlror,m-?e: r1            :s.r1E?rt          n        i.    r
 that                                                                                                               t4e
         tic-  goverrernt.       take, into       i-3r,-!".-Ct t he V.r           oft         LC':Lt:1                  n
 anc] rl,Os                                                                                                     *Us
                in   t-he prer:e;a     tl'n     of- pvtiE'o:                      'I1i;:.i    pr))lI'!I p      t -.
  (OD 4.01,      para    19).

 2)   Failure     to   Release      Information

 Despite     repeated       roque8t-s      over sev?l.1i         y a- .,        nl       iTI        Iie;t_,           1-a\s/
 months     have    any project       dcOCu.Ihern:sbren         ia.rl-Ie r'.vnE    i. II      to       t h-    Np=iti
 public.      Their     release     only     ca:me -hout. fololirn;1              aTcort               . ase.tf i 'efd
 by   NGCs which         led    to   a     SipreTrP-Court            d'le is i'Zn d.-nvinr                        trneir
 disclosure.         Despite      the    ruling,      w:hir-h    doatrzndiIt3       h:-   re.!e^se             rQf a'1
 documents        related       to    thel    Ar n       I T T p!6ject,            many^ o-fC thD                    key
 documents        a re   still     beinr        wirl!ield       by      the      :n2a i i          a0v.:Lri'innt..,
 precluding       any meaningfuli          kkeb.nte.

 The    library       w1hich     was       estab]    Ia1)I ?!d     r       ti Neo,-,al E ectt                     i.CIt.y
 Authority       after     the   caze     wis    filedlir        t.Llhe ;trreme          Court             doer,     not
 contain     many    kpy -documents         si.:ch as tlle        ernorSL&h'         of Ulnrl?rstanciing
between      the    Government       of    Nep;tl    arn!c tho     Vorld       R.-rnk     ',O:L-ober             1993)
 or  the draft       project     a:ppraisal        docu-erntr..      In a pr2oject              of       t:his     si-
and    cost    which     will    affeCt thlt wiole             rtal:i.n      of Nelp7,               the      public
should      be able     to get access          to ir,form.tic-n            on exist,ing              zagieements
between       the    Governme-nt        afid the World              Bank,       and       brsiic            project
docuarments.       Additional       .y,, thje fi 1       env.ironment-9.2          impnp-t          a*tnr,l-fmnt.
has    not    been    made availab2e             in    th. loca'            l>ngquge,             which            is a
requirement        of Bank policy            (0D 4.01,        p3ra      211.

3) Failure        to Releane       World Bankl Documents

Both     the    Bank's      Enviromrlental           Asses.nMent           Policy         (or: 4.01) arnd
Infonration         Procedures        (BP 17.50)           r-quire        tChe 1-.irml1v release                      of
information        about    projects'ain        prelparat     ion,     esrpecicllly         before            public
consultations          take     place.        This     h.s     been        violated           consistently
throughout         all     project        platinirmig      and     detsgrg.          Th'          EBan,k's          nfow
information        policy     requires       thle reel;ase        of thf       Firo:Lct           Informatior
Dociument and tne         release      of all     far-tuaj      tec-hnical iflTtfrmtiosn                   fnh':Ft
the   project     . While      the    prclect:       inforeatic,n            do2um:nt           wa) read1i]y
available        in   Washington,          it    hlas     nlot   been        arni 1 h1               in       Nepeal .
P.equests       for     factual       techn i cai         irformat io,rn on                tlie          prCj ect,
including      studies      on alternativf-s           tc th-iprje'-t             *.were dellied                until
June    9th,    when the      Bank released            ornly a sti.vidy        0n     alternatives                    by
Argonne     National.     Laboratories.          11GOshave not.            hlcad sUfficient                 time      tD
analyze      this     docux!nent     and mT3r.y of           thlfeussurmrt iorns              used in               the
document      are   riot explained.




                                                    3

In   the   interes3t.s      of   goerneating         . Lrgy      aor    ;.b; :a1 at     le.-s;     c',t,     it
is   imperative         that     the   stl.a.y     of   the       .t.rPa^.ives         he    t.okerr    :(o at
least    t:he    feasibility         level      T-.c allow      -ipjrcp.pr      carnir  :s.Sn      with     th'ne
Arun    project       before      the   prc'j-c:       is   tal:ern    to   t      E
                                                                                   Ronr   drd f.:r   a vote.
Unless     t.his    is     done    the    RPnik will        nO t    hav+*    ful-il     l.ed i r pItr.icy
requirement        to compute        th;     Lieast   Cost. an.alysi:-         For a5:Il.litiornal      power
gener ation       for     Nepal.

B) Public Participation                 and     ACCeSS to        Information

1)   Public     participation           and ConsultaLion

Public      Participation           in     cri'eproject has             rn-ot;eri         ad:t:e.          The
project      is    being     port.rayv.:d       by   the    Gov;.-rrm;Xent of         N.upa3-l as      ha'v-incg
been     chosen       through       a tranlsparent           and      open     dientoc.ticiC       proces$s.
However,        only     in   the    laest      six    monthls       (withl- proje-t          prep          krataon
almost      at    completion)         has      there      'been    an-     seriou,        dizc.ission        in
Parliament         or      with     the      public       with       the     bIenef it      of arcr-urate
informatiori.         Prior     to that,       Artin III      was consistently              presenterl       to
the    public      as a fait         accon.pii.          The discus.sions            th.at     have    taken
place     have     been      forced      by     concerned         groups;      rathe.u       than 9t.       the
instigation          of    the    Goverr.rerit        of    Nepal or         t he                Rank.
                                                                                                 Banr:i    For
example,      NGOs organized           a pub-lic       hearing       in Febru.ry          11993 whiich wars
attended        by    Nepal       Electricity           Authority          bi.it   boycotted          by    the
Ministries         of    Water      Resou-rcs         and     Finance        and     by    the     National
Planning        Coxrnission.         As     a   result,       there       was     nro opportunity            to
challenge        key    governmTent        ministriers        about the pr.ject.

The alternatives             to   the    project        (along        Ihe 1Lines of         [Ilan    B) th.at
are   available         tio Neval      have     never     b}.een presented           to   the     people     or
the   Parliament.          The NJlepali government              &claims i.o havde htel(d 23 public
meetings,         11 of     which     were      in   the    Arun Va1ley.            tWhile it is truie
that    there     was one public'           bearing       ir  Tumlingtir,           mimr.; of the       othler
meetings       being     classified         as pub'ic       hearings       were     i.-.t- inq stzictly
to   inform     peopl.e     about    compnr.saton           procedures          for thteir       Land.    NGOs
who tried       to   raise     issues       III the    meeting.;       about     the   project       anrd its
adverse      environmental           and social         inipact.s     were    prevent.edfrom d.Jing
so.   The Government            has alsc-       misinformed           peop1r;     in   the     Arln    Valley
abotut    the    project,       leading        them    to   belir;v,       they    will     receive       jobs
and   electricity.          In   reality,        there     has    heei     nrc concrete          cc;mmitment
to   supply      electricity         to     the   poeople     in    the    ArulTn VAlley         and only      a
small     number       of    lobs    will      be    created        for    loca.l     people,        because
outside      workers       will    he broughr          in.   Because       of tlhe ;nagniti.1(3e,         cost
and    adverse       impacts       of    t':ee project        jindl t`-i     impli:etions            for    the
national        budget      of   Nepa'L,       we b(:elievre      thi.s    proje-     t   is     a national
issue     and we have         a>Eo requested             that     therLe be pulbliiv           hearincgs      in
Kathmandu.

                         FOR      ~LI                    \7
                    FOR LDIJUn                     ~                ARUNC-ONCERNED
                                         @ U                                                  GROUP
                                                                    P.O. Box
                                          .                                     2125
                                                                   I-athmandu,       Nepal
P.O.Box2772,Baluwatar.     Kathmandu,
Fax:+9771                              Nepal
           ;.72oI6tFa:(97-                                         Fe: (977-1)      416538
                                                                                      123
      Executive       Directors
     The World        Bank
      1818   H Street
     Washington,         D.C.
     20433

     July    6, 1994
                                                                   BY FA  X


     Dear   Executiv.e       Director,

    We wotuld      like    to thank     you f)r      meUiLLng
    June                                                         with
            27th,       and                                             us diuring
                              hearing                                                  the
                                           our    concerns                                   week of
    electric       project                                      abouIt   the
                               in                                               Arun:
                                    Nepal.                                              IT]
                                                 We hope                                       -yrdro-
    you    have                                              that    through
                      come    to                                                 these
                                   understand                                             meertings,
    implications                                       the   risks,
                         of Board                                       drawl.icks       and   wider
                                                   offpproval
    designed.                                           the Atrun
                    We remnain                                       ITT project.
                                   unconvinced                                        as clurrently
    seriously                                          that   our
                     by                                            concerns
                           Barik   nanagemernt.                                  are   being   taken
    questions                                          Becausn
                    and unresolved                                 of    tlhe   rnsr:y
                                          issues                                        unanswRred
    it woluld                                        rolatirng
                  be irresponsible                               to tho    project,     we helieve
    the                                     of the
         Board                                         Bank to
                    on July                                       allow
                                26th.                                      Aruri IIT    to coiiie  tc
    the                                   We urge
          following                                    you to   delay
                          issues                                         the    Board
                                    have                                                dat:e
                                            been                                              until
                                                    ade-quaLely     addr-s>se&:
   A) Adequate         Analysis     of Alternatives%

   The very      high     unit  cost    oL construction
   tariff     that     consumers                                and the     cvres;pondirig
                                     of the     energy                                          high
   remain     a serious                                    fromn AZun    III
                              concern.                                         will
                                           Lack.of                                    lIaveto    pay
                                                        study
   the eight       years                                        of the    alt.enaJives
                             of preparation                                                  durini
   major                                            of this
              criticism                                         project
                               of    t.his                                  cont inues
                                              project.                                      to be a
   Generation        Plan                                     Tlhe Least'
                            exercise                                            Cost
                                         that                                           Expa rtsi on
   to                                            has been
         date                                                 used
                   has                                                to justily.
                          been     admitted                                           the project
   conclusively                                   by Dank        MhnagncerPenL
                       the superiority                                             not    te,  show
  as    currently                              of thiQPlan
                         designed)                              A opt: ion    (the
                                        over                                         Arun project
                                                rlan
  project                                                B (which-
               come                                                   proposes
                       on line     in t.he                                           to h,ave
                                              year                                               the
  number                                               2,009aftLr
              of                                                      the
                     small                                                  construction
                               and   mneclium                                                  of-a
  national                                       hydropower
                 grid.                                            schlenfes)
                           The cost                                              to
                                        of                                            sup-ply
                                             the                                                 the
  Plan                                              P.an
          A cption                                          B prrjects
                          are   extremrely                                  cnmpared     with
                                                prel.miniary.                                    the
  Cheaper      E8nergy                                               1T'lcs
                           for                                             study
                                 Nepal,                                              'Arin
                                            sent                                              ITT
                                                                                                   -
  indicates       that                               t.o Branr;kmacfnageTnent
                          hydropower                                              in
                                           sctiem;s                                   Apr- I   1.994
  have   been                                           under
                  studied                                       the
                              in greater                              100KATrange       that
                                               d-rai.l
  up with                                                 in the
                energy      costs                                  lest.year      have
                                      lower                                              all come
  response                                      than     Arun
                to                                               III.
                      this   study                                       There
                                      from                                         has be-en
                                             the                                                  no
                                                    Banik.
           .
                                                                                      .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*

Based on 1hi' 'uoe n!trumber()fcliuf;ems ic'.amdillui  Ai tiAI) Pl,     Wt' `c 111,ul HL
                                                                                    urt' yOLrt2ge?TCY

Loconsider vitilizin your fum;1- f&,,supporiing srnial fuld mawj'iwrhvyl.oq,v         sChenies of less
than IOU11Wc.apacily which      ali: myor eocoimitically,ctlv;ir.lfldeL.n!)       mm lly  simJld frO
Nepal's currentsiLuation:

Thank you fmty'our iuendiov    to sthe uxgent mrauers.
                                       mg


Sincerely,




Bikash Pande)
Alliance for Encrgy
Nepal




Gopal Siwakoti
Arull Concernedl] Goup
Nepal




Lori Udall
Iniernatio)nal Ri;eis N-,twvork
USA




Chad Dohsiii
Bank InformationCcnter
USA




Friends(of the Farmh
USA




Yukio Tainaka
CEPAT
Japan


                                                  6

*       The engineering and management capability to build a largeproject like Arun does not
        exist in the country, which means that the entire scheme will be built by international
       contractors.

PreviousexperiencewithlargehydroprojectsinNepalmanagedin thisway (theMarsyangdiand
Kulekhanischemes)demonstrategthat such dependenceon externaltechnologiesand expertise
does nothingto helplocal capabilitygrow and mature- in fact, the reverseis often the reality.;
Whilethere weretoken provisionsmadefor localcapabilitybuildingin the two projectsnamed
above, they never developedinto genuinecapabilitybuilding. It is hard to see how Arun will
enhance the hydropowercapabilityof Nepal.

The shortcomingsof this approachare alreadyclear.Japaneseexpertshad to be broughtin          to
assess thedamageonthe Kulekhanipenstock(washedawayinthe floodsof 1993)and fouryears
after the completionof the plant, German techniciansare still needed long term to       run the
Marsyangdipowerplant.TheJapaneseexpertshavepointedout the lack of routinemaintenance
on the Kulekhaniprojectand almostnorecordkeepingof the maintenancethat was done.

Local capabilityin hydropowerhas been growingand maturingrapidly over        the last 10years,
particularlyinthe privatesector. Localcompaniesare nowtakingon50-60MWschemes,which
are plentybigenoughtomeetNepal'srelativelymodestenergyneeds.         However,localinitiatives
require supportrather thancompetitionfromschemeslikeArun.


-      Given Nepal's current development statusandpriorities, Arun could do more     to damage
       than enhance the country's overall development prospects

Nepal is one of the 10poorestcountriesin the world. Its mosturgentneedsare        for the basic
servicesof clean water,sanitation,healthand education. Whileelectricityis   highon the list of
prioritiesforNepal's ruralcommunities(whichrepresent90%of      thepopulation),theystandlittle
chanceof gainingaccessto Gridelectricityevenin the longterm.     Stand-alonemini-and micro-
hydroschemesoffertheonlyrealisticoptionformanyof thesecommunitiesever           tobenefitfrom
electricity.

Given the Bank's emphasison 'povertyalleviation'strategiesfor     developmentand the recent
concernsraised in the WapenhansReportabout the 'sustainabledevelopmentimpact'             of its
projects,it is difficulttosee howitjustifiesthe constructionof Arun,whichwillbenefitso     few,
generateno incomeforthe countryand increaseits burdenof       debt.




                                              4

  Arunschemeand is doublyunpopularbecausetogetherwiththe tariffincreasepeoplecanexpect
  more load-sheddingfor    the foreseeablefuture.The  further50% tariffincrease that isexpected
  to be needed to pay    for the energy producedfrom   Arun will meanthat   Nepal will have  the
  highestenergypricesin    SouthAsia and threatensto   destabilizethe countrypolitically.


  *       There has not been     enough preparationfor    detailed planning  of the mitigation
         measuresneededlo      counterthe seriousadverseenvironmentalimpactsof        the access
         roadto the ArunProject.

 TheArunValleyis a      remotearea of vastbiologicaldiversityandecologicalfragility.Thevalley
 is inhabitedby 450,000people comprising10ethnic groups.These          peoplewill be extremely
 vulnerableduringroad     andprojectconstruction.Over 1000familieswill   be affectedby the loss
 oftheirhomes,landsandlivelihoods.Pre-projectmitigationactivitiestopreparethelocalpeople
 for the effects of the constructionof   the road has not even  begun and there are only a few
 monthsleft beforetheproposedbeginningofconstruction.TheNepalElectricityAuthoritywhich
 is in charge of    co-ordinatingthe    mitigation activitiesand has full responsibility   over
 environmentalmanagementduring constructionand        after commissioninghas   no capabilityor
 experiencein thisarea.ThereareseriousdoubtsthatNEAcanexecutethesefunctionseffectively
 in spite of the "unprecedentedlevel  of planningof mitigationfor this project".


 a      Publicparticipationbothat    a locallevelin theaffecteddistrictandat   a nationallevel
        has been insufficientin   the developmentof  the Arunproject.

Seriousquestionsthat thepeopleof SankhuwaSawa(thedistrictwherethe projectis to         besited)
have regardingthe alignmentof     the road, and benefitsto the localpopulationof jobs, training
and access to electricityhave not been adequatelyanswered.The      one PublicHearing that was
held in the'district was  not publiclyannounced.Whensatisfactoryanswers to      their questions
couldnot beprovidedduringthe Hearing,localleadersaskedthe organizers,morethanonce, to
terminatethe meetingandgobacktoKathmandu.No documentsregardingthe project(including
the EnvironmentalImpactAssessmentin       thelocallanguage)wereavailabletolocalpeoplebefore
the Hearing.

The projectaffects   all the peopleof Nepalin   differentways- as  consumersof the produced
electricityor as thosecarryingthe   burdenof theloan. Governmentofficialsboycotteda     Public
Hearingin Kathmanduon      the projectorganizedbyNGO's onFebruary11th,1993and havenot
organizedoneof their own.A     PublicHearingneedstobeheldin     Kathmanduto discussthe risks
of the projectto the nationaleconomyand the altemativesto     Arunthat are available toNepal.




                                               3

few. Large, centralizedpower schemes      like Arun will not help the remaining 90%     of the
populationgain accessto electricity.

Even to those who will benefitfrom Arun,     the cost will be very high. Despiteconcessional
terms on the loans from the World      Bank and Asian DevelopmentBank        to His Majesty's
Governmentof Nepal (HMG/N),the          Nepal ElectricityAuthoritywill be required    to make
payments to HMG/Nfor the loan at an      interestrate of 10.25%. This cost will  ultimately be
borne by the consumer,who willpay veryhighelectricitytariffs.


*       The scheme willcost$3,800per installedkW.     Privatecompaniesin Nepalcan and are
        buildingsmall and medium hydroschemes       (upto 60MW)at halfthat rate.

In the light of the highcost of powerproduction,it is surprisingthatAruncame out as    the best
optionfor Nepalto pursuein the LeastCostGenerationExpansionPlan(LCGEP).The             LCGEP
did not considerall the possibleoptionsfor     hydropowerdevelopmentin Nepal, and       largely
ignoredthe small/mediumscale sector.

Local private sectorinitiativesare consistentlybuildingschemesfor    less than $2,000 per kW
installedin the small(1-15MW)andmedium(15-1OOMW)           hydroranges,and $1,500perkW in
the mini/micro-hydrorange.The20 to25MWof annualincrementalpowerneedsof             the national
grid caneasily be met with a basketof    l-1OOMWschemescomingon line one after the       other.


                                                                                          This
*       Investing in Arun means putting all    Nepal's hydropowereggs in one basket.
        makes it a high-risk option and    provides no answer to the current    load shedding
       problem.

Investingin more, smallerschemeswouldspreadtherisks of        investmentand energyprovision.
If anythinggoes wrongwith Arun, the     countrywill haveno alternativesto fall   back on. The
startdateforthe constructionof Arunhasalreadybeenshiftedand is likelyto     befurtherdelayed.
Shorter-gestationprojectswillrelieve loadsheddingmuch sooner.


        Politicalstabilityin the country willbethreatenedif tariff has to be raisedto the level
        being insisted on by the WorldBankfor    this project to go ahead.

Sincethe newlyelecteddemocraticgovernmentcametopower,electricitytariffwasraised61%
in November 1991and again40% in February 1992.This         has beenfollowedwith an increase
of 38% in early 1994.This increaseof     over 200%in the electricitytariff has  led to political
protests in all the major cities in Nepaland  petitionsfrom the businesscommunityfor      tariff
reductions.

The high tariff is seen to be a directconsequenceof the highcost of powergenerationfrom     the


                                               2

                          [ n@3                0DS             ARUNCONCERNEDGROUP
                   FOR       ,.                    2,/P.O.           Box 2125
                                                               Kathmandu, Nepal
P.O.Box2772,Baluwatar.                                        Tel: (977-1) 419610
                       Kathmandu', Ncplas:                           (977-1) 412538
Fax: 9771 72o161

      ChristianSundgren
      Director
      FINNIDA
      KatajanokanLaituri3
      SIN00160
      Helsinki
      Finland


      12July 1994                       By Fax:358-0-341-6375


     DearMr. Sundgren,


     We are writing to  you regardingthe    Arun 111hydroelectricprojectin   Nepal which is  being
     consideredfor fundingby    FINNIDA.We     believethatalternativesto  the projecthavenot  been
     adequately investigatedor  publicly debated.We   also submit that   the long term cumulative
     environmentaland   social impactof  developmentand road    buildingin this remote and pristine
     environmenthave   not been adequatelyaddressed.Moreover,publicconsultationand       accessto
     informationhas beeninadequatein    the preparationof the project.Listedisanelaborationof our
     major concems:


             Witha currentprice  tag of $764 million,the Arun  III hydropowerscheme    willcost as
            much as the entirenationalbudgetforoneyear.      Thisis a majorfinancial  commitment
             way beyond Nepal's limitedresources.

    Althoughmuch of    the loanfor the Arunprojectis beingmadeavailableon      concessionalterms,
    it is still a hugeburdenfor a countrywithsuch a   limitedbudget.    One third of the country's
    nationalrevenuealreadydisappearsintoloanrepayments.Sinceonly9%           of the populationhas
    accessto electricity,the whole countrywillbearthe   debtburdenfor    the benefitsenjoyedby  a

                                         >E              D DS3CONCERNEDEARUN GROUP
                  FOR                       @) a .-        P.O. Box 2125
                                                           Kathmandu, Nepal
                                                           Tel: (977-1) 419610
P.O.Box2772, Baluwatar, Kathmandu,Nepal                    F&x: (977-1) 412538
Fax: 9771                                                   F2oI1            2

      PhilippeJurgensen
      DirectorGeneral
      Caisse Francaisede Developpement
      35 rue Boissy
      D'Anglas 75379
      Paris
      France


      12July 1994             By Fax:33-1-47427514


      DearMr. Jurgensen,

      We are writing to you regarding the  Arun III hydroelectricprojectinNepal which is being
      consideredfor fundingbyCaisseFrancaisedeDeveloppment.We       believethataltemativestothe
      projecthave not beenadequatelyinvestigatedor  publiclydebated.Wealso submitthatthe   long
      term cumulativeenvironmentaland     social impact of developmentand  road buildingin this
      remote and pristine envirornmenthave    not been adequatelyaddressed.   Moreover, public
      consultationand access   to informationhas been inadequatein the preparationof the projecL
      Listedis an elaborationof our  majorconcems:


                                                                                     wUlcostas
      *        With a currentprice tag of$764million,theArun IIIhydropowerscheme
              much as the entirenatiohalbudgetfor oneyear.  This isa majorfinancial commitment
              way beyond Nepal's limitedresources.

      Althoughmuch of the loanfor    the Arunprojectis beingmadeavailableon  concessionalterns,
      it is.still a huge burdenfor a countrywithsuch a limitedbudget.  One third of the country's
      nationalrevenuealreadydisappearsintoloanrepayments.Sinceonly9%of        thepopulationhas
      access to electricity,thewholecountrywillbearthe debtburdenforthe   benefitsenjoyedby a

                                                               ARUN CONCERNED GROUP
                  FOR                                          P.O. Box    2125
                                                               Kathmmndu,       Nepal

                                                                               419610
P.O.Box2772,Baluwatar,   Ksthmandu,  Nepal                     Tel: (977-1)
                                                                Fax1277o)4253
Fax:+9771


      CarlThamn
      DirectorGeneral
      SIDA
      BirgerJarlsgatan#69
      S-1L525
      Stockholm
      Sweden


      July 12,   1994                  By Fax  468-322-141




      DearMr.     Tham,

      We are.writing      to you regardingthe  Arun III hydroelectricprojectin   Nepalwhich   is being
                                                                            the project have not been
       consideredfor     funding by  SIDA. We   believe thatalternativesto
                                                                                           cumulative
       adequatelyinvestigated or     publicly debated.We  also submit  that the  long term
                                                                                               pristine
       environmentaland                      developmentand   road buildingin  this remoteand
                                                                                             accessto
       environmenthave      not been adequatelyaddressed.Moreover,publicconsultationand
                             socialimpactof

       informationhas     beeninadequatein  the preparationof the project.Listedisan elaborationof our

       majorconcems.

                                                                                           willcost as
       *        With a currentprice tag of  $764millioA,the   Arun III hydropowerscheme
                                                                                          commitment
                much as the   entirenationalbudgetfor  oneyear.   Thisis a majorfinancial

                way beyond Nepal's    limitedresources.

        Althoughmuch of the      loanforthe Arunprojeciis  beingmadeavailableon      concessionalterms,
                                                                             One third of the country's
       *nationalrevenuealreadydisappearsintoloanrepayments.Sinceonlythe benefitsenjoyedbya
        it is still ahuge burdenfor   a countrywith  such a limitedbudget.
                                                                              9%of the  populationhas

        accessto    electricity,the whole countrywillbearthe debtburdenfor

       iDfinR@
       0             13                                          ARUNCONCERNED GROUP
                   FOR                                           P.O. Box 2125
                                                                 Kathmandu,     Nepal
                                                                 Tel: (977-1) 419610
P.O.Box2772,Baluwatar,   Kathmandu,  Nepal                       Fae: (977-1) 412538
Fax: 9771 J201o6f




     Akira Nishigaki
     President
     Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
     Takebashi Godo Building, 4-1
     Otemachi 1-chome
     Chiyoda-ku
     Tokyo, Japan



     July 12, 1994                                        BY FAX 81-33-215-2897



     Dear Mr. Nishigaki,

     We are writing to you regarding the Arun IIIHydroelectric project in Nepal      which is under
     consideration to receive funding by the OECF. We are also following   up on a June 5th meeting
     we had at OECF in Washington D:C. with Mr. Hasegawa, in which we         discussed our concerns
     about the project as currently designed.

     We believe that altematives to"the project have not been adequately     investigated or publicly
     debated. We also submit that the long term cumulative environmental       and social impact of
     development and road building in this remote and pristine environment have not  been adequately
     addressed. Moreover, public consultation and access to information   has been inadequate in the
     preparation of the project. Listed is an elaboration of our major concerns:



     *        Witha currentprice tag of $764million,the Arun III hydropowerscheme         willcost as
              much as the entirenationalbudgetfor.oneyear. Thisis a majorfinancial       commitment
              way beyond Nepal's Limitedresources.

     Although much of the loan for the Arun project is being made available   on concessional terms,
     it is still a huge burden for a country with such  a limited budget. One third of the country's
     national revenue already disappears into loan repayments.   Since only 9% of the population has
     access to electricity, the whole country will bear the debt burden for the benefits enjoyed by a


                                                      1

 LIST OF KEY MEMBERS         OF THE ARUN    CONCERNED GROUP

 International  Institute  for Human Rights,   Environment  and Development
 (INHURED International),     Secretariat

Alliance for Energy

Coalition Nepal (environmental      NGO)

Rural Reconstruction      Nepal (RRN)

Informal Sector Service     Centre (INSEC)

Centre for the   Vlctims of Torture   (CVICT)

Forum for Protection     of Human Rights   (FOPBIR)

International   Human Rights Lawyers'     Society

Child Workers In    Nepal Concerned    Centre (CWIr

Women's International     League for Peace   and Freedom - Nepal Section (WILPF)

National Concerns     Society

Child Watch

Nepal Ad Hoc Committee       on the People-Centred   Development in the South - Nepal
(Secretariat  of the International  Coordination  Commlttee  in South Africa)

6.      take into account    the detailed information  to be provided  by NGOs in
        Nepal     on various     issues    relating  to Arun     Ill, particularly
        environmental    impact assessments       and mitigation measures as
        well as alternatives   to Arun I1;  and

7.      satisfy with    other unresolved      issues  relating to  the     life and
        sustainability   of the project, e.g. riparian issue with China,     glacier
        outburst,   alternatives  to energy development,      adverse impacts     in
        social sectors.

Please do not    hesitate to contact   for further information  or clarification.

Thank you.

Contact address  in Washington, DC:
c/o InternationalRivers Network
1025 Vermont   Avenue #300,  NW
Washington,  DC 20005 USA
Tel: (202) 879-4280
Fax: (202) 879-3186




                                        5

   approval   of agreement     with China    on riparian
   flows from                                             issue (since
                 China):                                                 86% of
                           status of                                             the water
                                      agreement     with India
   it exists;                                                    on the sale
              approval                                                        of energy,
                          of 10% Investment                                                if
                                                 by Nepal
   and other                                                of the $764
                questions                                                  million project
                              relating  to the cost,   conditionalities
   environmental                                                          of donors,
                      and social                                                         and
                                     impacts.   So far the
   provided                                                   Parliament
              this opportunity,                                             has not    been
                                    and significant.  pressure
   the disclosure                                                 on the government
                     of project                                                           for
                                 documents     and a fruitful
  the present                                                   debate was    expected
                 session   of the Parliament,                                             in
                                                including   independent
   Opposition   Party and                                                  reports by
                             the People's                                                the
                                            Commission     on Arun
  case anymore                                                       III, which
                     due to recent                                               is not the
                                      political developments     In the country.
  The dissolution      of the Parliament     this week,   and the
  elections                                                         calling of
             on November                                                        mid-term
                               13, 1994    have created   further
  III project                                                      uncertainty
              if it Is not                                                        of Arun
                           critically reviewed   by the donors
  of the fragile                                                  to win the  consensus
                  political  parties  and the   confidence
  final decision                                              of the Nepali  people.
                   of the loans                                                        The
                                 for the project   will be viewed
  democratic                                                       as undermining
                internal                                                                the
                           process    in Nepal   as well   as seizing
  during political                                                      of "opportunity"
                     turmoil.   The status   of the project  will further
  existing                                                                 degrade
            members                                                                  if the
                        of the Cabinet     and the   ruling party
  November                                                          get defeated
              elections   leading                                                   in the
                                    to new opening     of debate   on Arun   lII.
 WHAT NEEDS         TO BE DONE!

 It will be essential   for the borrower     country,   the people
 postpone                                                            and the
             the July   26th voting                                            cionors to
                                       of the project
 whole project                                          by the Bank,     and review
                     with careful                                                      the
                                      attention    during
 preparation                                                 the period     of electoral
                for November     elections,   particularly:

 1.     Investigate     violations    of the     Bank's    Information
        operational                                                         Policy and
                       procedures     by the Bank    Management;

2.      study of   issues and    concerns   raised by   NGOs during
        consultation                                                     the June   28th
                        meeting   held at   the Bank;

3.     review the     compliance    of the Bank's    policy, procedures,
       and standards                                                         guidelines
                          relating   to the project  as the obligations
       borrower                                                            of a
                    country,   and access     to basic   project information
       affected   people and                                                     by the
                                the citizens   of Nepal;

4.     ensure    the debate     of the project     in the  next elected
       (November                                                            Parliament
                     1994) and    its approval:

5.    respect    the decisions    of the Supreme      Court of
      information                                                 Nepal on   access to
                      on Arun    III as well as the internal   democratic    process:

                                            4

      obligations    by referring   to some
      "library"                                public
                 after                                 meetings
                       the case                                    and
                                  was filed                               the setting
                                             in the Court.                               up of

      Following    the Court's   verdict,
     documents                             the petitioners
                    and information                           first demanded       the list of
     reports                             from   NEA
               in the                                 that
                      second                                only
                               week                                provided
     and                             of June                                  a list
           basic                              in which                                 of 151
                  information                            many   of the
                                 were                                   project
                                       missing.                                  documents
     litigation                                  It was
                 and                                     only
                      the contempt                             after   a threat
                                      of the
     of the                                   Court,                             of another
             Memorandum                               the govermnent
                               of Understanding                            provided    a copy
    at the   outset                                of October
                     of the                                      1993
                            Consultation                                on June    26, 1994
    Bank.                                  with NGOs
             It is found                                on June
                          out that                                 28, 1994
                                    NEA has                                   by the   World
    reports                                    supplied
              which                                        the World
                      was not                                           Bank
                                available                                      a list
                                           in Nepal.                                  of 298

    Efforts   of seeking     project  documents
    underway     and there                          and basic      information
                              are strong                                           are still
   suits                                   possibilities
           in the   Court                                of the
                            by challenging                        second    round   of legal
   project                                   the complete
             documents                                       or partial
                            by the                                         denial
                                    government                                      of basic
   Similar   efforts                               without
                     are also                                valid
                               being                                 legal
                                      made                                  justifications.
   DC for                                    at the
             the disclosure                         World   Bank   office
                               of project                                 in Washington,
   the list                               documents
             of 298   reports                           and Information
                               that was                                      according
                                          made                                            to
   1994.                                         available  by the    Bank   on June     15,

  In conclusion,     the process   of access
  has just                                    to informnation
              began   and                                       on the
                             several                                     Arun
                                     obstacles                                  III project
  Court    verdict                               are foreseen
                    for their release.                           in future   despite    the

  ABSENCE       OF PARLLAMENTARY         DISCUSSION AND         APPROVAL
 Another     disturbing    issue  regarding
 debate                                      Arun
            In the                                  III has
                     Parliament                              been   the lack
                                   and
 presented                              its approval.                          of fruitful
               any documents                            The   government
                                  and Information,                            has   never
 and    general                                        other
                  information                                 than   policy
                                  about                                      statements
 Parliament                              the construction
                 despite   repeated                           of the    project,
                                      efforts                                      in the
 disclosure                                    of Members
               of project                                     of Parliament
                             documents                                            for the
 Members                                   for debate
              of Parliament                              and   approval.
                               even  issued                                 A group     of
 1994    with                                 a public
               other                                     statement
                      public   figures                                 on January      12,
 documents                             and demanded
               and review                                  for the
                             of the                                 release
                                    whole                                     of project
 same                                       project
         time, the largest                          by the  Parliament.
                             Opposition                                     Around    the
 Party                                    Party
        of Nepal                                 in the
                   (UML)-                                Parliament
                              issued                                    -  Communist
approve                                an statement
           project                                     and said
                    nor assume                                     that It will neither
debated                            any responsibility
           in the  Parliament                           in future  if the
                                 with                                     matter
                                      the disclosure                               is not
                                                        of project  information.
There    are several    issues   involved
implementation                             relating   to the
                    of the                                    design,
                            project                                       funding
                                     that                                           and
                                           need  approval    of the   Parliament,    e.g.

                                           3

people, political parties and NGOs in Nepal as the sympathy and support
of the Bank and other donors in stabilizing the hard-won democracy in
Nepal.

DENIAL OF ACCESS TO INFORMATION

Denial of basic information by the Nepali Government. particularly Nepal
Electricity Authority (NEA), about the Arun III Hydroelectric Project has
been one of the serious matter of concerns for the people and NGOs in
Nepal. A formal request was made by the Kathmandu-based             International
Institute   for Human Rights, Environment         and Development (INHURED
Intemational),     Secretariat of the Arun Concerned Group, on December 10,
 1993 requesting for all information about the project, and copies of the
request letter was also sent to ministries of finance, and water resources as
well as to the donors.

As response      to this letter, NEA provided the following documents          on
December 16, 1993:

        1. Environmental Assessment and Management, May 1993
       2. Environmental Management and Sustainable Development in the
         Arun Basin, October 1991

Since the above documents          only give a general knowledge about the
environment aspect in the Arun Valley, and not the details of the project
and the environment impact assessment, a follow-up letter was sent for the
availability of complete set of documents and information on the project,
Including frequent visits to NEAofficials but without a success. Formal and
informal requests were also made for the cooperation of the World Bank
office in Kathmandu about the availability of basic project documents and
information. It is now confirmed from the World Bank list of reports that
about 13 major environmental assessment-related        documents were denied
by the government until very recently.

A public interest litigation was filed in the Supreme Court on December 31,
1993 under articles 16 (right to information) and 88.2 (right to public
interest   litigation)  of the Constitution    of the Kingdom of Nepal. By
exercising its extra-ordinary     jurisdiction, the Supreme Court delivered a
verdict on May 8, 1994 in favor of the petitioners and ordered the Nepali
Government to provide all documents and information about the project.
The Court decision went even further and stated that denial of information,
fully or partially on any grounds that there may be, can be challenged in
the Court within 7 days from the date of such denial. The Court did not
believe that     the government     has fulfilled its constitutional   and legal


                                          2

    MV   *eINHURED                                          INTERNATIONAI
            IN1TERNATIONALINSTITE                    FOR HUMAN RIGHTS, ENVIRONTMENTAND DEVELOPMENT
                    P.O.Box2125,Putalisadak,Kalhmandu,Nepal* Tel:(0977-1)4-19610,Fax:(0977-1)4-12538.




                  MEMORANDUM SUBMITTED TO EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND
                   BILATERALDONORS ON ARUN Ill HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
                          IN NEPAL REGARDINGACCESS TO INFORMATIONAND
                                               PARLIAMENTARYDISCUSSION

                                                             Presented by
                                            Gopal Siwakoti, Executive Director
                                              Member, Arun Concerned Group

                                                            July 12, 1994
                                                          Washington, DC



           First of all, I would like to express sincere thanks for meeting the members
           of the Arun Concerned Group during the past two weeks and giving careful
           attention          to issues        that were raised regarding the proposed Arun III
           Hydroelectric            Project in Nepal about access to information                                  and public
           participation,           environmental           and social impacts. alternatives                        for energy
           development and the process of design and implementation                                          of the project.
           Ihope the following information will assist you further in understanding                                             the
           critical issues and debates that are taking place in Nepal with regards to
           the merits and demerits of Arun III if it is implemented in its present form.
           shape and size as well as its possible adverse impacts in national economy
           and development process.

           It is our belief and understanding                    that the postponement of the Board date
           of July 26th will provide all of us a unique opportunity in carefully looking
           at all aspects of Arun III and take appropriate policy and implementation
           measures           in future. It is mainly because the information release process
           has just began and it needs more time for their availability in local
           language for public consultation with the local people as well as national
           debate in the Parliament. Since a thorough discussion of the project in the
           Parliament           and its approval is highly significant for the better future of
           Arun III as well as a secure investment of donors, it is important that this
           opportunity           is given to the forthcoming new Parliament to be elected on
           November 13, 1994 as the existing Parliament has been dissolved on July
           10, 1994 due to political inflghting in the ruling party. I would like to
           assure you that the postponement                         of the Bank date will be viewed by the


                                                                      1


The Intenational   Instiluic for iuman Rights. Environment and D)m-elopmeni i- a non-novenimcniz1. non-parilsan   ani non-profIt-makina In,dCpeTident
publb, Inscrest organs.alunn. loworks for the promonon of human and people-  nghl, 3nd genuinc democrac-. prolection of environment     for iLutmtiiiabl.b
  dTeolopmen and for worid peace through education.    caehing. training. necarrh. advnocacy.inirrrishi.  vomnu,iiiv   empowerment anrnri(hat,Lcr
               programmes. It has maintained working ri-llion%haps with UNI:SCO and otl er humitni   nghi. bodw., of the United Natiorns

  oirvr WJr~I51T1                                                              CONCERNEDGROUP
                          ~ARUN
                                                                                                 P.O. Box 2125
.Km r.        .1 kI
                                                                               PutalLsadak.  Katmniandu.  Nepal
 ,<g es,          Il    #qmi
                                                                                         Fax: (0977-1)472538
 V~V -*7447o4   tvwsrfs        r Y?T7r                         7'el: (0977-1)  419610.




October 7.   19941



The Worldl   Baiik
 Resldei it OMce
 Katlhiai ld u

 Dear Sti- orMaladam:

                                                                                               1I
 I am writing  to request you   for a list ofdocuments    relatitig to the   proposed Anin
                                                                                      Concerned
 1lydroelectric Pro ect that  are avallable   for public Invyour   omflee.Thle Arnti
                                                                     aiicl iniformationi about the
 Group would    like to obtaini the copies of   basic documents
 project for stucly and researchi   upon thie availability of such list.


 Thank vou    very mutc   lbr you co-operation.


                                                                      Sineerely yours.




                                                                      Gopal Shwakoti



 cc: The lWorld   Baiik Headquiarters.    Il'ashiirrgtont.DC

                                                         A1TACHMENT-VIII

                                          Under 7: Previous Complaints        to the Bank


The claimants have been complaining the Bank of Issues and concerns relating to their rights    and Interests that have been or will
be affected by the project. The following documents are some direct evidence of such efforts:

Corresponding Date Authority                                       Concern                             Response

October 7. 1994        Bank's Residence Offlce, Kathmandu          Project documents                   Incomplete list provided
July 12, 1994          Bank's Executive Directors                  Issues and concerns                 Noresponse
July 7, 1994           Ann 0. Hamrlton, Director                   Project documents                   No response
                       Country Dept. 1, South Asia
July 6, 1994           Bank's Executive Directors                  Issues and concerns                 No response
June 28, 1994          Bank's consultation meeting with NGOs       Three presentations on
                                                                   alternatives, Information and
                                                                   public participation, and
                                                                   environmental & social Issues       No adequate response

May 27. 1994           Bank's Executive Directors                  Issues and concerns                 No response
May 23, 1994           Bank's selected Executive Directors (Japan, Issues and concerns                  Noresponse
                       Germany, Nepal, United Kingdom,
                       United Nations)

December 30, 1993      Ann 0. Hammllton, Director                  Alternatives and other Issues Noadequate response
                       Country Dept. 1, South Asia
August 29, 1993        Ibid                                        Ibid                          Ibid
May 16. 1993           Ibid                                        Ibid                          Ibid

Bi-lateral meetings were also held with the Bank staff before, during and after the Bank's one-day consultation meeting on June
28, 1994 in Washington, DC as well as during Its annual meeting and the "50th anniversary" In Madrid In     September/October
1994.

AlTACHMENT-VM

        NAME              ORGANZATMON                       SIGNATURE




CArS   09     r-to  6Q
                     'Ae{          l/0         AL



                                 f-Vil-t-,-A LO.K2         W     J.




         n~~I a     qtvtS S ERIfAaoB           LeGAL ,
                         C.W-.                            V

   C,A(9




                                                        6$K_
                               c9t
                                (;S6fe/



L4/-xtt>SAZsZrtf                          py,tSteA
                                            9 r
;4X~It.v      Lh"  f         e   wt                   t


                         <'(t'_~~~~Z4 C)A;eL4 9 /lal

In coniclusion. structural     adlustienL     programs and [lie conllit!nlfalilles     tlhal are tied to
devcopnimcrt.lro ecLs such     as Arin IIIhave negative     effects on these   igilhtsall over [llicworld.
Suclh policies seriously iinlen-upt  "lhe inilerent righL of all peoples to Celjoy and( utllize fully an.l
freely their natural wealth  and resources" as provided     for by arlicle 25 of the Covenant.

Finally, we would like to   urge the Sub-Comnmission     lo request:

1. that the InLernatlonal  financial Institutions as  part of lhc Unilled Naltlons  systeni:

    1. comply with all interniational     humnan righits lnstrumiienitsin   desgtigning and flinancintgrof
    any projecLs;
    2. revIew all lendling condiLionalities     and effects of structur-al    ad jIstmnent programs     In
    order to comply with the     InlemaUonal Covenant       on Economic. Social and      Cullural Rights
    and Lhe DeclaraUon on     Ute Right to Development;
    3. provide all project documents     and infomiation to NGOs.    affected people anrd the   public;
    4. ensure Ulat thelir actions   In relaUon to projects and finance     schlenmesdo not undermine
    internal democratic processes:
    5. allow Investigation      by UN human        rights bodies Into compliance        of the policies.
    procedures,    guidellnes and standards       relating to projects andl    obligations of a lending
    agency and a borrowing     country; and
    6. respecL the right of  the peoples lo frcely enjoy  and dispose of their national    rcsources.

11.that LtheGovemrment     of Nepal:

     1. coinply wtlh Its International    human rights commtllLnientsandl       obligations In reacllilng
    lending agreements witlh    all bi-lateral and mulUlateral   leinders and (lonors;
    2. review existing economlic policies    and development projccts.    illcludnllg Arun III, to ensure
    that:
         a. the designi and financing    of projects will not redluce currcitly   avallable resources In
         economiiicand social sectors   and cullural activities; anid
         b. thicbenefts of suclh   projects will be equally distributed   to all the people of Nepal   for
         the effective realJzation    of economic, social andl      cultural  riglhts and the righlt to
         developmienit.

Finally, we would like     to urge the Sub-Commission         to undertake    a follow-up study of ttie
ilpacts    of policies and programs     of the international financial  institutionis based on counlry
cases and experiences      and make recommendations        for theimonitorinig of suclh   matter-s by tIme
huuman rights bodies of the    United Nations.

ORGANIZATI'IONSWITH          CONSULTATIVEOR OB3SERVERSTATUS                  TO TIIE ECONOMIC AND
SOCIAL COUNCIL OF THE          UNITED NATIONS

Disabled Peoples' International
Consejo Indlo de Sud America
HabiLant lLtcrinaUoxial    Coalition
Human       iglits Advocates
Inteniational    AssociaLlon of Democratic    Lawyers
International    EclucaUonal Development
International Indian Treaty    Council
Intcrnatlonal    Movement againsL All Forms     of Discrliminationand Racism
Initeniational Movemenl     for Fratemal Unlon aamongRaces       an(l Peoples
OMCT /SOS Torture
SERPAlJ-AL
Sierra Club Legal Defense     Fund
Women's International League       for Peace and Freedom

Submitted on August 23,      1994

WVhilec tie govenintecil and local police      have beenci   fII!-dl   Orflhese tiirc'ns    mid afkl'cks, no
aelioni was Laken(ILIC otgovenimexlt       support of tle project.

On OnICOCCaSIOn(ILICtOdet    naioal    and In(et-nitional outcIry a rlriist  trjiislir'cs ecnnitted     by the
governnritent, tlie Primie Minlster   of Nepal. whio was furioUs ividh tlic     WoiId Dank forI(dIctatlIg
Ncpal's electricity tariff rae-lincrcase      and( cuts In oilier pLIWic services.        sail: "I am a bit
disappolinted wlil the Woild        Batic becatise somietimes Lhey       say one thiing and soinctiies
anot.her. They say they prefer     democracy to be maintained       In (lie cotirieiiWsreceiving    telicrald.
and yeLthey inipose such conditions        wlilclhput deimocracies like ours     Ill trotuble. I feel they,are
themselves not sure of whiat       they want." (Weekcend, May        28, 1993 Kathinandu). The          Prime
NinisLer's   slalemcnt   is an example of how even       a democratically   electcd government,       witlh its
coinmitmiielitto hunian    rights. can fall in realizingthe  economic and social rights.

'rhe experience of Nepal In      the realization of economic,     social and cullural rights      is lhat the
currcnl    development models being        imposecl by tie international      finanicial institutions and
industrialized     countries    are inappropriate,      undemocratic,      and are       linconsistent   witil
Inteniaatonal huniani righlis   provisions. For example,    LlhC proposed Arun Ill hydroelectric       project
to be funided by tlic World      Bank and other sources      have raiscd scrious questions         regarding
tlicir negaLive inipacts on economnic,social     and culLural rights and the riglit      to developnicnt due
to pre-conclitlons set by     lhe Icnders for the project.     The people ol Nepal hadi been           denic(d
informiaLtonabouL lhe project      (until tie Supr-emiieCourt ofNepal     delivcred a landmark decision
against the govemmcnl        on the question) and an opportunity        for broader participatlon       in lhe
process of design and implemnctatlon.         The project, and timelendiers   have bccii widelv criticiZed
for inorinig    lhe adverse effects and lhe pre-condilLions       that. will further reduce existinig     and
fuLure resources     and budgetary allocation      in the economiiic andi social sectors,        e.g. welfaric
prograins,    liealtih, educationi, housiig.    Furthieiniore, tlCre is lack ol accountability            anid
transparency,     and no definite plans exist   for equitable distributioni   of benefits to be generated
by tihe proposedl project.
According to information received       from INI-IUREDInternatlonal,      whilchihas bccI raising issues
of the effeclive realization     of economic, social and      cullural riglhts under lhe International
Covenant on Economic, Social          and Cultural Rigilts undcr       continuous      p)hiysical threat andi
Iilintidation,   the people of Nepal will never      be able to realize tliese rights       if the project Is
  iiplemenLed in Its presenL shape,      size, and lending conditlons.    In July of this year, a regionial
mecting of NGOs in Kathmandu           discussed the nimpactof structural        adjustment     progranis in
Soulh Asian countrles and        concluded that the living standar(ds       and healtih and educaionial
attainnients   of tle world's largesL population    are dramatically decreasingC.They         found that the
Bank     has been violaUng its own         information and operational       policies and procedures        in
designing and financing projects,      including the acquisition, compensaUon          and rehabiliLationi of
tile affected people and the    communities. For example, there       hlas been a violation of the     Bank's
Operational     Di)rective 4.30 on Involuntary      Resettlement     regarding Arun Ill projecl         whichi
outlines one of its primary     aims as "providing people    displayed by a project wilih the       means to
improve, or at least restore,     their former living standards,     earning capacity, and production
levels" (art. 2). But, the   affected people are being compensated         at rates far bclow tile market
price of their land. Sinillarly,   the Bank strongly advocates     "land for land" compensation,        whicih
is particularly importanl in the    Arun Valleywhiere people are      not linkcedIn to the cash econonmy
and where serious problems have         already been highilighitedfrom    cash comlncnsatlon nieasures.

As State Parties to the International         Covenant on Economic, Social           and Cultural Rights,
govermients      liave internaUonal obligations     to ensure tihe full realization      of economic, social
and cultural righits of thelir   people by adopting policies    and programs Lliat are consistent         wiLh
the treaty provisions, including      article 25 of the Universal Declaration       of Hluman Rights, and
article 11 of the Covenant     on lhe righit to an adequate    standard of living: e.g. healith,     housing,
food, and a safe environmeint      for the continuous improvenient      in living standards. Likewise,      no
consideraUon      has been given to the local    culture of the people of thc        Arun Valley, whicil is
largely composed of tradiLional      etlinic groups, in tile proposed    construction     of tlhe project Ulat
will depend on foreign,      ratlher than local labor, bringing     a huge influx of outsiders         Into an
isolated region of the country.     The obligation of States Parties     to take necessary steps for       the
 conservation     and tile development of      such culture is provided       uider article 15(2) of lhe
 Covenant.

                     PFordv-Sixth        Scssio.n     ol thle  UN SuLb-Coimissicmi
                                       Discrinmination                                            on) Plr-vention
                                                              caundProtcetion                                            of
                                                                                      of J'Vinoritics
                                              ral.als des Nations.     Geneva,     Swi(zerlird
                                                           AuguLst1-26.      1994

                                                              Agenda     tciin8
               JO.NT'   W'WlJTENSTATEM';IENT            ON TIIE
                                 CULTI7UALNGI                       REALIZATIONOF           ECONOPM1!(C,
                                                       ITSANDTliE       RGflT                                 SOCIALAND)
                                                                                   TO DEVELOPMENT

      First   of all,  wc would        like to
     status                                      draw
                of economiic,                           the attention
                                   social                                 of the   Sub-Coilinilssioli
                                            and cultural
     tire Third                                             righlts                                         to Llte
                     World,                                         and the                                           deteriorating
                              especially                                        riglit to developuieiit      on the   countrles
      insLititlons                           due to   tle adverse                                                                 of
                        and the                                       Impact
                                       Industrialized                           of the   policies   of intemational
     Commission                                            countries.
                        on HlumianRgigts                                    We also                                       financial
                                                                                          acknowledge         tlie woric
     and measures                                 and the    Sub-Commission
                           tliat need     to be                                      in
                                                                                     Jldentilihig                           of lihe
                                                  undertaken                                             obstacles,    difficulties,
     Nations     svsLcm.                                          at various    levels  -   iiside    and outlside     lhe United
     We are      concerncd      about     the fact
     Covenant                                        that countries
                    on Economic.                                         that are
                                        Social                                        SLates              to (lie   international
     have                                        and Cultural                                  Parties
             nol beci                                              Righlts
                           able.                                            (ICESCR)
                                    despite     their                                     and olher      relevant    Instrumiienis
     devclopmnenL policies                             political   wvilland
                                    and welfare                                 lintercsLin    manly      cases.   to undertalke
    culltlral                                        programs
                 rrigiLs as                                        for tlie
                             provided                                         ftill enjoynient
                                           for by                                                  of coinomic,       social
    by Lhese                                       tIre Covenant.
                  institutions,                                      Since maniy                                               ancl
                                    particularly                                     of Lltese counLtileshave
    to adopt                                        tle World                                                         beeni forecd
                  free-markeL                                    Bank   and lhe
                                    economilc                                       International
    these                                         policics                                             Monetary
             countiles                                       and( strucLural                                         Fund   (lMF).
                          liave been                                              adjustimentL
                                          facing
     ninmega-devclopinent                         trcniendous                                      progranis,
                                                                   cuts In  social                                tie pcol)le
                                    projects,                                        speiicirig.                                 In
                                                  anid debtl                                       Priviatization.    investnient
    nee(ledl                                                  re-payment
               for developmnrt.                                                and servling        [iiilich   dIraiii  resources
   To understand          tIre gravity
   several                                  and seriousness
               cases    from                                      of the   above-nieiLloined
                                (Ilfferenit  counlries                                              problems,
    ilicmentL                                              wlhere                                                             finzd
                     development                                    govemmeniLs                                    we can
                                        projects                                      have
   Informat                                         wiltiout.                                 been     forcecl                and
                ion regarding                                  popular                                          to design
                                                                           particlpation
                                    decision-niaking                                          anid rieaningrul        access
   sUicl                                                                                                                        to
            World                                          processes.
                      Bank-IMF                                            GovernmcnIs
                                      dictated
   assistance                                     policies                                    tlaL lhesiLate
                    and loans                                ancl programiis                                      to Jinplemenil
                                    wlil be                                       face   the threats       that developiment
   transactions                                stuspended.
                     as well                                   This lead
                                as economic                                   to isolaLton     in lrafde     and commercial
  no adcquLtc                                     anid trade   eimbargoes.
                     consiedratlon                                               lowever,
                                         lias                                                                experienced     lthal
  bIIml.nl                                      becn given                                   It Is vidcly
              rigtils                                         to a counitry's
                       conllnliltiinelt                                            internatiatJonltrcaly      obiligationis
  by the                                  ini designing                                                                      and
             World                                         anid implementing
                       Banik     or the     IMF.                                    such
                                                   On the                                   proc'tLs    and(I other   prograslis
  organizations                                               other   hand,
                      of the                                                    tlhese
                              United     Nations,                                        Insti1uLilolnsact
                                                    but   wlthout                                                as Llie   sister
                                                                    comlilying
  Il miay be                                                                       with
                relevant                                                                 Its goals
                            Lotake                                                                   and
                                       the example                                                         objectives.
  of hli                                               of Nepal
            least   developed                                      for an in-depth
                                   countries.                                          study
  Party    to several                            establisihecda                                of tlins   subject.
                                                                   multi-party                                       Nepal,  one
                         major      Internationial                                 systelmiin     1990.                 a State
  Covenant                                            lhtuman                                              It became
                on Economic,                                     rigliLs  insiirinieiits.
                                    Social   andl                                           inchluirtingtlie    Iiternationial
 andJustice                                        Cultural
                  as well                                      Riglits,
                            as social                                   and adopted
                                         wclfare                                           policies   of economic
 and(l development                                 serviccs   in ILsnew                                                equalily
                            policies                                       Constitution.
                                         pursued                                              Ilowcivcr, certain
 r'ar-laniient                                       by tic
                    and public                                 goverimenL                                             econonimic
                                      protcst.                                   lave    restilted
                                                 Tnlls                                                 in criticisms
 in(discriiliinatc                                       lias somctimnes                                                 in Llte
                        Ikillingsin    cdemonistrations                        led to    State-sponsored
 examiple,     last month,                                 and otlier                                             repressionl,
                                a grouIp                                violationis
 Coiimilisslon,                             of about                                   of civil
                                                       stxty                                     and political
                                                              reportedly                                           rigits.
                     an independetil                                        burst                                           For
                                                                                     Initothe   otTiveof    the Aruri
 controversial                               non-govenmienLal                                                            Public
                    Arun                                              body
                           Ill hydlroelectric                                whiichi is
 Ilien anjiouriced                                project,  and wrestlcd                  concictimlinghiearings
                        plans     to break                                    LlicComimnzlssionr                        on tlhc
Hluman                                        iiito tlic                                             nicnibers.
            1lights.                                     office
                       Environment                               of Hatiniandl1u-bascd                              ITic group
                                                                                              IntLcrnatlorial    Institute
Similar                                    andl DcvelopmenL                                                                  for
            attacks                                               (INIIURED
                       have   also been                                          InicrnaLlonal)
                                             Lthreatened                                            to aLtackcIts     officlals.
January,                                                    against
               INIIURED's                                             menibers
                                Executive
filing                                         Director                            of tlheAruii     Concerned
        a petition    at tire                              and Program                                              Group.
                               Supreme                                       Diirector                                       In
                                            Court                                        received     death    tlircats
righlt                                                                                                                    after
        guaranteed                                   of Nepal   for publlc
                         under                                               disclosure
                                    the Constiltulon                                        of Arun
                                                           and International                           III Infonination    -   a
                                                                                    huniari    rights    treaty   provisions.

                                       ATrACHMENT-VII

                         Under 6:     Responsibility      of the Bank


                                                                             Resources,     Country
Martin Karcher,     the Division   Chief for   Population   and Human
                                                                             in an interview     with
Department     I in the South   Asia Region    at the World   Bank stated
                                                                                         above): "...1
the Environmental     Defense Fund    after his  resignation   (see Attachment-IV.A
                                                                          alleviation   is the stated
don't think  I am divulging  any great   secret by saying   that poverty
                                               assistance   strategy for Nepal ........
overriding  objective of the Bank's country

                                                                       the Bank     for formulating
We fully  agree in what    Mr. Karcher    said, and   we appreciate
                                                                                   problems.     But,
such strategy     as this would      hit the nut-cell    of Nepal's    existing
                                                      does not fit   into the   above strategy.    In
unfortunately,    the Arun    III project  proposal
                                                                      plan for Nepal.   The cycle of
designing   and implementing     any economic     and development
                                                                          consideration.    In Nepal,
extreme  poverty and   unemployment       must be taken    into primary
                                                                    live in the  rural areas   where
for example,   more than    85% of the    20 million   population
                                                                                    for about   eight
unemployment       is very high.  They are    out of productive     employment
                                                                                 periods. We    claim
months throughout      the year except    for the cultivation  and harvesting
                                                                            adequate    employment
that projects   like the Arun   III in its present  form do    not create
                                                    to the size  of investment.     In addition,  the
opportunity    for the local people comparable
                                                                      uplift their  living standards
 long-term  benefits must   be guaranteed    from such   projects to
                                                  has not considered     such options    which fit  in
 and fulillltheir basic  needs. But,   the Bank
                                                                strategy for  investment     that are
 the stated  objective  of the Bank's    country assistance
                                                                               Even in case    of the
 widely available   in Nepal.  even within    the hydropower     sub-sector.
                                                                                   proposed    to be
 Arun 111,the     access road     and various     other elements      could be
                                                                  which would     generate    income
 constructed    by broad-based     labor intensive    approach
                                                                                                    of
                                                   We strongly     oppose the     Bank's failure
 opportunitties   for the local   poor people.
                                                                             strategy for   Nepal by
 compliance    with its own   stated objective    of country   assistance

 ixnposing  the Arun  E1 project.

                                                             to the following    documents     as per
 In addition,   the claimants    would also    like to refer
                                                     and responsibilities    of the United    Nations
 broadly understanding      the goals.   objectives
 system in   which the  Bank is one    of the sister organizations:

                                                                            Rights; adopted     by the
  1.     International   Covenant    on Economic.    Social and   Cultural
                                                             of 16 December     1966: entry   Into
         UN General    Assembly   resolution   2200 A (MXl
                                                                               on 14 May     1991.
         force on  3 January    1976; accession    by the Kingdom    of Nepal

                                                                 General Assembly      resolution
 2.      Permanent    Sovereignty   Over Natural    Resources:
          1803 (XVU)of    14 December    1962,

                                                                                          Assembly
  3.     Declaration   on the Right   to Development:    adopted by    the UN General

         resolution   41/128 of   4 December     1986.

                                                   Cultural  Rights; Preliminary     report by
  4.     Realization   of Economic.   Social and
                                                                                 progress   report,
          Danilo Turk,     Special Rapporteur;    E/CN. 4/Sub.    2/1989/19:
                                                                     progress report,   E/CN. 4/Su   b.
          E/CN. 4/Sub.    2/1990/20     and Add.    1: and Second

          2/1991/17.                                                           Non-Governmental
  5.      Copy of the  Joint Statement     Submitted    by 13 International
                                                                                                 on
          Organizations    at the 46th   Session of  the United   Nations Sub-Commission
                                                                  of Minorities;  Geneva. 1-26
          the Prevention   of Discrimination     and Protection
          August, 1994.    (Attached)

ATrACMENTV

                                      ATrIACHMENT-VI

         Under 5.B: Threatened         Adverse Direct Impacts on Claimants
                                    in the Arun Valley


A.      Increased   Food Deficit, Loss of Income and Increased          Unemployment

The EIA states that the road and its associated impacts are expected to lead to a loss of
Income of farm households of 20%. The project Is also expected to lead to an increase in
unemployment      by 6%. The claimants believe that these factors directly and adversely
threaten and affect them. While the claimants are not opposed to the road per se. they
are opposed to the road being built rapidly before the consideration of the needs and
concerns of local people and before the environmental         and social safeguards    are in
place. Furthermore, the alignment of the road was changed from the Hill route to the
Valley route because of the shorter       construction    time period, and not because of
perceived benefit to the local people.

B.      Food Availability, Prices and Nutrition

There is already a food defilcit in the Arun Valley. According to the EIA. increased
population among other things will affect the food balance situation negatively. Impacts
include a food deficit of up to 19.35 kg per capita during construction, higher food prices
and temporary food shortages. This will have an effect on food availability for poor
families. The EIA states "nutritional standards of those not able to access construction-
related cash stream are likely to fall further. The number of such families Is not known.
but one third of families in the MBEIS project area household survey have already
mortgaged their land to buy food."

C.      Destruction   of Forests

The claimants and local communities depend on the forests for fuel, fodder and hunting.
The Valley route will traverse forested areas for the major part of Its length (71 out of 124
kilometers). The total direct forest loss Is estinated at 205 hectares. Indirect impacts on
the forest resources    are expected to be "highly significant" according to the EIA
(September 1992). These include increased pressure on forests and deforestation due to
accidental  fires, demands for forest products from construction          workers and their
families and demands created by additional cash.

D.      Adverse Health Impacts

The EIA reports that the Influx of workers to the region will put increased pressure on
local health care facilities which do not have the capacity to deal wlth the increase.
Increase in Malaria and waterborne diseases are expected. The claimants believe these
Increased health risks will directly impact on the local people and their families.

E.      Deterioration   of Living Standards     as a Result of Cash Compensation

Since Nepal Is largely an agricultural country, the people are not used to cash economy.
The cash compensation      for their traditional  lands might have seen attractive at the
beginning but the people are now complaining            that their economic condition      Is
deteriorating as the cash money has been used in paying debts or purchase of supplies
or entertainment.    They further complain that the HMG/N did not Inform of any
provision for the land to land compensation          before and during the compensation
process.

AITACHMENT-VI

              Communist Party of Nepal
                        (Unifled Marxist & Leninist)
                                     Central Office
                                       Kathmandu



 Ref:                                                        Date:

cc:

Ministry of Water Resources,   HMG/N
Ministry of Finance, HMG/N
Nepal   Electricity Authority,  Kathmandu
Arun III Hydroelectric   Project,  Kathmandu
The World Bank, Residential      Office, Kathmandu
Asian Development    Bank, Philippines
Caisse Francaise de Development,      France
Finish International Development     Agency (FINNIDA), Finland
Kreditanstalt  fur Wiederaufbauf   (KfW), Germany
Overseas Economic Cooperation      Fund (OECF), Japan
Sweden International   Development    Agency (SIDA),

                Communist Party                          of Nepal
                          (Unified Marxist        & Leninist)
                                      Central Office
                                       Kathmandu



   Ref:                                     (2)                 Date:

 As you might be      aware of, our Party   has been expressing   its serious reservations
 about the way the    Project has been designed   and proposed. The   Party has made its
 commitment absolutely     clear in its election  manifesto that in   implementing mega
 projects like the   Arun III the national  interest will be  given highest priority. We
 are also committed    that if we are elected  to form the government   an evaluation of
investment versus      the outcome as    well as problems      relating to environment,
settlement, etc. will  be made prior to any    final decisions.

We are of the impression       that the present caretaker  government is keen    to enter
into agreement with    project lenders and  contractors as soon as possible. As there  is
a lot of controversy     about the project*inside    and outside Nepal,   we would not
think that such    an action by the   present government   would be appreciable.

We also understand     that, as a result of the on-going public   debate and controversy
about the Project,   the'World Bank Board     date has been postponed   up to November
3, 1994 which is about    just two weeks beforc   the mid-term General Elections  for the
House of Representativesin     the country. Thus, if the case of Arun  III is decided by-
the Bank earlier than    the formation of  the new Parliament   and the government, we
suspect that 'this   will be followed    by consequential   agreements by    the present
government with      the lenders and    the contractors.   If this happens    to be ihe
situation, still bigger controversies will  crop up leaving  no room for debating    the
project in the Parliament    and for building necessary   national consensus.

Finally, our party   views that the proposed    project must be   reviewed by the   new
government in      light of the on-going      controversies before   Nepal makes any
commitment to such       projects.

Thank you very      much for your    prompt attention   to this serious   matter. Please
contact for any further   that you may need.


                                                                       Sincerely yours,




                                                                 Madhav Kumar Nepal
                                                         General Secretary,CPN   (UML)

                      Communist                       Party            of Nepal
                                 (Unified                         Leninist)
                                                /,deitral   f$iSce.
                                               - Kathm"L,d1r



      Ref:
            _      _

                                                                              Date:    October18,      1994
    Mr. Lewis     T. Preston
    President,
    The World      Bank
    1818 H   St. NW
    Washington,     D.C.   20433


   Dear   Mr.   Preston,

   I am     writing    you   to express     our
   Hydroelectric                                  deep   concerns
                    Project                                           over
                             to which    the World                           the proposed      Arun     III
   understand,                                       Bank
                  the Project,                               is one  of the
                                largest                                      lending
                                          ever                                         agencies.  As we
   long                                         built
          term                                        in Nepal,
                  consequences                                     is going
                                   for                                        to generate
                                         Nepal.                                             serious    and
  hundred    million                              For a    country
                         US dollars                                   which    makes
                                        as its                                          just  over    one
  year                                           annual
        from    its internal                              development
                              sources,                                     invesment
                                         the size                                        in one     fiscal
  big to                                           of investment
            be decided     during                                    on the   Arun
                                     a politically                                  III project
  your   attention                                   unclear                                       is too
                                                               situation.
                     to the    fact  that                                  We would      like   to draw
  with                                     the present
        limited                                           government
                   mandate.   It does                                    is a   caretaker   government
  reach                                  not have
          into                                       the right
                 agreements                                      to undertake
                                that   may                                        any negotiations     or
  Nepal                                      have
          and                                       long-term
                 the Nepali                                      consequences
                               people.    Furthermore,                            in the    interest   of
  unanimously      decided                                all the   political
                             that   the caretaker                              parties   have   recently
  having   long-term                                 government
                        implications                                 should
 elections.                             as part                               not take    any
                                                  of the                                         actions
             (Notice                                      Code
                        of the                                    of Conduct
                                 Election   Commission,                          for the   forthcoming
                                                            Gorakhapatra,    October   12, 1994)
 We certainly      are more    than   willing
 water   resources.                            to attract  foreign
                       But                                           investment
                             at the    same                                       in developing      our
 should                                       time,
          only                                       any large
                  be made                                          funding
                             after                                           arrangement,
                                     reaching                                                 we feel,
 possibility                                    into  national
               of building                                       consensus.
                                national                                      There    exists  a great
Nepal,                                     consensus
          at least,                                     among
                       in exploiting                              the major     political
                                         water                                              parties   in
development.                                     resources.   with
                   It is                                            a view
                           also  important                                     to promote
place                                          that                                           national
        in the                                       a formal
                   Parliament,                                     and   meaningful
                                 and                                                    debate    takes
final                                   a national
       decision                                      consensus
                  is made    about                                is built
                                     large                                   therefrom
                                            projects                                      before    any
discussions    of the                                like the   Arun
                         project                                       III. As
                                   in the                                       far as
                                             Parliament                                  the previous
limited   to providing                                     are   concerned,
                           information                                         they   were
                                          by the                                             basically
some                                               concerned
       Members                                                  minister
                     of Parliament                                         on questions
                                        during                                              raised   by
meaningful                                       "zero
              discussion                                hour    sessions".
                             about                                           And
                                      the  proposed                                any formal      and
project                                                project
          documents                                              with
                         and  information                               the availability     of basic
Parliament.                                   in advance      has   not yet    taken   place   in the

                                         ATTACHMENT-V

                                                                            Inside Nepal
         Under 5.A.4:        Undermining       Democratic       Process


                                                          need to   be distributed    more equitably
Hydropower     investment    and associated     beneflts
                                                               construction     period and   resource
across the   country.   Because    of the long   design and
                                              III, other areas in  Nepal will   suffer a  longer than
drain from   building  a project   like Arun
                                                Many pockets     of small  demand     such as   remote
necessary   period of  unsupplied    demand.
                                                                facilities. could receive    power for
rural areas  which are     far from  centralized   production
                                                                      If resources    were available,
their critical  needs using     micro and   mini hydro     projects.
                                                                        of the population.    However
these decentralized    schemes    could provide   power to   over 50%
                                                                   received   $300,000    (0.3 million)
in the Fiscal  Year 94/95     these type  of schemes   have only
                                              the national    budget that    is expected  to be spent
as compared     to the $100    million from
                                                               ratio of  300 times    for one project
on Arun    III each year    of its construction.   This is a

which will   serve the  needs of only    10% of the  population.

                                                            "on numerous      occasions"    is no more
The Bank's     claim of  discussion   in the Parliament
                                                     the public                    of the Bank's    own
than misrepresentation       of facts to legitimize               debate aspect
                                                                             of meaningful   debate in
policy. In  fact, the  project  has not  gone through     formal process
                                              of basic  project                  and information      in
the Parliament      with the    availability                      documents
                                                                               provided  by the Water
advance.   The Bank's     reliance  on the pre-prepared     set of answers
                                                           raised by  some Members       of Parliament
 Resources   Minister   In March    1994 to question(s)
                                                        public debate    aspect of   the project  in the
 during "Zero   Hour Session"     does not  justify the                                               by
                                                           democratic    processes    inside Nepal
 Parliament.   The Bank      has already   undermined
                                                           a timely manner      and failing  to actively
 failing torelease information     about the   project in
                                                                                               (See the
                                          in the planning     and design     of the project.
 promote   true public     involvement
                                                        Unified    Marxist    & Leninist.    the main
 letter of  the Communist         Party of   Nepal -
                                                                   of the main     contenders     in the
 opposition    party in   the previous    Parliament    and one
                                             to the President    of the World    Bank dated     October
 forthcoming    November      15 elections,
 18, 1994).
                                                           in Nepal   and the   Parliament     has been
 Currently,   there is  only a caretaker    government
                                                 on July    10. 1994    as it was   unable   to get the
 disbanded.     The government       collapsed                                            for the fiscal
 support   that it needed    in the Parliament   to endorse   its policy and programs
                                                        originally               for October   1994 has
 year. The   aid consortium     for Nepal  which was               scheduled
                                                                                           by the    new
 even been       postponed      until next   year in   order to    allow involvement
                                                            is pressing   ahead to    have the   Arun Im
 government.     Despite   this, the Bank Management
                                               at the outset                   General  Elections.   This
 project  approved   on November      3. 1994                  of the Nepal
                                                                                                   public
                                          disregard   for democratic     processes    involving
 further   underscores      the Bank's
                                             and deliberation    over its projects.
  debate,  transparency,    accountability
                                                                                        up in Nepal    in
  Additionally,   an independent      Public Commission        on Arun    Ill was set
                                                     about the                  be Issuing   a report  in
  June 1994     to investigate   the controversies                project will
                                                         The Commission,        headed   by the former
  November     after the   conduct   of the elections.
                                                                                to release   its findings
  Acting Chief    Justice  of the Supreme      Court of  NepaL.is   expected
                                                                         Commission      is conducting
  after the  November       15 elections.    It is reported   that the
                                           and the   concerned    citizens   on the project   in spite  of
  research   and interviewing     experts
                                                      government     officials for project information
  the lack  of cooperation     from the   concerned
                                                     wlll be publicly  released   and circulated   widely
  and testimony.    Once completed,      the report
                                            government     officials.  NGOs and      the international
  among     press. parliamentarians,
                                                          on the project,    particularly  inside Nepal.
  community      to facilitate a broad   public debate
                                            for project             before the    release of   the Public
  Despite   this, the  Bank Is    rushing                approval

  Commission's     report and    the resulting  public scrutiny.

A1TACHMENT-V

 management     support   in our attempt  to assistthe government    to formulate
 a targeted  povertyalleviation strategy   and program   directed at those people
 who are  too poor  to participate in economic development.     Whereas   a
 special Japanese   grant of $800,000   was made   available to prepare  a project
 that would  be directly  targeted at the poorest  people inNepal,   the feeling
was that  it would   distract too much  of the government's   attention, and that
senior government    officialsshould   focus on macrn-economicmanagement
issues.  As division chief  and a member    of the Department's   management
team, I felt I shared  In the responsibilityfor the decisions taken in  the
Department,    particularly for such momentous     decisions as the power  sector
investment   program.   which can  affect thefate of the whole country.   And
since I had serious reservations   and misgivings. Ifelt  that one way of
ma:king that statement    more effectively than through  my previous   memos,
would be  to say I no longer want   to be part ofthe decision-making    process.




                                      14

   sufficientto invest in quality improvements     in education   but not inan
   expansion  of the primary education   sector in   line with the growth ofthe
   school-agepopulation.   So it is stilla fairly constrained   budget. It doesn't
   allowfor major  expansion  of secondary  education,    which on   the basis of a
   report which the Bank has   just completed,   is another   area where  the needs '
   are extremelylarge.  Moreover,as    mentioned    earlier, inorder to be able to
  carve out the budgetary  resources   required to   allowfor an   8%yearly
  expansion  in socialsector  spending.  the government      would have  to
  implement  and sustain   a number   of very difficult revenue mobilization   and
  expenditure prioritization and  control measures.     In other words,  they
  would need  to achievean   unprecedented    high levelof economic
  management   and performance    for Nepal.   Is it realistic? Twoyears   ago,
 Bank management     arrived at the opposite   conclusion,    even though, as I
 now recall, the total power sector  investment   program was     smaller than the
 one proposed   now.



 EDF: Just   one final question.  Has your  decision to   retire fromthe  Bank
 had anything  to dowith   how the Arun   project was   handled and   managed   at
 the Bank.


Karcher:   Yes it does. It was not an easy decision,    after 29 years with an
institution that had provided me with    tremendous     opportunities for
professional growth. Myfeelingwas      that the project   was not being handled
in an objectiveand  even-handed    manner.   Since senior    management
seemed to  be committedto    the project, a serious   and open  debate was  no
longer possible, and even common     sense questions    were beingdismissed.
Allthe avafilableenergywent   into building  the case   in favor ofthe project.
rather than examining alternatives.    By contrast,   we receivedvery little

                                       13

EDF: Whenyou, over the past years or months, have had various

questions about the affordability of project -- has there been a response?

Have there been discussions about the concerns you were raising? Are

these problems actually being actually-beingaired or are they being

suppressed?



Karcher. I think Igot a hearing. Iwant to be fair. Ifyou look at the most

recent Country EconomicReport, basicallywhat it is, it's a public

expenditure reviewfor Nepal. tying to see if the government proceeds with

its fullinvestment program in the powersector, including Arun, what is

likelyto be the crowdingout Inpact, and what measures the government

needs to take in order to accommodate such large investments. The bulk of
the report Is on that issue, and we were consulted, in the social sectors.

about what are the needs. Initially, wewere given an envelopefor social

sector investments which assumed a 5%real growth in social sector

investments. Wesaid that that was absolutely insufficient, that If

investments in the social sector only growby 5%a year, the government
would not even be able to meet its commitments under the basic and

primary education project that IDAis funding. and it would not be able to

invest as much in the health and population sector as they were about to

commit themselves. So that constraint was relaxed. It was decided that

the social sectors would get an 8% rate ofincrease.


EDF: Which is significant.


Karcher: Yes. In real terms that means something. But it doesn't allowfor

a major expansion, say. in the number of teachers. It doesn't allow
catching up with the huge backlog of children who don't attend school. It is

                                     12

   more efficientthan  it is today.  Given the past    record of the  NEAand given
  the fact that there won't be  too much leverageonce the        credit is signed, how
  much incentive   is there going to  be for the NEAto      implement major
  reforms?


  EDF: This is  a generic question    about capacity    building. Obviously
  requirements   for consultants  and procurement       for this projectare goingto
  be very large. What willhappen     to capacity building,for     instance at NEA?

  Karcher. Accordingto    my colleagues. the    past record has    not been very
 good.NEAhas      not really been  taling advantage     of technical assistance  that
 they receivedin  the past, and   they have receivedquite      a lot. Howmuch
 better they willdo  in the future, that is a bigquestion.


 EDF: One of the   reasons why    the Bank rejects     Plan B or a senies of
 smaller investments   is that it claimnthat   this would providetoo     little
 incentive toimproveNEA'smanagement           and finance.    Youneed the     big
 investment  to providethe   adequate incentives.      From a common sense
 perspective. itjust doesn't  add up. What     do you think?


Karcher. Is  the rationale  that you need   a biggercarrot?      What's wrongwith
starting with smaller-size   projects and  gradually developingthe
institutional capacity? In fact   those smaller  projects are not   that small
compared to   the existing capacity   of less than 300   MW. Mysense      has
always been  that ifyou went   with snmller projects.     there would be   more
work for Nepaliengineers to    developtheir    skills. to generate employmentfor
them. Youwouldn't     have to rely  as much on    largeforeign consulting     firms.
Youmay still  need foreign contractors    and all that.   But there would    be
more local capacity  building. in a true sense.

                                        11

    trip in the country,   whilevisitng  some prirnaiy  schools  being  constructed
    with WorldBank      assistance.  we found that on  some stretches   of the
    was easier                                                                 road it
                 for us to drivealongside  the road  than on the road   itself,
    basicallybecause    maintenance    had not  been adequate   forseveral
    that the                                                                years,
             road had                                                             so
                        virtually collapsed. I am mentioning    this simply
   illustrate                                                                to
               that the resource  requirements  just to preserve the existing
   ofcapital                                                                   stock
               are enormous    in Nepal. and we know from    experience
   economicrates                                                         that the
                     of return  on road maintenance   and rehabilitation   programs
   are signiflcantlyabove    15percent.   Similarly,WorldBank    studies
  found                                                                    have
           that investments   in human   resource
  returs,                                         developmentyield even higher
             especiallyin  low-incomecountries.     Under  those circumstances,
  how dowejustify     using   an opportunity  cost of capitalas lowas
  there are                                                             10%if
             significant funding  gaps and  risks that such gaps   will continue
  exist?   When                                                                  to
                 I raised the question  of using a higher  opportunity
  capital                                                               cost of
           against which   to assess the Arun project. Iwas  told: 'We have
  alwaysused     10 percent;  why change  for tWsproject?"   I donot  consider
 this a  satisfactory answer   to my question.  This is not just an esoteric,
 theoretical question.    It has practicalconsequences    regarding the
 compositionof the    government's    investment program.    The higher
 opportunity cost                                                        the
                    of capital. the lessattractive the large capital-intensive
 hydro-projects   become.



EDF:    Isthe  calculation  of thebenefits ofthe project based
400 megawatts                                                   on the  initialca.
                   project?


Karcher.    Actually,it'sbased   on much  morethan    400 megawatts.
recall, It's                                                            As I
            based  on the government's   entire power  investment  program
1994 through                                                                 from
                to maybe   2010 or 2015.   Soit doesn't isolate the Arun project

                                        9

  as such. but  It takes into account the    whole sectoral    lnvestmientprogram.
  The analysis  doesn't disaggregate    the rate of return   on phase 1 of the
  project. I understand   from colleagues in    the energysector     that that is the
  way it's done. Weuse the     least cost generation     expansion plan
  methodologyto    dedternine the    most attractive    investments and   then we
  compute the   economicreturn     on the total investment     program rather    than
  on the individualprojects.    In light ofthe  important up-front     investmnents
 required, however,my strong      suspicion is that    the rate ofreturn   on phase 1
 ofthe Arun project would    be significantlysmaller.      probably less than 10%.



 EDF: Ifyou had     several discrete  much smaller     hydro power plants    which
 are much moreflexibleand       decentmlized,    then you would    avoid putting  all
 your eggs in one  basket.


 Karcher. Right.


 EDF: Youcould     stop the project  if at some point    you see that  curTentcosts
 are much more   than you thought     or if ...


Karcher: Ifconsumption      is less because    of tariff increases or some other
reason, or if thegovernment     faces major budgetary      resource shortfalls,  then
you can still do something   about It. Youhave       to recognizethat   the
government ofNepal    has already significantlyincreased        tariffsover the  past
3 years. Howmuch      more they willbe     able to increase   them remains    to be
seen. However,it's   an important    issue since the   government's    ability to
fund prioxityinvestments   in the power and     in the social   sectors willnowbe
dependent on   the capacity  ofthe National ElectricityAuthority       (NFAto
generate substantial  financial surpluses.     NEAwould have      to become much

                                        10

     Karcher.   I think  that the  economicrate     of return  came downfrom
     18% to                                                                        about
            maybe     15%.   Since the  costs of the   program   haven't
    there                                                                  come down,
          must    have been   some moderation      of the imputed
    kilowatt                                                         ecomomicvalue
             hour but                                                                    of a
                         it may  stUllbe  unrealistically  high.  This is   a question
    deserves                                                                             that
             to be lookedinto.


   EDF:    Ifthere   is this eight-foldhigher    figure for the  cost of a
   In Nepal                                                                 kilowatt hour
             as compared     to Washington,     obviously  this strains   anyone's
   credibility.....Howcan      the task  manager    and the  country   manager
   with such                                                                      proceed
              a project?


   Karcher.  The economicanalysis        had to  be redone.    The problem.however,
  with waiting   for such   a late stage  in the project  processing   cycle before
  doing  a proper  economic    analysis   is that ihe opportunity    to use
  of the                                                                     the results
         analysis  to shape   the design   of the Investment    program    is then
  The analysis                                                                      lost.
                 merely  serves   tojustify  the project  after the  fact. Had  the
  analysis been done     earlier,it would  have been    helpful  to learn
 sensitivity                                                               from the
             analysis   that plausible variations    in the  loadforecast
 discount                                                                    or in the
           rate have    a signficant  impact    on the timing   ofthe  project.  For
  istance, should    electricityconsumption      growat   a rate  which is
 of the                                                                      only 75%
       base case,   phase    1 of the Ann project    would   be neeeded 6
 (in 2009,                                                                   years  laer
           rather  than 2003).     Similarly, should   the opportunity
capital                                                                    cost of
        be 12%instead      often   percent.   the commissioning ofthe
would                                                                       project
       be delayed by     some  7 years  to 2010.    Now,besides
there                                                               electricpower,
      are other   imlortant   unmet   needs    in Nepal.  The demand for      clectrlcity
can be  moderated    simply   by reducing    the rate of new  household
connections.   This may    allowfor   meeting   other priority
maintenance,                                                     such as   highway
               for Instance.    What  Is stiking   as you  travel in
enormous                                                              Nepal,iSthe
           need for road    maintenance     and rehabilitation.    On my last   field

                                           8

     service  salaries.  these  are issues.   A significant part of the energy
    the urban                                                                   goes to
                  elites, including  civil servants.  The government    may increase
    electricity  tariffs, but then  there may   also be  an induced   effect on civil
    service  salaries.   And the   government    will be collecting with one  hand
    it may                                                                          what
            have Lohand                                                                  j
                             out with  the other.


   EDF:    What   do you    think about   this estimated  economlc   rate of return
   15.4 percent?                                                                     of



   Karcher:    I have  not seen  the latest  documents.    As I was   starting to say.
   had major                                                                           I
                concerns    about  the economic    analysis which   was first shared
   back in  January.      The methodology     was based   on the  consumers'
  willingness    to pay  for electricpower.   First of alL how does   one estimate
  that?   What   is the  shape  of the demand     curve?  When   I looked
  imputed                                                                  at the the
             economic    value of a kilowatt  hour in   Nepal, I found  that on
  this was                                                                      average
             about   7 1/2  times what   consumers    were paying   and I was
 wondering     how Is   it possible that you  can assume    that the  average  Nepali
 consumer     would   be willing to  pay something    like $0.53  per kilowatt
 when                                                                           hour,
        we in  Washington      pay something    like 7 or 8 cents?  Obviously,
 use these                                                                      if you
             kinds   of values, then any    project becomes   feasible and justified.
 My colleagues,    in the  department,    also feltthat the  figures lacked
 credibility, and that    one needed   to do something    to improve  the economic
 analysis  of the project    I have  seen a  draft of the revised economic    analysis,
but I have   not been    able to figure out what   is the revised imputed
value                                                                        economic
       of a kilowatt   hour.


EDF:   It is probably    not too different  because  otherwise  wouldn't
to be a                                                                    there have
        revision   of the  economic  rate of  return?



                                            7

    Karcher.  No. Because,     to some   extent in  the social  sectors in  Nepal the
   government    is still inthe process   of developing   the capacity   to provide  those
   services,  and it's not  an easy task.   Providing   health services   that reach  into
   every village in Nepal   is not an  easy task.   You need   trained personnel:    you
   need women    with a certain    level of education   to provide those services.    So
   to some  extent, the   limiting factor in  the social  sectors isthe
   implementation    capacity,  but as I was   saying earlier,  this is a constraint
  which Is   being lifted, so that in  the 'mediumterm--we       are talling  about
  three to fiveyears--you    would be    able to expand    those services quite
  rapidly.  And It is  at that point  that the  issue is  going to come up:   will there
  be suffficient resources   available?



  EDF: It  appears   that the  economic    viability of the project depends    to large
 degree on   the Nepalese    Energy Authority     (N&EA) increasing  tariffs of
 electricity.


 Karcher:    1dght.


 EDF: There    have been    huge tariff  increases   in the past and there   have been
 riots in the streets. How much      over the current   price do  current energy
 costs have  to increase?


Karcher.   As Irecall,   the average   tariff had  to increase by about    100%
between    1994 and   the yea   2000. Soyou      would have    to continue
increastng   these tariffs  quite regularly  and significantlyoverthe      next sbc
years or  so. Whether     that is feasible or not remains    to be seen.   Whether
electric power is  goingto be   affordable   and to whom,and      what kind    of
impact this  is going  to have on   the cost  of living and possibly  on civil

                                           6

   Nepal's bargaining  position, because   Nepalwillalready     have invested  its
  own resources   in those facilities, and India may   simply offerto   pay a tariff
  coveringthe   incremental  costs of generation,   such as additional   turbines
  and transmission   lines. But   let us take it that the power development
  program was   designed to  meet domestic     consumption.    The question  then
 becomes what     should be the  priority given to meeting the    localdemand    for
 electricityin relation to other needs,   and is the  methodologyfor    selecting
 power projects   adequate to  answer that   question?    Starting out with a
 demand forecast    for electric power. the Least Cost   Generation   Expansion
 Plan methodologyseeks     to find a sequence    ofinvestments    that minimizes
 the cost of meeting  the projected   demand. NowI      think that  klnd of
 methodologyis    okay if the size of the investments   is not too out of line with
 the size of the countrys economy.     I mean ifyou    are talking  about relatively
 small increments   to the power system    and ifyou   have a program   that
 doesn't really overwhelmthe     whole macroeconomicframework, then         that
 kind ofmethodologymakes       sense. But   if the methodologythrows     up huge
investments   which carry  significant  risks for the balanced developmentof
the country,  then you have   to ask yourself whyis    It that it isso important
to meet fully the projected consumers'    needs for electricity?   Whyis it not
equally important.  perhaps even    more important.    to meet the  needs for
primary education,   for water supply.  or for familyplanning     services? Why
is electricityconsumption,   a significant proportion   ofwhich goes to   the
better-off urban  dweUers,more    important   than the needs    of the poor,
especiallyfor an institution  like the Bank  which is primarily    concemed
about povertyalleviation?


EDF: Areyou    saying, that for other sectors--health,   education,  and so on--
you don't find this analysis--an  assumption--saying     that education  needs
have to be met completelyor    that health  needs have   to be met completely?

                                        5

   project   Ifpovertyalleviation is the overriding objective,there    must be
   alternative ways of stimulating  productive  employment than     by
  concentrating   so much of the  available government    and donor   resources on
  this one sector.


  EDF: What     doyou think  ofthe economic analysis     of the project?


  Karcher, I  have some  serious reservations   about the economicanalysis.
  First ofall itwas difficultto get bold of the economicanalysis     until quite
  late in the projectprocessing  cycle. Somehowthat      informationwasn't     being
  shared very readily.  Then in January   1994. when    we finaly did  get a copy
  ofthe draft StaffAppraisal  Reportfor the   project, I found  many problems
 with the analyis.   At the sectoral level, there was no clarity  as to what   the
 composition of the  government's   overallinvestment    program in   power
 actualy was    and to what extent it was  designed to  serve exportneeds     in
 addition to  domestic consumption.    Part of the justification was that the
 project was  goingto help  Nepalexort    electric power to  India, but there  was
 no indication  that Nepalcould   produce power   at a cost and  sell it at a price
 which would yield   an attractivereturn to Nepal.  Although Nepalhas       major
 hydro potential, the unit cost of installed hydro capacity   is quite high.
Therefore Iwould    have liked to see a demonstration    that the electricity
generated by   the project and the follow-onprojects   in the ArunValleywas
actually competitiveand    that those projects would constitute   an attractive
investment   for Nepal. This was missing.    Moreover.if electricityexports
were an objective  for the program,  then it seemed  to me that the   Nepal
government    should have  entered into negotiations with India beforegoing
ahead with   the investment  because of the  major up-front   investments
required for the access road  to the dam  site and the   other faclities for the
first phase ofthe Arun  project. To  do otherwise  may seriouslyweaken

                                       4

     out Investments      In the social sectors.   It's possible  to construct
     where                                                                       scenarios
             that will  not happen,    but they  usually   rest on  rather  optirnistc
     assumptions.     You may     have access   the latest  country   econoriic
     memorandum       of the  World   Bank  on Nepal    which   was issued
    and is,                                                                   last March
             I believe.  a public  document.     It describes  the set  of measures
    government                                                                         the
                   of Nepal   would   have to implement     over the   next 10
   in order                                                                     or 12years
              to avoid   the crowding-out    impact.    I personally   fear that
   measures,                                                                     those
                 which   include  revenue   mobilization,   strict recurrent   expenditure
   control.  investment    prioritization,  and steep   tariff increases,
   difficult                                                               may be   very
             to inplement     and especialy    to sustain   over a  long period
   I'm not casting                                                               of time.
                      doubts   on the  good intentions    of the government
  but if                                                                        of Nepal
          and when     the crunch   comes,   then I  think  there  is a significant
  that the   government                                                             risk
                            will have  to cut back   on its prlority  programs
  social                                                                         in the
          sectors,  as well  as in some   other  important    sectors.   Prudence
  argue  in favor                                                                   would
                    of less risky  alternatives.


 EDF:    We have    not been   able to  obtain  a copy  of the  Country
 Strategy,                                                                Assistance
             as it is not available   to the public.  Howdoes     the Arun
 into the                                                                    project
           overall                                                                    fit
                    strategy   of sustainable  growth    and poverty    aJlevation?

 Karcher:   I don't  think   that Iam divulging     any great  secret   by saying
 poverty                                                                           that
          alleviation  is the  stated  overriding  objective  of the  Bank!s
 assistance                                                                   country
              strategy   for Nepal.  This requires   broad-based,     labor-intensive
growth   to generate    income   opportunities   for the  poor. and investments
basic  social                                                                       in
               services.   In light of what  I said earlier. obviously
about                                                                    I have
       how the                                                                   doubts
                  project  fits Into such-a  strategy.  because    It does
to be                                                                      not appear
      consistent   with the   goal of  labor-intensive   growth.   and the
project's                                                                   Arun
          benefits  will not  readily  trickle down   to the  poor, the
majoiity                                                                 overwhelming
          of whom    live in the rural  areas  that will not  be served   by the

                                            3

      2022346049
                             EDF LSHIGTO     DC
                                                            F-580  T-616  P-003      SE=2"   -



     scale  of the investments   and the   nature  of the risks  one is
     a large                                                             taking
              project                                                            with such
                       and perhaps  even   two of them   (because
     plan is                                                       I understand
              now to                                                                the
                      go ahead  simultaneously    with both   the Arun
     Gandaki                                                              and the
               projects).                                                           Kali
                           A related concern    has to do with   the fact
    the World                                                              that, whereas
                Development    Report   of 1990  calls for labor-intensive
    (labor  often                                                             growth
                  being  the most  plentiful  resource  in poor  countries),
    see that  such                                                             I do not
                    large investments    in the power  sector
   growth,                                                     lead to  labor-intensive
             certainly  not In the short  to medium    teruL  lherefore,
   me that                                                                  it seems
             the goveniment                                                           to
                               and the   donors  need   to consider
   investment                                                        alternatives
                 programs   and a  more   balanced  pattern   of development,
   would   generate                                                               which
                     more  productive   employment,    particularly   among    the poor.

   EDF:   The question    many  peoplehave    raised  is that with
   close                                                           total
         to $760                                                          project
                  million,                                                          costs
                           more   than  Nepal'sentire   annual
  likelyto                                                       budget,
            crowd                                                          is this
                    out many                                                       not
                               the socialinvestments     that your
  interested                                                        divisionis
              In, such  as expenditures   for education.   health.
  resource   development?                                          and human


  Karcher:   Even  though   the costs of the  Arun project
 9 years,                                                    will be spread
           that                                                               over
                has been                                                            8 or
                           a real concern   of mine.   In Nepal
 development                                                     human    resource
                is stillat a very early stage.  The levels  of education
 services, family                                                           and health
                   planning  services  are stillso inadequate
 investments                                                     that major
               are required.   Nepal  Is presently developing
 expand                                                          the potential
         those                                                                   to
                services  quite rapidly.  My main    concem
 happens                                                      has been    about
           in the                                                                 what
                  medium    term, when   you have   developed
provide                                                         the capacity
         better                                                                 to
                prinary   education,  to improve   secondazy
education,                                                     and higher
             and to  provide health  and family  planning    services
level toreach                                                          at the
                very                                                           village
                     poor  women.   It is at that point
investments                                              that those  large
              in the  power  sector.once  having  started,  are liable  to crowd

                                         2

   2022346049
                          EDF LASHINGTON DC
                                                          P-580 T-616  P-02       EP 27 '94 ': 1




                                         Transcript

                                   NEPAL'SARUN DAM
    Environmental     Defense  Fund Interview    with Martin    Karcher.   Division
    for Population                                                                  Chief
                     and Human     Resources,   Country    Department     I in the South
                  Asia Region at the World    Bank   (September    9, 1994)




  Karcher:    Before we start. let me   point out  that, having   left my  offlce about
  two months     ago, Icannot  claim  to be fully  up-to-date   on what's   happening
  with the  A-unsProject.


  EDF:    The basic facts of the size of the project   and costs  involved   probably
  have not   changed.   In view of the Bank's   claim   that poverty  allevation,
  specifically                                                                    and
               your area.  population  and hurnan     resouces   development
 first priority,                                                                are its
                 what is the rationale  of IDAfunding     for this mega-project?

 Karcher:    The Bank's  rationale  for the project  is that it willgenerate
 economic   growth.   This is the first of the two-and-a-half    prongs   of the
 poverty  alleviation strategy outlined  in the  World   Development     Report
 1990.                                                                           of
         Firstly,you need   income  growth   in poor   countries  to alleviate
 poverty.  Secondly  you need   to invest  in human     resources,   And thirdly.
you stil                                                                           as
          have some   people  who are   not going-to   benefit directly  from
economic   growth,  you may   also need   targeted  poverty   allevatlon
to reach                                                                  programs
          those  people, particularly  the absolute   poor, including   women.
the basic                                                                         So
           rationale for the Arun project   is that  It willhelp generate
economic   growth,  because  you need    electricity In order  to promote
industrial growth,  including  smaUlscale    industry,   and tourism.
make                                                                     Let me
      clear  at the outset that Iam not    against  the development
Nepal.                                                                  of power  in
        The country   needs  power  but what    Is at issue, in my  mind,   is the

                                   ATTACHMENT-IV.A

       Under 5.A. 1: Project Cost      -and Crowding Out of Social         Sectors


Even bank staff have expressed     the view that the size of    the domestic investmerlt
requirement will crowd out the   social sectors. In a recent  public statement   by Martin
Karcher, a Division Chief for Population and Human Resources,      Country Department 1
in the South Asia Region      at the World Bank stated        in an interview     with the
Environmental Defense Fund    who resigned over Arun III controversy   stated:

   "Even though the costs    of the Arun project will be  spread over 8 or 9 years, that
   [crowdingout of investments    in social sectors] has been  a real concern of mine. In
   Nepal human resource development         is still at a very early  stage. The levels of
   education and health services,  family planning services   are still so inadequate that
   major investments are required.  Nepal is presently developing  the potential to expand
   those services quite rapidly. My main concern has been     about what happens in the
   medium term, when you      have developed the capacity      to provide better primary
   education, to improve secondary    and higher education, and    to provide health and
   family planning services at  the village level to reach very poor women. It Js   at this
   point that those large investments    in the power sector, once     having started, are
   liable to crowd out investments   in the social sectors." (See intervlew   wlth Mart1n
   Karcher, September 9,  1994 attached).

I

                                        ATTACHMENT-lV

                       Under 4.E.4: Land-Based           Resettlement



In the case of Arun m    project, about 640 families    reportedly are expected to    be directly
affected by the Valley route,   and about 1650 familIes from    the previous Hill route. At  filrst
glance, the Valley route    seems to affect fewer families.    However, one has to take      Into
account what has already       occurred In the area of    the originally proposed     Hill route.
Because, the HMG/N        has already acquired     the land of many families       living on the
originally proposed Hill     route which is now       no longer needed. The        Valley route
displacement should     be viewed for what it is   -  additional displacement      -  above and
beyond what has already        unnecessarily taken place.     Given the timing of the     Bank's
decision to rearrange the   route (based solely upon    financial objectives), what   could have
been viewed as compliance      with the objective of mninnimzingdisplacement      now has to be
viewed as an aggregation    of involuntary resettlement.

The RAP could be considered       a development program     though the executing agencies       in
general, are not aware    of their responsibilities  to carry out this program      (interview by
Janet Bell with the Chief    District Officer of Sankhuwa-Sava       District. April 1994).  It is
also difficult to determine       what is a recommendation        and what is a mandated
responsibility as there   is no clear-cut regional  action plan. In the case    of the Hill route
for the access road, displaced    persons had not been    given sufficient resources  in order to
replace their lost resources.

A cash compensation     is still the centerpiece of the Nepali government's    Land Acquisition
Guidelines 2050. The EIA     reports that "Access Road    guidelines are based   on the premise
that resettlement of   affected families to new  land is impractical,   mainly because, firstly,
there is no new land    available, and secondly,    families do not wish to    leave the area of
their ancestral homes.    Therefore, compensation      is cash-based." According     to the same
EIA. it is expected that     Valley route PAFs will     have even less ability     to be able to
comprehend cash compensation         because they are already    poorer than those affected    on
the Hill route.

The updated Land Acquisition,         Compensation     and Rehabilitation     Plan (ACRP) has
attempted to cope with    these issues by insisting   that project affected people   be given the
option of receiving   land Instead of cash. The    burden of identifying    this land, however,
has been placed upon      the displaced themselves     and they must further     arrange for the
state to purchase the     land. Those already     displaced by the project     do not have the
option of land, and it  has been proven in earlier    ElAs that the amount      of compensation
has not been adequate.

Furthermore, no socio-economic       survey has been carried   out on the Valley route    in order
to determine the value   of the lands of the affected  families. This violates  section 11 of OD
4.30. In addition, no resettlement    plan has been established     for those who will lose their
households because     of the power transmission     lines. In fact, no environmental    or social
and health plans have     been developed for this   portion of the project.

The indigenous      peoples-component       needs to include baseline       data, protection    of
communally      held lands,      a strategy   for local participation,     a strengthening      of
institutional  capacities    for responsible    organizations,   a separate    monitoring     and
evaluation unit, an Implementation       plan, etc. In the absence   of the plan for indigenous
peoples, the components     for the plan are missing   as well.

A1TACHMENT-IV

 The cash compensation    has been shown     to fall in thecase of those   compensated
 no longer operational                                                                     for the
                        Hill route of the access road.    According to
 Access Road,                                                            the EIA. 'A majority
               Hill Route Project                                                               of
                                    Affected Families   (PAFs) and
 Families (SPAFs)                                                    Seriously Project   Affected
                    have already    spent their  cash compensation
consumer purchases.                                                      on debt repayments,
                        or subsistence   needs, and   have been unable
capital assets.                                                            to reinvest Inland or
                The same lack    of ability toplan ahead    is likely to happen
Valley route                                                                      to the present
             PAFs."

The HMG/N     has given a 30-day   notice of land acquisition of   Manakamana
project area on                                                                    Village in the
                 October 5, 1994    asking the affected   families to claim
According to                                                                 for compensation.
              the notice, acquisition of land for the  access road   is to take place
Nepal's Land                                                                           under the
               Acquisition   Act, 1979.   Study of the    Act and the     procedures
acquisition makes                                                                       for land
                    it explicitly clear that there is  no sufficient   provision for
land compensation.                                                                    a land for
                      The sole use of    the Act for the   purpose of ACRP
contradicts with                                                                 of the Arun 1II
                 the relevant Bank   policies and  procedures. Thus.
the ACRP implementation                                                 the later Is violated  by
                           process.

ATTACHMENT-lI1

in reality, to offsetthe extreme adverse environmental and   social impacts. Theclaimants
believe the RAPis unlikely    to be implemented  by NEA since It Isthe same agency which
is promoting the project   by all means. Moreover.according to the EIAfor  the Valley route
(September 1992),     serving the needs of the local population is secondary to providing
access to the project   site (page 2-1). The route of the road was changed to  the Valley
purely for expediency    and on financial  grounds, and not   to help the local people for
sustainable development.

                                          ATTACHMENT-E

                      Under 4.C. 1: Environmental              Inforznation


 To our knowledge the      project authority organized      two meetings, one in     Hile and the
  other In Tumlingtar    in which various aspects      of the project were discussed       to some
 extent. (The first meeting      was held in Hile only        on December 2. 1993         with the
 distribution of a booklet   in a local language on    compensation procedures,       but no other
 project documents and     information were made      available to the public  at that time). Even
 in the so called 23 public  meetings too, except for    distributing a leaflet with some project
 data and compensation      procedure, no information      on the critical aspects   of the project
 were disclosed. However,     there was an attempt     to answer questions     at the Tumlingtar
 meeting by the NEA     officials without the   wider availability of basic   project documents
 and information. Regarding       participantion in these    meetings letters were    sent only to
 the elected representatives   of the Village Development     Committees. and the meeting      was
 neither announced over     the radio nor publicized     through leaflets or posters    before the
 meetings such as in   Tumlingtar so that the      concerned people could      participate. There
 was no mentioning of the     likely adverse environmental      impact during the meetings      by
 the project authorities.  The carefully guarded meetings       held in the Arun Valey     were to
 explain the affected people    about the legal procedures      on compensation      as described
 earlier. In some of these meetings, the claimants     also made attempts to    address the local
 people or distribute some   critical literature about  the project, they were   either prevented
 to speak with the people   or warned to limit their   statements on the compensation       alone.

 There is no single occasion      one recalls in which      the likely adverse environmental
 impacts were made public       and the views of the      local people were sought.     It can be
 believed that during the    initial stage of the fleld   work for the environmental       impact
studies,   the designated professionals      interacted with the local    people. But that was
primarily focused in obtaining      information from the local      people, but not to let   them
know the likely adverse    impacts and listen to     their recommendations.     The local people
were not offered choices.

The proposed road as the     project documents claim      is highly desired by the   local people
which Is a fact. But this   road will cause severe disruption      in the economic, social    and
cultural patterns of the   lives of the Valley people   which they are not properly      informed
of. In the latest environmental     mitigation plan prepared     by the NEA, the introductory
chapter states "The    Arun-lII project. particularly     the road. wil bring major      changes.
Without effective intervention,   the impacts on the Valley     could be severe particularly   on
the poorest families."  Whether the local people      are adequately informed      by the project
authorities   about these severe impacts        is the important     question. The claimants
strongly feel that they  have not. The local people      are never asked about      their choices
between a "road built     with environmentally      tolerable pace and with      environmental
friendly approach and    techniques" and 'the one     being proposed". They     are disguised by
creating dilemma of either   the proposed road or     the environment.

The Arun Valey is an     area of immense biological      diversity. It contains   one of the few
Intact pristine forests left in the Himalayas.    According to the EIA,    the Arun m project,
122 kmnaccess road     and transmission      lines wil bring many    irreversible and negative
changes to the Valley.     Because of the expected       negative impact to     the region. the
HMG/N has prepared       a "Regional Action Plan".      However. the claimants       have strong
reasons to believe that  the RAPwill not be properly       implemented, and the     construction
of the project wiDproceed   before environmental     and social safeguards  are in place.

Although the RAP and       the access road has        been publicly promoted        as an "area
development plan" for   the people of the Arun     Valey. the RAP is only    a mitigation plan,

ATrACHMENT-ll

                                       ATrACHMENT-I

                                                                 and Document
          Under 4.C.     1: Arun III   Project Information


                                                             denied access      to basic project
Throughout    the project  cycle, the claimants   have been
                                                       the Bank's  stated policy-commitment
Information  in a timely  manner. This   has violated
                                                                          to operatlonalize  the
of accountability   and transparency,   and the Bank    has also failed
                                                                  is criticalbecause failure   to
presumption   in favor of disclosure of information.  Tineliness
                                                                              from challenging
release information   to the claimants  prevented   local people and NGOs
                                                       the project  from public     debate and
the project  or its various   aspects and    shielded
                                                       planning.
scrutiny  at criticaljunctures  in projectdesign and

                                                                    the founding    members of
For example,   the Allance   for Energy, a local group  and one of
                                                               promoting     alternatives  to the
the Arun   Concerned    Group, the  claimant,  that had been
                                                                                   did not have
Arun III project   for two years was always    at a disadvantage  because they
                                                              analysis,   cost/benefit  analysis
access to  the Bank's   analysis on  alternatives. least cost
                                                                    from international     NGOs
or financial  plan. It was  only after pressure   and involvement
                                                 that the Bank finally    began to   release this
based In  the Bank's    major donor   countries
information.

                                                     available in he Arun    Valley was   mostly
Information   about the   project that was actually
                                                                land which    is being acquired
on compensation      procedures  and compensation     rates for
                                                                     Document     (PID)were   not
for the project.  The EIAdocuments     and the Project  Infornation

 available in the Arun  Valley or in the Nepali  language.

AIrACHMENT-1

  THEWORLDBANK/IFC/MIGA
  OFFICEMEMORANDUM                                                                                    ANNEXD



                                                                                         RECEIVED
    DATE:                                ORIGINAL
            November   21,  1994

     TO:   Mr. Ernst-Gunther       Broder,    Chairman,    The Inspe          Panel
                                                                      , ; I             NOV2    A
   FROM:                                                                         E~~~J  INSPECTION
           Ernest                                                                                  PANEL
                    Stern,   Managing     Director,    EX

EXTENSION: 82004

 SUBJECT: Reauest    for Inspection      - Nepal:      Arun  III Hydroelectric     Prolect


          1.           Kindly    find   attached    for your    consideration
          Response    to the   above                                            the Management
                                       Request     for  Inspection.

          2.           We believe     that   the  Response    appropriately
          questions    raised                                                  addresses
                                 in the                                                   the
                                          Request,    and demonstrates
          followed   its                                                    that
                           operational                                           the Bank  has
                                           policies    and procedures
          and appraisal                                                    with respect
                            of the    proposed                                           to the design
                                                  project.

          3.           The Response     addresses     the substance
          It  does  not                                                  of the
                         address                                                Request's
                                    the issue                                              complaints.
                                                  of the   eligibility
          applicable                                                       of the
                        provisions                                                Request  under
                                       of the                                                    the
                                                Resolution      establishing   the Panel.




          Attachment




         cc:    Messrs.    Mr. L.    Preston,    President,     EXC
                          Mr.    I. Shihata,     Senior   Vice   President,   LEG
                          Mr. D.    Joseph    Wood,   Vice   President,    SAS

   ORIGINAL
                       fc66-[V~~~~~~EDl
l
                     94No22 AN
                             8:45
                   THEINSPECTON
                              PANEL




     NEPAL:ARUNIII


                     TO
  MANAGEMENT:RESPONSE
   REQUESTFORINSPECTION

                       ACRONYMS



 ACRP       Acquisition,
 BP                     Compensation,and
            BankProcedures                 RehabilitationPlan
 DSM
 EA        DemandSideManagement

 GIS       EnvironmentalAssessment

 GLOF      GeographicInformation  System
 HMG/N     GlacierLakeOutburst   Floods
           His Majesty's
 IDA                     Govemmentof   Nepal
 IEPS      InternationalDevelopmentAssociation
           Initial
 kWh              ExecutiveProjectSummary
          Kilowatt  hour
LCGEP
MIS       LeastCost Generationand   ExpansionPlan
MW        ManagementInformation    System
          Megawatts
NEA
NGO       NepalElectricAuthority

OD        Non-governmentalOrganization
          OperationalDirective
OP        OperationalProcedures
OPN
PAFs      OperationalPolicy Note
          ProjectAffected
PIC                       Families

PID       Public Information Center
          ProjectInformation
RAP                          Document
          RegionalAction
SAR                       PlanforArun
          Staff                       III Project
SPAFs           AppraisalReport

UNDP      SeriouslyProjectAffected Families
WDR       United NationsDevelopmentProgramme
          World DevelopmentReport

                         TABLEOFCONTENTS


                                                                                                     Page


Chapter 1    Strategic Context and Project       Background ..                ................         1



Chapter2     The Requestfor Inspection         .........           ...................                 4



Chapter 3    Responseto the Project-SpecificIssuesRaisedin
             the Requestfor Inspection.........                  ....................                  5



Chapter 4    Conclusion ......................................                                        18



Annex A      SelectedBankOperationalPoliciesand               Procedures ....                  ...... 19



Annex B      DocumentsRequestedin Mr. Br6der's
             November4, 1994 Memorandumto                   Mr. Wood .....                  ........  21



Annex C      PreviousRequeststo the Bank ........                    .................                22




                          SOUTHASIA REGION
                           November21, 1994

              CHAPTER1: STRATEGICCONTEXTAND                 PROJECTBACKGROUND


 I.      STRATEGICCONTEXT

 1.              Nepalis the seventh poorest country    in the world. Annual GDPper capita is
 under $200. Its socialindicators    are on a par with the leastdevelopedcountries in      Africa.
 Populationis increasingrapidly; it  is projectedto doublewithin 30    years. The absolutepoor
 constitute almosthalf the population.

 2.             The ranksof the poor have been increasingin      Nepal. GDPhasbeen risingby
 3.5 percent perannum. But      this is not fast enough to reducethe    number of poor people,
when population itself is growing    at 2.5 percent per annum. Economicgrowth        would need
to acceleratefor the numberof poor       peopleto beginto decline.

3.               Nor can significant inroads into   poverty be achievedthrough    redistributional
policies. Sincesuch a largepercentageof         the populationis poor,there is simply too  little to
redistribute for such policiesto be   animportant part of the poverty reduction   strategy. This
suggests that the core 1990        WDR strategy of efficient labor-intensive        growth plus
investments in humancapital is the      right approachfor Nepal.

4.              TheGovernmenthasbeenpursuingthis          approach. It has adopteda numberof
policy reformsin recentyears. Expendituresonbasicsocialserviceshavebeenincreasedand
are programmedto risefurther      -  by over 5 percent perannumin real per     capitaterms over
the next 10 years.

5.              While the results of these efforts      have been positive, they have         been
constrained by two major factors      -   implementationcapacity to convert     the higher social
sector spendinginto markedlyimproved         literacy and healthoutcomes and power to     fuel the
private sector supply responseto the reforms.

6.              The proposedArun IlIlproject addressesthe secondof     theseconstraints. It will
help put an endto the load-sheddingand power shortagesthat         have kept the labor-intensive
micro-enterprise and tourist sectors       from expanding and relieve existing     pressures on
fuelwood and onforest resources.      By providingthe basisfor sustainedandefficient     growth,
it is central to Nepal's - and IDA's    -  poverty reduction strategy.

7.              Theeconomicanalysisof the proposedproject suggeststhat         the expectedrate
of return is 13.5 percent.     This is adequate by Bank standards, which        typically uses a
minimum 10 percentbenchmarkfor         the opportunity cost of capitalas acutoff.  Moreover,for
Nepal, the critical constraint  is not the availability of donor financing   - indeed, Nepal's
calculated "norm" IDA allocation    is not being fully taken up for  lack of good projects, and
donor-financed project disbursements are        among the slowest in the world.  Ratherthe key
constraint is absorptivecapacity.    Accordingly, the 10 percent opportunity    cost benchmark
overstates the valuethat the    Arun project funds couldearn in   alternative usesoverthe next
few years.

                                                  -2-

    8.            In the circumstances,Bankstrategy
    simultaneouslyon                                     is to work
                       three fronts:                                 with the   Nepaleseauthorities

                         First, we  are helping Nepal  to build institutional
                         front.  As noted,                                      capacity
                                             implementation                               on a broad
                                                               capacity
                         constraint                                       is the
                                    that Nepalfaces.                              key development
                                                         We are  working
                         relax that constraint                              with the   authorities
                                              and to  increasethe                                  to
                                                                    country's
                         for donorandotherinflows.                              absorptivecapacity
                         and sector                   We aredoingit through projects,
                                     work,                                                 economic
                                            and technical   assistance.
                         process,but                                      This is
                                      essentialfor                                  a staff-intensive
                                                    Nepal's  developmentprospects.
                 *       Second,we   arecontinuingto   work with
                         policy and public  expenditure           the Nepaleseauthoritiesonthe
                                                          framework
                        poverty                                        for sustained
                                 reduction.                                             growth
                                             Critical                                            and
                                                     here is the continuation
                        revenue   increases  and expenditure                     of the programfor
                                                                prioritization
                        emphasison                                                -   including
                                     increasedspendingfor                                        the
                        the PolicyFrameworkPaper.'            basic socialservices -     set forthin

                *       Third, withinthe broadercontext     of support
                        developmentin                                   for efficient
                                        Nepal,we                                      power   sector
                                                   are proposingto
                        the Arun                                      finance (with
                                  project.                                            other donors)
                                            The primary    objective
                        Nepal'sgrowingpower requirementsat leastcost sothat
                                                                      of this   project is to meet
                        on growth  andpoverty                                        this constraint
                                                reduction  can be  overcome.

  1I.    PROJECTBACKGROUND

 9.            Nepal's
 world.  Only 9  percentpercapita commercialenergy consumptionis
 important                of the populationhas                           one of  the lowest
                                                  access                                     in the
            energy                                        to electricity.
                     source for cooking                                   Fuelwood is     the most
 fuelwood                                and heating.
           (72 percent),                                Indeed,  the main
 (1 percent);the         agriculturalresidues(12                              energy  sources   are
                                                   percent),
                remainderis imported(6percent).              dung (9 percent),and hydropower
 at 25,000  megawatts   (MW), of  which
 cost generation expansion planfor      only 241     Nepal's hydropowerpotentialis estimated
                                                   MW hasbeendevelopedto
 as one                              the Nepalgrid                               date. The least-
        of the                                       identifies
               core investments                                the Arun
                                 in meetingNepal's medium-termenergy needs.
                                                                          IlIlhydropower project

 10.           The proposedproject,givenits
complex set                                   situation  in the
by foot.   Its 450,000
             of environmentaland socio-economicissues.         ArunValley, posesa uniqueand
                         inhabitants                         The Valley is now
                                      lead a harsh                                accessibleonly
education                                            subsistence
           and health  services.                                  life, with   limited
                                  They have                                             access
Rapidpopulationgrowth                        no access                                          to
                                                          to electricity
                         contributesto                                   or safe  drinking
in particular                           pressureon                                         water.
             forests.   Against                      food supplies,jobs,
                                this background,                         andnaturalresources,
opportunity                                         the proposed    project
            -  and posesmajorrisks -
for project                             for the                               represents a   major
                                               future
           developmentand                              of the Valley.
the Valley andfacilitate      maintenancewill                          The accessroad required
                                               greatly  reducetransport
                        tourism  and labormarket                           costs into  and out  of
                                                   development.    But thesechanges,coupled

1/ See Nepal: PolicyFrameworkPaper,1994-96;SecM94-324,March30,           1994.

                                           -3 -

                                                         onthe fragileenvironmentof   the
with constructionactivities, couldalsohave majoreffects
area.

                                                                                 detailed
11.          In recognition   of the various development-related  risks, a very
environmentaland socio-economicanalysiswasundertakenduring       project preparation.The
                                                                                   major
analysis, led to the formulation   of an Environmental    Action Plan, with three
                                                                      Resettlement,   and
components:    an Environmental   Mitigation Plan,a Land Acquisition,
CompensationPlan,   and a RegionalAction    Plan. Taken   together theplanned mitigation
                                                                                     limit
measurescoverthe   full rangeof  environmentalandsocio-economicrisks.    They aimto
                                                                                      and
negativedirect impacts and to  maximizethe   Valley's prospectsforsustainablegrowth

poverty reduction.

                               CHAPTER2:       REQUESTFOR       INSPECTION

     1.            The Requestfor
     procedures in six areas:         Inspection allegesviolation   of Bank operationalpolicies and

    *      economicanalysis     of projects:
           properly                            The allegations
                     consideredand that                          arethatalternatives
           failureto treat                 the risk analysisis faulty.                 have  not been
                             properly three                             The latter
                                             issues                                 is ascribedto  the
                                                     -
           possible shortfalls                          possible
                               in power   exports  to India;     upstream developmentsin        China;
                                                             andthe valuation  of large-projectrisks.
    *      energypolicy:    The allegationis the
          from  the program.                      omissionof   demandside managementmeasures

    *     disclosureof   information:
          technical  material           The allegationsarethat
                               was releasedtoo                   the PIDlacks   requireddetail; that
          Assessmentwas                             late to be useful;
                             not availablein                           and that  the Environmental
          also a request to                    Nepaliin  a timely
                             make   publicthe                    and convenient manner.
                                               SAR.                                         Thereis

  *       environmental    assessment:    The
          considered;that                       allegations
                            there                            are that
                                  was insufficient                    alternatives   were
          and that the cumulative    impacts         material availablebefore the          not fully
                                                                                   public
         analyzed.                             of Arun                                    meetings;
                    Thelack                             Valley
                              of an
         lack of                    assessmentof                developmentwere
                 mitigation  plansfor  fish, floods, the transmissionlineis alleged,alongwith
                                                                                     not adequately

                                                      and disposalof                             the
                                                                     construction   spoils.
  * 4    involuntaryresettiement:
         and failure to provideelectricity
                                    Theallegationsarethat therewere insufficientcompensation
         displacedfamilies;                to the
                             that there
        planningwas                      was no
                        not done in               socio-economicsurvey;
                                                   Valleyand permanentemploymentandlandto
                                     a timely                               and that
                                               manner.                                 resettlement

 *      indigenouspeoples:
        indigenous             Theallegationsarethat
                     peoples,  who    will suffer        therearenolocalbenefits for the   Valley's
        mitigation                                 only  adverse
        and that the indigenouspeopleswere
                   or.indigenouspeoplesdevelopmentplan;that the   impacts and that     there  is no
                                                  insufficiently       cadastralsurveywaslate;
                                                                consulted.
2.             The Request for     Inspection
rights and interests, in                       also
                         terms  of:                  alleges adverseeffects  on the    Requesters'

               *       crowding  out of
               *                         social sector spending;
                      too heavy relianceon
               *                               foreignersfor
                      crowding                                construction;
                                 out of  small
               *                               power projects;
               *      adverse
                      underminingdemocratic processes;and
                                 effects   in the     Arun
                      unemployment,fooddeficit,              Valley,  including    income
                      livelihood from  land.          deforestation,healthproblems,and lossof loss,

      CHAPTER3:      PROJECT-SPECIFIC     ISSUESRAISEDIN        THEREQUESTFORINSPECTION'

    I.     ECONOMICEVALUATIONOFINVESTMENTOPERATIONS

           A.      The studies  of possiblealternative    investments
                   Nepal's  power   needs                              and approachesto
                                            undertaken                                     meeting
                                                            during
                  requirementsof                                   project   preparation
                                   OP10.04:                                              meet
                                              the EconomicEvaluationof InvestmentOperations.     the

   1.       '     According   to OP  10.04,  consideration
   important  features                                         of alternatives
   for the             of properproject analysisthroughout                     is one  of the most
            analysis of power                                   the project cycle.
                                projects                                           Bankprocedures
                                         involve
   expansion                                       the identification
               plan (LCGEP)for                                        of the  least-cost
                                 meeting the                                             generation
                                                projected
   investment  programis then                               load growth.
                                subjectedto                                 The resultingleast-cost
                                             economic      rate ofreturn and risk analysis.
   2.            The analysisof    Arun Illfollowed
   LCGEPanalysis, for                                  this approach.
                         which many                                     The SAR
                                      (some3,000)                                  summarizesthe
  were initially                                      alternative
                 considered.  Underlyingthe                        generationand   expansionplans
  candidates of                              LCGEPare
                 varying
  Thermal options         sizes,which had beenexaminedto    11 individualhydro  investment project
                    were alsoconsidered,subject                 the pre-feasibilitylevelor beyond.
  includes                                           to technical
            a detailed descriptionof                              feasibilityconstraints.
                                     the economic                                        The SAR
                                                     and risk  analysis.'
  3.             In responseto  questions,additional
  order to check    the robustness   of the  standard   alternativestrategieswere investigated in
  consideration                                          least-cost
                 of project                                         analysis.
                            candidatesthat                                      This involved
                                             preliminary                                       the
  With the expandedproject                                  analysishad
                              candidateset,the
  Arun before  2010.                              LCGEPmodelwas          previously screenedout.
                       This constraint led to the                     constrainedto not introduce
  2000-2009                                         inclusion
               period's  LCGEP. 3                              of several"Plan
                                    Using                                       B" projects
  appraisalteam to                        the set                                           in the
                                                     of assumptions
                     be most likely,the                               considered by
                                       cost of                                         the Bank's
 than the  cost of the HMG/N's   proposedinvestment
                                                 this alternativeinvestmentprogramwas      higher
                                                         program.'
 4.             The Requestfor
 and proceduresby               Inspectionarguesthat
                     not ensuringthat
feasibilitystage.  Thisis anareawherethereareno
                                      the PlanB project proposalswere investigatedto
                                                         the Bankviolatedits operationalpolicies
                                                                                         the pre-
 -  about the likely costs and benefitsof             hard-and-fastrules;professionaljudgment
                                           further
determining                                         study,
              factor.                                       and of
                      The appraisalteam's                          the associateddelay -   is the
the number    of hydro   candidates exploredassessment,endorsedby         Management,was     that
respectable effort                             to the   pre-feasibility
                    for a country suchas Nepal                         level represented a   very
                                                   -  especiallyin view of the time and expense



1/ Documentnumbersreferto
memorandumto                   thedocumentsrequestedby the
                Mr. Wood.                                        Panelin
                           SeeAnnex Bfor   the listof documentsandthe    Mr.Br5der'sNovember4
                                                                        correspondingnumbering.
2/ See  Document#1:    pp. 54-62;Annexes5.4   and 5.7.
3/ Plan B is describedinDocument#1:    Annex 5.4, para 41.
4/ See Document #5.    Seealso Document#1:   Annex    5.4. para42.

                                                       -6-
     incurredby the    authoritiesin
     in our view,                     investigatingthem.5
                    met by the                              Hencethe
     is supported               standardleast-costanalysis.              Bank's policy requirementwas,
                      by the supplemental                        The reasonablenessof      this judgement
    evidencethat                             analysisdone    on the
                      further                                         Plan B
                             study of                                           alternative.
                                       projects in                                            There
   'Nepal's                                        the 30-80                                          is no
              LCGEP.                                            MW rangewould        displaceArun  III from
    funding    for further
                        Meanwhile,analysisandrefinement continues.
                           pre-feasibilityand                                Indeed,the
                                               feasibility                                project contains
    projects    do emerge,they                            work for   small hydro
                                  can be                                            projects.
                                         accommodatedin                                       If attractive
                                                              the periodically-revisedLCGEP.
            B.'       The analysisof  projectrisksmeets    the requirements     of OP   10.04.
   5.                As summarizedin    OP10.04,
   the costs                                        the Bank's
                and benefits of                                  approachto
   asthe basisfor                the various possibleoutcomes                   risk analysisis toidentify
                      calculatingthe project's                     andto
   carefully followed    in the                 expectedeconomicrateof      assignprobabilitiesto   them,
                                                                              return.
   of the SARgoes beyondstandardBankpractice -
                               economicanalysisof                                      Thisapproachwas
                                                       Arun 111.The approachdescribedin       Annex    5.7
   delineation                                             in the
                  of the  assumptions   underlying
   outcomes considered.6                             the analysis transparencyandexplicitnessof the
                                                                    and the    number    (72) of possible

   6.
  the risks    to project
                    Thebreadthanddepth ofthe risk analysisnotwithstanding,
                           viabilityof the
  Project                                  possible construction                     it doesnot consider
            referred to  in the requestfor                           of the
                                            inspection.                      ChangsuoBasin Irrigation
  these risks to                                          This is
                    be minimal.                                   becausethe
                                  As noted
  is about   230 km2,                       in the SAR,the                        appraisalteam judged
                                                             catchment
                        lessthan   1 percent of                            area of
  to be                                         the Arun                            the ChangsuoBasin
          almost   imperceptibleat                        Basincatchment,
                                     the project site.'                        so anydiversionis likely
  cut off,  the impact                                  Evenif  the flow
                          would  not be                                    in the tributary
                                        significant.                                        were totally
  still be morethan                                   In the wet
                       400 m3/second;in                           season,the
                                            the dry                              Arun Riverflow   would
  the basin as well                                  season,the
                       as by glaciermelt.                          river is fed
  becauseof                                The Chineseauthorities               by aquifersthroughout
                its small size,the
  downstream                        ChangsuoBasinIrrigation           have recentlyreconfirmedthat,
                  water  users.8                                Projectis   likely to have no effect   on

 7.                The Requestfor
 sales to                            Inspectionsuggeststhat
            India; hence it                                     Arun IlI's viability
                             arguesthat   project                                    dependson    power
 economic    analysisassumes "committed"          approval must    await a   bilateral agreement.
 purchasesfrom                                  energysales to                                      The
                     Indiaupto                                    India -
                                the samelevelarealsoassumed.               but for  only up to 50 MW;
                                                                     Thismodestassumptionis fully

 5/ At    an estimated  averagecost   of $1-1.3
 feasibility                                     million
            study,                                       per pre-feasibility
                    andwith
 and $15   million for       detailedengineeringrangingup                   study and   $2.5 million per
                      Arun, thevolumeof
effort  and investment of                engineeringwork   to approximately$7millionfor    KaliGandaki
                                                           carriedout
                           resources,or  an estimated                 by Nepalrepresentsconsiderable
                                                       $50 millionsince 1983.
6/ For   a discussionof   standardBank practice,
Towards a    Result-OrientedApproach              see Econ Report:
                                       to Evaluation:                 EconomicAnalysis of   Projects
                                                       World                                          -
                                                             Bank,  1992.
71 See   Document #1:     paras3.15-3.16.

8/ Seecommunications(October24,        1994
to the  World   Bank Executive              andNovember14,      1994)
                                 Directorfor China
Planner/Engineer.                                   and Donal         betweenGuangyaoZhu, Advisor
                                                                O'Leary,  World   Bank Senior Systems

                                                      -7 -
     in linewith recent   levels of
     agreementhasnot                power tradebetween      Nepal
     dispute  which  disrupted
                          impededthis volumeof sales,evenduringthe   and India. The absenceof      a formal
                                 other trade flows.
     with "surplus"   sales to                        Recognizingthe        1989-1990 tradeandtransit
                                                                         greater
                               India (above50
     which  was usedin                            MW), they                        uncertaintyassociated

    the price of          the least-costanalysis,andthe       arenot included in     the demandforecast
                  current sales andteststhe sensitivity     economicanalysisbothvaluesthem at           half
    The result                                             of the project's
                 -  if no surplus                                            viability
                                   sales occur                                         to theirrealization.
    economicrate                                  -  is a one
                     of return,                                percentage point
                                which  remainsabovethe                               drop in the project's
                                                             opportunity   cost of   capital.
    8.              The Requestfor
    factored  into the                Inspectionsuggests that
                       risk analysis.                              the project's
                                        OP10.04                                    largesizeneedsto     be
    projects, andspecial                            does not
   policy  with respect    analytictechniquesarenot required. mention the    treatment   of risks  in large
                           to the                                    Nordoesthe
                                   valuationof
   managementof                                  risks -                            Bankhaveanexplicit
                                                          as distinguished
                     risks                                                    from the
                            -  associatedwith                                            analysis   and/or
   magnitude                                     largeprojects.
               and importance     to the                          That said,the
   such comprehensiverisk                 Nepaleseeconomy                           recognitionof  Arun's
                                                                was what
                                analysisof                                  led the
   exampleof                                this project,                             Bankto   undertake
                                                            which
                such analysis.                                      is now considereda.best-practice


   II.     POWER AND      ENERGYPOLICY

           A..    Thedesignandappraisalof        the project
                  on the power                                are/were consistent
                                  sector andenergyefficiency.                         with Bankpolicies

  9.              A central tenet
  a clear commitment
  commitment             to improvingsectorperformance.9
                                   of Bankpower and energypolicy is the        focus oncountrieswith
                 through   the framework
  regulationofthe sector,                    it is introducing Nepalhasdemonstratedthe          requisite
                                                                 under
  the promotion    of privatethe commercializationof the NepaleseElectricityAuthority
                                                                        Arun   IlIl forthe transparent
                               sector
 financed                              provision of   power."0                               (NEA),and
            FY92    Power   Sector                                In addition,
 energy efficiency                 EfficiencyProject,                            building  on the
                                                         Arun IlIl provides                         IDA-
                     issuesinto
 the use                          the policy dialogue-                       a vehicle   for integrating
           of tariffs                                     fully in
                      as an                                        line with
                             instrument                                      Bankpolicy    -
 Following                               of demandside                                        for which
            large increasesin    1991  and 1993,            management (DSM)is         a critical
 March                                              electricity                                   issue.
          1994  -   bringing                                    tariffs
                              them
 project,                           to about 70                         were raisedby
                                                   percent                               38 percent in
           NEAis   committed
 with base                     to further increasesin       of long-run marginal costs.      Underthe
            case assumptions,they                       order to  meet its
the 1996-2004                           wouldaverage4                       financial requirements;"
                                                            percent
                   period.   By the latter date,tariffs              per annumin      realterms  during
                                                        would    equallong-runmarginalcosts.
10.
timing   of plant
                NEA'sDSMprogramalsoincludesnon-pricemeasuressuchasequipmentsizing,
                  operation,   power  factor correction,  and energy efficient     lighting,as well  as

9/ SeeWorldBank,The
Conservationin             WorldBank'sRolein     the Electric
                the Development World,1992.                  Power   Sector andEnergyEfficiency and

101 SeeDocument #1:       paras 1.23-1.27.

11/ See   Document#1:    paras1.18,4.23,and4.27.

                                                    -8-
    efficiency  improvementof
    central                      non-electricalloads such
            outreachfacility
    sector                   to institutionalizethese        as industrial steam cycle    systems."2 A
           is also planned.                            activities with
                              Meanwhile,                                the involvement of
    systematically reduce network           NEAhas                                          the private
                                                      been carrying    out a  program
                                      losses.                                           to identify
    rehabilitating service                     NEAstaff                                            and
                                                           are trained in
   been introducedto      connections and deteriorated lines, and          repairing defective  meters,
                        monitor                                        related
   consumers (such               losses,meter testing                           tasks.  Equipmenthas
                                                         facilities
                      as temples    and NEA's own                  have been improved, and exempt
   billing system.   Non-technical                    consumption) have       been brought
                                     losses are                                             within the
   billing pr6cedures,aswell                     being  addressedby      improved   meter  reading and
   resultingimprovementsin     asby field inspectionsand correctionof      irregularconnections.   The
   LCGEP.                      energyefficiency havebeenbuilt       into the Arun IlIlloadforecast and


  Ill.     DISCLOSUREOFINFORMATION

          A.      Thecontent   anddisseminationof     theArun
                  substantially inline with  Bankpolicy          ProjectInformation Document were
                                                          and procedures.
  11.            This is an area where
  alongsideproject                        Bankpolicy and
                     developments..                        procedureshave      beenevolving
  was issuedin                         Indeed,BP 17.50:                                        rapidly
                 September1993                              Disclosureof     OperationalInformation
                                    -
  Arun Project                         at the sametimethat
                 Information                                 the project
                             Document
  available                                IPID)was                        was beingappraised.The
            to the                                    prepared on
                    Public                                            January
                           Information                                         24, 1994,
                                          Center                                           and made
  subsequently revised is                         (PIC) in March    1994.
                           fully consistent                                   That the  PID was
 initial PIDbeforeappraisal;revisionafter     with BP 17.50.                                      not
                                                                 The latter  requiresrevision
 in the  project. However,                    appraisalis calledfor                            of the
                            Arun Ill                                 only if there
 and, in  any case, appraisaldid       had beenappraisedby                         aremajorchanges
                                                                the time  the initial
                                   not result                                        PIDwas   issued,
                                              in major  changes.
 12.
 not discuss someThe PIDprovidesthe informationrequiredby BP17.50.
                    issuesrequired by
 Information                              BP10.00,                            However,the PIDdoes
                                                     Annex
              Document.                                      A, Outline
                           The latter                                     for an Investment
 Arun Ill                              was issuedin                                          Project
          PID. By that                                June 1994;
                        time, the                                    hence it
                                  availability                                does not
 and Washington                                of project                               applyto  the
                                                          information
                   alreadyfar                                           to the
                               exceededthe                                     public  in both
                                               expandedrequirementsof                          Nepal
                                                                             the PID.
         B.     Bankpolicies  and procedureson
                have been complied                  the releaseof     factual technical
                                       with.                                            information

13.             Notwithstanding   initial
provisions of                             delaysin
               BP 17.50                            implementingthe
                          onthe                                         new disclosure policy,  the
A number                         releaseof factual
             of factual                             technicaldocuments
                         technical
availableat the PICduringJune/July  documents13were                          have beenadheredto.
                                                          cleared   for public   release
                                        1994.                                             and made
factual  technical matters
since September1994.       have beenprinted separately;they
                                               Morerecently,sections of      the SARthat   dealwith
                                                                   have been availableat    the PIC


12/ Ibid: paras1.28-1.29.

131 SeeMay31,     1994letterfrom Ms.Garcia-Zamor     to Governmentof    Nepal.

          C.      The dissemination    of the  results  of the
                 substantially in                                Environmental Assessment
                                  line with                                                    was
                                            Bankpolicies   andprocedures.
    14.
    1993; itwas made
                 The EnvironmentalAssessmentSummarywaspublishedin
                        availablein  the Arun                                   Kathmanduin    May
                                               Project
   openedin  October 1993.                              Information Center
                              The resultsof the                             in Kathmandu,which
   Arun Valley in June 1993.14                   assessmentwere madeavailablein
                                  An oralpresentation                                 Nepaliinthe
   tape ofthis meeting is                                in the Valley
                           availablefor  the Panel'sreview.            was also arranged;a   video
   Assessmentfor                                               With respect
                   the Valleyalignmentof the                                to the Environmental
   concernthe
   have beensummarizedin
               compensationarrangementsand appealmechanismsfor
                                               accessroad,the key questionsrequiringfeedback
                                                                          landacquisition.
                              Nepaliand distributed                                          These
                                                     widely   alongthe  proposedroute."5

   IV.   ENVIRONMENTALASSESSMENT

         A.     The EnvironmentalAssessment        complies
                goveming                                      with Bankpolicies
                           the environmentalanalysisof                            and procedures
                reflected in OD4.01:    EnvironmentalAssessment.6
                                                           altemativeinvestmentpossibilities, as

  15.
  of OD 4.01    The EnvironmentalAssessmentExecutiveSummary'7
               with respect                                              meetsthe requirements
                               to the treatment
  addressesalternative                           of alternatives.   Chapter
                        technologies,three                                   6 of the   summary
                                              dam sites
  accessroad alignments.                                  in the Arun  Valley, and
                           It clearlystatesthat                                     two different
  studiesundertaken up                          identificationof Arun ll
                        to 1990;                                         was basedon
                                    these studies addressedenvironmental/socialissues atleastcost
  reconnaissancelevelfor   all feasiblesites.                                                 the

  16.          The access    road has   the most  significant
  components                                                   environmental
              of the Arun                                                      impact
                            IlIldevelopmentprogram.                                    of all the
  conducted for both the Hill and Valley alignments -    Full EnvironmentalAssessmentswere
                                                         the two alternativeaccessroad    routes




 14/ See Document#1:      para 3.37.   See also
 Karmacharya,Director-in-Chief                   November11,
                               to DonalO'Leary.                  1994 communicationfrom      J.L.

 15/ Seepara31  below.

 16/ OD4.01
 1987.  Nevertheless,
             isnot applicableto thisprojectsincetheIEPSfor theProjectwasissuedonFebruary5,
                    Management
projectsfor                        proceededas if
earlieraresubjectto OD4.00, AnnexA,
            which IEPSsareissuedafter October1,   it wereapplicable.OD4.01     is applicabletoall
                                                    1991.    Projectsfor
to beapplied"whereappropriateandfeasible".OD4.00, AnnexAis,however,applicableto projects
                                       issuedonOctober31, 1989;for theseprojects,OD4.01is
                                                                        which IEPSswereissued

which reachedthe IEPSstageafterOctober15,
requirementwasto                               1989.
time andresourcesconstraints.SeealsoAnnexA.
                  review"howto achievethe objectives'of
                                                      Forotherprojectspastthe     IEPSstage,the
                                                             OD4.00,AnnexA withinthe existing

171 See  NEA, NepalArun /ll HydroelectricProject:
460, May 12, 1993.                               EnvironmentalAssessmentSummary;SecM93-

                                                    - 10-

     considered."8 The impacts     are comparedin
     selected Valleyroute                             the EnvironmentalAssessmentSummary.
                           is significantly                                                         The
                                              shorterand affects
    the EnvironmentalAssessmentSummary.                           lesspeople,as illustrated   in detailin
    road (3-4   years)was    carefully             In addition,the constructionperiodplannedfor the
                                         designed to  allow for
    measures.1  9                                               full implementation    of all mitigation


            B.     The basin-wide        environmental    sustainability   study
                  requirementswith respect                                        meets the      Bank's

                  developmentof                  to theanalysisofpossiblecumulativeimpactsof        the
                                      the Arun   Valley'shydropower resources.

    17.           OD4.01 states that
   a number of   similar but significant   a regional EnvironmentalAssessmentmay beused where
                                           projects areplannedwith
   With this                                                          potentially
              as one of                                                           cumulative
                         its objectives,                                                       impacts.
                                            a basin-widestudy
   Trust for                                                    was prepared by
              Nature Conservation.                                                 the King
                                      20                                                     Mahendra
                                            This study,  which is described
   entitled  Environmental                                                    in a 13 volume     report
                             Management        and Sustainable    Development
   investigated "ways  in which managementof                                     in the Arun     Basin,
   Arun Basin   as a region   might best             the resources,economyandenvironment of the
                                              respond to
   hydroelectric                                          the processes of    change brought
                   development      program".2"                                                  by the
                                                      In addition,
   Assessments                                                       project-specific
                  coveredArun                                                           Environmental
                                  Ill, the alternative
   arediscussedinthe                                   accessroads,and the     transmission
   are likely           EnvironmentalAssessmentSummary. Theeffects                           line; they
              to be environmentally                                             of UpperArun,    which
                                         more sensitive   than Arun
   Lower Arun,                                                        IlIl,were studied
                 essentially a                                                           separately.22
                                downstream      powerhouse,
   significant impacts.                                        is generally recognizedto    have less

           C.     Theproject's    environmental    studies and  mitigation
                 transmissionlines,                                          plans in respect   of the
                                         risks to fish, and  disposal of   construction
                 conformity   with Bankpolicies and procedures.                          spoil are  in




  18/ SeeJoint  Venture Arun
 SocialImpact Study Report:   IlIlConsulting Services,Addendumto    the June
                              Volume2:                                        1990 Environmentaland
                                            ArunAccessRoad,
 Assessment for  Arun AccessRoad-                            January1992;andEnvironmentalImpact
                                         ValleyRoute,  September1992.

 19/ Ibid.

 20/ TheKingMahendraTrust,whichis aNepaleseenvironmental
workbecauseof    itsinternationally-recognized                      NGO,waschosento      carryoutthe
and in settingup                                workinnatureconservation
peoplesinincomegenerationschemesandinpromotingnatureconservation
                   the AnnapurnaConservationArea,whereit                   intheChitwanNationalPark
                                                                 hasworkedcloselywith      indigenous
paras21,   31 and35   below.                                                 andeco-tourism.Seealso

21/ King    MahendraTrustfor
Developmentin                     NatureConservation,EnvironmentalManagement
                 theArun  Basin,Volume                                               and Sustainable
                                            1: SummaryandSynthesis,October1991:        p. 1.
22/ MorrisandKnudsenEngineers,        et al, UpperArun
Il: Final Report,                                      HydroelectricProject-
                 December,1991:                                               FeasibilityStudy,
                                      Chapter11.                                                Phase

                                               - 11 -

  18.            The Requestfor   Inspection's allegation   notwithstanding, a full  Environmental
  Assessmentfor the    transmissionline was   conducted.23

  19.            Under the project, the risk from.floods    includingglacier like  outburst floods
  (GLOFs)and the    effects and method of   spoil disposal and appropriatemitigationmeasures
 were carefully studied.24  The resultswere    reviewed and approvedby the      Project's Panelof
 Experts.2 5


 20.             Fisheries studies  conducted as      part of the Environmental       Assessment
 determined the effects   of the project to  be not significant.    Critical spawning periods   are
 duringthe monsoonseasonwhen          adequatedischargeis availablefrom       the (run-of-the-river)
 project; nevertheless,further   work will beundertaken in   the first yearof the projectto verify
 that potential impacts  areminimaland identify    mitigation measures,as necessary.    26


         D.     Thepreparationof   theEnvironmentalAssessmentstookinto         account the views
                of affected groupsand local NGOs,in      line with Bankpoliciesandprocedures.

 21.            Extensivepublicconsultationstook     placein Nepalduring-      andinthe wake of
 - the project's environmentalstudies.    Numerousconsultationswere heldin         1990 and 1991
in the course of the   King MahendraTrust    basin-widestudy.      Morerecently -    in 1993 and
 1994  -   there have beena    seriesof public consultations  on the project in the  Arun Valley.
Thesehavedrawn       on various project-relateddocuments     -  in Nepali- includingthe    above-
mentioned environmentalsummary.2'         Reflectingthe consultations,.changeswere        made in
the project to accommodatethe     views of affected people -    includingthe provisionof priority
training andjobs with   project contractors, and changesin    the placementof    the accessroad.
The Government has      respondedto the   disappointment expressedby       somecommunitieson
the changesin the accessroadalignmentby        makinga commitmentto        buildspurroadsto   link
thesecommunities     with the accessroad.   The RegionalAction     Plan(RAP)alsowas     designed
with the direct participation of thoseto beaffected;    recognizingthat indigenouspeoplehave
traditionally managedtheir    forests on a community     basis,the RAPincludesa      program for
forestry user groups.28




23/ SeeJoint Venture   Arun IlIlConsultingServices,Addendum to   theJune 1990 Environmentaland
Socio-EconomicImpact Study    Report: Volume3    -  EIA of the TransmissionLine   System, January
1992.

24/ See EnvironmentalAssessmentSummary:        pp. 39 and 60.

25/ See Document#1:      paras3.23 and3.44(b)   for a discussionof  the Panelof Experts. Seealso
Compendiumof PanelReports.

26/ SeeEnvironmentalAssessmentSummary:         p. 78.

27/ See para 14    above. See also  November 11,    1994 communication from     J.L. Karmacharya,
Director-in-Chief,NEAto  DonalO'Leary.

28/ Seealso paras33,   35, and36 below.

                                                        - 12 -
      V.      INVOLUNTARYRESETTLEMENT

             A.       The  compensation provided
                      RehabilitationPlan(ACAP)is fully   for under   the Acquisition,
                      Involuntary Resettlement.             consistent with            Compensation,and
                                                                             the requirementsof   OD4.30:
     22.              Arun  IlIl does
     numbersof                         not involve
                   people.                           the resettlement
                            A total                                     of communities
     the project                      of 1,097   project
                   area.  Of these,                      affected families                or of very  large
     (SPAFs).                          140
              29                             have
                  The Acquisition,                 beenidentified          (PAFs)havebeenidentified
                                                                    as seriously                         in
     the project                                                                 project-affectedfamilies
                  is consistent with                 TheACRPaddressesthe
     LandAcquisition
     affected by land acquisitionandprovides-
                                       Compensation,and RehabilitationPlan (ACRP)developedunder
                                        OD4.30.3
                                                                                compensationof    families
                        Act                            in additionto
                             -
    of transition  after          rehabilitation grantsto
                         their   land is                    help both normalcompensationunderNepal's
    the Bank,ACRPimplementation           acquired by                 PAFsand
                                                       the projeCt.3'            SPAFsduringthe     period
                                            arrangementswere           Basedon
                                                                 agreedat         commentsprovidedby
                                                                           negotiations. 32
            B.
                    theyarenot
                     Whileland-basedresettlement strategiesarepreferable accordingto
                                   required,                                                   OD4.30,
                   of displacementof           and may not   be appropriate,
                                           Arun                               for projects with the scale
                   giventheoption of
                   compensationfor their   landcompensation,andallPAFsarebeingofferedarebeing
                                                 111.Nonetheless,seriouslyaffected     families
                                               land.                                            full cash
   23.             Despiteefforts
   of land.   The    type of compensation
   significance of                   to minimizelandacquisition, somefamilies facepermanentloss
                                                 provided
                    land in                                 -
                            the affected                        cash  versus
  value   of compensation paid               family's                         land  -  depends    on the
  valuations aredone accordingto     will be          income-earningactivities.
                                              same   whether   it is               However,the    actual
                                                                     paid
  of land-basedincomeunderthe
  of cash  as compensation.            project havebeenofferedthe
                                         standardslaidout inthe ACRP. SPAFsfacingsignificantloss
                                                                          in cash  or in kind (land); all

 and family                        Becausethere                        option
                                                   is no issueof   large-scalecommunity
                                                                               of receivinglandinstead
 SPAFsarebeinggiventhe
              land-holdingsareoften        fragmentedand widely                            resettlement
                                 flexibility                        distributed
 not the  Government,                       of identifying their                within the community,
                          will purchaseanyreplacementland chosen by
                                                                preferredreplacementholdings.     NEA,
                                                                               SPAFs. 33
 24.             All other affected
 TheACRPprovides                       familiesareto
                        for compensationfor      land, buildings, and immovable assetson
                                                       be providedcashcompensationfor       their land.
                                                                                              acquired
 29/
incomeisfrom landandat leasthalfof totalincomelosesits
      A householdis classifiedasanSPAFif         it (1)         dwellingunitor
SeeDocument#1:        Annex3.3, para2.                 will belostdueto         (2)if
                                                                         project-related
                                                                                     its mainsourceof
                                                                                       landacquisition.

Action
30/ JointVentureArunIlIlConsultingServices,Acquisition,Compensation,andRehabilitation(ACRP):
        Plan,InitialReport,April 1993; FinalUpdate,June21,        1994.
311  Ibid: Sections  3.3 and3.4    and AppendixA.
32/ SeeArun   1/1Agreed  Minutes    of Negotiations:  para9  andAnnex   5, Attachment
33/ Ibid:                                                                              2.
          Section  3.8. SeealsoDocument#1:          Annex 3.3

                                              - 13 -

 land at market values, basedon     detailed cadastralsurveys   of the entire accessroad area.34
 SPAFswho opt for    cashcompensationandPAFs will receivesufficient       fundsto purchaseland
 of similar sizeand quality.  Grievanceproceduresareincludedexplicitly       in the ACRP. 35


 25.            A cadastral survey   of all areas expected to   be affected by the  project was
 completed prior to  land acquisition.36 Compensationarrangementsare          covered under the
 ACRPfor all landso surveyed, which     includeslandheld undersole proprietorshipformal       and
 informal tenancies, and  land owned by a group or    community. In addition to   compensation
 provided to landholders,the   ACRPprovidesfor     land compensationand rehabilitation grants
 for tenants. Whereclearownership of      land or property affected by the  project by a group of
 people or a community   can beestablished,then     the group or community    is to be treated as
 a PAFfor compensationpurposes.      37


         C.    Theobjectiveof theBank'sresettlementpolicy is       to ensurethat thepopulation
               displacedby a project   areprovided opportunitiesto     share in project benefits.
               It containsno requirementsas     to how project benefits  should be shared, nor
               doesit requirethat   pernanent employmentbe       provided to displacedpersons.

 26.           The project has been    designed to ensure that    residents of the Arun   Valley
 receive a rangeof benefits  from the project.  Fromthe point of view   of valleyresidents, the
 main direct benefit derivesfrom  the accessroad,which     will reducetransportation   costs into
 and out of the Valley  dramatically. In addition,  construction of the accessroad     and other
infrastructure will create  substantial project-related employment in the Valley,      and local
residents are being   given priority in filling  these jobs.33    The RAP provides      for rural
electrification of the  Valley through micro-power    stations; contract documents       contain
provisions for turning  project power sources    over to local communities    on completion of
construction. This will    allow electrification of most of the major villages     in the valley
downstream of the     project site.39 Electric power is another direct  benefit of the Arun   Ill
project.

27.            OD 4.30 does not      require SPAFsto be     compensatedthrough       permanent
employment. It does    requirethat displacedpersonsbe      no worse off, if not better off, than
beforedisplacement. To this   end,on top of compensationfor     lossof land,at leastone person
in each SPAFhouseholdis      to be offered employmentby      NEAunder the ACRP.        A special




34/ SeeACRPAction     Plan: Appendix A.

35/ Ibid: Section3.9.

36/ Ibid: Section 3.1.

37/ ACRPAction Plan:   Section 11.2.

38/ SeeDocument#1:     Annex 3.2, para 25.

39/ SeeDocument#1:     Annex 3.2, paras12-15.

                                                   - 14-
    trainingprogram is    beingset   up to
    which                                  impartjob
           is intendedto                               skills tothose
                            helpincreaseSPAFs'                         participating  in this
                                                   earningscapacity on                        program,4o
                                                                            a permanent   basis.
           D.
                   requiredby
                    Detailedsocioeconomicsurveyswerecarriedout duringproject preparation,as
                                 OD4.30.

   28.
   Hill (road)alignment,and in
                   Fullsocioeconomicsurveys, coveringall PAFs,were
                                  1993 for                                   carriedout  in 1990 for the
   been undertaken.   41                    the Valley itself.  Detailedcadastral surveys
                          42
   Information                A Management Information                                        have also
                 System                                     System
                           (GIS),and                                  (MIS), integrated
                                      a project                                           a Geographic
   planning and monitoring the                   managementsubsystem
                                   ACRP, and
   surveys                                      information                  have been developedfor
            are currentlybeing                                from the
                                  enteredinto                           cadastral and   socioeconomic
   MIS/GIShasbeendevelopedto                   the system.    This is the first
   prior toproject implementation.   managelandacquisitionprogramsfor          time that  an integrated
                                      Theintegrated                            a Bank-financedproject
   Bank   and ACRPstaff                               MIS/GISwill
                             to closely monitor                     provideauniqueopportunity
  throughout                                     the impacts                                         for
               the implementationphase."3                       of the   project on affected   families

          E.      The timeliness     of resettlement    planning
                  requirementsof                                    under
                                   OD 4.30.                                  the project   meets    the

  29.             In line with OD4.30,
  including                               the draft
            all necessarysurveys                   ACRPwas       preparedprior
                                      of affected                                to project
  affected                                          families                                appraisal,
           by construction of the                              and properties."
 initial                            accessroad or                                   All families
         identification has been                     the hydropowersite                          to be
                                   made   of families                        have beenidentified.
 transmissionlinesandthe                              potentially                                   An
                                                                   affected
                               principlesfor                                  by construction   of the

 constructed
 (Definitiveidentification is pendingdecisionson
                                             their compensationarrangementshave beenagreed.
               five yearsafter the                    the final alignmentof
                                    start of
 to construction                            the project.)                     the lines, which  will be
                    of transmission
 expected to                         lines will            Permanentdisplacementof
                                                 be minimal;                              familiesdue
              bepermanentlydisplaced."                         at most   only eight  households
 will require                                 Muchof
             only way-leave and building               the landaffected by                         are

 under the                                   height  restrictions.             the transmissionlines
            ACRPto     compensateaffected                           Arrangementshave
                                              families                                     beenmade
                                                       for any  such restrictions."6
 30.             Thus the   vast majority
 displacedby the                           of affected  families
                   projectand what                                 know   already
                                     form of                                       that they
                                              compensationthey                                will be
                                                                    will receive. However, they do

40/ SeeACRP     Action  Plan: Section3.8.

41/ See   Document#1:     para3.32 andAnnex3.3,     para11.
42/ Seealsoparas25      and34.

43/ SeeDocument#1:        Annex3.3,  para21.
44/ Seefootnote30above.

45/ SeeDocument#1:       Annex3.3,  Table1.
46/ SeeDocument#1:       Annex3.3.

                                                  -15-

   not know the precisedateof     displacement.
   the timetable of                               Giventhe complexityand durationof the        project,
                    land acquisition, compensation,and rehabilitationactivities isto
   on a two-year rolling                                                                  be finalized
                          basis. The implementationtimetablefor
  years of the project                                              ACRPactivities in    the first two
                        (primarilyconstruction   of the road)will  befinalized
  of the time                                                                    within three
               that a decisionis takento                                                      months
                                          beginconstruction.
  yearswill be                                                  TheACRPtimetablefor       successive
                 preparedannually, covering     at leastthe following two   years."

  31.            To make clearthe     policies and proceduresbeingfollowed,
  a Due Process                                                                   NEAhas prepared
                     Manual in    Nepali."    The Manual     describes the    ACRP, compensation
  procedures,land acquisitionprocedures,paymentof
  provision for                                            compensationandrehabilitationgrants,
                 specialtreatment   of SPAFs,compensationof
  considerationof                                                  public propertiesand     facilities,
                    informaltenant
  of the ACRP.                       rights, grievanceprocedures,andmonitoringand         evaluation
                 Over 3,000    copies of the  Nepaliversionof
  to PAFs and to                                                the Manual have beendistributed
                    other concerned persons,     and it has  beendiscussed
  meetings in the                                                              extensivelyin    public
                    project area.'9


 VI.      INDIGENOUSPEOPLES

          A.    Mitigation   efforts proposed   under the project   and included    in the Regional
                Action Planare    consistent with   OD4.20: IndigenousPeoples.

 32.            OD4.20 requiresthe      preparationof
 basedonfull                                            a culturallyappropriatedevelopmentplan,
                considerationof  the options preferredbythe     indigenouspeopleaffected
 project. To this                                                                              by the
                   end  -  and at the requestof   Government,the World     Bank,andthe
 the basin-widestudy                                                                        UNDP-
                        preparedbythe    KingMahendraTrustfor
 how changesinducedby                                              NatureConservationexamined
                             the project would   impact varioussocial and    ethnic groups3 0
 Valley and                                                                                    in the
               designed the   RAP accordingly.      The study's    summary report51     and Action




47/ See Document#1:       Annex 3.3, para 18.

48/ NEA,Arun     I IHydroelectric
                                Project - Due  ProcessManual,  November1993.
#1: Annex 3.3,                                                                    Seealso Document
                 para 18.

49/ See November11,      1994 communicationfrom
Donal O'Leary.                                      J.L. Karmacharya,Director-in-Chief,NEAto


50/ The basinis culturallyandethnically diverse.
up 53 percentof                                   Rai,Limbu,GurungandMagartakentogether        make
                 the total populationin the SankhuwasabhaDistrict.
Brahmans/Chhetris,7                                                  This is followed by 27 percent
                       percent for occupational  caste groups and Tamang,
percent for                                                                  Sherpaand
             Newar and                                                                   Tibetan, 5
                         1 percent for others. However,the    samplepopulation
growth centers closeto                                                            from the potential
                         the proposedroad alignment   anddamsite give
the district in                                                        a different picture
               general. They                                                               to that of
                              are dominatedby   Brahmans/Chhetrisand
while Rai,                                                             Newars,the
            Limbu and                                                                trading castes,
                       other castes   of Mongol   origin account for about
Occupational castegroupsandKumhals,both                                     one-third of  the total.

percent.                                      regardedasunderprivileged,are estimatedat    about 10


51/ King MahendraTrust      for Nature
Developmentin                           Conservation,EnvironmentalManagement and         Sustainable
                theArun Basin,  Volume 1, October   1991.

                                                    - 16-
      Programs52  form   the basis for
     including                         the RAP.
                a range of                          The  RAP
                            actions to                        fulfillsthe objectives    of OD  4.20
     Valley,                                                                                           by
            including                  addressthe    diverse
                        both                                 developmentneedsof
     as well                 the verypoor andthose                                    all groups in   the
              as other                                 who
                         Valley residents.                  havestrongethnic
     sensitive to                            Actions
                  the cultural                        proposed                   or culturalaffiliations,

     groups'                   diversity in                      under the
                                           the Arun                           RAP are
             relationship  to land, natural resources,and
                                                      Valley and to                    designedto      be
                                                                     take full account of the different
                                                            their cultural heritage.
     33.
     generatiorl;  The RAPincludesactions in
                 institutional strengthening;     six broad areas,asfollows:
    research,                                   extension
               monitoring                                  and                   conservation;income
                            and information.                    training;  infrastructure
    regarded   as priorities                   In terms
                             for implementation.         of scheduling,five               and energy;
                                                                                sectoral

    government
    management;helpinglocalcommunitiesserviceconstruction-relateddemands;strengthening
                                                      These  relate                     programsare
                                                                     to:  strengthening   local   forest
                 institutions to
    development;                copewith   impacts;training
    $14.6          and environmentalmonitoring.              andeducationfor     localhumanresource
          million (excluding contingencies).5         The tentative  cost of  the RAPis  estimated at

          B.      Therecommendationsof        OD 4.20
                  establishing                           with respect
                                legalrecognition                        to the
                  cadastral surveysand othermeans  of indigenous peoples'       sequencingof     (first)
                                                                              landrghts   - through
                  followed.                             -  and (then)acquirng     thelandhave been

   34.            A key
   through               objectiveof OD 4.20
           a loss                               is that
                  of land rights                        indigenous peoplesnot     becomeworse
   project                       as a resultof
          preparation a   cadastralsurvey       project-related activities.                         off
                                            of all                           As noted earlier,during
   - includingthe                                 land
  way              roadright-of-way itself andland within
                                                       in the area of influence of  the accessroad
       -  and other
  provided            componentsof    the project           one day's walk of the
           for legalrecognition of                  was completed                   plannedright-of-
                                     userights                        prior to
                                                in the surveyed area.          land acquisition; this

  35.            A substantial   portion
  Government,                             of land
                particularly                         required
                             forest                           by the
  grazing,                          land.                               project
          collection                        By tradition,                        is owned
                      of fodder,                          local                             by the
                                                                communities
                                 firewood,
  ACRP  to compensate                        and so                             usethese
                                                      on.
                          any community                    Arrangementshave                areasfor

  dependent                                 or users                                              the
             on it                                    group                       beenmade in
                   for timber                                who
 mitigate                      and fodder                         is looking   after
          deforestation                    for the  loss of                         the forest   and

 of forming              pressures,theRAPwill              these  commodities.   54 In addition,   to
 formed                                                 34 forest
                                                              continuationof the ongoingprocess
         along
            pasture and forest-usergroups; to     support the
                the road right-of-way;            date,
                                       27 additional   groups areto
                                                                  usergroupshavealreadybeen
                                                                      be formed.
 36.
 in Bhojpur and is
                Meanwhile,the nationalcadastralsurveythat
to regularize land nearingcompletion in                     5   isunderwayhasbeencompleted
                   tenure,
forest-users                to recognizeuseSankhuwasabha.s      Actions   taken
                                              rights                             underthe
             groups   to managecommunity              on public                             project
                                                               lands,and     to set
                                               resources are                       up pasture and
                                                              all efforts to protect the  land-use

52/  KingMahendraTrustfor NatureConservation,     Action Program,  Volume2,
53/                                                                            October1991.
    SeeDocument#1:       Annex3.13,para7.
54/ Ibid:Section3.6.1.

55/   See November21,       1994
Representativein                  facsimile from
                Nepal,to                           Joe
                          DonalO'Leary.                 Manickavasagam,World       Bank   Resident

                                               - 17 -

   rights ofthe peopleof  the Arun   Valley.
   will be necessarythroughout              Theseprecautionsnotwithstanding,      a close
   aremet.   To this end,       project implementationto ensurethat                       watch

   of the impact of project-relatedactivities on
                         the project supervisionplan involvescareful monitoring andevaluation
                                                                       the objectivesofOD4.20

                                                vulnerablegroupsin    the Valley.
          C.     Project preparation has met   the requirements
                 informedparticipation                            of OD  4.20, in  termsof
                                        of the affected                                     the
                 RAP.                                   indigenouspeoplesin   the design of the

  37.            Thepreparationof   the RAPwas
  study team                                     highly participatory.
               was made   up largely  of Nepaleseexperts.             TheKingMahendraTrust
  interaction amongstudy                                     There was    close and
                           team membersand the                                      continuous
  householdsurveywas                                people of  the Arun
                         undertakento                                   Basin. A   wide-ranging
                                        learnfrom
  to tap theirknowledgeand experience. Over 70     localresidentstheir  expectationsas well as
  Arun Basin  itself. The                          man-monthswere
                          study beganand ended                         devotedto  studiesinthe
  which representativesfrom                        with two   major workshops
                               local HMG/Noffices,                              in the basin at
 gave their  opinionsand ideason                     local NGOs,village leadersand the
                                   how the                                               public
 the RAP's proposalsfor                     study shouldbest proceedand,
                          action programs. 56                                later,feedback on




56/ See King MahendraTrust  for Nature Conservation,Volumes  I and 2.

                                CHAPTER4: CONCLUSION


1.          We believe that Chapter 3    appropriately addressesthe  questionsraised in the
Requestfor Inspection and    clearly demonstratesthat  the Bank hasfollowed   its operational
policiesand procedureswith   respectto the designand appraisalof    the proposedproject.  Of
critical importanceforquality at entry, we  have assessedthe    various technical, economic,
financial, environmental, and sociologicalriskscarefully, devoting considerableattention  to
alternative scenarios.With a view towards    managingproject risks,   we have providedfor
remedial actions where  appropriate. In addition,  we have built into   our supervisionplan
mechanismsfor periodic monitoring    andevaluation-    the resultsof which canbe addressed
during implementation -   in order to safeguardthe project's development impact   inthe face
of unanticipateddevelopments.

                                                                                                                       ANNEX A

                                    SELECTEDBANK OPERATIONAL              POLICIESAND       PROCEDURES


                                                                    Pointin Project     Dateof Polcy
                                                                   Cycleto Which         Applicability
                  Policy Guideine              Dateof Policy        PolicyApplies        for Arun lIl                Comments
   OD 4.00. Annex A:      Environmental       Oct. 31,1989        * applicable to
   Assessment                                                                                            * for projectsnot in advanced
                                                                 projectswith   IEPS                    stageof preparation,the Task
                                                                 issuedafter                            Manager& RegionalEnvironment
                                                                 October15, 1989                        Divisionshouldreviewstatus&
                                                                                                        recommendhow to     achieve
                                                                                                        objectiveswithinexistingtime
                                                                                                        andresourceconstraints
   00 4.00, Annex     B: EnvironmentalPolicy  April 28, 1989     * not said to be
  for Damand ReservoirProjects                                  retroactive

  OD 4.01: EnvironmentalAssessment            Oct. 3, 1991       * IEPSissued        * not applicable     OD4.01 applicable'where
                                                                after October1,      sinceIEPSwas       appropriateandfeasible    to
                                                                1991                 issuedon           projectswith IEPSbeforeOctober
                                                                                     February5,         1, 1991 andaresubjectto    OD
                                                                                     1987               4.00, AnnexA.


  OD 4.20: IndigenousPeoples                 Sept. 17, 1991     * at IEPSstage       * not applicable   I at IEPSstage,the applicable
                                                                * at preparation     at IEPSstage       policywas  OMS2.34: Tribal
                                                                and appraisal        * applicableat    Peoplein Bank-financedProiects
                                                               stages                appraisalstage    issuedFebruary1982. which
                                                                                                       was supersededby 00     4.20


 OD 4.30: InvoluntaryResettlement           June 29, 1990       * at IEPSstage       * not applicable    at the IEPSstage,the
                                                               * duringappraisal     at IEPSstage      applicablepolicywas   OD 2.33:
                                                               and negotiation       * applicableat    SocialIssuesAssociatedwith
                                                                                    appraisaland       InvoluntaryResertlment in   Bank.
                                                                                    negotiation        FinancedProjectsissuedin
                                                                                    stages
I _________________________________                                                                    February1980, whichwas
                                            _______________    ________________                        superseded by  OD4.30
 3P17.50: Disclosureof       Operational    Sept. 1993         * at IEPSstage
 Information                                                                        * not applicable   * pursuant to (para.151and
                                                               for PID              at IEPSstage       (AnnexD,para. 1   (a)of BP
                                                               I PIDto be           * applicableon     17.50, for projectsthat were
                                                               updatedbefore        January1,         pastthe IEPSstagebut     not yet
                                                               appraisal            1994 (i.e.,       presentedto the Board,a   PID
                                                               * PIDto be           after appraisal   was to be producedby     January
                                                             updatedafter           for both PID      1994.
                                                             appraisalif major      and FTD)I           disclosureof FTDon    request
                                                             changesto                                but only at CountryDirector's
                                                             projectmadeby                            discretionIpara.12   of the Policy
                                                             previousproject                          on Disclosureof  Information)
                                                             preparationfor
                                                             FactualTechnical
                                                             DocumentIFTD)

                                                              - 20    -




                                          I
                                                           |  Point in Project       Dateof Policy  |
                                         l
                |PolicyGuideline                              Cycleto Which          Applicability
                                            Date of Policy     PolicyApplies          for Arun IlIl              Comments

   InvestmentProjectInformation
   Document                                                 stage:draft   Initial                     January1994
                                                            PIDwhen project                                         andmadeavailable
                                                                                                      at the PICinMarch1994
                                                            enters5-yearl
                                                            lendingprograml
                                                            I at preparation
                                                            andpre-appraisal:
                                                            discussPIDwith
                                                            borrower/stake-
                                                            holders.Update
                                                            PtO
  OP10.04:   EconomicEvaluationof          * OP:April
  Investment  Operations                                    * at identification    * not applicable
                                           1994 andSept.                                             * at IEPS and appraisalstages,
  BP 10.04                                                  stage
            (Supplementto  OP10.04)                                                given advanced
                                           1994             * at appraisal                           the applicablepolicieswere:OMS
                                                                                   stageof
                                            BP:April                                                 2.21 EconomicAnalysisof
                                                           stage                  preparation
                                           1994                                                      ProjectsissuedMay   1980. and
                                                                                  except where      CentralProjectsNote(CPN)2.01
                                                                                  identicalto       InvestmentCriteriain  Economic
                                                                                  previously        Analysisof  ProJectsissuedin
                                                                                  applicable        June 1977,   both of whichwere
                                                                                  instructions      supersededby   OP10.04




Note: ArunIll- IEPS:February5.  1987
              Appraisal:May   and September1993

                                 - 21 -




                                                                 ANNEXB



             DOCUMENTSREQUESTEDIN MR. BRODER'S
         NOVEMBER4, 1994 MEMORANDUMTO MR. WOOD


(1) The MemorandumandRecommendationof the President(MOP),the Staff
    Appraisal Report (SAR)andthe legaldocumentsfor the proposedproject;

(2) EnvironmentalManagementPlan;

(3) RegionalAction Plan;

(4) The Least Cost Generationand ExpansionPlan (LCGEP)of 1987 and 1990;

(5) 1993/94 Argonne NationalLaboratories(ANL)Study: Analysesof Options
    for the NepalElectricalGeneratingSystem, May 1994;

(6) FeasibilityStudies of alternativeproject designs;

(7) Available documentson a proposedChangsuoBasin Irrigation Projectin
    China;

(8) Arun IlIlHEP: EnvironmentalImpact Assessmentfor Arun AccessRoad-
    Valley Route Report,September1992; and

(9) Nepal's Land Acquisition Act, 1979.

                                        ^ 22 -




                                                                               ANNEXC



                         PREVIOUSREQUESTS     TO THE BANK


         Attachment Vill of theRequestfor Inspectionlists ten previouscomplaintsto   the
World Bank.

         *    Fourof the itemsreferto  correspondencewith    the ExecutiveDirectorsand
              are not the responsibilityofBankManagement.

         .0   Oneletterfrom the RequesterdatedJuly    7, 1994 requesteddocumentation.
              The response,datedJuly    18, 1994, referred the  Requesterto the Project
              Information Center   in Kathmandu, which       houses all the requested
              documentation. We   alsoencloseda list of  the documentationavailableat
              the World Bank's PublicInformation Center   (PIC)in Washington.

         --   A secondletter from the Requesterdated October    7, 1994 requesteda list
              of documents relatingto   the Arun III project. The World BankResident
              Mission in Nepal responded on    October 7, 1994,      providing a list of
              documents available  at the Resident Mission    and a list of documents
              availableat the ProjectInformationCenter in  Kathmandu. In addition,the
              Requesterwas referredto   the PICin Washington.

         *    We have checked our   correspondencefiles   in relation to the otherdates
              cited. All suchcorrespondencecamefrom     the Alliance for Energyand was
             fully responded to   by the World Bank.      Supporting documentation    is
             available.

                     International            Development         Association
                                        FOR OFFICIAL    USE ONLY




                                                                                   IDA/SecM94-378/1

 FROM: Vice      Presidentand          Secretary
                                                                                   January 20,   1995




          Request for        Inspection-      Nepal: Arun     III HydroelectricProiect



        Attached     is a memorandumfrom          the ExecutiveSecretaryof           the Inspection
Panel dated     January 20,        1995, transmittingthe        Memorandumto       the Executive
Directorsby       the Chairmanof          the InspectionPanel       on "Requestfor       Inspection-
Nepal: Arun       III HydroelectricProject".




Distribution:

  ExecutiveDirectorsand              Alternates
  Office of the       President
  SeniorManagement,Bank,               IFC and MIGA




 |This document  has a restricted distributionand may beused by recipients
  otheir officialduties. Its contentsmay not otherwisebe                  only in theperformancen
                                                        disclosedwithoutWorldBankauthorization.

  THEINSPECTIONPANEL
  OFFICE MEMORANDUM

    DATE: January20, 1995

     TO: Mr. Timothy  T.Thahane,SECVP

   FROM:  EduardoAbbott,INP     :#

EXTENSION:82617

 SUBJECT: Request for Inspection
          Nepal: Arun  III Hydroelectric Project


              Attached for   distribution to the ExecutiveDirectors of IDA please   find a
          Memorandumfromthe    Chairmnan  andmembersof  TheInspectionPanel entitled"Request
          forInspection-Nepal: ArunIIIHydroelectricProject"datedJanuary20,1995.

THE INSPECTION                 PANEL
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION   AND DEVELOPMENT       1818H Steet, N.W.
INTERNATIONAL                                                                           Telephone: (202)458-5200
              DEVELOPMENT   ASSOCIATION                       Washington, D.C.20433     Fax: (202) 522-0916
                                                              U.S.A.                    Cable Address:INTBAFRAD



       Ernst-GOnther   Br6der,Chairman
       RichardE.Bissell
       AlvaroUmafla

                                              January20, 1995

                           MEMORANDUM         TO THE EXECUTIVE       DIRECTORS

       SUBJECT: Requestfor      Inspection
                    Nepal: ArunIII HydroelectricProject

       1.      The InspectionPanel, on   December16, 1994,submittedto        the ExecutiveDirectorsits
      recommendations    on aRequestforInspectionof allegedviolationsof   IDApoliciesinthedesignand
      appraisalof theabovereferencedproject;andfurthertothis,onJanuary9,      1995,providedaninformal
      note summarizingtherecommendations.

      2.      OnJanuary 9, 1995,thePanelmet    informallywiththeExecutiveDirectorsto    discussthe
      recommendations.At     thismeetingthe Panelwasadvisedthat Managementhadofferedto           provide
      detailsnot includedin  its November22,   1994Response.   It was agreedthat    Managementwould
      furnishthePanelwithmoreinformationonIDA'sactionswithregardtotheallegedviolationsof IDA
      policiesclaimedintheRequest,andfollowinga     reviewbythe Panel,thattheBoardwouldacton the
      Panel'srecommendation   bytheendofJanuary.

      3.      ThePanelhadmeetingswithRegionalandENVstaffandreceiveda              numberof documents
      deemedby Managementto       be furtherevidenceof compliancewithIDA       policiesor of its  current
      effortstotakeremedialactioninorderto   complyfullywithsuchpolicies.

     4.       Afterthoroughconsiderationof  thedocumentsreceived,andin      lightofthe discussionswith
     Management,thePanelhasdecidedtoreiterateits      originalrecommendationfor an     investigationon
     possibleviolationsof IDApoliciesrelatingtoEnvironmentalAssessment,InvoluntaryResettlement
     andIndigenousPeoples,asset     forthinitsReport(paras45,51, 52, 84,85, 89,90) andthe informal
     notereferredtoabove(para6).

     5.       Withregardto EconomicAnalysis,the applicationof   relevantpoliciesby IDAto       ArunIII
     generatescontinuedconcernonthepartof thePanel,particularlyinthelightof additionalinformation
     providedby Management.       The Panel neverthelessconfirmsthe    scope of the investigationas
     originally recommended.      It also believes that an investigationof     EnvironmentalRisks-
     EnvironmentalAssessment,InvoluntaryResettlementand      IndigenousPeoplesissues--wouldshed
     usefullightontheoverallEconomicAnalysis,ascalledforinoperationalpoliciesonthelatter.

     6.      It is estimatedthat aninvestigationas proposedby the Panelwouldrequireapproximately
     threemonths. Theexactlengthwouldbe       subjectto interaliathe extentof    cooperationthe Panel
     receivesfromManagementandthe proposedborrower.Otherfactorsincludeactualprogressinthe
    currenteffortsbeingmadeby theGovernmentandIDAtoupdatetheRegionalActionandIndigenous
     PeoplesPlans,andthe timerequiredto    reachan agreementon the   nowabandonedHillRouteland
    tenuresituation.   ThePanelfeelsthat sucheffortsby the Governmentand       IDAshouldbe pursued
    concurrentlywith   theproposedinvestigation.

