                        ARUN CONCERNED GROUPOCT31                              RECEIVED
                           Secretariat: c/o INHURED Internationd94
                                             P.O. Box 2125                               ptf 5:22
                                  Tel: (977- 419610 Fax:(977- 412538
                                          Kathmandu, Nepal1)
                                          1)

                                                                                      October24, 1994

The Inspection Panel
The World Bank
1818H Street, N W
Washington, DC 20433
United States

                                    REQUEST FOR INSPECTION

We, as the Arun Concerned Group, the local residents of the Sankhuwa-Sava District, and the

which is to be partly financed by the World Bank:
citizens of Nepal, claim the following against the proposed controversialArun I11 HydroelectricProject

1.     INTRODUCTIONOFTHEPROJECT
The World Bank, with other lending agencies (Asian Development Bank, KfW, France, Finland,
Sweden),is planning to finance the proposed Arun I11 Hydroelectric Project in the Sankhuwa-Sava
District of Nepal with the total cost of US $1082.3 million for the first 201 MW stage of 402 MW. The
Bank is proposing to lend US $175.0 millions in International DevelopmentAssociation (IDA)funds.
The Nepal Electricity Authority (NEA)is to invest US $290.7 million from its internal sources. The
major project component includes a 122 km access road, a 68 m dam and power intake, desanding
cavem to house three 67 MW turbogenerators, a downstream surge tank and tailrace tunnel, and
basins and appurtenant structures, an 11.4 km headrace tunnel, a surge tank leading to a power

kV/ 132kV sub-station at Duhabi. Because of its size and complexity,the project has implicationsfor
outlet structures. Transmission equipment includes a 120km,220 kV double-circuit line to a 220
the entire country, including significant risksrelating to crowding out of high-priority investments in
other sectors due to cost overruns, "worse-than-expected' management of the Governmentbudget, or
failure of the NEA to meet its share of investment, unforeseen delays in implementation,
unsatisfactory design and implementation of Environmental Management Plan, including the
RegionalAction Plan, and others.

2.     RELEVANTPOLICIESAND PROCEDURESOFTHEWORLDBANK WHICH HAVE
       BEENVIOLATED
2.A.   Economic Evaluation of Investment Operations
o      OP 10.04
2.B    Policies on World Bank Role in the Electric Power Sector and EnerB Efficiency and
       Conservation in the Developing World

2.c    The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information. March 1994
o      BP 17.50, page 1,para. 4, updating Project InformationDocument:
o      World Bank Folicy on Disclosure of Information, March 1994, page 5, para. 10, content of
       PIDs (seealso OD 10.00AnnexA, page 11;
o      BP 17.50, page 1,para. 5, releasing Factual TechnicalInformation:
o      World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information, March 1994, Section I1 Policy, page 2:
       BP 17.50, page 3, para. 12,availabilityof environmentalassessment:

       importance of accountability, dissemination of information in order to facilitate participation,
       and presumption in favor of disclosure.
o      BP 17.50 Disclosure <ifOperational Information

2.D    Environmental Assessment
o      OD 4.01, AnnexB, para. 2/f):analysis of alternatives (seealso para. 3 in 4.01)
o      OD 4.01, para. 13: engagingadvisory panels forhighlyrisky and contentious projects
                                                    1

                         L
o      OD 4.01. para. 5: regional environmental assessments
o      OD 4.01, para. 19 and 20: involvementof affectedgroups and non-governmentalorganizations
o      OD 4.01: disclosure of information
2.E    Involuntary Resettlement: Land Acquisition, Compensationand Rehabilitation
0      OD 4.30, para. 3(a)
o      OD 4.30, para. 3ib)
o      OD 4.30, general violations
o      OD 4.30, para. 14
o      OD 4.30, para. 11
2.F    Indigenous Peoples
o      OD 4.20, general violations
o      OD 4.20, para. 3
o      OD 4.20, para. 1Md)
o      OD 4.20, para. 11
2.c    Wildlands Policy: In addiiion to the policies listed above arid discussed herein, the claimants
       request the Inspection Panel to investigate whether there are violations of the Bank's
       Wildlands Policy OP 4.04 and the Bank Operational Policies on Investment Lending OP 10.00
       in connection with the Arun I11Project.

3.     OURFUGHTS/INTERESTS
A.     Effectiveparticipation in policy-making and decision-makingprocesses;
B.     'rimely access to information:
C.     Balanced development;
D.     Adequate analysis of alternatives:
E.     Adequate compensation and rehabilitation;
F.
G.     Freedom from debt;
       Fairaccessto electricitysupply at affordableprices.;
H.     Freedomfrom inappropriate lending conditionalities;
J.
I.     Right to development;
       Maintenance of adequate living standards: and
K.     Healthy environment and sustainable development.

4.     VIOLATIONSOF ITSOWN POLICIESAND PROCEDURESBYTHE BANK
4.A. Violations of Operational Policies: Economic Evaluation of Investment
       Operations
4.A. 1 Criterion for Acceptability: The Bank has violated its operational policies regarding
Economic Evaluation of Investment Operation, as a basic criterion for acceptability. For the project to
be acceptable on economicgrounds, "the expected present value of the project's net benefits must be
higher than or equal to the expected net present value of mutually exclusive project alternative". By
not undertaking the relevant studies of the alternatives such as those listed in Plan B, the World
Bank has not fulfilledthis very basic criteria for acceptabiiityof the project.
4.A.2 Alternatives: The Least Cost generation and Expansion plan (LCGEP)of 1987and 1990failed
to take into account that the same amount of power generated fromArun I11 could also be generated
from a series of smaller alternatives in the 1MW to 100 MW range. It was only in the 1993/94
Argonnt: National Laboratories (ANL)study (Analysesof Options For the Nepal Electrical Generating
System, May 1994)that such an alternative sequence was even considered. However, the ANL study
was clearly incomplete as the comparison was made with very preliminary costs for the alternative
schemes. Even though there was an arbitrary addition of 20% to the cost of the alternatives on the
grounds that 'costs always go up with more detailed studies', the study concluded that the cost
difference between the sequence of doing Arun immediately versus doing it in 10 years was only
percent Thus without undertaking relevant studies of the smd!er alternatives to get more accurate
costs, and depending solely on "costs always go up with more detailed studies"ground, the criteria for
acceptability of the project cannot be concluded to have been fulfilled.
Over 30 schemes in the 10 MW to 60 MW range have been identified that can produce in total over
1,000 MW of power in studies conducted by the His Majesty's Government of Nepal (HMG/N!. Zecently
constructed or ready for construction schemes such as Jhimruk (12MW), Khimti (60MW), Modi (14
                                                     2

MW) for which accurate costs are now known have per unit installation and energyproduction costs
that are significantlylowerthan that ofArun III. There isevery reason to believe that once the detailed
studies are completed, the smaller alternatives can be built at prices lower than or competitive with
&n 111. Feasibility studies of the alternatives must be completed for the Bank to have fulfilled its
policy requirement to compute the LCGEP for additional power generation for Nepal. (Forviolationsof
other World Bank least cost energy requirements see also IDA 10 Agreement, Additions to IDA
Resources:Tenth Replenishment, March 1. 1993;and World Bank Energy Policies).
4.A.3 Wsks: The weak Nepali economy facesnumerous risks in taking on a project of the size of
b n 111. Due weightage has not been given to these risks in preparing the project for and steps that
could be taken to reduce the risks have not been taken. The following issues are of particular
importance:
i.      Fxparian Issue with China: Over 80%of the catchment of theArun river lies in the Tibetan
Autonomous Region of the Peoples' Republic China. The HMG/N does not yet have a guarantee from
China to maintain the present dry season flow over the lifetime of the project. The letter of "no
objectiori"which China has reportedly sent to the HMG/N does not constitute a guarantee of Arun's
water flow.The fact thal a proposal is pending in China for the Changsuo Basin Irrigation Project on
the m r i (Punggu)river with a proposed command area of 9.OOO hectares that could withdraw up to
half the dry season flow of Arun presents a serious risk to the projected economic returns of the
project.'This risk has not been taken into account in the sensitivityanalysis.
ii.     Lack of Power Sales Agreement with India: Since Phase I1 of the Arun 111 project and
future developmentin the Valley have been predicated on the sale of power to India, the project must
not be approved until a bi-lateral agreement has been reached.
iu.     Ail Eggs in One Basket: By the time they are completed, Phase I and I1 of the Arun 111wiil
constitute 50%of the total power supplied to the national grid under the present investment plan of
the HMG/N agreed to by the Bank. A natural catastrophe such as a very large flood caused by a
landslide. or a Glacial Lake Outburst Flood (GLOF),or an earthquake that might affect this one
project would virtually ruin the Nepali economy.This risk of "puttingall the eggsin one basket" to the
national economy needs to be taken into account in performingthe economicanalysis of this project.
4.B     Policies on World Bank Role in the Electric Power Sector and Energy Efficiency and
        Conservation in the DevelopingWorld
The World Banks Energy Policies require the Bank in the enera sector to be based on the
development of integrated sustainable strategies which include demand side management
components such as energy conservation or efficiency (see also policy requirement under IDA 10
Agreement, Additions to IDA Resources: Tenth Replenishment, March 1, 1993.)Attention has not
been paid to end-use efficiencyin the formulation of the Arun 111.
4.C      Violation of Information Policy

including a study on alternatives known as "Plan B . However, by then it was too late for the
Late in the project preparation process, the Bank released some factual technical information,

claimants to influence the design and planning of the project as the appraisal had been completed
and loan negotiations between the Bank and the HMG/N had been completed.
The issue of timeliness of information release in a meaningful way cannot be overstated. This really
goes to heart of the issue of who participates and who benefits in a project. The design and planning
for this project were not participatory at the national or locallevel.
4.C.1 Aun I11 Project Information Document (PID):In the early stage of the project, the PID is
the marn public document available on a project in addition to the environmental assessment.
According to the Bank Policy, when it is first created, a PID should contain information on the main
elements of the project, includingthe project's objectives,expected or probable components, costs and
financing, environmental issues, status of procurement and consulting services, studies to be
undertaken, implementing agencies and relevant contact points. (Seealso Attachment - I).
In addition to these points, OD 10.00 Annex A: Outline for an Investment Project Information
Document requires that PIDs contain country and sector background, project sustainability, lessons
learned from the past operations in the country/sector. Updated PIDs should include project benefits
and project risks.
Despite a high level of interest by Nepali NGOs in the project, the Arun IiI PID does not contain many
of the components required by the Bank policy, for example, it does not contain any of the following
critical information:

                                                    3

i.     background description of the country, region or the Arun Valley or exact location of the
       project:
ii.    justification for Bank involvement;
iii.   background on the sector and sector strategy and how this project fits into the overall
       planning for the energysector in Nepal;
iv.    information on project sustainability or lessons from previous experience of large scale d a
       projects in Nepal;
V.     information on the ArunValley and its unique ecosystems:
vi.    information on the 450,000 people, including the indigenousgroups livingin the Valley;
vii.   information on project benefits or risks;
viii.  project alternatives which were considered:
       i3 discussion of issues and actions;
x.
ix.     mformation on a cost-benefit analysis: and
k.     irelevantcontact person in the World Bank and in the regional office in Nepal.
Accordingto Bank Procedures BP 17.50,PïDs are supposed to be expanded and updated as the project
progresses. For all operations, the PID is supposed tn be updated before appraisal.The PID forArun 111
was prepared only in early 1994 (January24) and has never been updated.
4.C.2 Environmental Information: Under the Bank's information policy and procedures, the
environmental impact assessment forIDA funded categoryAprojects is supposed to be made publicly
available in the country "at some public place accessible to affected groups" and in a local language
before the Droiect Droceeds to amraisal.The claimants believethis provisionwas not followedby the
Bank. In fact, a law suit was filed with the Supreme Court on December 31, 1993,in order to get
access to information about the project. One of the documents listed as demanded was the
environmental impact assessment. On March 8, 1994the Court decision required the governmentto
release information,but this was after the appraisal was started. (SeealsoAttachment - 11).
4.C.3 Factual Technical Information on Arun 111: Paragraph 5 in Bank's Procedures 17.50
requires the release of factual technical information upon request on project in preparation. This
provisionwas meant to provide interested people with more factual technical informationbetweenthe
time the PID is released and project approval when the final staff appraisal isreleased. The claimants
attempted to obtain factual technical information during project preparation in order to have input in
the design or promote alternatives to the project. However, it was not until project appraisal was
almost finished that the claimants received factual technical information.
4.C.4 Staff Appraisal Report: The claimants have repeatedly requested the copies of the Staff
Appraisal Report (SARIwhich is now final and has been sent to the Board of Executive Directors.
Under the current Bank information policy, final SARs are only released publicly after the Board
approves the project. Under the Bank's current definition of "factual technical information"does not
include draft SAR (see OfficeMemorandum, Jan Wijnand,June 20, 1994).The claimants understand
that failure to release the SAR before the Board approval is not a violation of the Banks current
policy. However, the claimants wish to challenge this aspect of the Bank policy, because the SAR is
the basic technical document of a project and should be classified as factual technical information.
The small amount of confidential information contained in the SAR should be excised and the rest of
the document should be released. The SAR contains the basicjustification for the Bank's involvement
in the project. Without access to the SARbefore Board approval, it is impossible to understand how
the Bank uses, manipulates, or misrepresents other factual technical information to support its
involvementin the Arun I11 project.

4.D     Environmental Impact Assessment
4.D.1 Analysis of Alternatives: The EL4 report should include "Systematic comparison of the
proposed investment design, site, technology, and operational alternatives in terms of thee potential
environmental impacts, capital and recurrent costs, suitability under local conditions; and
institutional training and monitoring requirements. For each of the alternatives, the environmental
costs and benefits should be quantified to the extent possible and economic values should be
attached where feasible. The basis for selection of the alternative proposed for the project design must
be stated'.
An essential part of any environmental assessment process is the investigation of alternatives to the
project, to discover whether there are options which are more viable from an environmental and social
standpoint. As stated above. the Banks OD requires an environmental analyses of alternatives to the
proposed project. Unfortunately, in the case of Arun 111, the environmental issues at stake and the
available alternatives have not been integrated into decisionsabout whether to proceed with project.

                                                    4

During the 1991EIA, the team did not have a mandate to investigate alternatives to the dam site or
the road alignment (hillroute) at the time. The King Mahendra Trust for Nature Conservation which
undertook the Basinwide Environmental Impacts Study stated "the road alignment and the dam site
were already decided, and the study team did not have a mandate to change these decisions".
Later in 1992, an EIA for the Valley route was conducted for the purpose of determining whether this
route "mightprovide time and cost savings in providing access to the Arun I11hydropowersite. S e w
the needs of the population in the general area through which the road will pass is a secondaq
consideration." (EnvironmentalImpactAssessment -Valley Route-MainReport, September 1992).
This EL%concluded that the Valley route was preferable to the hill route even though the EIA
recognized that there would be irreversible significant impacts to the valley. This EIAwas also limited
considered a fait accompli In this case, .... the need for and the siting of the power project, and
to investigating altematives to the road and not to the Arun I11 and road itself, which were both
                                             "
therefore thejustification for the road, is taken as a given". (EIA,Valley Route Study Limitations,page
1-61.
Still more importantly, the so called EIA of the Valley route of the access road fails to take into
consideration and compare from environmental standpoint any alternative approach to build this
road. For example, applyingenvironmentallyfriendlyapproach in building the roads in the Himalayan
foothillsby employingsimple and conservation-oriented techniques and labor intensive methods have
been proved successful. The pace of the proposed construction of the road and the approach adopted,
thus, is a serious environmental concern that the ELA ignores.
Afterthe EM process was completed, and well into the project cycle, the Bank commissioneda study
of alternatives to the project. This study known as "Plan B' was issued only after a year of intense
local and international pressure on the Bank to adequately investigate alternatives. The Plan B was
conducted from the standpoint of whether Arun I11is the "least cost" option for Nepal, without regard
to environmental and social costs of eitherArun I11or the alternatives.
4.D.2 F'ublic Participation: The Bank has relied on the so called 23 public meetings tojustify the
participation of the local people in designing the project. The fundamental question iswhether basic
project documents and information were made available to the local people and the public at large
before the holding of such consultations. In fact, There have been only two or three meetings of
consultation nature which were also limited to discussion on the positive side of the project.
Moreover,during or prior to the so called 23 public meetings, no elaborated informationon the project
in Nepali language were made available. So far in our knowledge,there were no public meetings held
in Kathrnandu by the HMG/N or the Bank. In addition, all of the above-mentionedmeetings were held
before the Nepali Supreme Court's verdict on the disclosure of all project information and document
on March 8, 1994.The so called Information Centre was established only after the show-cause notice
was issued against the HMG/N and the NEA on the writ petition. The government-controlled radio,
television and the print media were used only to disinform the Nepali people about the existence and
benefits of the project but were not open to critical debate about various aspects of the project. Most
importantly, the mere participation of some selective groups and individuals as well as the local
governlent authorities through governmental influence cannot represent the whole Arun Valley, and
for this matter, the people of Nepal because of the size and complexity of the project. (See also
Attachment-111).
Therefore, we strongly claim that the holding of meetings and discussion in the absence of the basic
project documents and information do not make any sense in terms of meaningful debate about the
positive and negative aspects of the project, and meeting the access to information and genuine public
consultation policy requirements of the Bank.

valley of Arun 111,LowerArun and Upper Arun have not been evaluated. The World bank has argued
4.D.3 Cumulative Impacts: Furthermore, the cumulative impacts to the environment in the Anin

that the benefit of the 122 km road into the Arun valley is that 1,044MW can be generated from the
three schemes in Arun and that the impact to the environment will thus be confined to one river
basin rather than scattered among diverse sites. However, it is widely accepted (including by the
Environmental Department of the ADB)that the cumulative impacts of all three schemeswill result in
"irreversibleenvironmental damageto the valley".
The Bank has violated OD 4.01, Annex B on Environmental Impact Assessment (EW.TheArun I11is
only the first phase in a plan to build three dams in the Anin Valley. Despite this, environmental
stiirlies have only covered the adverse impacts of Arun 111, and therefore, there is a Zeed of a
comprehensive study of the long-term cumulative impacts of buildifig the other two schemes aïìd
additional road construction in the Valley.

                                                     5

4.D.4 General Violations: There are clearly noticeable inadequacies in the EIA studies of the
various components of the project. For example. there is no thorough assessment of the likely
environinental impact by the 120 km high-voltage transmission lines. In the analysis of risks due to
GLOF and land-slide floods it isclaimed that the risks are minimal. However small the expected risks
are. there should be a mitigation plan for the same needs to be developed.The environmental studies
lack such mitigation plans for natural disasters. Similarly, no mitigation measures have been
developedfor the adverse impacts on the fish populations. There are no mitigation plans for the likely
adverse environmental impact to be caused by the disposal of construction spoils of project elements
like dani, tunnel, power house, access road and the like. The impact of dumping construction spoils
into the river has not been studied. Though this is definiteto have significant adverse impact on the
down-stream side of the river.


In 1990,the Bank established an involuntary resettlement plan because "development projects that
4.E IrivoluntaryResettlement: Land Acquisition,Compensationand Rehabilitation
displact: people involuntarily generally give rise to severe economic, social and environmental
problcrs." One of the main objectives of the policy is to praside people displaced by a project with tke
means io improve, or at least restore, their former living standards, earning capacity and production
levels.This central objectivehas alreadybeen violated in the case of Arun 111.
4.E. 1 Under Valuation of the Compensation: The EIA states "For the majority of households
compensation with cash would not enable them to recoverfrom the loss of a significant proportion of
the family land holding, unless the money were used to buy an equivalent of land in the vicinity.
However, the effect of ACRP on the hill route has been to inflate land prices far beyond the
compensated value, thus malung the purchase of replacement land impossiblefor most PAFs" (Project
Affected Families), (see, Arun 111 HEP: Environmental Impact Assessment for Arun Access Road -
Valley mute; Volume 1/2 Main Report; Sept. 1992;p. 5-4).The report also confirms that land has
been uiidenralued by the District Land Revenue Officer, therefore, making it impossible for the
displaced people to recover their losses. The report further states that 'The filed surveysfor this report
found that land values fixed by the local Land Revenue Offices seriously underrate the reported
market value." (seeIbid.).Thisaction also violates para. 14 of OD 4.30which states 'Valuation of lost
assets should be made at their replacement cost."
4.E.2 Opportunities to Share in Project Benefits: The benefit of this project will be electricity.
but it is not electricity,however,for the Arun Valley. One section of the EIA (6-1i),however, describes
the expectation of local people to receive power fromthis project at affordable rates. The modification
made in the project which corresponds with this expectation has been an increase in the width ofthe
transmission lines so that sometime in the future the Valley can benefit from a future electrification
program, as of yet undeveloped. In no way will the main benefit of this particular project -electricity
-beconferredtopeoplewhoaredirectlyaffectedbytheproject.
4.E.3 Employment to the Seriously Project Affected Families (SPAFs): Noting that the
displacement of project affectedpeople would be permanent, eariier versions of the EMrecommended
be severelyaffected by the Arun 111 project. In later versions, this recommendation seems not to have
that permanent employment be made available for at least one member of those families expected to

been carried through. Local people affected by the project are to be givenfirst priorityfor employment
in the construction of the access road. This employment opportunity, however, is not permanent
whereas adverse effectsof displacement are permanent.
4.E.4 Land Based Resettlement: The World Bank experience and policy on involuntary
resettlement states that replacement of resettlement land (''land for land strategies")is far superior to

Bank projects that received only cash for their land have not regained their standard of living, but
cash compensation. I n fact, experience has shown that most people who have been displaced by the
instead have become impoverished (seeResettlement and Development,April 8,1994:also Involuntary
Resettlement in Development Projects, Michael M. Cenea, 1988).In addition, the EIA has shown that

project. The EIA has further stated that it is expected that the Valley route Project Affected Families
cash compensation is already failing in the case of people displaced by the hill route in the Anin 111
(PAFs)will have been less ability to be able to deal with cash compensation because they are poorer
than the people along the hill route. Despite the overwhelmingevidence against cash compensation,
it is stillthe centrepiece of the HMG/N land acquisition guidelines.
The updated Land Acquisition, Compensation and Rehabilitation Plan (ACW)has attempted to cope
with thiis issue by requiring that the project affected people be given the option of receiving land
instead of cash. However, the burden of ident-g          land has been put on the displaced people
themselves and they also must arrange for the HMG/N to purchase the land. Furthermore, those
                                                   6

already displaced do not have the option of receiving land. Accordingto the Sankhuwa-Sava Peoples'
Awareness Group that is raising its concerns about the project within the Arun Valley has recently
documented that the people who received cash compensation earlier have not been informed or asked

The HMG/N has now given on October 5. 1994 a 30-day public notice of land acquisition under the
about whether they would prefer land, and not the cash. (SeealsoAttachment - IV).

Land Ac:quisitionAct, 1979in Manakamana Village. However,the notice does not say anything about
whether the families are eligible to ask for land for land compensation since the law is basically
limitedi.0 cash compensation. The claimants believe that many Valley residents' standard of livingwill
decrease as a result of cash compensation. and the loss of land.
4.E.5 !jurveys: In violation of section 11of OD 4.30, there has not been a socio-economicsurvey
completed on the Valley route to determine whose lands will be afiected or to determine the value of
the land.
4.E.6 Resettlement Planning: According to the Bank policy. the resettlement should take place
before appraisal. However, no resettlement plan has been established for familieswho will lose their
houses due to the power transmission lines.

4.F Iíndigenous Peoples
There are over 24 different ethnic groups within the Arun Valley. Some of which maintain separate
cultural identities and are organized under a network ofethnic groups in Nepal. These include the Rui
and Lirnbu tribes who maintain communal types of land ownership. Many of the ethnic groups living
in the &un Valley canbe classifiedas indigenous peopleusing the characteristics described inWorld

natural resources in the Valley. They are considered as a series of distinct cultural groupings. They
Bank operational Directive 4.20: Indigenous People. These people have a close attachment to the

have well established customary social and political institutions and are primarily subsistence-
oriented producers (TheWorld Bank Operational Manual: OperationalDirective4.20: September 1991;

little influenced by outsiders. They are unique in themselves and practice diversesocio-economicand
p. i).Die originalEIA described the communities of theArun Basin as "predominantlytraditional and
cultural practices. Many local people have never been outside the Valley." In the Environmental
Mitigation Plan, a reference is made to protecting indigenous people. These definitions clearly fall
within the rubric of OD 4.20. Operational Directive 4.20 has as its basic tenant "a)to ensure that
indigenous people benefit from development projects, and b) avoid or mitigate potentially adverse
effects on indigenous people caused by Bank-assisted activities." At its centre the main objective of
the policy is to "ensure that indigenous people do not sufferadverse effects during the development
process, particularly from Bank-financed projects." (Seeibid., p. 2). In the case of the Arun 111, the
indigenous communities in the Valley will be adversely affected by the project. But, the impact
assessments do not demonstrate any local benefits for the indigenous communities.

Ad-.rerse impacts identifiedby the EIAinclude:
i.       i3further deterioration of natural resources upon which local communities depend because of
         population growth related to the project;
ii.      further marginalization due to the introduction of an unfamiliar cash economy along the
         proposed road route;
iii.      the introduction of disease,through work camps in an area where epidemicsare unknown:
iv.      introduction of income inequality between communities situated close to the proposed road
         iroute and communitiesfurther from the road:
V.       further income inequality between original inhabitants and migrants and entrepreneurs
         attracted by the labor and market opportunities;
vi.      severefood deficits: and
vii.     cultural disintegration resulting from the employment of up to 6000non-localworkers, some
         of whom will settle permanently.
The cumulative risk to the well-being of the indigenous peoples in the Valley could not possibly be
higher. Yet, no risk seems to be great for the Bank. Perhaps the reason the Bank isw'-iiing to go ahead
even though the risks are vev high isbecause in essence the Bank does not bear the risk. The Nepalis
peopie, including the claimants do.
4.F.1 Lack of Mitigation Efforts: The HMG/N and the Bank has produced three documents in
which rnitigation efforts are discussed. These are the Environmental Mitigation Plan, the Regional
Action Pian and the Land Acquisition, Compensation and Rehabilitation Plan. The effectiveness of
each of these plans in coping with the above problems is questionable. It is unclear whether the
documents represent work-pians or only recommendations Íor work-plans. Many of the mitigation
                                                     7

recommendations made by relevant experts in the EIA have not been taken into consideration in any
of the three plans. Lastly, many issues are outlined as needing to be resoived in tender documents or
explicitly raised in bid documents. Whether or not this has happened is unclear as the tender
documentsare kept secret.
4.F.2 Preparation of the Indigenous Peoples' Plan: As required by OD 4.20, no indigenous
peoples developmentplans have been prepared by the project.The mitigationrecommendations in the
RAP do not constitute a regional development plan or a special indigenous peoples development plan.
Mitigation of negative impacts on indigenous peoples do not constitute development.
4.F.3 1,ack of Adequate Cadastral Survey: The World Bank, OD 4.20. states that steps to
recognize property rights should be taken before other planning steps that may be contingent on
recognized land titles. In the case of the Arun 111,land appropriation for the project started before the
cadastral suxveywas completed.
Section 15.d of OD 4.20 calls for indigenous peoples participation in decision-makingthroughout the
project planning. implementation and evaluation. According to the 1991EIA, the value of the whole
process was in question because "the road alignment and dam site were already decided, and the
study team did not have a mandate to change these decisions." This is a violation of not only OD
4.20, but other Bank policiesas well.
5.      ALUIVERSEEFFECTSON OURRIGHTSAND INTERESTS
5.A     'Threatened Direct Adverse Impacts on the Claimants as Nepalis Nationals
Because of the size and cost of the Arun I11project in relation to annualnational budget of Nepal, the
claimants submit that the project will have direct adverse effectson many parts of the population in
Nepal, including the poorest segments of society.The total project cost is US $1082.3 millionwhich is

Claimantssubmit that in addition to violations of operational policies, if the project goes ahead, it will
ahnost twice one years national development budget for Nepal ( US $640 millionfor FY 1993-94). The
violate the objectives of IDA 10and IDAS country assistance strategy for Nepal. The total cost of the
Anin 111, is completely out of proportion to the size of the Nepal's economy. Common sense dictates
that a project of this size and cost that will not directlybenefit the poor is not appropriate for Nepal's
development at this juncture. The claimants further believe that the project will not contribute to
poverty alleviation in Nepal, rather it will contribute to more poverty because of the high cost of the
project requires higher investment commitment from the HMG/N and that threatens to "crowd out"
investments in social sectors such as health and education.
5.A.1 Project Cost and Crowding Out of Social Sectors: Nepal is one of the world's poorest
countriirs with a per capita annual income of only US $180.Nepali people suffer from severe poverty,
malnutntion, overpopulation and illiteracy. Health and social services are currently inadequate, and
investment is a priority need for targeted poverty interventions and for health and family planning
semices and education. Accordingto the Banks country assistance strategy, IDA'S main over-arching
objectivein Nepal is poverty alleviation. In order to achieve this there should be investments in labor
intensive projects which generate income opportunities for the poor and investments in education,
health, nutrition, and family planning. Investments in the Arun I11 project will threaten to prevent
investments in these areas. (SeealsoAttachment      - IV).
5.A.2 institution Building: All the components of the project are proposed to be built by
international contractors. This will directly adversely affect efforts by the Nepalis to increase in-
country capacity through public institution building, increasing private sector capacity and promoting
localmanagement and control in undertaking hydropower schemes. Alternativesmaller scale projects
of the size 1-60megawatts which are being promoted by IntermediateTechnologyDevelopment Group,
the Alliance for Energy and others are already being built by local government agencies and private
sector companies in Nepal. Alternatives for an IDA Credit for smaller and medium size projects would
help build local institutional capacity, as well as generate income for local private sector. Private
sectorcompanies in Nepal employlocal expertise and createjobs for Nepalis.
5.A.3 Crowding Out of Small and Medium Scale Hydroelectric Projects: The claimants believe
that financing the Arun I11 will directly and adversely affects the development of small and medium
scale hydropower in Nepal by crowding out research, development and financing for projects of this
size. Smaller projects have the advantage of bringing electricityto rural communities and prcrnoting
self-sufficiency. Smaller projects are much less environmentally and financially risky and more
appropi-iattpfor Nepal's development at thisjuncture.

For fulfillingthe requirements of the national grid, the small and medium hydrapowerschemes in the
1MW to :O0 M W range can be developed in a number of river basins spread throughviit the country.
                                                     8

Pre-feasibilityand reconnaissance studies for such alternativesthat can produce over ï , m MW of
power have already been completed by the HMG/N. Feasibility studies for a large number of the
alternaitíves including a full EIA, could be completed within the time period neededjust to build the
road for the Arun project. Additionally,the schemes that are studied and ready to go now could be
already built. Over 500 MW of schemes in the 1 M W to 100M W range have already been identified
close to existingroads.

the project in the sovereignParliament is a fundamental requirement under the Constitution and the
5.A.4 Undermining Democratic Processes Inside Nepal: The formal and meaningfuldebate of
laws of Nepal since the project involvesriparian issues with China, power-sale agreementwith India, if
any, and huge investment from internal sources as well as other socio-economic, natural and
environmentalrisks. This has never taken place. (SeealsoAttachment - V).
5.B     Threatened Adverse Direct Impacts to Claimants in the Arun Valley
Violaticins of the Bank policy on environment, indigenous people, and resettlement, combined with
the fact.that the NEA does not have the capacity to implement environmental and social safeguards
thrcate;asto cause long-termirreversible diect adverse impacts cn the claimants.The Lmpaets include
the following (SeealsoAttachment - Vi):
A.      IncreasedFood Deficit, Lossof Income and IncreasedUnemployment
B.      Fall in Food Availability, Prices Rise and Fall in Nutritionalkvel
C.      Lossof Forests
D.      Adverse Health Impacts
E.      Deteriorationof Living Standards as a Result of Cash Compensation

6.      RESPONSIBILITYOFTHEBANK
        We believe that some of the main responsibilitiesof the Bank are:
A.      To ensure that the proposed project promotes just, balanced and equitable national
B.      development:
        Tojust* the achievement of its originally stated goals and objectives:
C.      To address the pnoriíy needs and sectors of the country:
D.      To be accountablein its assessment and analysislea-          to the investment;
E.      To guarantee transparent and democraticdecision-makingprocesses;
F.      To protect, promote and respect the other rights and interests of the country and the people as
        stated under the title "OurRights and Interests"above: and
G.      To fully ensure, at least, the compliance with its ~ w policies and procedures in the design.
                                                                   n
        planningand implementationof the proposed projects. (SeealsoAttachment-VI).
7.      PREVIOUSCOMPWNTSTOTHE BANK
A.      We wrote the Bank in Kathmandu or in Washington, DC numerous times;
B.      We made our formal presentations during a one-day consultation meeting held on June 28,
        1994at the Bank's Headquarters;
C.      We submitted letter of memorandums to the Bank StaE/Management as well as a number of
        the Executive Directorsof the Board:
D.      We met the Bank officialsin Kathmandu, in Washington,DC and in Madrid (duringthe recent
        annual meetingl and raised our concerns; and
E.      We made our concerns public through the publication of booklets and pamphlets, press
        conferences, and publicmeetings. (SeealsoAttachment -Vi111.

8.      RESPONSE ON THE PREVIOUSCOMPLAINTS
Ail our requests were either turned down or ignored or misinterpreted, and we have found most of
and accountability. (SeealsoAttachment - IX).
their answers unsatisfactory and/or unreliable -not based on facts, and not reflecting transparency




                                                     9

Residential Office in Kathmandu, and its Headquarters in Washington, DC in seeking basic project
9 . ~ We wrote and/or contacted several txnes to the Rim,the Arun I11 Project Office, the Bank's
document and information as well as satisfactory answersto our queries. But, mostly we were never
replied by the concerned authorities, or our requests were misinterpreted, or we oniy received partial
and unsatisfactory answers. (SeealsoAttachment - X).

information and documents about the project .The Court ordered the defendants on March 8, 1994
9.B      On December 31, 1993we filed a law suit against the HMG/N for the disclosure of all project

to provide all project documents and information about the project under the Constitution and the
laws of Nepal, and has further established a set of procedures for the disclosure of such information.
Even alter the Court's verdict in our favor, the HMG/N has still been denying the release of the
complete list of project informationand provide documents.
We, therefore, believe that the above actions/omissions which are contrary to the above policies or
procediires have materially and adversely affected our rights/interests and request the Panel to
recommend to the Bank's Executive Directors that an investigation of these matters be carried out in
order to1resolve the issues and problems prior to any f m l decision.
As advised in your Operating Procedures, this Request for Inspection is intended to be brief. We can
provideyou with more details and particulars.


Signature:                        . .
Name: Gopal Siwakoti
Affiliation:Arun Concerned Group
Status:IndirectlyAffected Claimant:Lawyer; Human RightsActivist
PermanentAddress: Hwaku 4, Terathum District, Koshi
MailingAddress: c/o INHUREDInternational. P.O. Box 2125, Kathmandu,Nepal
Tel: (97:7-1)419610 Fax: (977-1)412538


Signatus-e:

Name: Ganesh Kumar Ghimire
Affiliation: Arun Concerned Group
Environrnentalist/SustainableDevelopmentActivist
Status:1:ndirecüyAffected Claimant fromthe Arun Valley;
PermanentAddress: Malta Village DevelopmentCommittee5, Sankhuwa-Sava,Koshi
Mailing.Address:P.O. Box 4067. Kathmandu, Nepal Tel: (977-1)526722


Signature:
(asauthorized)
Name: Nara Bahadur Sundas
Status:13irectlyAffectedTenant Family Due to Land Acquisitionand
Denial of Even Cash Compensationand Others
Address:Baneshor Village 7, Baneshor Guthi, Sankhuwa-Sava

Signature:        @yl.--c-
(a-authorized)

Name: Ilammaru Prasad Kafie
Status:DirectlyAffected Family and a Victimof Cash Compensationand Others
Address:KharangVillage 4, Dasharath, Sankhuwa-Sava

Attachments:Yes
We authorizeyou to make this Request public [excentthe names and addresses of the last two claimants Nara
Bahadur Sundas & Dammaru Prasad W e .

                                                   10

