                    ANNEX 1




                               I




    June 21,1995




I   -

                            CONTENTS




     1. PriorIDAExperiencewith HydroelectricProjectsinNepal-
                            Resettlement
          2. Ruettkment in theAnn IIIAccessRoadCredit
   3. EnvironmentalAssessment in theAmo 111Access RoadCredit
        4. Resettlementin theArun IIIHydroelectricProject  -
                            Valley Route


L  S. Environmental Assessment in the Arun IU Hydroelectric Project
              6. IndigenousPeoplein tbeArun Projecta
                            7. Findings




L

-       T--        --1-

   INTERNATIONALBANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
   T"AT1ONAL
  .iXEINSPECïIONPANELDEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION
.                                                                                         Tclcphme:(202)458-5200
                                                               U.S.A.
                                                               W e g l m . D.C.20433
                                                               1818HStrsct.N.W.
                                                                                          Fax :(202)S22-0916

        Emst-Günther Bröder                                                               CableAddre%:NrmFRAD

        Richard E. Bissell
        Aivaro UmañaQuesada
                                6                                                                     June 21.1995

           Nepal: Arun Kü ProposedHydroelectric Project &Restructuring of IDA Credit-2029-
                                         Inspection Panel Investigation Report

                                                        SUMMARY

        1. This report describesthe process and summarizes
        the findings of the Inspection Panel's (the Tanel")    His Majesty's Governmentof Nepal and the people
                                                               2. The Panelwuld liketo expressitsgratitudeto

        with its Operational Directives ("ûDs")4.01 on
        investigation into alleged non-compliance by IDA       of the h n Valley fortheirhospitalityandassis-
                                                               Bankstaffin Nepalfortheiriogisticai support. The
                                                               tance, andto non governmentalorganizationsand

        peoples, and 4.30 on involuntary resettiement during
        environmental assessment. 4.20 on indigenous           Paneldrewupn avast reservoiroftechnicai knowl-
        proposed project and implementation of Credit No.
        the preparation and appraisal of the above-mentioned   edgeofstaffin Washingtonwhose recent work
                                                               expedted thePanel's investigation.
        2029-NEP.I
        reflected in this report, are attached as Annex 1.
                        The Inspectors' findings,which are                          PROCESS
        Remdai measures proposed by IDA Management             First Phase
        ("Manage!ment")prior to this report are included in

        ber 1994 response to the Request for Inspection. The
        Annex 2 which also includes Management's Novem-        an investigation(the "Authorization")Stipulated that
                                                               3. The ExecutiveDirectors' Resolution authorizing

        phase the Inspectors interviewedstaffand consuitants
        investigauon was conducted in two phases. In first
                                                               Nepal, the Bank and other CcknnanCiers, as well as
                                                               studies subsequentlyprovidedby the Govemment of
                                                               the `"panel will take into account i d o d o n and
        and conducted a desk study in Washington. During
        the second phase the Inspectors carried out a field
        inspection in Nepal.                                   any remedial measwes agreed by Nepal and the
                                                              the issues involved, will examine whether the
                                                               Bank,and taking into account the complexities of

                                                               served in substance." The Resolution establishing
                                                               requirements of the above-mentionedODs were ob
                                                              the Panel (the `Resolution'') requires the Panel to
                                                              conduct an investigation and then issue a report of
                                                               its findings and conclusions. In response to the
                                                              Panel's findings, Management is requiredto submit
                                                              a report with its recommendationsto the Executive

                                                              the process as it has evolvedto &te in thiscase:
                                                              Directors within six weeks. The following outlines


                                                               0   The Authorization instructed the Panel to
                                                                   "commence field wDrk oniy after the Bank

                                                                   Nepal requesting the Bank`s financing of the
                                                                   receives a decision from the Government of
.                                                                  Project and should to the extent possible, com-
                                                                   plete its w r k within the three-month period
                                                                   facilitate the task of the Panel with a view to
                                                                   suggested by the Panel. Management should
                                                                   enablingit to complete its task early." To avoid
 L                                                          1



                 -    T       . ..   1

         any delays, the Panel informed the Executive
         Directors and the President that it would divide             organizations("NGOs'?.4
                                                                      the donor community and non governmental

.        the investigationinto hvophases.       *
         In mid-March the Government of Nepal                     0   Inspection of the project area (Arun Valley)
                                                                      included aerial reconnaissance of the entire
.        ("HMG")
         Panel considered the findings submitted at that
                         requested IDA'S financing. The
                                                                      valley route alignments, visits to the proposed
                                                                      valley, an expeditionon foot along both hill and


         Management,preparedat the Panel's request. It
         time by the Inspectp and a progress report by                Arun Hydroelectric Projects, and aerial
                                                                      power house locations of Arun III and Lower
         was satisfied that the relevant issues identined             reconnaissanceof theUpper Arun Valley.
         in its preliminary review and further discussed

         be addressed. The interviews with stan and
         injoint meetings with stanwere being or would            0   The inspectors held public consultations with
                                                                      people in the project area.      A large public

         were completedin mid-March.
         consultants and the desk study in Washington
                                             '                        meeting was held in each of the toum of
                                                                      Amran&       Num,    Chhyangkuti, Khandbari,

         An IDA mission visited Nepal in April 1995                   Turnlingtar and Chewabesi. Seven meetings

                                                                      both hili and valleyroutealignments. A total of
                                                                      were conducted with small communities along
         ("AM mission").          To avoid duplication of
         effort. the Panel notified the ExecutiveDirectors
         and the President of its decision to delay the               the meetings. in addition the inspectors inter-
                                                                      more than one thousand people participated in
         second phase (field work) of its investigation               viewed and exchanged views with the
         until after Management had identified and                    Requestersand awide range of otherpeople.
         discussedremedialmeasureswith HMGM.
                                                                 Observations
     0   OnMay 23, 1995,Managementsent the Panel a
         memorandum attaching proposed remedial
                                                                 the Panel and the first authorized by the Executive
                                                                 5. The investigation was the first recommendedby
L        dations of the April mission. (Annex 2) Man-
         measuresbased on the findings and recommen-
         agement expressed the hope that with the adop           Directors; the process as it in fact evolved was not
         tion of these measures the Panel would find the         investigation was authorized, Management made a
                                                                  strictly as anticipated by the Resolution. After the
         project to be in compliance with relevant IDA
         policies. The proposedmeasuresare includedin           withthethreeODs.
                                                                 substantialefforttobringthe project into compliance

         the discussionbelowat paragraphs5-24.

     Second Phase

                                                                 the Inspectors' report and in view of Management's
                                                                  6. The findingsbelow reflect the Panel's analysis of
     Bissell
     4. With the HMGNs consent, Messrs. Richard E.
                and     Alvaro    Umaiia       mesada     (the   initiative and pursuant to the terms of the

     from May 27 to June 1, 1995, and the Executive
     "Inspectors") conducted a field inspection in Nepal          Authorization,this report also takes into accountthe
                                                                 proposed remedialmeasuresin assessingcompliance
     Directorswere so informed. Their objectives were to         with the threedirectives.
     gation and to review Management's remedial pro-
     confirm the findings of the first phase of the investi-
                                                                  7. After the April mission,Managementpointed out
     posals in terms of the requirements of the relevant
     ODsandthe Authorization.                                    in its transmittal memorandum to the Panel, that all
                                                                  the attachedproposed remedial measures (Annex 2)
                                                                 would have tobe satisfactoryto IDA. In addition the
     0   The inspectors met in Kathmandu with HMGM                memorandum stated that Management would com-
         officials, the Requesters, and representatives of        municate to HMGM the criteria to be met for the
                                                                  measures to be satisfactory. In terms of timing,
                                                                  Management will require all such measures to be

     Pmjecr -InifidWorkPlanfor Investigation (rnAkM95-SO, daed
       See Inspdai Pmel. Nepal: ProposedArun 111Hydroelectric


      Farndifidm dcarriplrlimoftlirGniphase. See IDASecM95-
             15,1995).
1
L    119.d a d April3.1995.
                                                               2

  i,Boardpresentationof
     either completed or defined and initiated prior to       tempted motorized access is necessary ,to ensure
                             the proposedproject.             that equipment can be brought in to the project site
                                                              during construction. Without this, there is a high
     Findings         on     Environmentaf Impact             riskof considerableproject delaysand higher costs.
    Assessment (OD 4.01)
.i


                                                               o   The Panel finds that the choice of the valley
.                                                                  route will require provision for appropriate
                                                                   funding of contingencies to Cover maintenance
      choice of road alignment. A detailed comparative
      measures relateto the direct impactsof the proposed
      8. Management's Proposals. The recommended

                                                                   in the event of road wash-outs resulting from

     mended by the Panel of Experts in 1992, was pfe-
      analysis of the vailey and hili access routes, recom-        river floodingdueto monsoon rains.

     pared after the April 1995 mission. It conírms the       Findings on InvoluntaryResettlement
     proposalthat the access road should be built along       (OD4.30)
     the valley alignment provided that the Environ-
      mental Impact Assessment takes into account the
     foliowing:                                                12. Credit 2029-NEP (approved by the Board in

                                                              Turnlingtar who sought rehabilitation but received
                                                              seriously affècted by the access road project in
                                                               1989). The April mission found there are families
     (a) Spoilsdisposai;
     (b)Impact onwildlifeandaquaticlife:                      no assistance. The mission also concludedthat there
               tion Area or mitigatory and compensation
               (i) avoidance of Makaiu-Barun Conserva-        may well be more fàmilies in the Basantapur area
                                                              who havebeen similarlyadverselyaffected
               (2) Sai Forest Patches: measures are to be
               measures;

               included in the Regional Action Program         13.      The mission also noted that Hh4GN had
               discussedlater in this report; and             whose land was acquired for the hill access road
                                                              paid compensation to most of the 1.635 families
               (3) aquaticlife; and                           project. However the legal process of transfer of
  L  (c) Impactof increasedtraffic on the market town of      ownership had been completed for only 15-20
                                                              percent; of this percentage, the land of only 18
     Ide.                                                     -lies     was in factphysicallypossessedby IìMGM.
     a second separate specialized PoE consisting of
      9. Panel of Experts (,,E").     The establishment of
                                                               14. With respect to those who were displaced in
      social and environmental experts is now proposed         1989-90, Management recommends that HMGM
     but has still to be createdand appointed.
                                                              was actually physically possesred and in accordance
                                                              investigatethe conditionsof the familieswhose land

      0                                                       with provisions of the borrower's guidelines &r
          been convenedsince October 1992. Thereforeit
          The Panel notes that the original POE has not
          could not, as required, follow up on its recom-     rehabilitationassistance.

                                                               o
          PoE meetings and foilow-up are therefore
          mendations. Mechanisms to ensure periodic                The Panel notes that, although necessary both
                                                                   for those displacedand for a large portion ofthe
          needed.
                                                                   joWtraining is not adequatelyaddressed.
                                                                   Arun Valley population, provisionfor accessto

     to the measures proposed in Annex 2, Management
      10. Glacial Lake Outburst Flooding. In addition
                                                               0   The Inspectorsfound that the land of those who
     referred to in the Panel's preliminary report. In
      has also addressedthe problemof suchflooding risks           filed the Request for Inspection had been
                                                                   acquired but not physically possessed They
      April Management convened a panel of experts
     which concludedthat risksare real and that monitor-           have been addersely afected by uncertainties
      ing should commence immediately. HMGN has                    changein accessroad alignment. Theirfbtureis
                                                                   over the last half decade as the result of the
      arranged for financial assistance for a team of
     experts to carry out an investigation of the Banin            still uncertain. (See paragraph 52 of Annex 1)
      glacierlakessmtingtowardsthe end ofJune.                     Approximately 1.400 other families are in a
                                                                   similarsituation.


     tion, the Inspectors verified monsoon flooding as a
      11. Road Maintenance. Duringtheir field inspec-          o   The Panel finds that IDA filed to observe in
                                                                   substance the policy requirements for mipeM-
      significantnatural risk that requiresattention. Unin-        sion of resettlement components and conse-
                                                            3



                       I               I

          quentlyfailed to enforce covenants in the Credit           all inhabitants is appropriate and should bring the
          Agreement.'                                                project into substantial compliance with OD 4.20 if
                                                                     its implementation is subjectto continuous monitor-

     with respect to land acquired but not possessed, as
     15.     Management's proposed remedial measures                 ing and supervision.

.                                                                    Findings on the RegionalAction Program
     formulate a time-boundplan indicating which land
     outlined in Annex 2, require that the borrower
     is to be utilized for future road construction and
     which is to be returnid. including measures for                 4.01 and OD 4.20 are to be included in the Regional
                                                                     20. A significantnumber of actions requiredby OD
     protecting the standard of living of those whose                Action Program ("RAP"). This is an innovative
     lands will be possessed and the procedures to enable            approachto an environmentalaction plan which has
     original ownersto regain their lands.                           the potential to become either a mcdel for future
                                                                     work or, ifbadly implemented,a seriousweakness of
     proposes an update of the Acquisition, Compensa-
     16. Valley Route (ProposedCredit). Management                   the entire Arun I11project.
     tion and RehabilitationPlan.                                    August 1994 as being ``integral" to the project, the
                                                                     21.   Described in the Staff Appraisal Report of

     17. Implementation of Resettlement Plans. The                   RAP has neverthelessyet to be completed. It would
     Panel agrees with the 1991 consultant study of past             be the main mechanism for dealing with indirect
     experience in Nepal which concluded that more
     follow up and much more emphasis must be placed                 ambitious undertaking which in its original form
                                                                     environmental and social impacts -an extremely
     on monitoring and evaluation of both the land
                                                                     gramsto deal with a varietyofcomplex issues.
                                                                     contained 21 specifk recommendations and pro.
     acquisition prcess and implementation. It is worth
     noting that both the Operations Evaluation Depart-
     ment and regional reviews of the Bank`s experience              22. Forestry. Effective forestry management is
     with resettlement stress the central importance of              expectedto mitigate the increasingbiomass deficit.
     early attention to strengthening governmental
     capacity to manage such programs. The studies
     point out that monitoring by IDA has been                            The Panel notes that preliminary actions to
                                                                          address this problem need to be completed.
     chronically inadequate despite consistent findings                   Measures to grant security of land tenure to
     that oversight must be exercised constantly during                   forest user groups are now proposed.       First,
     implementationandbeyond.6                                            maps showingthe boundaries of existingforests

     Findings on Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                             user groups have yet to be prepared. Second, as
                                                                          as well as those planned to be managedby forest

                                                                          waiting for the planfied review by the Bank`s
                                                                          of the &te of writing, Management is Still
     18. Management proposes that the three actions
                                                                          Legal Department of Forestry By-Laws.
     people should be extended to ail residents of the
     required by OD 4.20 with respect to indigenous                       Depending on the outcome, Management
     Arun Valley. These actions are (i) informedpartici-
     pation throughpublicconsultations,(ii) securityover                  intends. if necessary.to propose further remedial
                                                                          measures. The Panel also finds that continued
                                                                          technical assistancetobe fundedby donors other
     and culturally appropriate components. The "action
     land tenure, and (iU) an action programwith socially                 than IDA is critical to this component.

     drscussedfurtherbelow.
     program" means the Regional Action Program                      23. Protection of the Remaining Cloud Forest.

     19. The Inspectorsfound that people who qualify as              Only patches of cloud forest remain and are located
                                                                     alongthe now abandonedhill route.
     "indigenous" under DA'S policy are scattered
     throughout the valley and live in conditions similar             o   ThePanel findsthat appropriatemechanismsfor
     to those of non-indigenous people. Management's                      their protection have not been included unQr
     proposalthat requirementsof the policy be applied to                 the RAP.
     'Soe
     that Uu-and
           OD 4.30pup51122 and 31. See alsopara 30.which r@s         the RAP is to be provided by major bilateral donors
                                                                      24. Donor Support and Coordination. Funding of
     be d a t e d m the lega! docwxnu. mer neassay rc&iiCmQt-
                         p h a dthebanowcr'sobligatimto ~ r rilyad
     misledn&msmustbecovamtai
     `                                                                who must be committed to continuing support
     wïhJmtolirnrawRescnlenieti;: Ovurview,`*June30,1993.
        &c. for o<~mple.OED Rcpw No. 12142. "Eurly Exprrlencr         throughoutthe life of the project. The RAP involves
                                                                   4



                                -I-----                  .-

  many different programs in many different areas,              of an underestimation of the effort needed for
                                                                more timeandfundingthan anticipated, because
  fundingby a number of differentdonors.
  implementation by differentexecutingagencies, and             building adequate institutional capacity as well
                                                                as from a lack of constant supervision.8
  0    The Panel found inadequate capacity for sus-
       tainedcoordinationof all thesedifferentaspects                         CONCLUSIONS

  25. institutional Aspects. Management requires            o   Based on its assessment of proposed remedial

  expandedRAP' prior to Board presentation. (Annex
  completion by the bohower of a redesigned and                 moving towards and intends to comply in
                                                                measures the Panel concludes thaî IDA is
  2 at p. 3). The Panel notesthat:                              substance with the requirements of the three
       Since it is the first time such a regional action        operationaidirectives
  0    program has been designed, those involved in             Specinc
       designing the original RAP need to continue          o                remedial measures proposed by
       their work to ensure that an institutional mem-          Managementon:

       ory is established in order to inter-link, in the             0    EnvironmentalImpactAsSeSsment
       hture, all the differentactions.                              o    InvoluntaryResettlement
                                                                     o    IndigenousPeoples
       To implement pre-emptive environmental and

      be strengthenednow.
       social measures institutional capacity needs to
                                                                continue to be consistent with the applicable
                                                                appear to be adequate if and as long as they
                                                                operationaldirectives,and appropriatefollow-up
  0                                                             mechanismsare introduced
       fiagmented. Direct mitigation measures are to
       Responsibilityfor implementationappears to be
       be taken by one executingagency while indirect        o  Overall remedial measures relating to imple
L,     The design does not yet provide for a single
       and induced ones are to be taken by another.             mentation-institutional       building. monitoring
                                                                and evaluation-require            further attention
       chain of command or integrated organizational
       structure in the Arun Valley to oversee                  throughout- out as well as beyond the project
                                                                constructioncycle
       implementation.

  26.                                                        0  There is need to assess whether the measures

  proposed developmental interventionsin relation to
         Given the complexity, scale and scope of               can be implementedwithin the timdcost fiame
  the existing institutional capacityin Nepal. the Panel        proposed for project construction taking into

  is doubtful that the project's mitigatory environ-            account:

  mental and social measures can be implemented
  within the time fiame proposedby D A .                             0    existinginstitutionalcapabilities

       The Panel finds that the lack of institutional                 0   the feasibiiity of strengtheningexisting
       experience will necessitate implementationof a                     institutionaicapacityto a levei required
       massive institutionalcapacitybuilding plan and                     to implement complex environmental
       identification of further resources to fund it, as                 and social measures under the Regional
                                                                          ActionProgram in the time planned
       out project execution.
       well as intensive IDA stansupervision through-

       In relation to environniental measures in par-        Attachments
  0
       ticular, the Panel notes that OED studies
       indicate that projects often suEer, or take much




                                                             '
                                                             Evahaiion Resulls1992.*' Ocîoba 13.1993.
                                                               s&.far exqle. OED Rqmt No.12403, *Annud Rrview of
                                                          5

L


   one project to another. Indeed, the 1994Bank-wide review ofresettlement referred to a
     1. IDA places emphasis on its staff and its borrowers learning appropriatelessons from
   "Bankdecisionthat the Bank will not finance any new project involvingresettlement for
   a borrowing agency that is not living up to its existing commitments for resettlement in
   an ongoing project." For this and other reasons, the expenence in Marsyangdi is an


   resettlement policies in Nepal occurred in the context of the Marsyangdi Hydroelectric
   most recent expenence before Arun I11 between Bank staff and the question of applying
   important baseline for viewing compliance with policies in energy projectsinNepal. The


   Project (1984),Credit 1478-NEP. This project was not very extensive in impact, a
   documentsnegotiated between IDA and HMGN included very specificrequirementson
   69MW facility, with over 200 families affected by the acquisitionof land. The project

   to ensure compliance of the project with IDA'S policy on resettlement as described in
   resettlement, particularly in Section 3.O7of the Development CreditAgreement, in order

   resettlementprogram satisfactoryto the Bankby January 31,1986.
   OMS 2.33. The most specific criteria was that the borrower adopt and implement a


   code for land acquisitiondid not conform to IDA policies on resettlement. In avariety of
   2. This requirement was laid on the borrower despite the fact that the borrower's iegd
   ways, IDA insisted on broader application of compensation and rehabilitationthan was
   understood by the legal fiamework in Nepal. And the plan for compensation went far
   beyond the practices for road constructionthen prevailingin Nepal.


   borrower to meet that requirement. Indeed, in March 1986,the borrower was already out
   3. The early supervisionreports of the Bank indicated concern about the ability of the
   of compliance,and was given a new deadline of 30 June 1986. By the time of the next
   page letter from the Marsyangdi Project Manageroutlininghis approachto the issues, but
   supervision mission report in July 1986,the mission was able to note receipt of a three-


   been taken for the project. As a result, the effectof the required plan would be mitigative
   considered insufficient by the mission experts. At that point, virtually ali the land had

   at best, rather than pre-emptive. The borrower was given a new deadline of 31 August
   1986.

   4. The followingsupervisionmission, in late October 1986,found that nothing had been
   done. The mission brought a resettlement specialist along to conduct the review of the
   borrower's planning, and to assist the borrower in improving the analysis of those being
   affected by the project. He provided extensive details about the creation of a viable
   resettlement and rehabilitationplan, e.g., the existing census looked only at landowners,
   and not at tenants; the need to differentiate between seriously- and marginally-affected
   people; the need to identi@common or public areas that were acquired; and the need to
   provide assistanceto communitieswhere significant numbers of the displaced choose to


                                                 3

L    borrower on resettlement "falls short of Bank policy on resettlement." The mission also
     settle. Indeed, the conclusionof Bank staff at that time was that the general policy of the

     stated that the project executing agency was not staffed to carry out the work, and urged
     that consultantsbe retained to provide strong support. The borrower chose not to pay for
     this additional work, and requested that the Bank provide additional funding. By
     February 1987, all reports indicated no progress.


     whole: NEA's compliancewith the agreementsreached in prior reviewswas described as
     5. A review by the Bank in May 1987 was rather more concerned about the project as a

     "extremely poor." This was followed by a statement in July 1987 to the Bank that "the
     above consultantswould not be asked to develop a resettlementactionplan, as the project
     does not envisagethe resettlement of persons affected by the acquisition of their land and
     homes on top of the compensation paid them in accordance with the prevailing rules and
     regulationsof HMG/N." Bank staff were clearly puzzled about how to go forward, given
     the lack of documentationto help in determiningwhat exactly had transpired to date or in
     determining a course of action for bringing the project into compliance with covenant
     3.07.    Management was struck by the divergence between the technical expertise

     tunnel, and powerhouse and far from being in compliance with Bank guidelines on
     employedin the resettlementcomponentof the project and the actual building of the dam,
     resettlement. Again, the Bank urged hiring a consultantteam locally to come up With a
     Plan, such hiringto be doneby 1April 1988.


     implementerwas reported as seeking bids. In fact, the consultantfirm was finallychosen
     6. By the middle of the summer, no consultant had been hired yet. By August 1988, the
L
    received a draft Action Plan Report to review. It needs to be recalled, however, that the
     in the fall, and started work. Prior to its supervision mission of May 1989, the Bank

    hydroelectricproject was due for commissioning in September 1989. It became a race as
    to whether the project would be completed before the resettlement plan would be

     more rigorous methodology, a budget, a schedule for implementation, and a clearer
     approved. The draft Action Plan did need additional work according to Bank staff: a
    definition of beneficiaries. The deadline for the Action Plan was 30 June 1989, and the
    borrower was requested to include costs of implementing the Action Plan in the next
    fiscal year budget.

     7. The hydroelectric projectwas completed well in advanceof the resettlementplan. The

    at this time the burden of paying for implementationwas shiftedto the Bank (presumably
    Action Plan was reported completed by the supervisionmission of December 1989, and

    through the follow-up sector-wide Power Project). The Plan identified a significantpool
    of families affected by the project -- indeedalready adversely affected by virtue of their
    remaining landholding being too small. After much negotiation, that number was
    reduced to 21 families as "seriously affected." The consulting firm then returned to the
    drawing board to establishwhat measures should be taken. In early 1992, the supervision
    mission could report that the finalrecommendation focused on a combination of training
    and employmentfor those 21 families.

L
                                                 4

   Bankassessmentsummarizedthe resultsof the resettlementeffort: "Covenant, but not
   8. The Marsyangdi project was completedwithout complianceon resettlement,or as one

   followed. Consultant plan included provisions, but never adoptedunder project."


                2. Resettlement in the Arun I I I s Road Credit


   BackuroundoftheProject
   9. The project, appraised in 1988 and presented to the Board in 1989, consists of the
   access road to the future dam site for the Arun I11 hydroelectric development scheme. It
   was presented as a separateproject in order to acceleratethe constructionof the dam itself
   when the latter civil works would be ready for appraisal and approval by the Board. The
   construction of the road was intended to begin in October 1989, and thus allow for
   transport of construction equipment to the dam site in early 1992. Together with the
   hydroelectric works, this project was part of the government's least cost electrical

   the Marsyangdi hydroelectric scheme in order to meet Nepal's electricity needs and
   generation plan developed with Bank assistance,and was initiated prior to completionof
   potential sales of surpluspower to India in the late 1990s.

   10. This alignment of the road was a difficult issue to resolve in the history of the
   project. There is no "natural" route for a road in a watershed with such steep hills and
li unstable topography. When the IDA credit was finalized, the Hill route chosen actually
   represented a shift from the plan laid out by the feasibility study of 1987 funded by the
   Japanese International Cooperation Agency, which planned for the road to follow the
   river alignment to the powerhouse and dam site. The road funded by this credit became
   known as the alignment," for the most part linking up existing towns along the ridges
                   "
   from the existing road head at Basantapur (a gravel road funded by Overseas
   DevelopmentAgency ("ODA")) to the constructionsites up the valley.

   11. The borrower in this case was the Kingdom of Nepal, with the beneficiary being
   primarily the Departmentof Roads,Ministry of Works and Transport, and secondarilythe
   Nepal Electricity Authority (`"EA").
   million equivalent), the estimated cost of the road for which actual bids had not yet been
                                             The credit was SDR 24.4 million (US32.8

   received in the rush to approve the credit before the end of the fiscal year. The principal
   purpose of the project,justifjing the cost of the road in this remote area, was to provide
   access for personnel, material and equipment to the up-river construction sites of the
   Anui I11project.


   12. The second stated objective of the project was to "strengthen HMG capabilities to
         inp Ciqm~&for Res-nt          Nmggmml

   administer rehabilitation of families affected by the project and manage environmental
   protection and conservation measures;" (Staff Appraisal Report, p. 12.) As a result, it
   was important to development of a satisfactoryproject that ail provisions of OMS 2.33,
L
                                                5




.   . ..                                                   ___
          - 7                          -                                    -.. -
                - -  -~    I

      Social Issues Associated with Involuntary Resettlement in Bank-Financed Projects, be
      fulfilled.  The project included not only a Land Acquisition, Compensation and
      Rehabilitation Plan ( A O ) with program elements costing %I.6 million, but also
      consultancyservicesfor preparation and supervisionof the ACRP to cost S1.2million. -


      since the succeedingOD 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement was not issued until June 29,
      13. As already stated, the policy context for resettlement in this project was OMS 2.33,

      1990. At the same time, the new OD was under constant internal review at the time of


      there was in fact little change from the OMS 2.33. In some areas of the new OD, there
      Management's guidance in the new OD 4.30. In the substantial core of the new OD,
      design of this project, and so the Task Manager and his colleagues were aware of

      was an improvement in language from the OMS,and in other areas, it actually became
      thispolicy requirementwere helpful in guidingthe bonower towards languagein thenew
      less precise. The Bank staff and consultants offering advice to the borrower in meeting

      to complete. But in spirit and major substance,the OD and the OMS were close to each
      OD, thereby reducing the likelihood of criticism of a project that would take some years

      other.

      14. OMS 2.33 provides a succinct statement of the purposes of the policy: "When
      development projects require people to be relocated, the Bank's general policy is to help
      the borrower to ensure that, after a reasonable transition period, the displaced people
      regain at least their previous standard of living and that, so far as possible, they be
L`    economically and socially integrated into the host communities. Planning and financing
      the resettlement should be an integral part of the project, and the measures to be taken in
      this regard should be clarified before, and agreed upon during loan negotiations." (para
      2)

      15. The OD thus creates a seriesof tests for compliance:

      o       Does the project adequately recognize the range of economic, social and
      environmentalproblems that will affectpeople displaced by the project?

      O       Does the project deal with the "long-term" nature of the hardship and damage it
      may cause?

      O       Are the measures appropriate?

      O       Are the measures carefullyplanned and likely to be carriedout?


     defining a "resettledperson" or "displacedperson". In this case, particular attention had
      16. Implementation of the policy has required the Bank to address the question of

     to be given to the question of which families were "seriousíy"afTectedor displaced. The
      struggle between IDA Management and the borrower over this practical issue continues.
     The OD notes that "particular attention should be paid to the needs of the poorest groups
     to be resettled." Later, at paragraph 16,it notes that "Vulnerablegroups at particular risk

                                                  6



  1-                  1-

   are indigenous people, the landless and semilandless, and households headed by females
L  who, though displaced, may not be protected through national land compensation
   legislation. The resettlement plan must include land allocation or culturally acceptable
   resources and earningopportunities."


   the project? The OD spells out the fact that "some types of loss, such as access to (a)
    17. Does the resettlementplan adequately recognize the losses of families in the area of

   public services; (b) customers and suppliers; and (c) fishing, grazing or forest areas,
   cannot easily be evaluated or compensated for in monetary terms. Attempts must
   therefore be made to establish access to equivalent and culturally acceptable resources
   and earning opportunities." In the case of the Arun 111accessroad, for instance,the effect
   upon the entire portering business and established markets is very substantial; yet the
   question of dealing with those effects has been entirely swept into the Regional Pktion
   Plan.

              of Senouslv                ..
   18. Some observers have dismissed the scale of the resettlement problem in the Arun
   case. Relative to the Narmada experience, or most other South Asian projects, the
   number can seemtrivial. But that is not the test for IDA policy. In OD 4.30, the question
   of scale is addressed in paragraph 4, where reference is made to "large-scalepopulation
   displacement." The numberused is a negative reference"...a fewpeople (e.g., about 100-
   200 individuais)". This is substantiallyless individualsthan the approximatelythousand

   serious compliance challenge. Indeed, in compliance with this, a formal plan was
   families losing land in the Arun I11 project which means the issue has to be seen as a
   required, and has been provided by the Borrower in the case of both the hill route Credit
   and the proposed credit, and have been and will be examined for acceptabilityby IDA.

   19. Underestimation of numbers affected is common in projects. As pointed out in one
   Bank study, "Surveys carried out in the early stages of the project usually covers only
   those who are directly affected by loss of property or who are "displaced" and it is only
   much later other forms of impact is recognized." In the case of Anui 111,the loss ofjobs
   and traditional markets will be wide-scale with thousands of families"seriously-affected"
   without losing any land at all, sincethe land is only one source of income. Nevertheless,

   By specitjing a focus on "seriously affected families," the Board has created a category
   in this case the Board requestedthe Panel to look only at losses due to the taking of land.

   that does not exist in OD 4.30, and indeed, is not addressed in the current principal Bank
   guide to the subject,
   hand, appearsto statethat ail losses are to be taken seriously; the construct of "senously-
                                            D e v e w t l19942 The policy, on the other
   affected" families as one category in the road projects seemsto be a compromisewith the
   borrower to limit the applicationof the extensive provisionsfor resettlement to a minority
   of those losing land.


   20. These issues in the resettlementprocess are given extensiveattentionin paragraph 22
   of the OD. It lays down a range of needs, such as supplementation of in-house
L                                               7



               I-         --1'

L     monitoring capacity with independent experts. It states that "the borrower should be
      required to continue impact evaluation for a reasonable period after all resettlement and
      related development activities have been completed. The borrower should also be
      required to inform the Bank about the findings." It is a recurrent theme of memoranda
      from resettlement experts in the 1992-1994 period that IDA needs to provide very
      substantial independent oversight in order to improve the likelihood of compliance with
      policies during implementation. Indeed, it might be reasonably argued that Nepal has
      been a laboratory for ACRPs in the Arun Valley that are widely admired for their design,
      but with inadequate attention to solid implementation. But in the wake of the
      Wappenhans-led efforts, such a conclusion would not be surprise to anyone, including
      people within the Bank.


      borrower." Nevertheless, it is also clear that IDA is responsible for assuring compliance
      22. Responsibilityfor resettlement,accordingto paragraph6 of OD 4.30,"restswith the


      of the President have to certify that the borrower's plan do comply with IDA policy
      with OD 4.30. The Staff Appraisal Report and the Memorandum and Recommendation
      requirements. Between those two kinds of responsibility, the reality is that "ownership"

      countries have demonstrated their commitment to the principles and objectives of
      of the resettlement issue is hard to find. According to a Bank review in 1993, "few
      resettlement articulated in OD 4.30.Equally few Task Managers are convincedabout its
c     importance, necessity, and viability." Against that background, it is necessary to be
      careful `in assessing the real progress made in the Arun I11 project. With regard to
      supervising the Credit 2O29-NEPyfor instance, the borrower indicates that it filed three
      reports on the ACRP issues between 1988 and 1990,and yet there is no record yet found
      of those reports being scrutinizedby IDA.

      23. The core issue is made clear by all Bank reviews: as the 1994 Bank-wide review
      income restoration and improvement." The test is not land, and it is not a short-term
      stated, "The ultimate test of consistency between resettlement operations and policy is
      process. It reinforcesthe point that "very few projects have included sufficientmeasures
      or methods to assesswhether income restoration is being achieved." The review goes on
      to say that "land-for-land" is centrai in rural areas, but in this case where crop-based
      income is projected to decline drastically (see the KMTNC studies), the sources of off-
      farm income are asimportant.


      24. The policy gives specialattentionto vulnerable groups, along with the importanceof
                         V           GroUpS,

      using the resettlement frameworks to both shelter and promote the development of those
      vulnerable groups.     Women and children can easily suffer within the household
      fiamework when cash is monopolizedby men and used for conspicuousconsumption. In
      that sense, such vulnerableparts of the population become separateclasses of "seriously-
      affected" people too often invisible to monitors without the survey tools to see their
      losses. Current state of the art surveys of household welfare can disaggregate the
      condition of women, in order to ensure they are not silently penalized by the
      compensation system that does not take them into account. In the case of Vietnam


                                                  8




--I I                                      -
                --

  Highway Rehabilitation Project, 30% of training funds were reserved for women. In the
L,case of the Arun projects, only token attention is given to women, and then in the context
  of the Regional Action Plan, not the ACRP.



  25. "Delays iqpayment of compensation leads to erosion of the value of the moneys
  received. ... In fact, the norm in Nepal is government taking possession of land prior to

  officials to promptly pay compensation due....On the other hand, experience has shown
  the completion of the valuation process, thus removing any incentive for government

  that compensation payments received too far in advance of the actual physical move are

  compensation, "Bank experience with compensation exclusively in money has been
  either squandered or snatched up by money lenders."            With regard to types of

  negative.... The need for forms of compensation other than cash is most apparent in the
  case of tribal or other minority populations whose ancestral lands are expropriated by the
  State."    From virtually all htings, it was essentiai for IDA to insist on adequate non-
  cash compensationin the Arun Valley, and yet when the land was acquired on the Hill
                                                               -- no land, no jobs, and no
  training. The riskisthat the sametragedy could emergein the valley route aswell.
  route, the only compensation identified so far was cash


  26. One aspect of importance borrowed fiom the OD 4.30 was the scope of the policy.
  The OMS applied to hydropower and imgation projects. The new OD was stated to
  broaden the treatment of resettlement to all types of investment projects, which had
  already become the de factp policy of the IDA. In one sense, this credit was a road
  project, and yet it had no viability except as part of a hydropower project. IDA showed
  good sense in recognizingthat, whatever its categorization, this was a project that would
  require the resettlement of a substantial number of people, and that the benefits of the
  policy needed to be gained for the project fiom fair treatmentof those being substantially
  affected by the construction. Management is ambivalentabout whether they applied the
  OMSorthe ODtothisproject. it couldbe arguedonlyOMS2.33 applies,but in fact,the
  purpose. The Bank can take credit for having applied the substance of OD 4.30 to the
  staff did everything possible to appiy the progressive thinking of OD 4.30,and to good

  design of this road project when there would have been legal shelternot to do so.

  27. Road projects in Nepal were not known in the 1980s for taking a developmental

  the involuntary taking of land for government projects, it was narrow in scope, and was
  interest in those displacedby construction. While a legal framework existed in Nepal for

  of sufficiently little value to owners and tenants that most issues of compensation were
  simply settled administratively. Protests and appeals were virtually unknown. Land-

  true legal recourse to ensure fair treatment. This was particularly true in remote hill and
  owners tended to be gratefd for whatever they received, as opposed to feeling they had

  mountainous areas where the local authorities were not operating in a democratic

  revisions. When the legal framework was examined in the course of designing this
  framework. The first Land Acquisition Act was passed in 1956, with subsequent

  project, Bank staff found it to be manifestly inadequatefor meeting OMS 2.33 (especially
L                                              9

L    with regard to informal tenants and the landless, and the determination of compensation
     levels across the board), and successfully pressed the borrowing government to issue
     special-purpose"guidelines." As we shall see below, the government argued that it could
     not alter its underlying framework for land acquisition without jeopardizing a host of
     projects funded by other donors. Instead, the Bank and the government compromised
     with ad hoc guidelines, unique in Nepal`s history at that time. The government was
     careful to ensure that the guidelines did not apply to other development projects, but the
     Bank staff felt they had established a precedent for subsequentprojects in that country.

     28. Resettlement in Nepal has been both spontaneous and government-directed during
     recent decades. From the 1950suntil the 1970s, the government'spolicies and its Nepal
     Resettlement Company relocated large numbers of farmers to the lower elevations of the
     country -- theTerairegion and the policy of encouraging such movementswas reversed
                                 --
     only in 1985 when the adverse environmental consequences of such large-scale shifts
     were recognized. The history of such resettlement was not particularly happy from the
     farmers' point of view, either
     through in ensuring land rights and extension services as farmers moved into new
                                     --with maladministration common and a lack of follow-

     temtory. These difficult precedents are cited as reasons for the farmers along the Anui
     road constructionbeing reluctant to take up the offer of "land for land" instead of cash.
     Their experiencewith the government arranging such swapswas not positive. Indeed, the
     government'sown experiencewas such as to discourageits senior managers from taking
     up an active role in resettlement in the Arun Valley. Even where landholders were
L    seriously affected, the government's instinct was to award cash more generously than
     usual,rather than become involved in relocatingfamiliesto new land.

    29. In the light of suchexperiences,it is important to recognize the issuesat stake in the
    Bank laying out as a major goal of the project to strengthen the government'scapacity to
    manage rehabilitation of displaced families, All parties agreed that its capacity would
    have to be not merely improved considerably, but almost built from the ground up, to be
    able to carry out the Bank`s objectives in resettlement; the question was whether such
    capacities could be established quickly enoughto have impact on thisproject.

    IDA CanpIiaxe wiIhOMS 2.73:
    30. The provisions of OMS 2.33 are quite explicit about the need for extensive early
    planning for resettlement issues. Whenever people are to be displaced, the borrowing
    government must have a resettlement plan, however brief or extended. The nub of the
    plan, as it would be stated similarly in the follow-on OD, is that "settlers are afforded
    opportunities to become established and economically self-sustaining in the shortest
    possible period, at living standardsthat at least match those before resettlement." (para

    demand a clear path to achieving such an outcome for those whose land is taken. The
     18) IDA policy is not prescriptive about how to achievethe desired outcome, but it does
    second major area of emphasis in the OMS is that of compensation       -- both  in terms of
    insisting on a broad definition of what assets deserve to be recognized in calculating
    compensation, and ensuring that replacement value is taken into account, as well as


                                                 10

  dictating the means: experience "tends to show that payment of cash compensation&ng
  is often a very inadequatestrategy for dealing with the displaced." (para 19)

  31. Timing is ail-important for the policy. "Planning for resettlement should begin as

  allow flexibility*onthis issue. The plan must be
  before the negotiation of the project loan." (para 21) To emphasize,the OMS does not
  early as possible."    Indeed, "completion of detailed resettlement planning is required

                                                                 before negotiations can take
  place. The sequencingis quite clear:

  O       At the time of project identification, the magnitude and nature of resettlement
  must be identified,past experience should be reviewed, and the basic legal framework has
  to be reviewed "at this stage."

  o       At the time of preparation, resettlement components must be developed at the
  same     pace,     with     involvement     of    many      disciplines,   in     particular
  sociologisththropologists and resettlement specialists. Design and schedule have to be
  completedbefore the appraisal mission, in orderto assessuirmbw rese-

  32. The Hill routeprojectbegan badly in terms of compliancewith OMS 2.33. The pre-
  appraisal mission in October 1987 found that the project was moving towards appraisal
  without a clear understanding of how many people would be affected by the road, and
  without a plan from the borrowing government for dealing with the issue. Indeed, the
  thrust of the report of the pre-appraisal mission was that the govemment should be
  encouraged to move the people quickly so that they would not be in the way of
  construction machinery, and no mention of rehabilitation. Indeed, the alignment of the

  people affected until the road alignment was set at the appraisal stage. The Task
  road was not yet set, and therefore it would not be possible to determine the number of


  regarding furnishing the Bank prior to appraisal with a proposed R&R plan appearednot
  Managers were warned at that time, that compliance with the provisions of OMS 2.33

  to be feasible. In its determination to get constructionunderway by November 1988,the

  appraisal and negotiations.
  carehl steps laid out in OMS 2.33 were being telescoped into the period between



  examine this issue, and
  32. The Bank postponed further work on resettlement until the appraisal mission would
  would then be requested to formulatea plan for resettlement of displaced familiesand for
                            uevent        B,                                         HMGN
  compensations to farmers. This, then, was a project being rushed to appraisal (target
  February 1) that did not have a final road alignment, did not know how many people
  would be displaced, and the government had not begun drafting a plan required in any
  case.

  33. Othersin the Bank expressed uneasiness over the approach being taken. There had
  mission despite an offer made in late January. The approach laid out in para 22 was not
  not yet.been any plans for including a resettlement expert in the pre-appraisal or appraisal
  acceptable to many -- that measures would be taken only if "substantial resettlement is
L-
                                               11

L    taken regardless of the number of families involved. Nevertheless, the Task Managers
     required." It was pointed out that the stepsfor compensationand rehabilitationhave to be

     continued to attempt to minimize the issue. In March 1988, they reported that it was
     likely that few if any households would be physically displaced by the selection of the
     road alignment. This is surprising since the road alignment was not set. Later that same
     year, the initial estimate of the number of families to lose land would be set at 2,355
     families, certaiqiy not within the plain meaning of "few, if any." Dissent gave rise to

     and the development of an appropriate action plan would be conducted in conjunction
     good sense, and it was finally agreed that an assessment of the impact of land acquisition

     With the ongoing detailed engineering financed under the TA-2 Project (Cr. 1378-NEP).
     This stimulatedconsiderable discussion. The outcome was to devote greater attentionto

     engineering consultants(Scott, Wilson, and Fitzpatrkk) and was due to be completed by
     this and environmental issues. This activity which was to be carried out by the

     Project according to OMS2.33.
     September 1, 1988, to enable the Bank to complete the appraisal of the Access Road

     34. By May 1988, the issue of resettlement was making limited progress. The
     Department of Roads and the Land Department had engaged local consultantsto survey
     those living along the prospective road alignment. IDA was prepared to propose to the

     environmental and resettlement issues.
     borrower that an Environmental Unit be set up in the Department of Roads to oversee all
                                                Oddly, in Bank discussionsof experìence with

     Marsyangdi project under construction, where the same borrowing government was
     ongoing projects with Nepal at this time, there was no citation of problems in the
L    resistingall effortsto implementa rehabilitationplan for resettled families.
     35. For reasons already cited, however, the project was not in compliance with OMS
     2.33. AAer much consideration,the Legal Department's view was that safeguardswere
     built intothe conditions for going to negotiations; for that reason, Legal did not object to
     grantingan exceptionto the procedures outlinedin OMS2.33.


     the borrowing government until IDA forced the issues in the post-appraisal mission in
     36. The question of applying OMS 2.33 did not appear to enter active discussionswith
     late May 1988 to examine environmental and resettlement problems in the road project.
     It became clear to the IDA team that the government did not intend to depart from
     existing Land Acquisition Acts, and that it did not want expatriatesinvolved in the land
     compensation issues. A range of issues within the resettlement agenda bubbled to the
     surface at that time, including the process of valuing land, whether the government
     anticipated providing anything beyond cash, whether they intended to offer a real land-
     for-land option, and whether they recognized that some families were more seriously
     affected thanothers. In the follow-up letterto the Minister of Finance,IDA Management
     be essentialto move to project negotiations.
     attemptedto make it clearthat the issuance of regulationsto confonnto OMS 2.33 would

     37. Compensation became a sticking issue, affirming what the Bank-wide reviews of
     resettlement in all projects had stated: that landholders rarely received compensation


                                                 12

  sufficient to restore their standard of living, and that governments tend to rely on
  outdated, understated estimates of land value. The government was deeply concerned
  about this, arguing that any change to "replacementvalue" from "fair value" would cause
  financial difficulties for all the other road projects in Nepal, whether locally-funded or
  donor-funded. These represented basic disagreements between IDA and the borrower.
  There then ensued extended discussions over compensation to tenants (particularly
  informal), and with regard to families seriously affected by land loss, a clear split
  developed. The initial proposal from the IDA staff to the borrower was that seriously
  affected families would be "those losing more than 25% of their main sourceof income"-
  - a fairly standard practice at that time in Bank projects, and a standard that has been
  strengthened since then The borrower never accepted that proposal. IDA also argued
  that the provision of land should be included aspart of the rehabilitationmeasure.

  38. When the borrower finally responded in negotiations in September 1988,the idea of

  rejected; administrativeguidelineswould be sufficient. The borrower also did not intend
  new regulations for land acquisition and rehabilitation (as suggested by IDA) was
  to fund any additionalassistanceneeded to meet IDA policies -- payment for consultants,
  whether local or foreign, was taken from another IDA credit. In terms of actually

  only to send a draft of a "substantial part of the ACRP" to IDA for review before
  completing the ACRP before negotiations,the borrower rejected that as well, promising
  negotiations. IDA Management accepted these points, again postponing the day of
  reckoning on these issues despiteguidanceto the contraryin the OMS.


  that they could not possibly conform to OMS 2.33. Besides many minor points, the
  39. When the borrower did submit draft ACRP guidelines in October 1988,it was clear


  those that lost at least 50% of their major source of income. This standardwas twice as
  guidelines attempted to set a standard for seriously project-affected families (SPAFs) as
  difficult for landowners to meet as that set by IDA practice elsewhere. In a part of the
  world where many familiesalready live at subsistencelevels,the idea that they would not
  receive special rehabilitation if they lost "only" 45% of their major source of income was
  surprising. Additional problems of major importance included the way of pricing assets,
  the amount of the rehabilitation grants, the time period for payment, the role of tenants,
  and others. In the larger context, other violations of the OMS were evident: the ACRP
  would only cover the first year, when the policy clearly called for a complete plan; in

  calling for a complete ACRP. The Bank told the borrower in July i988 that a complete
  effect, the appraisal process was never completed by Management's own standards

  ACRP was a condition of negotiations; the Bank was abandoning the standards of the
  policy already.

  40. Attempts to reach a common definition of a "seriously-project affected family"
  (SPAF) were creating serious problems. In October 1988, Management sought a

  to at least maintain their standard of living before the project." Such an approach was a
  compromise,where the focus was shifted to those families"left with inadequate holdings
  means of moving towards a somewhat more qualitative definition, and at the same time
  emphasizing to the borrower the importance of baseline surveys of all those affected in

L                                               13




 .                                       .-
         - - --1              I

L    order to provide better rehabilitation. The Borrower appeared to accept that approach.

     that it did not have to pay compensation for property before actually taking it for
     Equally important, however, and particularly for SPAFs,was the view of the Borrower
     construction. Giventhe practice of many govemmentsto take property first and pay later
     (sometimesmuch later),the Bank properly insisted that compensation be provided before
     possession.

     41. Based upon these various discussions, the borrower returned to the Bank with a full
     set of draft Land Acquisition Guidelines,with apparentlyfew of the verbal agreementsof

     rehabilitation was weakened, the land-for-land provision became wishful thinking, and
     October-November 1988 included. The definition of SPAF had reverted to percentages,

     the process of appeal became non-existent. The legal framework for the draftGuidelines
     had been "defacto repealed." Bank staff sat down with the borrower in early December
     and wrote out the guidelines for the project, and insisted on their acceptance if the
     borrower wished to proceed with the project.

                       Board

     negotiated,the road did not remain a fixed quantity. The road alignment was lengthened
     42. Negotiations were held with the borrower in January 1989. Even after being

     significantly after the conclusion of negotiations in order to meet various environmental
     tests and the need for a less demanding road for construction vehicles. Negotiations
     became a continuing set of decisions, changes,and amendmentsto the formal documents
L    processed. In the rush to obtain funds froma particular fiscal year, the Staff Appraisal
     borrowing government still pending. To ensure that the Guidelines developed for the
     Report and related documents had to be circulated to the Board with approval from the
     project would be adopted as an integralpart of the project, they were included in the SAR
     as Annex 7, alongwith the ACRP as Annex 8.
    43. The Staff Appraisal Report created additional conditionalities with regard to
    resettlement, emphasizing that "it is a condition of effectivenessthat a legal opinion be
    provided to IDA by the Secretary of Law and Justice confiiing that provisions
    contained in the Guidelines are enforceable in accordance with the laws of Nepal."
            P. 20)

     44. The project went to the Board for approval without constructionbids in hand. It was

    deal with indirect effects of the project. In May 1989,the King MahendraTrust wasjust
     a costly decision. The project also went to vote in the Board without an adequate plan to

    coming forward to address the Terms of Reference for the study of basin-wide effects of
    the road and power project    -- ultimately producing valuable recommendationsrendered
    moot on the Hill route by virtue of the borrower proceedingto land acquisition without
     those pre-emptive and mitigative measures in hand. The Board approved Credit 2029-
    NEP on May 30,1989.



L
                                                  14



                                             ~.

45. The Credit was signed and became effective. The question then arose as to how
O v e r u t of ImDlementation.

much involvement from IDA management was appropriate for monitoring
implementation. For the most part, at this stage, Management relied upon a reseitlement
specialist consultant to visit the project site occasionally, in the context of reviewing all
the Bank's activities in that country. The borrower was expected to file reports on
acquisition,compensationand rehabilitation: the Governmentstatesthat apparently three
were filed, in December 1988,November 1989,and July 1990.

46. Implementation is taken very seriously in OD 4.30. "Resettlement components
should be supervised throughout implementation. Supervision that is sporadic or left
until late in implementation invariably jeopardizes the success of resettlement."

be protracted and can often make it necessary to continue Bank supervision until well
Paragraph 31 closes with a somber thought: "Completerecovery from resettlement can

after populationshave been relocated, sometimeseven after a project has been closed."

47. The first Bank oversight mission took place in November 1989. At that point the
project had stalled with bids submitted that were too high and too few in number. All
were rejected, and the borrower informed that rebidding could not take place until the
economic situation was clarified. Both IDA and the borrower were preoccupiedwith the
fact that the whole Arun 111 project approach had failed. Issues associated with the
effective road credit took a back seat to the broader crisis of the project. Yet, in the
meantime, the Department of Roads was taking measures under the existing credit. The

under the acquisition, compensation and resettlement plan (ACRP) for approximately
Bankreview foundthat survey work had continuedand compensationhad been disbursed
one-fifth of the property required for the access road. Since constructionhad riot actually
begun, however, families neither vacated their property nor received compensation for
trees, crops or hardship. The Panel of Experts weighed in with their view that
compensation ought to be expedited so that it would not delay the eventual road
construction. Theborrower clearlytreated Credit2029 as one to be executed.

48. The second oversight mission took place in July 1990. It included a resettlement

the detailed engineering for the Arun 111project, as well as examining the Arun-111
consultant to supervisethe land acquisitiodfamily displacernentlenvironmentalaspectsof
Access Road (Cr. 2029-NEP) ACRP work already underway. The borrower was clearly
anxious to get moving on the road work, even if there was not enough money in the
existing credit to pay for the whole road. The borrower proposed building the first 40

supported this initiative, "especially since the ongoing land acquisitiodcompensation
kilometers, thus avoiding further delay in the project. The IDA mission tentatively

process has already provided initial payments for upwards of 40% of the estimated 2,000
access road project affected families and undue delay would complicate the situation in
the field." Again, resettlement issues demanded little attention. The project was going
through another design crisis  -- with a donors meeting in Katmandu at the same time, to
consolidatethe whole project into one bidding process. The access road continued to go
forward: it was expected that disbursement of compensation for the land affected by the


                                              15



   .. .

 L    the Bank.
      access road would essentially be completed by July 1991. No objections were made by



      perspectivewas emergingin the oversight process. The attention of virtuallyeveryone in
      49. By the time of the next supervision mission, in December 1990, a change in

      the mission was in negotiating the design of the combined project yet to be put together
      and f m c e d ; tender documentswere in preparation, and managerswere rapidly moving
      towards prequalification of contractors. For IDA, the importance of Credit 2029-NEP
      was not in what was happening on the ground to farmers,but rather on the hurdles to be
     jumped in order to shiftthose resources into the new combined project. The borrower
      took a rather different perspective, and wanted again to begin spending the money,
      proposing that they be authorized to use some of the credit proceeds to procure camp

      expert on themission, the Bank raised no issues.
      facilities and standard construction equipment. Despite the presence of a resettlement



     Nevertheless, staff interviews have made it clear that the Credit 2029-NEP was
      50. Documentation on subsequent supervision missions have not been reviewed.


     the money never disbursedcould be devotedto the new, much largerArun-I11project.
      essentially forgotten, other than the legal/financial questions of how to restructure it so


      5 1. It is not apparentthat any problems with the implementationof the ACRP on the Hill

     studies by Bank consultants were increasingly raising questions about the impact of the
     route were identified through the supervision missions. On the other hand, independent
 L`  resettlement policies of the implementingagencies. An early 1991 study by T.Ragsdalc
     on the Hill route. "One outstandingproblem in the Arun case as well, however, is that
     and A. Mohar, for instance, identifiedthe sociologicalweakness of the Bank's approach
     many families have already spent the cash compensation on debts, unnecessary
     purchases, or subsistenceneeds and have been unable to reinvest in capital assets." The
     study became even harsher in its conclusions: "In light of the lack of field-level
     monitoring and evaluation that has characterized both the resettlement and land
     acquisitionprocesses in Nepal, it is clear that the governmentis not learning the lessons

     ongoing projects, such as the Arun 111Access Road and Hydroelectric Project, is needed
     of on-going experience with resettlement. More follow up in both of these areas in

     and much more emphasisand resourcesneed to be placed on monitoringand evaluation."
     52. Some of the most serious problems came to light only with the publication of the
     Environmental Impact Assessment for the Valley Route. (JVAnui 111, "EIA for Anui
                     -- Valley
     the Hill route some two years previously, to conduct an informal survey of what
     Access Road              Route," September 1992) The JV had sent their sociologistto
     happened in the land compensation process on the ridge route. It turned out that the
     implementation process had definitely        enabled recipients to restore their standard of

.    living to prior levels. Why? The largest use of cash compensation was to pay off
     existing debts. Thiswas not by choice sincethe land was collateral for debts, creditors
                                              --
     was for marriages, funerals,and festivais. For those who wished to buy other land, they
     demanded immediate payment when cash was received. The second-largest use of cash
 L
                                                   16

   as they had been. Finally, there was tremendous confusion about the oficial procedures
   found that land prices immediately inflated,and askingprices for land were twice as high

   for making appeals, complaintsor queries. (Ibid., Annex 4.13, pp. A4-35-36).


   Hill route was the decision in 1992 to shift the road alignment to the river valley. The
   53. The greatestproblem for those receiving compensation or facing resettlement on the

   impact on former property owners was catastrophicin a number of ways: (i) they had
   lost title to their land to the govenunent; (2) the cash compensation they had received
   for title had been largely spent in non-productive purposes; (3) if the government were
   to attempt to follow the letter of the law, by offering the land to original owners at the
   price they were paid, they would not have the cash to regain the land, and it would be
   auctioned to others; and (4) the road would not go through their communities, thereby
   depriving them of immediate alternative income opportunities. On top of this, the
   attentionof IDA shifted entirelyto the valley route, leavingthem forgotten in an outlying
   area.


   experts and by the project's Panel of Experts. One idea was to encourage the Asian
   54. A modest degree of attention was given to this issue by the Bank's resettlement
   Development Bank to create a loan fund for farmers to buy back their land, but nothing

   the people on the ridge routewas taken up, and remedies urged before additionalhardship
   more was heard about that. In the Seventh report of the Panel of Experts, the problem of
   was sufferedby those landowners, but nothing was known to have been done at that time.
   Indeed, when the road alignment was shifted to the valley, and an environmental impact
   assessment undertaken, that report stated that "the JV's surveys during the summer of
   1992indicateconsiderablelocal concern over the possible loss of investmentvalues if the
   Hill Route is no longer chosen." (JVAnui 111,EIA, September 1992,vol. 1,para 3.4.12)

   55. The issue remained unresolved. The borrower took no action. When the joint
   donors' mission visited Katmandu in May-June 1993,they made it manifest that the new
   combined project could not go to negotiations (scheduled for October 1993), without a
   clear policy regarding land already acquired along the hill access road alignment,
   especially with regard to land no longer required (as above Changkuti)or which HMGM
   will use later. The government'scommitmentwas to build two limited spurroads on part
   of the Hill road alignment, but at some distant time in the future when much of the
   damage to communitieswould already be done, and resolution of the unused areas was
   not accomplished. The new government, in the springof 1995, decentralizedthe issue to
   the local villages, providing them with block grants to cover ail local needs, including
   presumably the resources to build the spur roads. Local village heads consulted by the
   Panel indicated a strong interest in followingthrough at their own initiative with the spur
   roads, but also indicated that there was tremendous competition for those block grant
   funds from needs in health, education, water, and so forth.

   56. AFter the Inspection Panel raised this issue in its preliminary review in December
   1994, Management stated that a commitment was forthcoming from the borrower to re-
   sell the land to the original owners, asprovidedunder the laws of Nepal.
L                                               17



                                                                   .

     for the landholders on the Ridge Route, allowing them to retain use of the land
     57. Instead,the Government sent a letter to the Bank on April 5, 1995,outlining a policy


     requirements laid out above. The Government offered no further assistance to those
     indefinitely irrespective of their title to the land, that did not satis@ the Bank's
     landholders.

     58. As the Requesters had submitted to the Inspection Panel, the resettlement issue on
     the Hill Route had suffered abuse by neglect. Substantial damage to the interests of the
     farmers on the Ridge Route had come first through an inadequate compensation system
     (cash only, and no rehabilitation) that manifestly failed to comply with the ACRP, and
     then secondlythroughrelocation of the route to the valley, thus driving down the value of
     the remainingland of the fanners who had lost part of their acreage. Managementin their
     most recent mission make it clear that a time-bound plan for those farmers and
     landownerswill have to be developedaspart of the current credit.

         3. Enviramental Assessment inthe A u d L h m sRoad Credit


     59. Four alignments were considered with the dual objectives of providing access for

     we11 as facilitating economic development in the Anui Basin by linking many of the
     personnel, material and equipmentto the hydroelectricproject (dam and power house), as

L    existing towns, which are located primarily along the ridges. The Hill alignment,with a
     total of 197 kilometers, was chosen and justified both in economic as well as
     environmental terms. At that time a two-pronged strategy was followed by HMGN:
     build the road under the responsibility of the Department of Roads and undertake
     detailed engineering and environmental studies for the hydroelectric project under
     responsibility of the NEA.        The initial environmental studies leading to the road
     alignment for Credit 2029 were carried out by the Department of Roads of HMG/N in
     1987,before eitherOD 4.00 Annex A: EnvironmentalAssessment (October31, 1989), or
     OD 4.01: EnvironmentalAssessment (October 3, 1991)were in effect.

     60. The StaffAppraisalReport for the Arun I11Access Road (May 12,1989)refers to the
     design and constructionmethods for the proposed alignment as environmentally"state of
     the art" for a major road project in Nepal. Paragraph 3.08 of the SAR states that the
     violence, destructiveness and unpredictability of the rivers in the area are the primary
     reasons for the choice of the ridge alignment: "The road has therefore been chosen to
     avoid rivers as far as possible, and to follow the contours closely in order to minimize the
     quantities of cut and fill, and to reduce negative environmentalimpact."


     HMGN decided to shift to a one-pronged strategy to accelerate project construction by
     61. Procurement under this project was not successfül, as already noted. In 1992,

     having both the road and hydroelectric project under one large contract for all the civil


L                                                  18

works, and under the responsibility of a single contractor. The entire responsibility for
project executionwas also shiftedto the NEA.


  4 Resettlementin theArunlKHydro&ctric Projmt ValleyROI&              L-




change in the road alignment. From the time of the failed bids in 1989, and the initiation
62. The shift fiom a two-stage project to a one-stage project did not at fust involve a
of planning for one-stagebidding of the entireproject, until 1992,the planning appears to
have been remained focused entirely on the Hill route design. Nevertheless, when
engineersbegan examiningways of reducingcost, constructiontime, and implementation

proposal was developed rapidly in 1992, with a revisit of the Japanese-surveyedroute
risks, the shift towards a shorter route up the valley became almost inevitable. The
from the mid-l980s, an environmental review, a submissionto the Panel of Experts, and
agreement between IDA and the borrower that the new route alignment should be
adopted.


experts were brought into the planning process in iate 1992, and fortunately the same
63. Resettlement played its role in the planning for the valley route. Bank resettlement

Anui Access Road creditridge route. The environmentid impact assessmentproduced by
people were involved who were familiar with prior experience in Marsyangdi and the

the engineering consultants, JV Arun 111, included a straightforwardsection on the need
for revision of existing land acquisitionguidelines as well as "issues arising from the hill
route land acquisitionand compensationprocess.''

64.   The EIA identified a number of problems. To a degree, the authors were
handicapped by the fact that the alignment of the Valley Route had not yet been laid out
in the field, and so its analysisof resettlementwas only an estimate. ACRP surveys had
not yet begun, of course, and so their estimate of 640 families being directly affected
would have to be confirmed later. However it was generally thought "that the families

Hill Route." In other words, compensation and rehabilitation issues would be even more
affected along the Valley Route are likely to be poorer on averagethan familiesalong the
significant in their lives.
ACRP process is not sufficiently evolved to fully protect, compensate and rehabilitate
                              For the EIA authors, "Limited data suggest that as yet the

familiesaffected." (EIA,vol. 1, para 4.3.3.2)

65. The analysis of the EIA drew extensivelyon the problems encounteredalready on the
Hill Route. While applauding the design of the guidelines for land acquisition on the
Hill Route, the EIA authors pointed out that reality had undermined their effectiveness.
The guidelines were "based on the premise that resettlement of affkcted families to new
land is.impractical,mainly because, firstly,there is no new land available, and secondly,
families do not wish to leave the area of their ancestral homes. Therefore,compensation
is cash-based." (EIA, vol. 1, para 5.2.2.1) As implemented, the guidelines fell short of


                                             19

L    meeting OD 4.30,accordingto the EIA, fora variety of reasons: (a) themajority of cash
     recipients spent their compensation of non-income producing expenditures        -- farmersin
     that area were simply not accustomed to dealing with significant amounts of cash; (6)
     "the effect of ACRP on the Hili Route has been to inflate land prices far beyond the
     compensated value, thus making the purchase of replacement land impossible for most
     PAFs;" (c) delaysbetween property valuation and the payment of compensationcauses
     depreciation in.purchasing power, aggravated on the Hili Route by the government
     allowing the fanners to remain on the land without title and thus able to maintain their
     income level temporarily;         and (d)    the general level of understanding of the
     compensation arrangements was low, especially in the case of SPAFs, for whom

     twelve substantiverecommendations for improvements in the land acquisition guidelines
     additional compensatorymeasures were envisaged. The EIA thencame up with a list of

     andthe ACRP for the Valley Route      -- many of them focused particularly on SPAFs.

     66. Under IDA policies, a draft ACRP was required before appraisal of the project. In
     December 1992, it was pointed out that the appraisal mission was scheduled for March

     ACRP. The problems of meeting IDA policies were extensive:
     1993, and yet the borrower had effectively not begun to do appropriate work on an


     (a) The legal basis for applying the Land Acquisition Guidelines to the elements of the
     project otherthan the road did not exist;

L    (b)  There were three different ACRP teams, each operating according to different
     methodologies;

     (c) There was no single contact point in the project for familiesthat would be affected;

     (d) There was no indication that land for land existed as an option, even though 16%of
     the families indicated a desire for such a compensationtransaction;

     (e) The appealsprocess on the Hill Route never operated appropriately,and there was no
     indicationthat the borrower intendedto do better in the Valley Route;


     rehabilitation for SPAFs, such asjobs or training, essential for restoring their standardsof
     (f) There was no suggestionthat the projectplanned to offer seriously the other forms of

     living accordingto IDA policies.

     (g) It is not clear that any measures were taken to avoid ACRP implications in the siting
     of the road, and that input needed to be taken by the road engineers as soon as possible to
     avoid the same situation in the valley;

     (h) How the ACRP for the transmission line would be developed was not established,
     and no.one seemedto be taking responsibilityfor it;

  I/  (i) There was not an adequate monitoring and evaluation institution or program for the
      ACRP;
..    (i)Confusionamonglandholdersovercompensationandrehabilitationwasrampant,and
      needed to be sorted out throughdistribution of a comprehensible"due process" manual;
      o<)  Much more extensive community consultation was needed before detennining land
      values.

      67. By the time of thejoint donors' mission in May-June 1993,they had in hand a draft
      the borrower that the report would have to be "operationalized ... into an action plan in
      ACRP report dated April 1993. It did not yet conform to OD 4.30, and IDA proposed to


      for the new action plan was August 1993. The borrower was put on notice that
      line with the World Bankoperational directive on involuntary resettlement. The deadline

      negotiations could not take place in October without "formal adoption of the new land
      acquisition guidelines and the Action Plan for the ACRP, the latter in line with World

      vulnerable communities,public consultationand so forth."
      Bank policies respecting informal tenure arrangements, infonnal land holdings,


      the time of the joint donors' mission in September-October1993 On the one hand, "full
      68. The Bank appears to have sent an ambiguous, two-part message to the borrower at
      agreement" was reached between NEA and the Donors on substance, implementation

  L/  At the same time, the donors insisted on certain actions by the NEA by November 1993
      arrangementsand financing of the ACRP. That suggeststhat the ACRP was a done deal.


      more changes were proposed for the draft ACRP. As the winter dragged on, the gap
      for implementation of the ACRP, as shown in an Annex In fact, in that annex, many


      there remained 22 major areas for changes that were necessary to have an acceptable
      between the ACRP and IDA'Spolicies was not closing. Even as late as February 1994

      ACRP. Management was already willing to slip deadlines     -- atthat point the draft S A R
      stated that an acceptable plan would be developed during negotiations, but others
      attempted to stick to the original commitment that receipt of a satisfactory resettlement
      plan should be a condition of negotiations. Another attempt was made to obtain an
      acceptable ACRP in May, sincethe ACRP was not yet in compliancefor negotiations.

      69. Nevertheless, on May 26, senior management requested agreement of the Chairman

      and ACRP issues to be taken up at the time of negotiations:
      of the Loan Committee,to proceed to negotiations leaving pending somekey resettlement



      grievance redress system;
      (a) the membership and operational details of the appeals forum, which is part of the


      (b) the level of compensationpayable to tenants (both formal and informal); and
.     (c) the criteria for and level of compensation payable to people affected by transmission
      line right-of-way restrictions.
  L
                                                  21

      Negotiations were held in late June in Washington, and a mutually-agreeable ACRP
      appeared to emerge. Even though negotiations were closed, disagreements over specific
      provisions continued in subsequentmonths. The Pre-Board Mission of Septemberfound
      itself renegotiatingvarious ACRP issues,both substantiveand procedural.

      70. When Management sent its most recent mission to the field in April 1995, they
      returned with a call for still more work on the ACRP before presentation to the Board:
      "Because of unforeseen delays in implementationof the project, the ACRP for the valley
      route is in need of updating, to take into account changes in baseline data, cost and
      budget. As conceived in the ACRP the above updating would involve clarifications on
      certain related matters.''




      Backeround.
      71. In 1987,the initial feasibility study of the Arun HydroelectricProject fundedby the
      Japanese International Cooperation Agency (JICA) had planned for the access road to

      failure of Credit 2029 on the hill alignment, HMGN decided to go back to the original
      follow the river alignment to the power house and dam site. After the procurement
      valley alignment. Based on NEA and consultant reports, a 122 kilometer valley route
      was chosen, and the decision was submitted to the project's Panel of Experts (PoE) for
 I,   endorsement.

      72. The process of environmental assessment in the Anui Hydroelectric Project was

      of OD 4.01 in October 1991. Although Credit 2029 had a different Task Manager and
      affected by the existence of previous work under Credit 2029 as well as the introduction
      Division Chief, and the choice of hill alignment was supposed to be environmentally
      superior, Management took the position that the hydroelectric project could be
      "grandfathered"and did not need to comply fully with the new OD 4.01. Management's

      to project with IEPS before October 1, 1991. As the Panel stated in its Report to the
      response cites in Annex A that OD 4.01 was applicable"where appropriateand feasible"

      Board on December 16, 1994, it "saw no merit in the allegations that these policy
      documentsare not fully applicableto Arun 111." (see Annex A, page 3)


      73. Compliance with OD 4.01 requires that project specific environmentalassessments
      should cover: a) existing environmental baseline conditions: b) potential environmental
      impacts, direct and indirect, including opportunities for environmental enhancement:

      and designs: d) preventive mitigative and compensatory measures, in the form of an
      c) systematic environmental comparison of alternative investment, sites, technologies

      enviromental mitigation or management plan:         e) environmental management and
t     training: f) environmental monitoring. The environmental assessment for the Anui I11

 L                                               22

     Hydroelectric Project did not follow this comprehensiveapproach, instead it followed a
     piece-meal approach that had a recognizable sequence, but did not fully comply with OD
     4.01.


                   E n v i r w n t. a w.
     74.    The environmental assessment of Arun I11 Hydroelectric Project started by
     commissioning a number of descriptive studies by the King Mahendra Trust for Nature
     Conservation (KMTNC) that identified the main characteristics and risks in the valley,
     followed by project specificreports investigatingprobable direct impactsand appropriate
     -
     mitigation measures and finally, with the analysis of indirect and induced changes and
     mechanisms for managing those processes. This sequence, however, was affected by
     considerablechanges introducedduring appraisal,including the splittingof the project, as
     well as changes in the alignment of the access road itself. Although the change in
     strategy and road alignment had been taken in 1992,by the end of 1994, the analysis of
     indirect and inducedimpactswas not yet complete, and significantwork still needed to be
     performed to complete an environmental management plan, including training and
     monitoringrequirements.


     75. At the time that HMGíN decidedto changethe road alignmentto the valley, it sought
     the endorsementof the Panel of Experts for the project, which considered the issue at its
     September30 - October2, 1992meeting. The PoE endorsed the decisionin principle, but
     at the same time it made clear certain reservations about the decision. Two pertinent
     views are cited below.

     2.16  -  Regardless of which access route is adopted the recommendations and cost
     estimates of the King Mahendra Trust report on "Environmental Management and
     Sustainable Development in the Anin Basin" should be released to the public, reviewed,

     implementation.
     screened and prioritized to facilitate the development of an action plan for

     2.17 - If the valley route is selected, recommendations and cost estimates of the
     aforementioned Anin Basin report and environmental information and clauses in the
     tender documentsand Engineer's terms of reference should also be reviewed to determine
     if they are necessary and sufficient for the valley route, and amended as necessary; and
     NEA's "Environmental Assessment and Management Executive Summary" should be
     updated and amended to reflect the selection of the valley route and the amendments to
     these other documents,and to address the issue of impacts on families within the ROW of
     the hill route who have already been compensated fortheir land.
.    76. The qualified endorsementprovided by the PoE pointed out specificdisadvantagesof
     the Valley alignment:


 L                                               23

L             -increase in forested land in the ROW and possibly less disturbed and higher
              quality forest and protected wildlife habitat in the ROW: approximately 209 ha
              vs. 145 ha.

              - close proximityto the Malcaiu Barun ConservationArea.
                                                -
              - losses and uncertaintiesresulting fiom the circumstancethat land compensation
              for the hill route is 94 percent completed.

              - additional impacts associated with future construction of spur roads or other
              connectionsto hill villages that would have been connectedto the hill route.

     77. The PoE provided additionalrecommendationsat its October2, 1992meeting:

              1. The September 1992 Joint Venture EIA of the valley route needed a more
                  detailed comparison of the impacts of the hill route and the valley route,
                  any, and options and implications for families within the ROW of the hill
                  including implications for associated changes in transmission line impacts, if

                  route whohave already received compensation.

              2. Without an action plan in place, the PoE believed there would be no
                  mechanism in place for controlling off-site impacts, especially encroachment
L                 on forestsand wildlife, in the vicinity of accessroad and power stations, south
                  and east of the Makalu-Barun Conservationarea.


     individualswho were previously involved in the preparation of the King Mahendra Trust
     For carrying out such reviews, the PoE suggested that it would be desirable to engage

     reports, theNEA Executive Summaryand/or the Joint Venture environmentalreports.

     78. The PoE argued that attention should be paid to the specific warning that without
     such an action plan for implementation,there would be no mechanism for controllingoff-

     not developed and even at the time of writing of this report (June 1995),the NEA has not
     site impacts such as those on forests and wildlife. In spite of this warning, the plan was
     produced the operationalplans that would generate confidence in the implementation of
     these controls.


     not meet again, the PoEcould not follow up on its specificrecommendations. At the time
     79. The October 1992meeting of the PoE turned out to be its final meeting. Since it did

     that the Request for Inspection was received, Management supported the concept of a

     Management that a separate, specialized panel on social and environmental issues is
     single panel of experts for the project. More recently, there has been a recognition by

     needed. However, thispanel is yet to be appointed.


     project. Taskslaid out at the 1992meeting received no follow-up. The original Regional
     80. The loss of time since the last meeting of the PoE has had a major impact on the

L
                                                   24



        I----         7                   -
                        - --                                                            --    -

 L   Action Plan received neither adequate attention nor serious technical review. The need
     for the second panel, devoted to environmental and social impacts, has been particularly
     clear where the specialized knowledge is needed. The new panel, for instance, has a
,    special need for a person knowledgeablein forestry and biomass issues, in order to deal
     with the long-termdeficit in woody biomass resources. It is oniy now becoming evident
     that the original scale of the mitigation measures proposed by the RAP is inadequate to
     deal with this increasingdeficit.


     prior step. NEA's 1993 "Environmental Assessment and Management Executive
     81. In too many instances, progress has been stalled by the need to complete another,


     recommended by the PoE, since the additional KMTNC studies were not available until
     Summary" could not be updated to reflect the changes in road aiignment, as
     February 1995. As a result, the project went through appraisal and negotiation Without
     fuKliing this suggestionfiom the PoE.


     alignments(Recommendation i of PoE #7). A table was included in the "Environmental
     82. A specific example of time lost is the detailed comparison of alternative road

     Assessment and Management Executive Summary" (1993), but the detailed comparison
     of the altemativealignmentswas not actually completeduntil Managementsenta mission
     to the Arun Valley in April, 1995.


     83. The 1993 "Environmental Executive Summary             " identifies the major direct and

     caused by the access road and they include a variety of direct actions that pose risks to
     indirect impacts of the project, The major direct environmentalimpactsof the project are
     biodiversity, cultural diversity and to the livelihood of some vulnerable groups in the
     Arun Valley.

     84. Direct impacts are best mitigated by refinements to project design, controls and

     prevented by avoiding specific areas such as towns or valuable forest patches. Experts
     specificresponsibilitieslaid on the contractors, To the extent possible, such impacts are

     indicate that they can be mitigated during planning by incorporating adequate

     controls on the Contractor, and during operation by adjusting operating conditions
     specifications (such as spoils disposal conditions), during construction,by placing strict

     through close monitoring. In principle direct impacts can be handled if sufficient
     preparatory work, adequatesupervisionand carefulmonitoring are available.



     Unit (APEMU), to be established by the NEA and institutionalized to monitor the
     85. In this project, a criticalrole is played by the Anui Project EnvironmentalMonitoring

     mitigativemeasures againstdirectnegative environmentalimpactsexpectedto be brought
     about by project activitiesin the Arun Valley.


     the issuance of the Letter of Acceptance (LOA)to the Civil Works Contractor for the
     86. Accordingto the NEA,the establishmentand functioningof APEMU will begin with
L
                                                   25




              I             1.-  - ----- -

L    combined lot consisting of the access road, headrace tunnel, dam and desanding chamber
     and camp facilities. The APEMU will be institutionalized to work with the project

     mitigationefforts. The objectivesof the APEMU are summarizedby HMGN as follows:
     Engineer with the purpose of promoting effective enforcement of environmental


                         To monitor the implementation of environmental impact mitigation
                     4   measures to be undertaken by Contractors during the construction
                         phase, and to ensure compliance with contractual conditions in this
                         regard.

                         To monitor environmental conditions in the project area to determine
                         whether further mitigation measures are necessary, and take necessary
                         action.

                         To ensure close coordination with agencies responsible for dealing
                         with indirect impacts, and assistthem where necessary and possible.




     environmental expert.
     different environmentally related fields and would be headed by an expatriate
     87. The APEMU will initially consist of a core group of eight experts with expertise on


     coordinate inspectors and other supporting stafT to field specialists and enforce
                                 The APEMU coordinator (an expatriate engineer) would

    compliance on the part of the Contractor. If disputes on necessary actions should arise,
L   the APEMU coordinator will directly approach the CRE for immediate action. He/she
    would also handle all external communicationsto NGOs, the Regional Action Program
    (RAP)and superviseexecutionof the ACRP.


    and MIS systems, documentation, data base management, etc.; a Survey Cadastral
     88. The rest of the specialist team would include: a ComputerEngineer to deal with GIS

    Engineer to collect field survey data and convert them to cadastral maps in tasks related
    mainly to'ACRP; a Civil Engineer with broad responsibilities including monitoring of
    contractor'scompliance, vehicle emissions and dust level, spoilsdisposal practices, waste
    management in constructionareas, etc.; a Sociologistor Socio-Economist. for monitoring
    activities during implementation of the ACRP and following up economic impacts on
    affected fmilies; a Bio-engineer, Environmental Expert, and Forester as three specialists
    to monitor all environmental impacts of the project in particular river water quality
    vegetation,forest resources and wildlife.

    89. The supporting staff consists almost exclusively of field inspectors. Since the road
    constructionstrategyenvisionseight simultaneousconstructionwork fronts,it is foreseen
    that at least eight field inspectorsshould be utilized.

    90. The Inspection Panel found that independent experts placed significantemphasis on
    appropriate training for all APEMU personnel as essential for adequate preventive and
    mitigation efforts. From that point of view, this training and institutional strengthening

L
                                                  26

     should take place well ahead of project implementation and construction schedule.
     Indeed, for such training to be effective,the NEA is already behind an ideal schedule for
     upgrading the staff of the APEMU. Since the APEMU will only be established after
*    signing of the Contract, it is questionable whether even the hiring of personnel can take
     place with sufficienttime for necessarypreventivemeasuresto be implemented.


     of the site supervision team and will stay in force until the end of ail civil works 87
     91. According to the NEA, APEMU will be set up after the Order to Commence as part
     months later. Then it will be transformed into part of NEA's Maintenanceand Operation
     Team. During project construction,the APEMU is planned asa unit separatefromNEA's
     Division of the NEA is provided by the Asian Development Bank (ADB), not by IDA,
     Environment Division. Technical assistance for strengthening of the Environment


     control, Unless NEAs Environment Division is strengthenedimmediately,and APEMU
     and therefore the timing of the assistance is an important issue over which IDA has little
     is set up well ahead of        construction, the adequacy of preventive measures and
     appropriatemonitoring canbe seriouslyquestioned.


     92. The indirect impacts of the project stem primarily fiom changes introduced and
     induced by the access road in the Arun Valley. The 1993 "Enqronmental Executive
     Summary" recognizes that these impacts are "more important, more far reaching, and
     much more difficultto deal with."

     93. The major indirect impacts of the project are related to changes in migration,

     changes in occupationand economic opportunitiesthat may place specificgroups at risk.
     deforestation, and the biomass balance of the Anin Valley, as well as modernizationand
     Although both direct and indirect impacts were identified in general terms, the 1993
     "Environmental Executive Summary" fails to identify specific impacts and preventive or
     corrective measures, sincemost of the report is based on the 13volume KMTNC studies,
     commissioned for the original hill alignmentscheduledto be followedunder Cr.-2029.


     firstly an "Environmental Mitigation Plan" (EMP) with impacts including land
     94. The Arun I11 project developed an innovative approach to coping with impacts:
     acquisition and compensation: and secondly a "Regional Action Program" (RAP) to
     address indirect impacts and induced effects. Together, accordingto Management, these
     plans constitute the "EnvironmentalManagement Plan" requiredby OD 4.01.

         itut-ect
         . .                          Impôcts)--
     95.         According to the EES, NEA is fully responsible for implementation of the


     implemented independently but in coordinationwith the EMP." @age 56). Thus,direct
     for RAP implementation. The EES States that: "Regional Action program will be
     EnvironmentalManagementPlan, but no specificmention is made as to the responsibility


     mitigation measures are to be undertaken by the NEA, while indirect and induced ones
     are to be undertaken by the National Planning Commission under the RAP. There is no
     single chain of commandto overseeimplementation.
 L
                                                 27

     regional action program has been introduced in a World Bank project. It should also be
     96. It is worth noting that this appears to be one of the first times that the concept of a

     recognized that since indirect impacts of the project are potentially more important, far

     placed under the RAP, which is yet to be completedin spite of the fact that it is described
     reaching and difficult to deal with, much of the burden of compliance with OD 4.01 is
     in the StaffAppyaisal Report as being "integral" to the project. The Panel has continuing
     concernsregarding:

                The capability and institutional strength of NEA and other HMGM agencies
                to coordinate and carry out the RAP, includingmonitoring.

                The scaleof intervention and level of funding of the RAP.


                donors.
                Issues dealing withdonor coordinationsincethe RAP is to be funded by other


     97. According to the 1993 "Environmental Executive Summary",the specific purposes
     of the RAP include:

            O
                rapid expansioncaused by the project.
                To strengthenthe administrationof settlementsto assist them to cope withthe
                To implementa priority program to strengthenGovernmentinstitutions.
L               To undertake specific women's programs, including education and training,
                establishmentof cooperatives,support of micro-enterprises, health, education,
                and male sensitization.
            O   To implement a priority program to assist communities to service road
                constructionin relation to demands for timber and firewood.
            O   To implement a program for preservation of sacred rites, monumentsand folk
                heritage.
            O   To undertake conservation programs ranging Com environmental education
                through cropgenetic diversityand development of conservation areas.
            O   To cany out biodiversity and ecologicalresearch.
            O   To monitor nutritional levels and determine whether provision of subsidized
                rice to northern areas of the basin should be continued.
            O   To take advantageof new economic opportunities,including ecotourism.
            O   To support local administrativeagencies in forming Community Development
                Committees.


     98. All the purposes listed in paragraph 97 above are important,but the Panel found few
     observers who thought resulting activities could be carried out simultaneously. Indeed,
     many of these purposes require pre-emptive actions ahead of the construction schedule.
     These activities have not been placed in clear priority order or translated into an

L                                                 28

L,  implementableplan, includingresource requirementsand specificpersonnel to carry them
    out.



    the lack of experience on the part of IDA to oversee such a plan, as well as the widely
    complex issues such as those outlined above. This is a matter of serious concern due to
    99.A heavy burden hasbeenplaced on the RegionalAction Plan to deal with a variety of


    recognized lack,of institutionalexperience in the borrowing government. In addition,the
    RAP relies almost exclusively on resources provided by other donors. In effect, a major
    burden of compliance with IDA policies falls on project components not fuianced by
    IDA; unless closer coordination is achieved quickly, it is quite likely that critical pre-
    emptive and remedial measures of the RAP will fail to see the light of day. Therefore,
    questions related to donor coordination and collaborationtake on even greater relevance.

    of ManagementandHMGM.
    The Panel believesthat these measures have not been given adequateattentionon the part



    implement the RAP, which in its original form contained 21 specific recommendations
    100. HMGM has designated the National Planning Commission as the lead agency to

    studies completedin draft form in February 1995.
    and programs. These have not yet been re-evaluated on the basis of the KMTNC update


    Jobs fb&w&&m

L   availability ofjobs. Local residents see two major employmentimpacts from the project:
    101. The greatest concern among the RAP issues for inhabitants of the region is
    the jobs they hope to fill in actual construction during the next seven years, and thejobs
    likely to be generated indirectly through the existenceof the road thereafter.

    102. The only group to be offered some assistance in the construction process is the
    seriously-affected families, and the April I995 Management team found that little had
    been done in that regard. In one sense, it is understandable, since major constructionhas
    not yet begun; at the same time, the Panel found virtuaily no understanding of the
    provision for "jobs and training" in the ACRP, and no planning underway to undertake
    the training so that SPAFs would be at the head of the queue. Loopholes were provided
    in contractor languagethat would easily allow for very littlelocal hiring.


    issue was raised again in the revised volumes submittedto the HMGM in January 1995:
    103. The issue has addressed as long ago as the 1991 KMTNC studies ofthe valley. The
    "The overall situation is that, with an increasing population size, stagnancy in off farm
    employment generation and reduced portering services, the labor use situation in both
    [high-impactand low impact] areas continues to deteriorate. In a situationwhere a large
    project like Arun does not substantiallychange labor use situation in the project area, it is
    easy to imagine what the effectswould be if migrant laborerswere allowed to work in the
    construction sites. Besides, migrant laborers would add to food demand in an already
    food deficit area, which would likely cause other negative impacts. This is not to imply
    that laborers from adjoining districts should not be allowed to join the labor force. The
L   intention is to demonstratethe labor surplus situation in the districtand how employment


                                                 29



.           7  -          1

L    generation by a large project still does not appreciably improve the labor use situation in
     the project area. (Volume 111, pp. 63-64.)


     related activity" as an element of the Regional Action Plan that needed further
     104. After the April 1995 mission, Management identified "training for construction-

     elaboration. Earlier in the study process, a much more helpful formulation had been
     created that would begin to meet local needs. That approach created a system of
     priorities for employment, apparently already attempted successfully in Kali Ghandaki:
     unskilled labor would be reserved for (in priority order) SPAFs, PAFs, and other people
     from the ilnin Valley. Only for more skilled jobs for which no Nepalis are available
     should foreigners be employed. Prior and on-the-job training is essential for all local
     people. All of these elementsare stated or implied in the tender documents; the key will
     be the m m e r of implementation. Management appears to plan to give attention to the

     oversight.
     employment issue in both the ACRP and in the RAP; to be effective,it will need active

     Forestrv.
     well as efforts to prevent deforestationbecause the scale of the interventionsoriginally
     105. Sufficient attention has yet to be given to forest conservation and management, as

    proposed appearsto be inadequate. All evidence leads towards a long-termtendency of a

    the KMTNC update studies. This means that efforts to create and provide adequate legal
     growing deficit of woody biomass in the Arun Valley watershed based on the results of


L    standing to the community forestry groups becomes an even more critical component of
    the RAP. It also requiresthat preventive and pre-emptive measures in the forestry sector
    be carefullyplannedand precisely executed           of the road constructionschedules.

     106. The exact locationsof community forestry user groups remain to be identified with
    respect to the road construction schedule in such a way that they start functioning ahead
    of project implementation. Since over 500 forestry user groups have been established in
    the Arun Valley, this task is critical and involves legal transfer of the land by HMGM,
    setting up the management structureand technical assistancerequirements for each group.
    These forestry users groups have been established with ODA technical assistance, which
    is scheduled to terminate in two years. The continuation of ODA technical assistance in

    the project.
    the forest sector is an essential element to prevent long-term negative indirect impacts of



     107. Risks associated with natural catastrophic events such as GLOFs and road wash
    outs due to monsoonrains were highlightedby the Panel in its earlier report to the Board.
    Management convened a Seminar of experts in April 1995 to analyze in detail the risks

    monitored closely and eventually mitigated through lake drainage, if it should become
    associated with GLOF. The general conclusions are that the risks are real and should be
     necessary. A team has been dispatchedto Nepal in June 1995 to undertakethe necessary
     field wmicto identifythreateningglacial lakes, with areport due in the fall.

  inevitably lead to road washouts of variable severity. Thisrisk has not been anaiyzed in
  108. Highmonsoon rains leadto devastatingfloodswhich constitutepermanentrisks and

  The Pand found that appropriate contingencies had not been budgeted to deal with this
  sufficient detail, perhaps because the precise valley alignment is not yet decided upon.

  persistentproblem.

                -"    ud Fores&
  109. The Panel surveyed samples of the remaining Cloud Forests along the Hill route,
  and found that even in the most valuable areas along the two road alignments, the
  biodiversityhad been severely damaged by intrusive cultivation. Nevertheless, the Panel
  was concerned that interest in and measures for protecting the remaining Cloud Forest

  raises more generally the problem that a revised RAP, to reflect the shift in road
  areas had largely disappeared with the shift of the road route to the valley. This issue
  alignment,may chooseto ignorethe continuingproblems along the ridgeroute. Sincethe
  focus of the RAP is meant to be on indirect impacts in the region, notjust along the road,
  the CloudForestis an example of an issue that may be unfortunatelylost.




  11O. The most recentreviewsof this issue and policy by Managementhave both clarified
  and obfuscated aspects of the question originally posed by the Requesters. Because the
  ethnic groups of the area being impacted by the Arun I11 project do not fit the classic

  applicability ofthe OD. We are not dealing, after all, with the kind of isolated tribal
  expectations associated with OD 4.30,some observers have sought to dismiss the

  position is unsustainable, however, since other observers on the ground and in Bank
  group untouched by modernity that some would argue is foreseen in the OD. The

  Management have recognized the larger purposes of the OD        -- toensure that groups in
  the population chronically vulnerable to damage from the developmentprocess, who can
  be identified by their ethnic affiliation, need special monitoring and programs. The fact
  that some of any given ethnic group have achieved some degree of integration into
  mainstream society does not discount the concerns of the majority of a given ethnic
  group, whether labeled "indigenouspeople" or not.

  1I 1. In this case,the Panel found in conversationsamong the people in the Anin Valley
  that some ethnic groups are clearly more prepared to deal with the changes in their lives
  than others. Concern was expressed particularly about the Rai communities that live
  north of Tumlingtar as likely to be least able to maintain their current social structures,
  and also most likely to face daunting pressure from outside the Valley and other Valley
  residents aseconomicopportunities explode with the constructionprocess. Nevertheless,
  it cannot be generalized that all Rai people will need special assistance. Nor can it be


L                                               31

L    d e d out that non-Rai will suffer particular disadvantages in particular villages in the
     midst of rapid change.


     that adequate anthropological surveys are undertaken well in advance of construction,
     112. As a result, the Panel found that a sensibleapproach had been discussed: to ensure

     project progresses, and as an integral part of IDA oversight. Contingency plans for
     With clear measures of well-being, and then close monitoring of their condition as the
     remediation in the context of the Regional Action Plan can be established to meet
     challengesasthey emerge.

     regard to vulnerable ethnic minorities. Virtually the entire population of the three
     113. There are particular reasons in the Anui Valley to err on the side of caution with
     districtstouched by this project already live in a highiy vulnerablestatus: for example, it
     is estimated that only one in ten farming families can supportthemselves from the land.
     apropensityforany disadvantageamong particulargroupsofpeople, it will be crucialfor
     Casual employmentthen becomes crucial to ensure people do not starve. Where there is
     a working monitoring system to pick up distress signals quickly, before communities
     disintegrateand there is additional flow of the homeless and impoverishedinto the cities.
     The background work of the King Mahendra Trust, particularly in its volume on
     "Sustainability and Economic Growth," makes clear that certain parts of the population
     medium-term. OD 4.30 would require that the Bank ensure that ethnic communitiesnot
     will suffer declines in income with the opening of the road, through the short- and

L    expect the OD to be addressed directly when the Regional Action Plan is given
     be generally harmed in this process. Management has indicated in the past that they

     operationaldetails.




     1. The findingsbelow reflectthe Panel's analysisof the foregoingLnspectors' report, its
     field inspection in Nepal (May 27-June 1, 1995), and in view of Management's initiative
     and pursuant to the terms of the Executive Directors Authorizationof the Investigation
     (IDASecM95-36),these findingsalso take into account Management'sproposed remedial
     measures in assessingcompliancewith the three policies. The initiativereferredto means
     that after the investigationwas authorized Managementmade a substantialeffort to bring
     the project into compliance with the three policies. To this end an IDA staffmission
     visited Nepal in April 1995("Aprilmission"). On May 23, Management sentthe Panel a
     memorandum attaching proposed remedial measures based on the findings and
     recommendationsof the April mission.

     2. After the April mission Managementpointed out in its transmittalmemorandumto the
     Panel, that all the attached proposed remedial measures (Annex 2) would have to be
     satisfactory to IDA. In addition the memorandum stated that Management would
     communicate to HMG/N the criteria to be met for the measures to be satisfactory. In

L                                                32

  terms of timing Management will require all such measures to be either completed or
L,defined and initiatedpriorto Board presentationof the proposed project.

  Findings on EnvitonmentalImpactAssessment (OD 4.01)
   3. Management's Proposals. The recommended measuresrelateto the direct impacts of
  the proposed choiceof road alignment. A detailed comparativeanalysisof the valley and
  hill access routes, recommended by the Panel of Experts in 1992, was prepared after the
  April 1995 mission. It confirms the proposal that the access road should be built along
  the valley alignment provided that the Environmental Impact Assessment takes into
  accountthe following:
  (a) Spoilsdisposal;
  (b) impacton wildlifeandaquaticLife:
          (1) avoidance of Makalu-Banui Conservation Area or mitigatory and
          compensationmeasures;
          (2) Sal Forest Patches: measures are to be included in the Regional Action
          Program discussed later in this report; and
          (3) aquaticlife; and
  (c) Impact of increased trafficon the market town of Hile.

  4. Panel of Experts ("PoE"). The establishmentof a second separate specializedPoE
  consisting of social and environmental experts is now proposed but has still to be created
  and appointed.

L     The Panel notes that the original PoE has not been convened since October 1992.
      to ensureperiodicPoE meetingsand follow-upare thereforeneeded.
      Therefore it could not, as required, follow up on its recommendations. Mechanisms



  Management has also addressed the problem of such flooding risks referred to in the
  5. Glacial Lake Outburst Flooding. In addition to the measuresproposed in Annex 2,
  Panel's preliminary report. In April Management convened a panel of experts which
  concluded that risks are real and that monitoring should commence immediately.
  HMGM has arranged for financial assistance for a team of experts to cany out an
  investigationofthe B m glacier lakes startingtowardsthe end of June.
  6. Road Maintenance. During their field inspection,the Inspectors' verified monsoon
  flooding as a significant natural risk that requires attention. Unintempted motorized
  construction. Without this,there is a high risk of considerableproject delays and higher
  access is necessary to ensure that equipment can be brought in to the project site during

  costs.

      The Panel finds that the choice of the valley route will require provision for
      appropriatefunding of contingenciesto cover maintenancein the event of road wash-
      outs resultingfrom river floodingdue to monsoon rains.




                                               33

     Findings on Involuntary Resettlement
L    (OD4.30)
     7 . Credit 2029-NEP (approved by the Board in 1989). The April mission found there
     are families seriously affected by the access road project in Tumlingtar who sought
     rehabilitationbut received no assistance. The mission also concluded that there may well
     be more familiesin the Basantapur area who have been similarlyadversely affected.

     8.        The mission also noted that HMGM had paid compensationto most of the 1,635
     families whose land was acquired for the hill access road project. However the legal
     process of transfer of ownership had been completed for only 15-20 percent; of this
     percentage,the land of only 18familieswas in fact physicallypossessed by HMGM.

     9. With respect to those who were displaced in 1989-90,Management recommends that
     HMGM investigate the conditions of the families whose land was actually physicaily
    possessed and in accordance with provisions of the borrower's guidelines offer
     rehabilitationassistance.

          The Panel notes that, although necessary both for those displaced and for a large
         portion of the Arun Valley population, provision for access to jobdtraining is not
         adequatelyaddressed.

         The Inspectors found that the land of those who filed the Request for Inspection had
         been acquired but not physically possessed. They have been adversely affected by
L        alignment.
         uncertainties over the last half decade as the result of the change in access road
                               Their future is still uncertain.                 (See paragraph 52 of Annex 1)
         Approximately 1,400other families are in a similar situation.

         The Panel finds that IDA failed to observe in substance the policy requirements for
         supervisionof resettlement componentsand consequently failed to enforce covenants
         in the Credit Agreement.'


    possessed, as outlined in Annex 2, require that the borrower formulatea time-boundplan
     10. Management's proposed remedial measures with respect to land acquired but not

     indicating which land is to be utilized for future road construction and which is to be
    returned, including measures for protecting the standard of living of those whose lands
     will be possessed and the proceduresto enableoriginal ownersto regain their lands.

     11. Valley Route (Proposed Credit). Management proposes an update of the
    Acquisition,Compensation and RehabilitationPlan.
     12. Implementation of Resettlement Plans. The Panel agreeswith the 1991consultant
     study of past experience in Nepal which concluded that more follow up and much more


     beSee
     '
       reflected in the legal documents. Othernecessaryresettlement-relatedactionsmustbc covenanted.
          OD4.30parar22and31. See alsopara30, whichrequiresthatL enseîtiementplanandthe borrower'sobligationtocarryitout

L                                                                34

   emphasis must be placed on monitoring and evaluation of both the land acquisition
   process and implementation. It is worth noting that both the Operations Evaluation
   Department and regional reviews of the Bank's experience with resettlement stress the
   central importance of early attention to strengthening governmental capacity to manage

   inadequate despite consistent findings that oversight must be exercised constantly during
   such programs. The studies point out that monitoring by IDA has been chronically
   implementationand beyond?

   Findings on Indigenous Peoples (OD4.20)
   13. Management proposes that the three actions required by OD 4.20 with respect to
   indigenous people should be extended to ail residents of the Arun Valley. These actions
   are (i) informed participation through public consultations,(ii) security over land tenure,
   and (iii) an action program with socially and culturally appropriate components. The
   "action program" means the RegionalAction Program discussed further below.


   are scattered throughout the valley and live in conditions similar to those of non-
   14. The Inspectors found that people who qualiQ as "indigenous" under IDA'Spolicy

   indigenous people. Management'sproposal that requirementsof the policy be applied to
   all inhabitants is appropriate and should bring the project into substantial compliance
   with OD 4.20 if its implementationis subject to continuousmonitoringand supervision.

   Findings on the RegionalAction Program

   in the Regional Action Program ("RAP"). This is an innovative approach to an
   15. A significantnumber of actionsrequired by OD 4.01 and OD 4.20 are to be included

L  work or, if badly implemented,a seriousweakness of the entireAnui I11project.
   environmental action plan which has the potential to become either a model for future



   project, the RAP has nevertheless yet to be completed. It would be the main mechanism
   16. Described in the Staff Appraisal Report of August 1994 as being "integral" to the

   for dealing with indirect environmental and social impacts
   undertaking which in its original form contained 21 specific recommendations and -an      extremely ambitious

   programs to deal with a variety of complex issues.

   17. Forestry. Effective forestry management is expected to mitigate the increasing
   biomass deficit.

       The Panel notes that preliminary actions to address this problem need to be
       completed. Measures to grant security of land tenure to forest user groups are now

       planned to be managed by forest user groups have yet to be prepared. Second,as of
       proposed. First, maps showing the boundaries existing forests as well as those

       the date of writing, Managementis still waiting for the planned reviewby the Bank's
       Legal Department of Forestry By-Laws. Depending on the outcome, Management
       intends, if necessary, to propose further remedial measures. The Panel also finds that

     See, for example, OED ReportNo.12142, "&rly &xperiencewirh Involunrary Reserrlement: h w i e w . "~ I U
                                                                                                          M.1993.

L                                                         35

         continuedtechnical assistanceto be funded by donors otherthan IDA is criticalto this
         component.

     18.       Protection of the Remaining Cloud Forest. Only patchesof cloud forest remain
     and are located alongthe now abandonedhill route.

         The Panel finds that appropriate mechanisms for their protection have not been
         included under the RAP.


     bilateral donors who must be committed to continuing support throughout the life of the
     19. Donor Support and Coordination. Funding of the RAP is to be provided by major
     project.       The RAP involves many different programs in many different areas,
     implementation by different executing agencies, and funding by a number of different
     donors.

         The Panel found inadequate capacity for sustained coordination of all these different
         aspects

     20.     Institutional Aspects.              Management requires that the borrower complete a
    redesigned and expanded RAP prior to Board presentation. (Annex 2 at p. 3). The
     Panel notes that:

         Since it is the first time such a regional action program has been designed, those

         institutionalmemory is established in order to inter-link in the future, all the different
         involved in designingthe original RAP need to continue their work to ensure that an
         actions.

         To implementpre-emptive environmental and social measures institutional capacity
         needs to be strengthened now.

         Responsibility for implementation appears to be fiagmented. Direct mitigation
         measures are to be taken by one executing agencywhile indirect and induced ones are
         to be taken by another. The design does not yet provide for a single chain of
         command or integrated organizational structure in the Anui Valley to oversee
         implementation.

    21. Given the complexity, scale and scope of proposed developmental interventions in

    project's mitigatory environmental and social measures can be implemented within the
    relation to the existing institutional capacity in Nepal, the Panel is doubtful that the

    time fiame proposed by IDA.



     3
     RAP, were completedin 1991 basedon the hill route alignment Additional andupdatedKMTNCstudieswere completedrecently in
      The original studiesconductedby the King Mahendra Trust (`KMTNC")-a     locdNGO-which provideanexcellentbasisforthe
     February 1995. Dueto the changein road alignmentin 1992the borrowerhas to redesign&r than update theUS'.

L                                                               36

      The Panel finds that the lack of institutional experience will necessitate
      implementation of a massive institutional capacity building plan and identification of

      project execution.
      further resources to fund it, as well as intensive IDA staff supervision throughout


      In relation to environmentalmeasures in particular, the Panel notes that OED studies

      anticipated, because of an underestimation of the effort needed for building adequate
      indicate that projects often suffer, or take much more time and funding than
     institutional capacity aswell as from a lack of constantsuper~ision.~


                                              Documents




  'See,forexample,OEDReponNo.12403, "Annual Review ofEvaluationResults 1992, October 13,1993.
                                                                            'I



L                                                    37




-.           7                                                                 ___           -. .. .

                                                       ATTACHMENT 1
                ListofDowmWîa Arthived at lhe WICO
                        me                       of
                          inspacinn Panel
I




                             P.Qa 1




     ... ...
        -- 1


                                                                                                  ANNEX 2

                                                                                           May 23, 1995
                   NEPAL PROPOSED ARU" III HYDRO ELECTRICPROJECT
                             -
                           RECOMMENDATIONSFOR FURTHER ACTIONS
                                   SUMMARY OF CONCLUSIONS AND


    investieationArea 1: Environmental ImDact .bsessmea

                  valley alignment, provided the recommendations in the areas below are implemented to
                  The access road to the Arun I11 dam and hydro project sites should be built along the
                  the satisfactionof IDA.

              0   The following aspects still need to be taken into account in the Environmental Impact
                  Assessment.

     (a) Spoiisdisposai.


                  of these alternatives. and implement these where economically feasible to avoid river
                  GON/NEAto identifyalternativeoptions for ail spoil disposal, estimate costs and impacts
                  disposal; .___
                          a -
                  GON/NEA to calculate the likely cost of this changeof policy and inform IDA whether it
                  contract supervisionand unit price framework.
                  will be implemented through up-front contract modifications, or through the existing

L e q u i r e d as soon as possible, at the latest for Board Presentation.
    (b)       Impacton the Wildlifeand Aquatic Life.
                  Impact on wildlife and aquatic life estimated to be modest. Impact on fisheries resources
                                1

                  still worth mitigating.
    (b.1) Makalu-BarunConservationArea (MBCA).
                  GON/NEA to demonstrate, in a manner satisfactory to IDA, that building this road
                  portion on the western bank is unavoidable;
                  IDA and taking into account national legislation.
                  GON/NEA and MBCA to agree on mitigatory measures and compensation, satisfactoryto

    Required for Board Presentation.

    (b.2) Sai Forest Patches.


                    be located an adjacent non-forested ridges;
                    GON/NEA to demonstrate, in a manner satisfactory to IDA,that road portions cannot
                    Adequate compensation, conservation measures and forest management plans to be
                    included in the RAP,satisfactoryto IDA and taking into account natiod legislation.
    Required for Board Presentation.

(b.3) Aquatic Life.

       0     Establishment of a small fish hatchery to be included in the Regional Action Plan
             (UP).
Required for Board Presentation.

(c)  Impact of increased Trafficon the Market Town of We.
             GON/NEA to devise, in consultations with town residents, an appropriate solution.
             includinga trafficmanagement plan.

Required for Board Presentation.

Panel of Exuens.,
       .    GONINEA to appointtwo Panels of Expens.

Required for Board Presentation.

                                                -
                     .e-
Issues
Investieation Area*2: Involuntarv Resettlement Acauisition, Comwnsation. and RehabuitadQg

Land Acauired alone the Hill Route.

           possession of land in Tumlingtar and in Basantapur (for construction of a road portion
           GONINEA to investigate the situations of the families affected by the Government
           from this town).
                        !
Required for Board Presentation.

           and to be utilized for future road construction. including measures for protecting the
           GON to formulate a time-boundplan indicating the land to be returned to original owners

           standards of living of those whose lands will be possessed and the procedures to enable
           original owners to regaintheir lands.

Required for Board Presentation.

Acauisition. ComDensation. and RehabilitationPlan (ACRP) for the Valley Route.
   Becauseof unforeseendelay in implementationof the project, the ACRP for the valley route is in
   need of updating, to take into accountchanges in baseline data, cost and budget.
   As conceived! in the ACRP the above updating would involve clarifications on certain related
   matters.

Required for Board Presentation.

  (i) Infomeà ParticipationThrough Public Consultations.
              Field investigations found that communitiesconsulted were fully aware of the Project and
              were looking forward to its implementation. Therefore, it is concluded that no new
              consultations would be useful until a decision has been made on project financing.
  (u) M t y Over LandTenure.

          0
              user groups activeor being established along the valley route.
              GON/NEA to prepare a map showing the boundaries of forests managed by the forest

  Rcquircdas soonas possible. at the latest for Board Presentation.'
  (iil An Adion Program with Socially and Culturally AppropriateComponents.
              Addressedthrough the proposed Regional Action Program (RAP):
                  -   .GoE1to rehe and expand the RAP, including:


L                 ... an action program including detailed description, budget, time table and
                      institutionai arrangements for the implementationof the preemptive measures (in
                      particular continuation of establishment of forest user groups along the valley
                  ... mechanisms for coordinationwith Donors and for participation
                      route alignment).
                                                                                           by various local

                  ... mechanisms for implementing and supervision of the programs under the RAP,
                      extedions,
                      institutions active in the Amn Valley, for annual revisions, updates and


                  ... and,
                      procedures for monitoring.

  Rtquircd for Board Presentation.




    I
  Bylaws (April 1995)to determine whether user group security of tenureoverforest icsouf~csis assured (the
          Furtherrecammendations may be made followingthereview by the Legal Depanmcnt of the F o m
  review by the Legal Departmentwould not take more thana few weeks). We are still awaiting English copy of the

                                                                                                             May 23,1995

  NOTE ONTHE CONCLUSIONS .L\D RECO3íMENDAïIONSFOR F'URTHER ACTIONS
                    iVEPAL PROPOSED -%R"NIIIHYDRO ELECTRICPROJECT
                               -

  General

  Environmental Sitbation in the Lower and Middle .h                 Valleys.

  Conclusion: Thelower and middle Anui valleys are far from pristine and ecosystemsare in decline.
  Very little or no pristineforests are left in the
  of "cloudforest"along the hiil (ridge) access route alignment,forests are heavily exploitedfor fodder,
                                                               valley. With the exception of relatively s              d areas
  fuelwood, shiftingcultivation,land clearing foragricultureandgrazing.

  EnvironmentalImpact of theProiect.


  Project (HEP)developmenrcanbe minimized andor adequately compensatedfor, and the project has
  Conclusion: ifproperlymanaged,the environmentalimpactsofthe proposedAninDI HydroElectric
  the potentialto brbfisigdìcant longer-xun socialand economicbenefitsto its area ofinfluence, aswell
  as energybenefitsto thecountryas a whole.
  We will inform the Government of NeDal (GOW that IDA wouid need to be satisfied with
  GON's actions on aii the recommendarionsl given below, before presenting the proposed IDA

L/Credit to the Board.
  Investigation Area 1: EnvironmentalImDactAssessment

  Comuarison Betweenthe Vallevand Hill íRidoe) Access Road Aliments.

  Findings: The two access road alignments contrast sigifkantly in environmentaiterms (AM- 1).
  The valley route would create fewer adverse environmentaland social impacts thanthe hill route. h
  additionto being considerablyshorter, the valley route would adversely&ea fewerpeople in terms of
  direct dislocation and the taking of agricultural land. It would also pass through Sal forestswhich

  t h e , being locatedcloseto the Anin Rive:, the valley route would provide improvedaccessto alarger
  contain relatively low lbio-divershy and are well represented elsewhere in the country. At the same
  number of people in three districts (Dhankuta, Sanskhuwasaba, and Bhojpur), while the hill route
  wouid benefitmainlyresidentsofthe first two districts.

  Recomnefidrrtion I:
  along the valley alignment, provided the recommendations in the areas below are implemented to the
                              The access road to the Arun IIidam and hydro project sites should be built
  satisfactionof IDA




                  forest user ;pupsinthe valley route" are required as soonas possible, at the latest for Board Presentation
                    Actions \Kithrespect to rCCOI'MIC.&KiOnS for "spoils disposai" and "map showing forests IKtaMgedby

                                                           3

L  Recommendadon 2: The followingaspecís still need to be taken into accountin the Environmed
   Jmpact Assessment.


   the followhgareasthatneed to be addressed:
   Areas to be Addressel, Constructingthe vdey aii_pnentwould nevenhelessinvolvesome impacts in


   (a)    spoils in the river as a matter of principle and precedent. It recognizes that the approach, of
           Sooilsdisposai. findings: IDA is concernedwiththepoiicy of disposingof road consnuction
          placing surplus soil and rock materiais on selected river flats to be swept away by high river
          flows, has arisen from the particular site conditionsof steep valleys with fm emironmenrally
          stableaitemativedisposalsites, a river sedimentload 100timesaslargeasthedisposedmaterial,
          internationalpractice, and aitemativesshould be W y considered.
          and a lack of road access during construction. Neverthelessthis is not common or desirable


          &cum&om:               GONOTEA should:(i) idenw alternative options for ail spoil disposal,

          inform IDA w&her itwillbe implementedthrough up-fiont contractmodScations, orthrough
          fmible to avoid river disposal; and,(ii)
          estimate costs and impacts of these alternatives, and implement these where economically
                                                     calculatethe likely cost of this change of poiicy and
          the existins &tract supexvisionand unit price framework

   @>     Impact onthe Wildlie and Aauatic Life Findings: Theimpact oftheproject onthewildlife and
          aquaticlitiis expectedto be modest.
   (b.1) ImDact on Aquatic Life. Findings:
          mitigating.                                Impact on the fisheries resources would be worth

                            I
         Recummendation: Establishment of a s
         Action Plan (RAP).                            d fish hatchery should be included in the Regiod


  (b.2)Malcaiu-BaninConservationArea MBCA). findings: Thevalley & p e n t cutsthroughthis
         River.
         area along seven km betweenthe powerhouseand the dam site on the western bank of the Arun



        building this road portion on the western bank is unavoidable due to inappropriate geologid
        R e c o m m e ~ m :0) GONNEA should demonstrate, in a manner satisfactoryto IDA, that
         conditions in the eastern bank; and, (U) GON/NEA and MBCA should design and agree on
         adequate mitigatory measures and compensation, satisfactory to IDA and taking into account
         narionaiiegisiation.

   (b.3) sai For- Patches. findings: BetweenTumlingtarandthe dam site, 5-6 km of the d e y route
         passes thrlough the Satighat-Heiuwabesi riverine Sai forests of which the habitat is becoming
         scarcein easternNepal.

 I
 L
           the road portions cannot be locared on adjacent non-forested ridges (due to inappropriate
           Recommendations: (i) GûW/';EX should demonstrate, in a m e r satisfactory to IDA, that
           geological conditions or being too costly); and, (;i) adequate compensation,     conservation

           taking inro accountnationallegislation.
           measures and forest management plans, should be included in the RAP satisfixtoryto IDA and


    (c)
           begins almost at the middle poinr of the market srreet in Hile. The existing road in Hile is
           L.                                                                 Findings: The access road

           only 4 meters wide and the heaty traiilc might be difficult.

           Recommendation: GONíNEk in consultation with town residents should address the
           impact and devise an appropriate solution,including at least a traffic management plan.
    Panel ofE m e q

    Finding:
    membershipand expede couldbe expandedwhen and ifneeded.
                   in June 1994 negotiations. GON and IDA weed on one Panel of Experts, whose

    Recommendcrron' GûN andNEA should appointtwoPanelsof Experts
                          -./-                                                   --oneforthereview
    engbeexing                                                                                    ofthe
                 ( i
    environmentaland socio-economicimpactsofthe project (inpartidar ofthe accessroad).
                      particular of the hydro power plant component) and the other for the review of the


c-c/Investieation Area 2: InvoluntarvResenlement Acauisition. Cormensation. and
                                                         -
    Rehabilitation Issues

    Land Acauired along tht Hill Route.

    Finding I: Data about acquisition, compensation, and rehabilitationalong the hill route is given
    in Annex 2. As of April 12, 1995, XEX had taken physical and legal possession of only 4.77 ha
    of land for which it has paid compensation. The total number of land owners affected by these
    acquisitions were 18. Interviewswith 11 familes affectedby loss of land in Tumluigtarrevealed that
    the families have sought rehabilitation, no assistance has been provided to them. Theremaybe s h k
    at least three of thesefamiliesconsiderthemseivesto be SeriouslyProject Aneaed Families. Although
    claims by families&ected by acquisition of land in the Basantapur area as well, where Basantapur
    Village Development Committee (VDC)has used the land paid for by NEA to construct a road
    stretching for about 2-3 km from Basantapur.
    RecommendationI:: GON shouldhave hX investigatethe conditionsofthefamiliesatfectedby the
    possession ofthe 4.77hectaresof land and followingthe provisionsof its guidelinesofi rehabilitation
    build the road portion EromBasantapur.
    assistanceto the entitled families. Thk work should include the familiesaffected by the land used to


    hill route'wiI1be returned to the original landowners as per Clause 34 of the Land Acquisition Act
    Finding 2: On April 5, 1995,the híinister of Finance informed IDA that "theland acquired hthe
    2034, if no public construction is carried out on%theselands."




                    I             -3--- -

                                                                 4


     Recornmendudon 2: GON should formulare a time-bound plan indicatingthe amounts of land to
     be returned to original owners and to be utilized for future road construction. The plan should
.    well as the proceduresto enableoriginal owners to regain their lands.
     describe measures for protecting the standards of liting of those whose landswill be possessed as

     Acauisition Cornuensation. and Rehabilitation Plan (XCRPì for the Vallev Route


     valley route is need ofupdating.
     Finding I: Because of unforeseen delay in the implementation of the project, the ACRP for the

     Recommendation1: GON should update the ACRP taking into account changes in the number
     updating should involve clarifications in implementation timetable (linking with construction of
     of adversely affected persons, cost estimates and budget. As conceived in the ACRPZ, this
     road and power project); leasing arrangements; mechanisms for land for land option;
     arrangements for resettlementof people of Amrang; organizationalresponsibility; and procedures
     for compensating forest user groups, the ,WC& and villagers dependent on forest not yet
     transferred to forest
                        ,-  usergroups.
     Finding 2: In addition to 430.4 ha of land which will be acquired for the hydro power sites,
     access road and transmissionlines, about 491ha of land areto be leased.
     Recommcndation 2: GON should clarify the mechanisms for leasing of land. As part of this
     process, the mechanisms for executing the leases and setting up lease terms should be defined
     indicatingthe rights and obligationsof each of the parties to the contract.
                               1
     InvestipationArea3: Actions InvoivinpLocal Peoole


     residents of the Arun Valley. These actions are: (i)
     The three actions required by OD 4.20 with respect to indigenous people should be extended to all
     consuitations; (i) security ova land tenure; and, (iii)             inf0med participation through public

     appropriatecomponents.                                      an action program with socially and culturally


     (i)         rmed ParhcipationThroughPubtic COnSuItatiO~.

     ~   ~    gField investigationsfound that communities consulted were fully aware of the Project
                   s    :
     and were looking forward to its implementation.               Therefore, it is concluded that no new
     consultations would be useful until a decision has been made on project financing.
     Recommendation: When a decisionto begin construction istaken, NEA shouldprovidethe foHowing
     informationto localpeople:(a) established road alignmerd, plans fÔr fetdaroadsand o p p o r t d k h r
     empioyment on road construction/maintenance; (b) institutional anangements, including HMGAV,
               '  TheACRPdatedJune21.1994. provided. among others. forpreparationof fullirnplcmm&tionschedulefor
 L                coirtauction.
                  acuntia tobe camdout in the first nvo yesrs withinthreemonths from the date ofthe ordcrtocompIcI1cc

    donor,implementingagency,VDC and user goup roles; and, (c) whetheror not, at what cost, where
    groups, prepare pamphlets in locai languages and consider information sharing f o m that are less
     and when electxicitywill come to the \alley. Funher, NEA should increase effortsto nach marpai
I

    technicaland literacy-based.

b   (6)     SecuritvOverLand Tenure.
    Finduigs: The cadasualmaps prepared in Dhankuta district 15years ago and recently compietedin
    mechanismsare in placewhereby land tities canbe adjudicatedand established However,foresthd,
    Sankhuwasaba district are intended to register settiements and individuai agricuiturailand titie. ?nus,

    Barun National Park and Consemtion -.ea)are excluded fiom the cadasmi map. The clldastre,
    including forest managed by community forest user groups, as weii as national parks (e.g. Malcahi-

    and management of forests is hid out in the 1993 Forest Act. hnpicmdon of the Act has only
    thereforedoesnot provideindividuaisor communitieswithsecurityoftitleoverfbrestland. Protection
    recentlybeenestablishedthroughthe CommuMtyForestBylsws, datedApril 1995.
    Recommendation: GûN should ask NEA and its Consuitants to prepare a map showing the
    valley route. Furrhérrecu~ndotionsmay be made following the reviewby the LegalDepartment
    boundaries of forestsr/ianage8by the various forest user groups activeor being estabüsheddong the
    of the saidBylawswhethersecurityoftenureoverforestresourcesisassured3
    (5) An ActionP r o mwithSocidvandCulturaUvAuprouriateCornuonems.
    The various components of an action program should be sociaiiyand cuituraiiy appropriatefor aii the
    people living in the areas &ed
    proposedRegional ActionProgram (RAP).
                                       by the project . This requirementwould be addressed through the

    Regionai Action Promm TIRAP):


    RAP is of strategicimportance, especiaiíy in terms of the preemptive components,the programneeds
    Rdngs: Additional effort isrequired to bring the RAP to an acceptablelevel of preparation. The
    to be clearlydefinedand operationalwell before road consnuctionbegins.
   Recommendations: GON should revise and expand the RAP,in closecoordinationwith the Donors
    active in the Area and with the participation of the various locai institutionsexistiq andactive in the
    Anin Valley. The scopeoftherevisedRAP isgiveninAnnes 3.
    institutional CaDabilitv:

    Finding 1: The community institutions operating in the valley are diverse and viable. Such groups
    genedy have a good understanding of objectives and are active!, illusaating the proactive
    focusofthese groupswhich have been tradiuondy operatinginthe Arun Valleyfor mafiy year^, isa h
    characteristicsof valley residents who are keen to take advantage of any oppominibesavailable. The
 ,

  L               Therrvimby                  vmuidnottakemarethanaf ~ ~ kwet Bfe dl
                                                                                  .           bghh      of
                  the Bylorn andmexes.

 L,                                                        6

     appropriate
     production, irrigation associations. V i e dwdopment activities are now being underpinned by
                  - forest users groups, women-in-development groups, groups active in a g r i d d
i    financial resources following the DecentraiizationAct which at present provides NRs.300,000 5om
     districtbureaucracies. VDC chairmen are allocatingtheseresourcesin innovativeways.
     the centralgovernmentbudget directlyto eachVillageDevelopment Commdy (VDC), bypassingthe
L



     It?nding 2:
     (ABDS), which dLes not, as presently constinrted, meet the requirementsof a participatory piamkg
                     The institutional mechanism proposed is the Axun Basin Development Secretariat
     and seMce deiiverymechanism in the valley to respond to the needs identiñedby the commmitie.
     andmoreimportantlyimplementationandmonitoringofthe RAP.
     ABDS,aspresentlyconstitutedand funded, lacks the capacity to undertakethe detailed prepdon

     Recommendations: GON should include in the RAP inshtion-buiiduig actions on three hnts:
     (a)commu&y-based
     (c)coordinationwithdonors. Thescopeofthe recommended actionsisgiveninAnnex4.
                              inStitUtion-buildin3  actions;@) servicedeiivery      m e c u       and,




                                                                                       ____       ...

                                                                                                h e x I




     Vaiiey Alignment                                    HiU (Ridge)Alignment


L.

    430 ha to be requisitioned                          31O ha.need to be requisitioned



    Transmissionh e wid be 120kmswhich is 20 kms
    shorter(savesRps.340miiiion)                        Transmissionline 140km or20km longer
                                                        (Rps 340millionmore expensive).


                                  .-                    Maximumgradientof12%;&m                height
                                                        2500 feet
                           Id.-
                       s -




    Ivlainttnancecosts iikeiy loweq possibly does not
     needto be an aii weatherroad after construction.  Maintenancecosts wiU be substantialIy higher
                                                        during dam construction becauseofthe need
     :olerated afterconstruction? Lightvehicles(jeeps,
     Cantwo monthswithout motorized accessbe
                                                       affordto be lost(turbines).
                                                       heavy(cement, steel),andsomecargo cannot
                                                        for aliweatherusage, becauseloadswiiibe
  i  land-steered 2-wheelmini-tractors, possiblymax
     1-tonminitrucks) wiü not damagethe road
     iwereiy.                                          As ridge aiignmenthas many hairpinbends
                                                       (2500A), maintenanceper km will be higher.
                                                       and other curvesand much aititudinaichange

     Semesthreedistricts(Dhankuta,Bhojpur and
     ~ankhuwarsava),astwo spur(jeepable) roads         Servesoniyone district. Communitiesonthe
                                                        west ofthe Arun riverwouldhave to porter
     xoject underRAP.ifridgealignktis chosen
     Khandbari and Chainpur)are inciuded in the         aii goods down to the river, then up to the
                                                        ridgeroute.
     hen otherdistrict(Bhojpur)southwest of Arun
     d e y wiii iikeiy build anotherroad on the other
     ;ideofthe Arm dongthe vaiíey alignment.If
     dley aügnmem is chosen, peoplewill partiy build
     he ridgejeep track themselves.

     3eneñtsof roadswiU be forthree districts:
     ncreascdopportunitiestor amore sustainable
     @uitUrai development,improvededucationand
     ieaith, moreeffectivefamilyplanningand
     xotourismdevelopment.

L                    Valley Alignment                              Hill (Ridge)'Alignment

                                                                            ~  N"




     wouid be acommonroute47kms extra). imports
     Road 76 kmsshorterto Anin LII (Upper h n            transport longerand slower.
                                                         Imports and exportsmore expensive,

     hairpinsthantheridgeroute, much lessaltitudinal
     and exportscheaper,lessfuelused, finer. Fewer
     difference, and shoner.



     biodiversityarea:mostly agriculturalland. Between
     Fim stretchup to Turnlingtartraverseslow            Pan of road goes along the edgeof proposed
                                                        through threeothercloud forestareas.
                                                         illillceDanda area(cloudforests)and passes
     forestoflowbiodiversity,but riverainSai forest
     TurnlingtarandNum stretcheswith Sal riverain       Wouldthismake extensionofMilkeDada

     users groups,with strict forestmanagement pian
     habitat threatenedin Nepal, needsprotection: forest intoafewforestremnantsunfeasible?Cloud
                                                        forestsareofhigh biodiversity.
    and valley route alignment shouldfollowpower
    transmissionh eoverthehili and not bisect this
    habitat.
    First stretchlessste-q;-Iess erosion.                Steeproad: more erosionand land sliprisks.
    Landslidespotsidentified.LandslidewilI likelycut
    only onebend.                                       Landslidescausedby cuttinsroad. One
                                                        bendscut by a singlelandslidehave been
                                                        landslidemight cut variousbends(up to 12
                                                        observed on otherNeDaliroads).
    Encroachmentonthis alignmentwill be likelyless      Encroachment likelymore extensive:more
    than on ridgeali-nment: many richpeople will bÚi'   people liketo live on the ridge(becauseof
    land.Vaiiey istoo hot ahd dry.                      coolerclimate,bettervisibility).
    No snow;safer,fewer accidents.                      Inwinter duringshortperiodsthere is snow
                                                        onthetrack. [On theTribhuvanRajpath

                                                        avoid the altitudedifference:safer,more
                                                        people arewillingto travel90 ianlongerto
                                                        convenient, less wear on vehicles].
    Depreciationofvehicles less: shorterdistance, less  Depreciationofvehicleswouldbe greater:
    Steep.                                              wear and tear shortenvehiclelife and increase
                                                        maintenance costson steeproadsand those
                                                        subjectto snow,morethand e yalignment.
                                                        Ridgedensely populated.Road hasto go
    people. The valley islargelyunpopulated dong
    Far fewer social impacts asveryfew &wed             straightthroughmanyvillages. Enormous
    most oftheNorthernsectorsof theroad partiy          socialand culturalimpact.
    because it istoo hot inthevalleyand malariawas
    restricted to thevalley.Notepotentiai risk of
    malarialrecrudescenceinvalleyroute esp=ially to
L   the extexitTeraiworkers or foreignersenter for
    road construction.

                  Valley Alignment                             Hill (Ridge)Alignment


   Forest remnantsareverywidespread nondhzrse
   Sal forest.                                       At leastthreepatchesofmuchrarer'cloud'
                                                     forest ared      y bisectedbytheacisring
   Riverainsai foresthabitatsshouldbe protected.     trekkingnailandanbeingactìvelycomtateci
                                                     to siash-and-buni, overiopping,gom,firt-e
                                                     etc.


                                                    jeepablestandards,it shouldbe diverted
                                                     Whentheridgeroutetrailisupgradedto
                                                     aroundthesepatchesofdoud foltst andthe
                                                     oldtraiideactivatedsothattheclwdbnsc
                                                     CM -alarrte.
  Ripariansai forestricherthanreguiarsai and habitat Cloudforestshavehigherbiodivasityand an
   isbecorninnscarceinNd.                           importaritfiractionincapturingwater.
  Biodmrsitvandendanismmuchlower                    Biodmnityandendemismmuchhiaher
  Fewer andmoredishirbedh@itat,ingeneraimore
  widesprcad(B~tóBPngladeshandmn                    'Cloud'forestran,not aswidespread(ah
  IndonesiahaswiantsofSalfim).                      2oOO m)as sal;Cloudforestisnot the
                                                    depauperatehigh monranc Sub-iiivalhabiîats
                                                     whicharevaywidespreadwithIow
L                                                    endemismintheHimalava.
   Cut and ñiílesseasy:morespoiis,which cannot be
   reused                                            Cutand filleasier:lessproductionofunused
                                                     spoils.




 . ..
    --.---        1-------T--

                                                  10




       Data aboutAcouisition. ComDensation. and Rehabilitation Alone the
                                            Hill Route


               of April 12, 1995, the process of notification and payment of compensation for
     the 310 ha of land required for the hill route had been completed. The above mentioned

     the 310ha is 2834. Out ofthe 2534 plots acquired, 24 belonged to publicand 2 to privately
     310 ha belong or belonged to 1635 landowners. The total numberof parceis comprising
     established Guthi(ReiigiousTrust) Corporations, and 16to schooís. Ail theremaining2794
     had a tenant. NEA has not been able to award compensationto 283 landowners entitiedto
     plots were privately owned. NEA records indicatethat only one of the 2834 acquired plots

     receive compensationfor 376 plots along the hiII route. In these cases, ither the ownership
     couidnot be locatedbyNEA,despite its repeated effortsuntil 1992.
     of the plots was being disputed in cows or the owners had migratedto other areas and


     required by law, was completed for only 15
           However, the legai process of transfer of ownership of the land to GON, as
               * * e -
                                                         -  20 percent of the land for which
L    compensationhas been paid.


    has paid compensation. The total number of land owners affected by these acquisitions
           NEA has taken physicaí and legai possession of only 4.77 ha of land for which it
    were 18.NE4 except for the area already mentioned, has not taken physical possession
     of any lands for which it has paid compensation. Left fiee to utilize their land as they
     deem fit, the absolutemajority of the people supposed to be affected by the loss of their
     land are yet to experienceany adverse impacts from the lossof theirlands.

    physically possessed by NEA (acquisition of physical structure has been confined to a
           A number of houses were legally acquired but not a single house has been
    singie hut, used for rest during agricultural activity).

    used the land paid for by NEA to construct a road stretching for about 2-3 km fiom
           It is worth noting that the Basantapur Village Development Committee(VDC) has
    Basantapur.


    threeof these families consider themselves to be SeriouslyProject .@i&
           Interviewswith 11families affected by loss of land in Turnlingtarrevealed that at least
    may besuch claimsby families affected by acquisitionof land in the Basantapuarea as we&
                                                                                Families. There
     Although the familieshave sought rehabilitatioR no assistancehasbeen provided to them.




 --11

                                                  11




                 Sconeof the Revised Rwional Action Promam (RAP)

           The revised RAP should:

     1.    coyer such concerns as d m h g water supply, basic sanitation and primary health
    care, tr-g     for construction-related activity (*), income generation schemes and forest

    throughout the region, W y plamin~,maternity and child care facilities and programs,
    resource management, which were found by the mission to be generaked local priorities


    populationcentersof the Anin Valley to benefit fi-omthe electricivgenerated by the project,
    construction of a fkh hatchery, rural eteccrification schemes to pexmit at least the largejt
    settlementpianning,inventoryand mitigationactionsfor culturalheritage(**), environmental
    monitoring, continilatonof establishmentof forest user groups in the vaiiey route aiignmmt
    andestabiishmentofthe Milke-DandaConservationArea (***);

    2.    includedetailed implementationprograms which should:
               -.y-

  (a)     definelocality-speciiicpre-emptive (to be taken priorto road construction), prevehe

          valley access road comdor, and expanded over the years to the three Districts of the
          and mitigatoryactions,be-Onning with actions in the areasto be directlyaffectedby the
L,        Anui vailey;

  (b)     includeestimationofthe associated costs;

  (c)
          instituúonalcapabilitiesand determinethe necessaryinstitutionalsupportrequirements;
          deñne tkie institutions which would implement the action programs, assess their


   3.
   revise, update, and extend (geopphically and sectorally) the actions to be undertaken
          define the participatory planning approach to be utilized, on an annual basis, to
   through theRAPwithinthe said three districts;and,
   4.     cover monitoringof the implementation activities, which shouldclearly:

  (a)     iden@: institutional responsibilities; operationai procedures; logistical, material,
          stafhg, trainingandtechnical assistance needs; and, budgetaryrequirements;

  @)      deñne the divisionof labor between Anin BasinDevelopmentSecretariat(ABDS see      -
          below) and NEA's Anui Project Environment Management Unit (APEMU) with
          respectto regionwideand project-related actions and monitoringactivities;and,

  (c)                                                                                 -especially
          those situated along or near the valley road a l i p e n t -- will be involved and how
          indicate how local communities and forest user groups and other groups
    .'    ABDSWill liaisewiththem.




               1            'I   -  -

                                                     12




         shouidbe weii-focused,and involving the contractorwillbring bench becausehe will have
         road consmaion skilis, beneditin3 fiom IDAS piiot project in Butwal. The said &om
          (*) GONshouldensurethat NI24directsits ownand its contractor'se&rts in aaining for

         the best idea asto wilere thereis marginalscope forbringinglocal skdk up to requiredlevd~,
         andthe number oflikelyjobsaffected.

         along the Mueyalignment (the sumylsnidy shouldbe conductedwith participationoflocal
         (**) TI& part ofthe RAP shouid include a thoroughsurvey and study ofcultmi heritage
         people by involving them in the cataloguing and monitoring ofsuch traditions and piaces;
         and,shoulddehe measureswhichwouldnot onlymitigatedamages to ailturaipropaty and
         ailturalheritage, but wouldproactively raiseawarenessofthe localpeople).
         (***) 'This consenmtion arca should be managed by local NGOs i0 cooperation with
         internationalNGOs(as inMBCA).




___..---

  Institutional Cauacitv Issues for the Revised RePional Acîjon Program
  IRAP)


  buildingactions onthe followingthrefkonts:
        Interms of institutional responsibilities, GON should include in the RAP institutio~-


  (a)   Community-BasedInstitution-BuiidingActions.The actionsshould:

(i)     participatory planning of anrnaai mitigation pians, participatory implementation and
        include training for the institutions operatins in the Anin Valley, notabiy in
        conflict resohition g k n the large number of boundary disputes in partiarlar for
        commonproperty resources;and,

        (iii
 training.  * -, . h e women's role in these community institutions with firrtfier skius


 arrangements which wodd meet the requirementsofa participatory planrnng and Sennce
 (b)    ServicedeliveryMechanism. GQN should propose to IDA aitemative instihrtional
 deliverymecfianismhthevalleyto respondto theneedsidentifiedbythe communities.

 the Donors and to. Securing flexible funding to pennit the institutionalprocessto be put in
 (e)    Coordinationwith donors.GON shouldgiveimmediatepnoriryto coordinationwith
 place.

