Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16160
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
JIANGSU PROVINCIAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 3316-CHA/CREDIT 2226-CHA)
November 25, 1996
Infrastructure Operations Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Yuan (Y)
1989 (appraisal)    $1  Y 3.76
1990                $1 = Y 4.78
1991                $1 = Y 5,32
1992                $1 Y 5.53
1993                $1 Y 5.76
1994                 I $ Y 8.60
- 1995              $1 'Y8,50
1996                $1=Y8.31
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURE$
I meter (m)                =       3.28 feet (ft)
I kilometer (km)2          =       0.62 mile (mi)
1 square meter (m                  10.76 square feet (ft?)
I square kilometer (km2)2          0.4 square miles (mi )
I hectare (ha) = 0.01 km           2.47 acr5s (ac) = 15 mu
I mu                       =       666.7 m = 0.0667 ha
1 kilogram (kg)            =       2.2046 pounds (Ibs)
I metric ton (mt)                 . =  2,204 pounds (lbs).
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
8FYP       - Eighth Five-Year Plan
ERR        - Economic Rate of Retum
FRR        - Financial Rate of Retum
ICB        - Intemational Competitive Bidding
ICR        - Implementation Completion Report
JPCD          Jiangsu Provincial Communications Department
JPTPDI    - Jiangsu Provincial Transport Planning, Survey.and Design Institute
MOC        - Ministry of Communications,
NCB        - National Competitive Bidding
NJH        - Nanchang-Jiujiang Highway
NPV        - Net Present Value
PMS        - Pavement Management System
RDB        - Road Data Bank
RNR        - Road Network Rehabilitation
SAR        - Staff Appraisal Report
SOC        - Ship Operating Cost
VOC        - Vehicle Operating Cost
Vice President (Acting)   Nicholas C. Hope, EAP
Director                : Nicholas C. Hope, EA2
Division Chief           Richard Scurfield, EA2IN
Staff Member             Yasuhiro Kawabata, Highway Engineer, EA2IN



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
PREFACE ..........................................................v
EVALUATION   SUMMARY  ......................................................... vii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .................................1
A. Project Objectives and Description .........................................................l1
B. Achievement of Project Objectives ........................................................2
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ...............9
D. Project Sustainability  .........................................................                               10
E. Bank Performance ......................................................... 10
F. Borrower Performance .........................................................                                  11
G. Assessment of Outcome .........................................................                                 12
H. Future Operation .........................................................                                      13
I. Key Lessons Learned .........................................................                                   13
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES .........................................................                                         14
Table  1:  Summary of Assessments .........................................................                         14
Table 2: Related bank  loans/Credits .........................................................                      15
Table 3: Project Timetable .........................................................                               16
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimate and Actual ......... 16
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ...................................... 17
Table 6: Key Indicators For Project Operations ............................................. 18
Table 7:  Studies included in Project .........................................................                     19
Table 8a: Project Costs .........................................................                                 20
Table 8b: Project Costs .........................................................                                 21
Table 8C:  Project Financing .........................................................                            22
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits ......................................................... 22
Table  10:  Status of Legal Covenants .........................................................     23
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ......................... 24
Table  12: Bank Resources:  Staff Inputs ......................................................... 24
Table  13: Bank Resources:  Missions .........................................................    25
ANNEX 1: ECONOMIC EVALUATION .........................................................  27
Part I: Nanjing-Shanghai Class II Highway .................................................... 27
Part II: The Bridges and Interchange .........................................................     32
Part III: Road Network Rehabilitation .........................................................  35
ANNEX 2: ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE ................................................... 78
ANNEX 3: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR ............................ 80
Ths document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- iv -
MAPS
1. Project Components - IBRD 28375
2. Provincial Transport Network and Future Plan For Development of Transport
Corridors - IBRD 28376



v -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
JIANGSU PROVINCIAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 3316-CHA/CR:EDIT 2226-CHA)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Jiangsu Provincial
Transport Project in China, for which Loan 3316-CHA in the amount of $100 million
equivalent and Credit 2226-CHA in the amount of SDR 38.5 million ($53.6 million
equivalent) were approved on April 9, 1991 and made effective on September 6, 1991.
The loan and credit were closed on June 30, 1996. They were fully disbursed, and the
last disbursement took place on August 27, 1996.
The ICR was prepared by Messrs. Yasuhiro Kawabata (Task Manager) and Han-
Kang Yen (Research Analyst) in the Infrastructure Operations Division, China and
Mongolia Department of the East Asia and Pacific Region, and reviewed by Messrs.
Richard Scurfield, Chief, EA21N and Yo Kimura, Project Advisor, EA2DR. The
borrower provided comments that are included as an appendix to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision mission in
April 1996, and an ICR mission visited the Province in November 1996. The ICR is
based on materials in the project file and additional data provided by the project
executing agency. The borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by contributing
views reflected in the mission's aide-memoire, preparing own evaluation of the project's
execution and initial preparation, commenting on the draft ICR.






- vii -
CIHINA
JIANGSU PROVINCIAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 3316-CHA/CREDIT 2226-CHA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction and Project Objectives
1.    The project's main short-term objectives were to help mitigate the most serious
constraints posed by the province's inadequate transport infrastructure. This was achieved
by: (a) rehabilitating about 450 km of provincial roads; (b) upgrading 176.5 km of the
Nanjing-Shanghai highway; (c) rehabilitating a 17-km section of the Grand Canal at
Danyang; and (d) constructing a new Nantong shiplock and Jiuweigang bridge. The long-
term  objectives were to help the province  upgrade the planning, budgeting and
implementation of transport works, and develop more efficient construction entities. This
was accomplished by: (a) providing consultant services to train the Jiangsu Provincial
Conmnunications Department (JPCD) staff to supervise and perform quality control of
construction; and (b) assisting JPCD introduce the immediate and long-term action plan to
develop transport construction units. It also provided technical assistance to (a) evaluate
road pavements and prepare a strengthening and maintenance program; (b) improve the
design and planning of roads and waterways; (c) carry out the provincial transport corridor
study; and (d) train staff.
2.    The objectives reflected the province's physical and developmental transport needs,
the central Government's development strategy, and the Bank's assistance strategy for the
sector.
3.    The project was identified in April 1988, negotiated in May 1989, and scheduled for
Board presentation in June 1989. However, due to the incidents that occurred in June 1989,
the Board date was postponed until April 9, 1991. The project was postappraised in
August/September 1989, and all information was subsequently updated with the assistance
of staff at the Bank's Resident Mission in China. The project became effective on
September 6, 1991. Although some construction continued during the suspended period,
for which payments were disbursed retroactively, the two-year suspension greatly affected
implementation.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    The project generally met its objectives, although the training component covered
fewer staff than expected. The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) estimate for the project was
Y 1,720.2 million, including physical and price contingencies. The final project cost was
Y 2,313.7 million, an increase of about 35 percent. The higher cost was due to
unexpected inflation in China, some design changes, and expanded scope of works. The



- viii -
SAR estimate of the civil works component, (consisting of (a) Rehabilitation of
Provincial Roads, (b) Rehabilitation of the Nanjing-Shanghai Highway, (c) Rehabilitation
of the Grand Canal at Danyang, (d) Construction of the Nantong Shiplock, and
(e) Construction of the Jiuweigang Bridge) was Y 1,406.3 million including physical and
price contingencies. The final cost, based on certified payments to contractors, was Y
1,950.9 million, an increase of about 39 percent. The re-estimated aggregate economic
rate of return (ERR) for all civil works components was 38.5 percent. The SAR
contained no aggregate ERR, since most of subprojects under the Provincial Roads
Rehabilitation program were not identified at the appraisal stage. Details of each project
component are discussed below.
5.    Rehabilitation of the provincial road network, carried out in three phases, was
accomplished, although at a higher cost than estimated in the SAR. The SAR estimated
the ERR for the Phase I component to be 42.0 percent, but the re-estimated return at
completion was only 23.9 percent. The main reason for the lower rate was that the
economic cost of investment had almost doubled, far outweighing the fact that the traffic
volume was slightly higher than forecast. Phase I was completed in June 1994 as
scheduled. Phase II works were completed in December 1994, representing a delay of
three months. The original Phase III works were completed in December 1995, which
met the revised schedule but was almost one year later than the original SAR schedule.
Additional Phase III works began in June 1995 and were completed in June 1996.
6.    Rehabilitation of the Nanjing-Shanghai Highway was satisfactory. The work was
completed in December 1991 as scheduled. The SAR estimated cost was Y 370.2
million, while the final cost was Y 401.9 million, an increase of about 9 percent.
Although savings were gained by two major changes in the scope, most were absorbed by
the extra work in other sections and higher price hikes than originally assumed. The re-
estimated ERR for this program was 50.4 percent, which is lower than the SAR estimate
of 64.0 percent, since completion of the highway coincided with construction of the new
Nanjing-Shanghai Expressway. It is estimated that 55 percent-72 percent of the total
traffic along this corridor will be diverted to the new expressway after 1997. Except for
the Nanjing-Zhenjiang section, overall traffic volume on the highway already reached
capacity for a two-lane, Class II highway in 1995.
7.    Rehabilitation of the 17-km Danyang section of the Grand Canal was completed
in December 1992. The SAR estimated cost was Y 80.8 million, while the final cost,
which included additional works and price increases, was Y 62.5 million. The re-
estimated ERR is 24.8 percent, compared to the SAR estimate of 19.6 percent.
8.    Construction of the Nantong Shiplock was completed in December 1993. The
SAR estimated cost was Y 54.6 million, while the final cost was Y 51.9 million, or about
5 percent below the estimate. The re-estimated ERR is 20.8 percent, compared to the
SAR estimate of 20.2 percent.



-ix -
9.    Jiuweigang Bridge was completed in December 1992 as scheduled.  The
estimated cost was Y 33.4 million, while the final cost was Y 28.4 million, which was
about 15 percent below the SAR estimate. The re-estimated ERR is 21.3 percent.
10.   Equipment totalling $11.64 million was procured for the intended purposes and
the procurement process was accomplished according to Bank guidelines. The staff
training program was not implemented according to the original schedule due to a lack of
qualified trainees. Thus, planning for training will need to be done more carefully to
ensure it is more effective and efficient, and that more staff participate.
11.   The collection and storage of road data progressed well within the pilot Road Data
Bank (RDB) program, as did the Pavement Management System (PMS) for guiding road
investment decisions. However, both programs fell short of expectations. The technical
assistance, both to Assistance to the Construction Units and the Provincial Transport
Corridor Study, was completed according to the terms of reference.
12.   No major environmental or resettlement problems arose during implementation.
13.   The project's major components' civil works should be sustainable, provided
routine and periodic maintenance works are carried out in a systematic and timely
manner. In general, the identification of the components and the preparation, appraisal
and supervision of the project were satisfactory.  The Bank's involvement during
implementation was also adequate and commensurate with the project's size and
complexity. JPCD demonstrated that it is a well-organized institution with high-caliber
technical staff and this could be seen in the way the project was prepared and
administered.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
14.   Despite the delays associated with some of the components, implementation was
satisfactory, primarily because the development objectives were achieved and are
considered sustainable. Economic development of southern Jiangsu, whose gross
agricultural and industrial value grew 25.4 percent a year from 1988-1995, was supported
by improvements to the highway network. These involved increasing the length of Class
II roads from 2,533 km in 1989 to 4,396 km in 1995 and highway density from
280 km/'000 km2 in 1989 to 304 km/'000 km2 in 1995, as well as implementing the
project. In addition, JPCD's capacity to plan and budget, construct, supervise, maintain
and operate the provincial highway system was strengthened. As a result of the
experience gained on the Bank-financed highway project, which included extensive
institutional strengthening, JPCD completed high-quality work on the 280 km Nanjing-
Shanghai expressway according to the original implementation schedule.
15.   Phase I civil works under the Road Network Rehabilitation (RNR) program were
carried out by force account, while the rest were conducted by contractors, whose
performance on the Nanjing-Shanghai Highway was adequate. Overall, the highway was
constructed to a satisfactory standard but with less-than-desirable pavement quality on
some sections. JPCD built three toll stations along the highway to collect tolls; revenues



will partly be used to repay the Bank loan, but mostly to rehabilitate and maintain the
major highways.
16.   The following lessons are relevant to future Bank-financed highway projects in
China:
(a)   On some highway sections, the quality was deficient. This problem was
largely related to the contractors' lack of experience and resources. Thus,
more thorough assessments of contractors need to be made in the
prequalification process.
(b)   The staff training, which was not implemented according to schedule, partly
because of a language problem, highlights the need for a complete review of
such programns under Bank-financed projects.
(c)   The lower-than-expected volume on the Nanjing-Shanghai highway could
have been anticipated if the SAR team had contacted all the relevant
agencies, along with the consultants working on the feasibility study for
information about the parallel expressway being proposed.



CHINA
JIANGSU PROVINCIAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 3316-CHA/CREDIT 2226-CHA)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
1.    The transport policy objectives of Jiangsu Province for the Eighth Five-Year Plan
(8FYP, 1991-95) emphasized the construction and rehabilitation of infrastructure and
modernization of facilities to improve the adaptability, service and engineering quality,
and economic efficiency of all modes. The Jiangsu Provincial Transport Project
responded to the need for transport facilities in the southern part of the province adjacent
to Shanghai, which were constraining demand and future economic growth.
2.    The project had two main objectives: (a) in the short term, to help mitigate the
most serious constraints to its and neighboring provinces' economies caused by the
inadequate transport infrastructure; and (b) in the long term, to help the province upgrade
the planning, budgeting and implementation of transport works, and develop more
efficient construction entities. In addition, a large technical assistance component was
designed to help improve the skill and quality of provincial transport staff to more
efficiently plan and implement the proposed project and achieve the long-term
institutional objectives.
3.    To accomplish these objectives, the following components were included:
(a) rehabilitating about 450 km of provincial roads in southern Jiangsu; (b) upgrading
176.5 km of the Nanjing-Shanghai highway to Class II standards; (c) rehabilitating a 17-
km section of the Grand Canal at Danyang; (d) constructing a new shiplock at Nantong
and an adjacent bridge at Jiuweigang; (e) providing consultant services to train JPCD
staff in supervision and quality control of road construction; and (f) assisting JPCD in the
immediate and long-term action plan to develop its transport construction units.
Also, technical assistance was included for: (a) evaluating road pavements and preparing
a pavement strengthening and maintenance program; (b) improving the design and
planning of roads and waterways, including establishing a road data bank, and
introducing computer-aided design; (c) carrying out the provincial transport corridor
study; and (d) training staff.
4.    The project was identified in April 1988, negotiated in May 1989, and scheduled
for Board presentation in June 1989. However, due to the incidents that occurred in June
1989, the Board date was postponed until April 9, 1991. The project was postappraised
in August/September 1989, and all information was subsequently updated with the



-2 -
assistance of staff at the Bank's Resident Mission in China. The project became effective
on September 6, 1991. Although some construction activities continued during the
suspended period, and payments for these were retroactively disbursed, the two-year
suspension greatly affected implementation.
B. ACHIEVING PROJECT OBJECTIVES
5.    The project generally met its objectives, although the training component covered
fewer staff than expected. The SAR's estimate for the project was Y 1,720.2 million,
including physical and price contingencies. The final project cost was Y 2,313.7 million,
an increase of about 35 percent. The higher cost was due to unexpected inflation in
China, some design changes, and expanded scope of works. The SAR estimate of the
civil works component, (consisting of (a) Rehabilitation of Provincial Roads,
(b) Rehabilitation of the Nanjing-Shanghai Highway, (c) Rehabilitation of the Grand
Canal at Danyang, (d) Construction of the Nantong Shiplock, and (e) Construction of the
Jiuweigang Bridge) was Y 1,406.3 million including physical and price contingencies.
The final cost, based on certified payments to contractors, was Y 1,950.9 million, an
increase of about 39 percent. The re-estimated aggregate economic rate of return (ERR)
for all civil works components was 38.5 percent. The SAR contained no aggregate ERR,
since most of subprojects under the Provincial Roads Rehabilitation program were not
identified at the appraisal stage. Details of each project component are discussed below.
Rehabilitating the Provincial Roads
6.    The Provincial Road Network Rehabilitation (RNR) program  included
reconstructing bridges, overlaying pavements and improving their alignment, and
upgrading roads. The study that prepared the program evaluated and identified about
1,800 km of provincial paved roads that needed urgent rehabilitation, of which about
450 km were to be financed under this project.
7.    The program was implemented in three phases. Phase I involved rehabilitating
one bridge and five road sections totaling about 165 km. Road sections rehabilitated in
Phase II and III were identified during the first phase, according to economic criteria and
procurement procedures agreed upon with the Bank.
8.    Phase II and III involved four road sections totaling about 110 km, and seven road
sections totaling about 230 km, and one interchange (Qimen), respectively. In early
1994, JPCD proposed adding three more road sections, totaling about 58 km. Based on
the justification and the economic evaluation supporting the three roads' viability, the
Bank agreed. Detailed engineering was completed by prefectural and provincial design
institutions. The entire rehabilitation program was originally scheduled to start in July
1989 and be completed in December 1994, but was delayed by the two-year suspension
in project activities.



-3 -
9.   Implementation and Supervision. Phase I was completed in June 1994 as
scheduled. Phase II began in mid-1992 and was completed in December 1994 with a
delay of three months. Work on the original Phase III began in June 1994 and was
completed in December 1995, which met the revised schedule but was almost one year
later than the original SAR schedule. The additional Phase III work, which consisted of
the three road sections, began in June 1995 and was completed in June 1996.
10.   Although delayed slightly, the RNR program was satisfactorily completed, and
construction quality was good. When the project was prepared in 1988-1989, road
construction was carried out by force account, and there was little or no independent
supervision. Civil works under Phase I were carried out by force account; however,
Phase II and III works were constructed by contractors.
11.   The construction executed by force account and contractors was supervised by
JPCD staff, who participated in training workshops given by foreign engineers.
Consultants provided training in supervising construction in two phases: In Phase I,
which was completed in July 1989, 77 staff of the provincial and city highway
departments were trained in China. In Phase II, two groups of 10 each were trained
abroad in 1992 and 1993. The supervision provided by JPCD helped to maintain good
quality, control costs and ensure the work was completed in a timely fashion.
12.   Construction costs. The SAR's cost estimate for the RNR program was Y 967
million, including physical and price contingencies. The aggregate contract amount of
the 31 contracts was Y 1,231 million, while the final cost was Y 1,406 million, an
increase of about 45 percent. The increase was due to the (a) expanded scope and (b)
added works associated with variation orders and adjustments for price hikes, in a
proportion of about 45 percent and 55 percent, respectively.
13.   Economic evaluation. As described in Annex 1, the re-estimated aggregate
economic rate of return (ERR) for the RNR was 21.4 percent, with 23.9 percent for
Phase I, 20.3 percent for Phase II and 19.3 percent for Phase III. While the SAR
contained no aggregate ERR, it did include an economic evaluation of the Phase I work,
whose estimated ERR was 42.0 percent. However, the re-estimated return at completion
was 23.9 percent. The main reason for the lower figure is that the economic cost of
investment had almost doubled, far outweighing the fact that the traffic volume was
slightly higher than forecast.
Rehabilitation of the Nanjing-Shanghai Highway
14.   Although the Nanjing-Shanghai Highway was a part of the RNR program, its
rehabilitation was a separate project component because of its importance as the main
artery connecting the two cities. Based on the recommendations in the 1987 feasibility
study, Jiangsu Province decided to upgrade the entire road to a Class II standard (two
lanes, paved), except for sections close to major cities and towns, where a higher, Class I
(four lanes) standard was proposed. For administrative purposes, the highway was
divided according to the five city boundaries (Suzhou, Wuxi, Changzhou, Zhenjiang and



-4 -
Nanjing). Construction of some sections was carried out by local governments with
domestic funding and completed in July 1990. Sections financed under the Bank loan
included:   (a) Zhenjiang-Changzhou  (70.7 km); (b) Wuxi-Suzhou  (51.2 km) and
(c) Suzhou-Anting (Shanghai) (54.6 km), totaling 176.5 km. Feasibility studies and
engineering designs for these sections were prepared by the Jiangsu Provincial Transport
Planning, Survey and Design Institute (JPTPDI) and reviewed by the Bank.
15.  Implementation and Supervision.  Civil works for the Nanjing-Shanghai
Highway were procured under seven contract packages using international competitive
bidding (ICB) for two contracts and national competitive bidding (NCB) for five
contracts from prequalified contractors. The detailed designs and bidding documents
were completed by April 1989. Highway construction began in November 1989 and was
completed in December 1991 as scheduled.
16.   The outcome was satisfactory. The 1995 traffic volume on the rehabilitated
highway was 90 percent-150 percent higher than the SAR estimates, with a traffic volume
of 13,000-21,000 vehicles per day. An unexpected increase of traffic volume, especially
of heavy trucks, damaged asphalt pavement in some sections. Since 1994, periodic
maintenance, including overlay, has been regularly carried out. At-grade intersections
around major towns and cities were upgraded and converted to a grade separation (the
grades were separated) to alleviate traffic congestion and bottlenecks.
17.   Highway construction was supervised by JPCD staff, who participated in
intensive training in supervision and quality control measures before the work began. As
a result, the local staff overcame their lack of experience, and the project was awarded the
Ministry of Communications (MOC) quality award.
18.   Construction costs. The SAR estimate of civil works was Y 370.2 million,
including physical and price contingencies, while the final cost, based on certified
payments to contractors, was Y 401.9 million, an increase of about 9 percent. Major
changes from the original scope of work were made in two areas: In the Lianhu-
Kangjiachan section, the original 23 km asphalt pavement was changed to portland
cement concrete pavement and the construction cost was reduced. On the Qimen-Anting
(Shanghai) section, an originally proposed alignment (new right-of-way), which would
have bypassed Kunshan city with a 16 km section, was changed to an alignment using
existing roads passing through the city. Thus, the construction cost was reduced to about
40 percent of that originally estimated, with a total length of 54.6 km. Although savings
were gained by these two major changes, most were absorbed by the extra work in other
sections carried out through variation orders, and by the price escalation that was higher
than assumed at appraisal.
19.   Economic evaluation. The economic re-evaluation is presented in Annex 1. As
re-estimated, the aggregate ERR for the Nanjing-Shanghai Highway Rehabilitation
program is 50.4 percent, varying between 34.6 percent and 60.1 percent for individual
sections. This is lower than the SAR's estimated ERR of 64.0 percent, varying between



-5 -
53.7 and 78.4 percent, since completion of the highway coincided with the construction
of the new Nanjing-Shanghai Expressway. The expressway was opened to traffic in
September 1996. It is estimated that 55 percent-72 percent of traffic along this corridor
will be diverted to the new expressway after 1997. Except for the Nanjing-Zhenjiang
section, the traffic volume on the Nanjing-Shanghai highway already reached capacity for
a two-lane, Class II highway in 1995.
20.   After four years of operation (1992-1995), the traffic counts show that the
diversion factor along the corridor has ranged between 83 percent-95 percent. The 1995
corridor traffic (the sum of traffic on both the parallel existing arterial roads and the new
highway) was 81 percent-140 percent higher than SAR estimates.
Rehabilitation of the Grand Canal at Danyang
21.   The 17-km Danyang section of the Grand Canal was a major component of the
southern canal rehabilitation program proposed by Jiangsu Province. Before this project,
the section was essentially closed to navigation at low flow stages and could only
accommodate barges of under 30 tons at high stages. Thus, the three locks along the
canal connecting with the Yangtze River could not be fully utilized. The rehabilitation
involved deepening and widening the canal bed, and paving the bank slope with concrete
to protect it from erosion. A feasibility study and engineering designs were carried out by
JPTPDI, the rehabilitation began in February 1990 and was completed in April 1992. In
addition, the 134-m Lingkou bridge was constructed under this component from February
1991-December 1992.
22.   Construction costs. Civil works were implemented by contractors. The SAR
cost estimate for the rehabilitation was Y 80.8 million, which included physical and price
contingencies. The eight contracts totaled Y 47.5 million, while the final cost, which
included additional works and price increases, was Y 62.5 million, or 31 percent over the
original contract, but about 23 percent below SAR estimates. The reduced cost is the
result of contractors strictly conforming to contract conditions and designs.
23.   Economic evaluation. As detailed in Annex 1, the re-estimated ERR for the
rehabilitation is 24.8 percent, compared to the SAR estimate of 19.6 percent. The
increase is most likely due to the ships' increased hauling capacity: The average
shipment rose from about 50 tons before the project to 70 tons per ship at completion.
Construction of the Nantong Shiplock
24.   The capacity of the old Nantong shiplock was 10 million tons per year, and traffic
demand had already exceeded this at the time the project was prepared. Thus, a new
facility was proposed, which consisted of a lock of 16 m x 220 m and a 4 km approach
canal to connect with the existing canal network. The lock was planned to accommodate
barges of 1,000 deadweight tons and provide a throughput of 17 million tons a year.



-6 -
25.   The feasibility study and engineering designs were prepared by JPTPDI, and the
detailed designs and bid documents were reviewed by a foreign expert. A contractor was
procured through ICB procedures. The construction started in October 1991 and was
completed in December 1993. Construction of the shiplock was supervised by a foreign
engineer.
26.   Construction costs. The SAR cost estimate was Y 54.6 million, including
physical and price contingencies, while the final cost was Y 51.9 million, or about 5
percent below the estimate. This can be explained by the economical approach to design
and strict budget control during construction, carried out with the assistance of a foreign
expert.
27.   Economic evaluation. The re-estimated ERR for the shiplock is 20.8 percent,
compared to the SAR estimate of 20.2 percent. The re-estimate was based on final costs,
revised indices for shadow pricing, unit transport cost savings through the use of larger
vessels, reduced distances, reduced transport costs (lower than the highways), and
congestion savings. The average shipment per vessel increased from 60 tons to 90 tons.
Construction of the Jiuweigang Bridge
28.   The old bridge crossed a flood canal at Jiuweigang over an existing sluice gate
that had deteriorated so badly that the road, which passed over the gates, would
eventually have to be closed. Thus, the feasibility study recommended a new bridge
crossing a few hundred meters north of the old sluice gates. The new bridge was 305 m
long and the length of the approach road was 2.4 km. Considering the estimated traffic
volume (10,000 vpd in 2000), and the plans to upgrade the entire Yangzhou-Nantong
road to Class I standards, a four-lane Class I standard bridge was adopted. Final
engineering designs and bid documents were reviewed by the joint foreign/local
supervision team. The civil works contract was awarded according to ICB procedures.
Construction began in November 1990 and was completed in December 1992.
29.   Construction costs and Economic evaluation. The original cost estimate for the
Jiuweigang Bridge was Y 33.4 million, including physical and price contingencies, and
the final cost was Y 28.4 million, which is about 15 percent below the SAR estimate.
The bridge was completed on August 5, 1994; the work was rated excellent. The re-
estimated ERR is 21.3 percent. Since an economic evaluation was not carried out at the
SAR stage, a comparison cannot be made.
Environmental Issues
30.   Environmental issues were considered during the design and construction stages,
including roadside drainage and slope protection. Since the proposed highway sections
were generally located on flat terrain, no major erosion was expected. Nevertheless,
JPCD routinely protected the slopes of the higher embankments and cut sections with
stone pitching where any significant erosion might have occurred. Also, the rehabilitated
road, with its wider shoulders, promoted the separation of motorized and non-motorized



-7 -
traffic. Thus, the motorized traffic could travel more smoothly, reducing air pollution and
accidents. Moreover, the project discouraged the dangerous practice of planting rows of
trees on the shoulders.  Instead, JPCD encouraged tree planting at the foot of
embankments, which helps reduce vehicular air and noise pollution.
31.   The two waterway components had no negative impact on the waterways'
ecology. The widening of the Danyang section of the Grand Canal helped improve water
quality by increasing the volume discharged from the Yangtze River into the enlarged
canal. A comprehensive study of water quality problems in the Grand Canal was
undertaken as programmed.
Land Acquisition and Resettlement
32.   Land acquisition, resettlement and compensation procedures agreed upon at
negotiations were followed. The land requirements originally estimated changed due to
the addition of three road sections under the RNR program and the reduced length on the
Qimen-Anting section. The cost of land acquisition and compensation increased from
Y 118.0 million to Y 247.4 million due to the long interval between the original estimates
and actual compensation; 10,400 individuals were resettled. A Bank Resettlement
Review Mission visited the province in November/December 1994, and, after assessing
the resettlement process, confirmed that actions were carried out satisfactorily and in line
with Bank policies and procedures.
Procurement of Equipment
33.   The following items were purchased: (a) basic road maintenance equipment
($10.15 million); (b) laboratory equipment for the central soils and materials laboratory
($1.17 million); and (c) computer-aided design system ($0.32 million). The final cost,
$11.64 million, was less than appraised.
34.   The loan agreement called for about 91 percent of the equipment to be procured
through international competitive bidding (ICB) and the rest by international shopping on
the basis of a comparison of price quotations. However, since it was later discovered that
some of the items needed were produced by very few firms, the Bank waived the ICB
requirements and agreed they could be procured through international and local shopping.
35.   Laboratory equipment acquired for JPCD's central soils and materials laboratory
helped modernize the technology to maintain the quality of materials and civil works.
The computer-aided design system helped speed up and increase the accuracy of
engineering designs at the design institute. The instruments and computer hardware and
software chosen for the RDB were also satisfactory and met all expectations. Most of the
maintenance equipment was delivered to Nanjing in early 1996, and all of it has been
used for routine and periodic maintenance.



-8 -
Staff Training Program
36.   Within the project, measures were taken to strengthen various institutions. Under
the staff training program, about 40 JPCD officials were to be trained abroad in transport
planning, soils and materials, transport economics, financial management and accounting,
highway maintenance and equipment management, construction management and
supervision. However, as of June 1996, only 10 had been trained, due to three factors.
First, because of the wide range of subjects to be covered, it was difficult to find a
consulting firm or institute to perform the task. Second, those to be trained had very
limited or no English (the language in which they would be trained). Third, two other
major expressway projects were implemented at the same time as this project, and JPCD
could not free up any young engineers to be trained.
Programs for Road Planning, Pavement Strengthening and Maintenance
37.   When the project was prepared, it was thought the initial data collection would be
part of a study whose objectives included: (a) establishing a road data base (RDB)
compatible with national guidelines; (b) beginning regular monitoring of paved roads;
(c) identifying where pavements needed overlays and strengthening, and resource
requirements for about 500 km of paved roads; and (d) introducing a pilot maintenance
planning and management system, compatible with national guidelines, to develop a
systematic approach. The study was expected to take 15 months and involve about 120
person-months of local and foreign personnel input.
38.   However, the study was not carried out as planned because it was overtaken by
central Government policies, which instituted a nationwide approach to road planning,
pavement strengthening and maintenance. By the early 1990s, reasonably good progress
had been made with both the RDB and the pavement management system (PMS).
Therefore, MOC and the Bank agreed it would be more efficient and consistent to
develop local capability for both of these programs.  To introduce the PMS, 15
provinces/municipalities were selected, one of which was Jiangsu.
39.   Road Data Bank. A pilot study was implemented in the following five cities in
southern Jiangsu: Nanjing, Zhenjiang, Changzhou, Wuxi and Suzhou. Using computer
hardware and software and instrumentation provided under the project, JPCD created a data
base comprising 500 items, and the municipal highway bureaus collected data on 2,100 km
of road. The Bank supported the data bank by financing equipment, including computer
software and hardware, and an extensive RDB study tour that enabled a group of Chinese
staff to be exposed to techniques and methods abroad.
40.   Pavement Management System. The PMS, which was indirectly integrated with
the RDB, can provide network- and project-level analysis for flexible and concrete
pavements. JPCD's PMS, which is compatible with the Chinese system, has extensive
economic analysis capacity, including establishing optimum programs for up to 10 years.
The software was tailored to handle the province's rehabilitation programming, as well as
maintenance. It was successfully implemented on a pilot basis for 2,100 km of national



-9 -
and provincial roads in southern Jiangsu. As a result, JPCD is expanding it to six more
cities with a flexible/concrete pavement network of 4,000 km and planning to train 50
technical personnel.
Assistance to Construction Units
41.   The quality and capability of city and county construction units needed to be
improved in the short run, and, given the ambitious infrastructure construction proposed
over the next 10 years, ultimately converted into independent, self-sustaining enterprises.
The project provided the units with assistance for introductory seminar-workshops and a
study to develop a longer-term plan of action for JPCD to achieve its objectives.
42.   The training program, carried out in three phases, was successful. Phase 1
reviewed and evaluated an inventory of existing enterprises; it then recommended
changes to JPCD's current reorganization plan to improve the enterprises' ability to
undertake larger and more complex construction projects. Phase II was carried out in
1995:  About 80 managers or project managers from  19 construction enterprises
participated in classroom and on-the-job training and seminars, and 75 construction
equipment operators and mechanics were trained. Of the managers who participated,
about 20 were sent to Australia for further training in Phase III. As a result, the quality of
construction and construction practices improved, but it is still believed that enterprises
are not performing at full efficiency.
Provincial Transport Corridor Study
43.   A preliminary study was carried out to reconcile long-term development plans and
short-term options in southern Jiangsu's trunk network. The study aimed to: (a) define a
highway development plan and associated investment programs for the province; (b)
evaluate and compare the alternatives proposed by user-benefit economic analysis and set
the priorities; and (c) provide high capacity and efficient roadways as well as important
links to adjoining provinces.
44.   The results of the economic analysis indicated the highest ranked highway scheme
was the route connecting Lianyungang and Nanjing and the best bridge scheme was the
one at Jiangyin. Under all scenarios, whether single or combined tests, or with high costs
and low benefits, these two schemes produced the highest return. The next best scheme
was the highway connecting Xinyi to Jingjiang. The study recommended the investment
program should initially include these three schemes.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
45.   As mentioned in paragraph 4, the project was greatly affected by the two-year
delay. Because of inflation and design changes, the original cost estimate of local
currency increased by about 35 percent and by roughly 14 percent in US dollars (Part II-
Tables 8a and 8b). The percentage difference reflects the devaluation of the local
currency from 1989-1995. Implementation delays were substantial for some of the



- 10-
components, but less so overall. As originally expected, the loan/credit closed on June
30, 1996. In general, the project was substantially completed by the end of 1995, as
reflected by the level of disbursements at that time. However, the disbursement pattern
highlights the slower-than-expected progress during FY93-FY95 (Part II-Table 4).
46.   The completion date of the RNR Program was delayed by about one-and-a-half
years because three additional road sections were included in Phase III, which started in
June 1995. Rehabilitation of the Grand Canal at Danyang took about three years to
complete, instead of the two originally scheduled. The delay occurred mainly in
finalizing designs and bidding documents and procuring equipment; it could be that the
schedule for procurement was overly optimistic, given the executing agency's limited
experience with Bank requirements and procedures, and domestic internal clearance
constraints. Also, implementation of the technical assistance and training component,
except for the construction supervision and training, was substantially delayed, mainly
because of the slowness in preparing the studies and selecting consultants.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
47.   The civil works components should be sustainable if routine and periodic
maintenance is carried out, and remedial actions are taken promptly, in case of
emergencies generally caused by unfavorable weather and geological conditions in the
project sites. So far, since 1994, periodic maintenance involving overlay has been
adequate.
48.   The equipment procured for the maintenance and operation of the highway was
carefully selected to meet quality and up-to-date technology requirements.  Local
personnel were trained to operate the units, and spare parts and maintenance facilities are
available to ensure the units will provide many years of service.
49.  JPCD appears interested in developing the PMS program, and regards its
operation as an important tool for road maintenance and improvements. The program is
expected to be maintained, data regularly collected, and information disseminated more
widely in the future, to enhance road maintenance.
50.   The information and experience gained from the staff training component under
the construction units study are expected to be disseminated throughout JPCD, to
improve the administration, operation and management methods, construction practices
and highway-specific technology in Jiangsu's construction units and enterprises. Results
of the transport corridor study will serve as a basis to create a highway development plan
in Jiangsu and the corresponding investment programs.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
51.  In general, the identification of the components and the preparation, appraisal and
supervision of the project were satisfactory, although in hindsight, the following
weaknesses have been noted:



(a)   The lower re-estimated ERR (50.4 percent versus 60.4 percent in the SAR)
for the Nanjing-Shanghai Class II Highway was due to a conceptual
oversight in forecasting traffic distribution, since the SAR estimate did not
take account of the diversion of traffic to the new Nanjing-Shanghai
expressway that runs along the same corridor (the feasibility study for the
expressway was produced in 1988 and construction was completed in
September 1996). However, although the revised figure is lower than was
expected, it still represents a viable investment.
(b)   The staff training program could have been prepared in greater detail, but
more importantly, during supervision, the Bank should have realized that
more training should have occurred within China, as opposed to abroad.
This would have reduced the high cost of training and study tours abroad
for a relatively small number of participants and more staff could have
attended, since it would not have required them to be away for longer
periods.
(c)   The expectation that both RDB and PMS could be established in 15
months, without JPCD's management and staff having had previous
experience in these areas, and considering the complexity of the study's
objectives, was overly optimistic.
52.   The Bank's involvement during implementation was adequate and appropriate for
the project's size and complexity. On average, there were two Bank missions a year over
the five-year implementation period. The missions' visits to construction sites helped
highlight noticeable deficiencies and alert the executing agencies and supervisors to the
need to exercise more effective quality control. These suggestions were generally well
received by the executing agencies and helped sharpen their focus on some of the
deficiencies noted by the missions.
53.   The Bank showed flexibility in dealing with the design changes, so as to avoid
interrupting and delaying the execution of works. These were pragmatic responses to
problems that were unforeseen during project preparation. Although some of the changes
added to the project's cost, they will improve the operation of the highway network.
54.   Overall, the project was implemented within the terms of the loan agreement and
in substantial compliance with the Bank's procedural requirements.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
55.   JPCD was a first-time executing agency for the Bank-assisted transport project. It
benefited substantially from preparing and administering it, and from organizing and
managing the construction of high-class highways. JPCD responded well to the added
responsibilities and demonstrated it is a well-organized institution with high-caliber
technical staff. Its administrative system reflects good record keeping and comprehensive
reporting. JPCD also demonstrated its keen interest in controlling the quality of the



- 12-
highway construction, helping the construction supervision team enforce technical
specifications and other quality control measures. The Department clearly understood the
Bank policies and procedures, which helped reduce excessive delays, and greatly
contributed to the timely completion of the project. Its cooperation and well-prepared
documents were also very helpful in preparing this ICR.
56.   Within three years of the opening of the Nanjing-Shanghai Highway, remedial
work, including overlay and reconstruction of pavement, was necessary (para. 16). The
main reason for the damage was the underestimate during highway design of the number
of heavy trucks and their weight.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
57.   Despite specific delays with some components, overall implementation was
satisfactory, primarily because its development objectives were achieved and are
considered sustainable. Economic development of southern Jiangsu, whose gross
agricultural and industrial value grew at 25.4 percent a year from 1988-1995, was
supported by improvements to the highway network. These involved increasing the
length of Class II roads from 2,533 km in 1989 to 4,396 km in 1995 and highway density
from 280 kml'000 km2 in 1989 to 304 km/'000 km2 in 1995, as well as implementing the
project. In addition, JPCD's capacity to plan and budget, construct, supervise, maintain
and operate the provincial highway system was strengthened. As a result of the
experience gained on the Bank-financed highway project, which included extensive
institutional strengthening, JPCD completed high-quality work on the 280 km Nanjing-
Shanghai expressway according to the original implementation schedule.
58.   Phase I civil works under the RNR program were carried out by force account,
while the rest were conducted by either ICB or NCB. The contractors' performance on
the Nanjing-Shanghai Highway was adequate. Overall, the highway was constructed to a
satisfactory standard but with less-than-desirable pavement quality on some sections.
Although the implementation of the RNR program was substantially delayed, it met
expectations with regard to administration control and technical requirements, and is
economically viable. The Grand Canal program and Nanjing-Shanghai Highway project
were awarded an MOC Quality Award.
59.   Sectoral development, in the context of the RDB and PMS programs, was
successful; it was achieved primarily because of the dedication and perseverance of the
personnel in the provincial highway administration and technical institutions.
Conclusions and recommendations from the Provincial Transport Corridor Study were
useful and reflected in the transport planning for the Ninth Five-Year Plan.
60.   The goal of the training program was to expose JPCD staff to new concepts,
approaches and technology.  However, the program involved fewer trainees than
expected, partly because of language problems.



- 13 -
H. FUTURE OPERATION
61.  JPCD is responsible for operating and maintaining all civil works components
included in the project. It built three toll stations along the Nanjing-Shanghai Highway to
collect tolls; these revenues will partly be used to repay the Bank loan, but mostly to
rehabilitate and maintain the major highways. Equipment procured under the project will
be used for the maintenance effort. With respect to the PMS, JPCD intends to make even
better use of the system by allocating maintenance funds based on PMS data. Also,
JPCD will try to build up its RDB, for which MOC's active support will be needed.
62.   The Grand Canal Rehabilitation Program was a success.  Based on this
achievement and performance, the second Inland Waterway Project is now being
prepared by the Bank.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
63.   The key lessons learned from this project, which is still ongoing but substantially
completed, include the following:
(a)   Although the quality of highway civil works construction was generally
satisfactory, a number of sections exhibited some defects. The quality of
highway construction is a common issue in highway projects in China.
The quality problem was largely related to the contractors' lack of
experience in carrying out civil works according to technical specifications
and contracting requirements; also to a limited concern with quality. To
correct this, the executing agency could be more rigorous in prequalifying
contractors, thereby ensuring they have adequate performance records and
resources to carry out the work efficiently and satisfactorily.
(b)   Partly because of a language problem and because of a heavy involvement
with other projects, only 10 staff were sent abroad under the staff training
program. Thus, the Bank should encourage the executing agencies to
invite foreign experts to provide training within China, rather than sending
them outside the country. It would seem desirable for the Bank, Ministry
of Finance and MOC to address the issue as soon as possible, perhaps by
appointing a technical training institution in China to coordinate highway
subsector training programs nationwide.
(c)   The lower-than-expected volume on the Nanjing-Shanghai highway could
have been anticipated if the SAR team had contacted all the relevant
agencies, along with the consultants working on the feasibility study, for
information about the parallel expressway being proposed.



- 14-
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives      Substantial      Partial    Negligible   Not Applicable
Macroeconomic policies                                                            x
Sector policies                                       x
Financial objectives                                                              x
Institutional development                             x
Physical objectives                     x
Poverty reduction                                                                 x
Gender issues                                                                     x
Other social objectives                                                           x
Environmental objectives                              x
Public sector management                              x
Private sector development                                                        x
B. Project Sustainability                Likely            Unlikely           Uncertain
x
C. Bank Performance                  Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory      Deficient
Identification                                                    x
Preparation assistance                                            x
Appraisal                                                         x
Supervision                                                       x
D. Borrower Performance              Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory       Deficient
Preparation                                                       x
Implementation                                                    x
Covenant compliance                                               x
Operation (if applicable)                                         x
E. Assessment of Outcome       Highly         Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory      Highly
Satisfactory                                    Unsatisfactory
x



- 15 -
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Year of
Loan/Credit Title                 Purpose                        Approval    Status
Preceding Operations
1.  Highway                           Provincial road network expansion/  FY85   Completed
Ln 2539-/Cr 1954-CHA              improvement
2.  Shaanxi Provincial Highway        See footnote aI                   FY88      Completed
Ln 2952-CHA
3.  Jiangxi Provincial Highway        See footnote a                    FY89      Completed
Cr 1984-CHA
Following Operations
1.  Beijing-Tianjin-Tanggu Expressway    See footnote aI               FY87      Completed
Ln 2811/Cr 1792-CHA
2.  Sichuan Provincial Highway        See footnote aI                  FY88       Ongoing
Ln2951/Cr 1917-CHA
3.  Shandong Provincial Highway       See footnote LI                   FY89      Ongoing
Ln 3073/Cr 2025-CHA
4.  Zhejiang Provincial Highway       See footnote LI                   FY92      Ongoing
Ln 3471 -CHA
5.  Henan Provincial Highway          See footnote LI                  FY93      Ongoing
Ln 353 1-CHA
6.  Guangdong Provincial Highway      See footnote LI                   FY93      Ongoing
Ln 3530-CHA
7.  Fujian Provincial Highway         See footnote LI                   FY94      Ongoing
Ln 368 1-CHA
8.  Hebei/Henan National Highway      See footnote LI                  FY94      Ongoing
Ln 3748-CHA
9.  Xinjiang Highway I                See footnote LI                  FY95      Ongoing
Ln 3787-CHA
10. Shanghai-Zhejiang Highway         See footnote LI                  FY96      Ongoing
Ln 3929-CHA
11. Second Shaanxi Provincial Highway    See footnote LI               FY96      Ongoing
Ln 3986-CHA
12. Henan Provincial Highway II       See footnote lI                  FY96      Ongoing
Ln 4027-CHA
/1  These highway projects typically have had the following components: (a) construction of a major
highway; (b) improvement of provincial roads; (c) procurement of road maintenance equipment; and
(d) institutional development components, such as RDB and PMS programs, staff training and selected
subsector-oriented studies.



-16-
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in project cycle                               Date planned              Date actual
Idendfication                                            N.A.                    Apr-88
Preappraisal                                             N.A.                    Oct-88
Appraisal                                               Dec-88                   Jan-89
Negotiations                                            May-89                  May-89
Board presentation                                       Jun-89                Apr 9, 1991
Signing                                                  Jun-91                Jul 10, 1991
Effectiveness                                           Sep-91                 Sep 6, 1991
Project completion                                    Dec 31, 1995            Jun30, 1996
Loan closing                                          Jun 30, 1996            Jun 30, 1996
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENT: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATE AND ACTUAL
($ million)
FY92         FY93      FY94      FY95      FY96    FY97
Appraisal estimate                41.3          84.6     115.6    138.6    153.6
Actual                            51.7          71.5     109.1      128.7    151.6    153.1
Adjusted appraisal estimate la     51.5         71.3      108.7    128.3    151.1        -
Actual as % of adjusted estimate  124.7%       84.3%     94.0%     92.6%     98.4%    100.0%
Date of final disbursement                                                     August27, 1996
La Appraisal estimate adjusted for SDR/$ exchange rate variation.



-17-
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Estimated                   Actual
Key implementation indicators in SAR      Start     Complete         Start     Complete
Construction
1. Road Network Rehabilitation               Jul-89     Dec-94          Jul-89     Jun-96
2. Nanjing-Shanghai Road rehabilitation     Nov-89      Dec-92         Nov-89      Dec-91
3. Grand Canal Rehabilitation at Danyang    Feb-90      Dec-91          Feb-90     Dec-92
4. Nantong Shiplock                         Oct-91      Sep-93          Oct-91     Dec-93
5. Jiuweigang Bridge                        Nov-90      Dec-92         Nov-90      Dec-92
Equipment
6. Road maintenance equipment               May-92      Jun-93         Aug-95      Dec-95
(Award to delivery)
7. Central Laboratory and CAD               May-92      Jun-93          Oct-94     Aug-95
(Award to delivery)
Consulting Services
8. Construction supervision and training    Oct-89      Jul-93          Oct-89     Nov-93
9. Pavement evaluation and preparation of a  Jul-91     Nov-92          Mar-93     Sep-95
pavement strengthening program
10. Road Data Bank                           Jul-91     Nov-92          Mar-93      Sep-95
11. JPCD staff training La                   Aug-91      Oct-92         Dec-93      Jun-96
12. Assistance to transport construction units  Aug-91   Dec-91         Aug-94      Jun-96
13 Provincial corridor study                 Aug-91      Oct-92         Feb-95      May-96
l Only 10 staff out of a planned 40 were sent abroad for training.



- 18 -
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATIONS
Length (kn)            Traffic (1994 AADT)
Key operating indicators in SAR         Estimated    Actual         Estimated     Actual
1. Road Network Rehabilitation
Phase I
Changzhou-Tianwang                 71.0        68.6       5,400 (in 1993)    4,500
Changshu-Suzhou                    33.5        33.5       7,100 (in 1993)    8,390
Pingwang-Wangjiangjing             14.5        14.0       4,500 (in 1993)    8,300
Xiaohe-Huangtu                     30.0        31.2       4,700 (in 1993)    3,680
Hutai-Caoqiao                      13.0        13.4       6,900 (in 1993)    9,830
Pingwang Bridge         (bridge)   260m       344m        5,300 (in 1993)    9,820
(approach)    3km       3.9km
Phase II
Gelong-Yaozhen-Guli                382         38.2       11,025 (in 1994)   12,050
11,576 (in 1995)
Changshu-Wuxi                      41.2        36.6       7,762 (in 1994)    12,800
8,150 (in 1995)
Huangtu-Xiagang                    17.5        17.2       5,612 (in 1994)    11,130
6,005 (in 1995)
Tianwangsi-Lishui                  18.7        20.6       6,765 (in 1994)    3,040
7,103 (in 1995)
Phase III
Danyang-Jintan-Liyang              64.3        63.8       4,200 (in 1995)    6,300
Changshu-Luyuan                    27.8        25.7          12,960        5,930
Zhenjiang-Xiaohe                   42.0        42.0           5,930        2,740
Yunting-Yaluji                     37.5        38.6           3,480        2,810
Qimen Interchange                   -           -             13,470      28,840
Gechun-Danyang                     22.2        22.2
Qishuyan-Yuecheng                  22.4        22.4
Kunshan-Taichang                   13.6        13.6
2. Nanijng-Shanghai Highway _ e ltati
Zhenjiang-Changzhou                72.4        70.7       7,080 (in 1993)   17,970
Wuxi-Suzhou                        52.6        51.2           9,040        17,850
Suzhou-Anting                      52.0       54.6            9,370       20,680
3. Grand Canal Rehabilitation (Danyang)    17.0       17.0        11 million tons  6.1 million
(in 1993)     tons
4. Nantong Shiplock                   220 x 16 x 3.3 220 x 16 x    17.6 million tons 7.5 million
3.3                        tons
5. Jiuweigang Bridge           (bridge)   260m       41 Im       10,000 (in 2000)   13,250
(approach)    3 km     2.4 km



- 19 -
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Study                   Purpose as defined at       Status               Impact of Study
Appraisal/Redefined
1. Highway Data Bank    Determine the bearing capacity   The study was com-    Provincial- and city-
Preparation, Pavement   and residual life of the existing   pleted in 1995. A pri-  level data banks on
Evaluation and Strength-  roads in relation to present and   ority 5-year program    national and provin-
ening Program and     estimated future traffic. A five-  and related budget  cial roads have been,
Maintenance Manage-    year program would be       requirements, along  or are being, set up,
ment Study            prepared to identify the     with the first year's  which will help
manpower resources, materials,  projects and project-   devise a more
equipment and funds needed to  level PMS, were   practical program for
strengthen and maintain paved   prepared.        road maintenance.
roads. A computerized Road
Data Bank would be set up
which would include road and
pavement inventories and traffic
volumes.
2. Study on the Develop-   Improve the quality and capa-    All three phases were   Most trainees were
ment of Construction  city of city and county construc-  completed, and a fnal  enterprise managers,
Units                 tion units in the short run and    report on the study was  who will introduce
begin converting these units  prepared.          what they learned in
into independent, self-sustaining                the study into their
enterprises that can operate in                  policy-making and
an environment of competitive                    programming.
bidding in the longer run.
3. Provincial Transport  Evaluate, from both an econom-  The final report on the   The study's
Corridor Study        ic and engineering perspective,  study was completed    conclusion and
alternative locations for a possi-  and submitted to the    recommendation will
ble extension or addition of pro-  Bank.         be considered when
vincial transport corridors; iden-               JPCD finalizes and
tify and assess a broad range of                 implements its
technical options and their                      transport plan and
costs; and estimate the approxi-                 program for the Ninth
mate order of magnitude of ben-                  Five-Year Plan.
efits for each alternative,
determine its optional timing,
and estimate the economic
losses from either deferring or
advancing the investment from
the optional year.



- 20 -
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
(Yuan million)
Appraisal estimate          Actual/latest estimate
Item                              Local  Foreign    Total       Local   Foreign   Total
Civil Works
Road Network Rehabilitation        454.2   302.8    757.0        754.6   651.6  1,406.2
Nanjing-Shanghai Road              130.3    159.4    289.7       220.5   181.4   401.9
Danyang Canal Rehabilitation        38.0    25.2       63.2       31.4    31.1    62.5
Nantong Shiplock                     18.4    24.3      42.7       31.2    20.7    51.9
Jiuweigang Bridge                   11.8    14.3       26.1       15.0    13.4    28.4
Subtotal                         652.7   526.0   1,178.7    1,052.7   898.2  1,950.9
Supervision of Construction         11.5      9.2      20.7        0.0     5.2      5.2
Development of Construction Units    0.4      1.5       1.9        0.0     3.3      3.3
Equipment                            6.5    49.5       56.0        0.0    96.3    96.3
Technical Assistance and Training    2.3      9.6      11.9        0.0    10.6    10.6
Base Cost                        673.4   595.8   1,269.2    1,052.7  1,013.6  2,066.3
Physical Contingencies              58.5    51.9    110.4          0.0     0.0      0.0
Price Contingencies                 118.0   104.6    222.6         0.0     0.0      0.0
Subtotal                         849.9   752.3   1,602.2    1,052.7  1,013.6  2,066.3
Land Acquisition                   118.0    -         118.0      247.4      -    247.4
Total Project Costs              967.9   752.3   1,720.2    1,300.1  1,013.6  2,313.7



-21 -
TABLE 8B: PROJECT COSTS
($ million)
Appraisal estimate         ActuaVlatest estimate
Item                 Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign    Total
Civil Works
Road Network Rehabilitation          87.0      58.0    145.0   109.6    94.6      204.2
Nanjing-Shanghai Road                25.0      30.5     55.5    40.1    33.0       73.1
Danyang Canal Rehabilitation          7.3       4.8     12.1      5.7     5.6      11.3
Nantong Shiplock                      3.5       4.7      8.2      5.4     3.6       9.0
Jiuweigang Bridge                     2.3       2.7      5.0      2.7     2.4       5.1
Subtotal                          125.1    100.7    225.8    163.5   139.2     302.7
Supervision of Construction           2.2       1.8      4.0      0.0     0.6       0.6
Development of Construction Units     0.1       0.3      0.4      0.0     0.4       0.4
Equipment                             1.3       9.5     10.8      0.0    11.6      11.6
Technical Assistance and Training     0.5       1.8      2.3      0.0     1.3       1.3
Base Cost                         129.2    114.1    243.3    163.5   153.1      316.6
Physical Contingencies                11.2      9.9     21.1      0.0     0.0       0.0
Price Contingencies                   13.6     12.2     25.8      0.0     0.0       0.0
Subtotal                          154.0    136.2    290.2    163.5   153.1     316.6
Land Acquisition                     22.6       -       22.6    39.0      -        39.0
Total Project Costs               176.6    136.2    312.8   202.5   153.1       355.6
Exchange rate (planned)     $1.00 = Y 5.52
Exchange rate (actual)      $1.00 = Y 6.62



- 22 -
TABLE 8c: PROJECT FINANCING
($ million)
Appraisal estimate              Actual/late estimate
Source             Local    Foreign    Total        Local    Foreign    Total
IBRD/IDA                      17.4      136.2    153.6           0.0     153.1    153.1
Provincial Government        159.2        0.0    159.2         202.5       0.0    202.5
Total                      176.6      136.2    312.8         202.5     153.1    355.6
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
Costs /a    Benefits /b    NPV Lc    ERR (%)
SAR
Nanjing-Shanghai Highway                    788.80     538.6      1,559.2      64.0
Road Network Rehabilitation:
Phase I                             515.60       87.98       N.A.       42.0
Phase II                            555.44      127.71        N.A.       N.A.
Phase III                           858.41      95.40         N.A.       N.A.
Subtotal                                1,929.45    379.64
Grand Canal at Danyang                      108.84      13.81       83.57       19.6
Nantong Shiplock                             91.52       7.47       29.9       20.2
Jiuweigang Bridge                            52.73       6.30        N.A.       N.A.
Total                                   2,971.34    1,391.04      N.A.       N.A.
ICR
Nanjing-Shanghai Highway                    607.96     183.69     4,423.6      50.4
Road Network Rehabilitation:
Phase I                             374.00       N.A.       402.2       23.9
Phase II                              N.A.       N.A.       217.8       20.3
Phase III                             N.A.       N.A.       241.5       19.3
Subtotal                                1,627.99      N.A.       861.5       21.4
Grand Canal at Danyang                      101.92      12.77      278.7       24.8
Nantong Shiplock                             78.73      53.43       80.0       20.8
Jiuweigang Bridge                            56.14      N.A.        46.8       21.3
Total                                   2,472.32      N.A.     5,108.0       38.5
/a  December 1996 prices (Yuan million).
Lb First year benefits (December 1996 prices, with different opening years)
/c  Discount rate = 12%
/d  Two-lane NJH, opening in 1993.
/e  Four-lane NJH, opening in 1996.
Lf  Four-lane NJH, assumed opening in 2003.



- 23 -
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Cove-             Original    Revised
Agree-                    nant    Present  fulfillment  fulfillment
ment       Section       type    Status     date        date          Description of covenant    Comments
Credit   2.02(a)           3         C                             Expenditures made in respect of    None.
the reasonable cost of goods and
services.
2.02(b)           I        C                             Open and maintain a special     None.
account.
3.01(a)           5        C                             Commitment to project objectives   None.
and meeting obligations by
beneficiaries under the Project
Agreement.
3.01(b)           3        C                             Satisfactory onlending          None.
arrangement to Jiangsu Province.
3.03              5        C                             Meeting requirements of General    None.
Conditions, Sections 9.03-9.08
4.01(a) and (b)   I        C                             Maintaining adequate financial  None.
records and audit reporting.
Loan     3.02              5         C                             Meeting requirements for General   None.
Conditions, Section 9.04-9.09.
Project   2.01(a)          5         C                             Commitment to project objectives   None.
and provisions of funds.
2.01(b),         10        C                             Selection of the roads to be    None.
Schedule 1(a)                                            established in accordance with
criteria and procedures.
2.01(b),         10        C                             Provision of a list of roads    None.
Schedule l(b)                                            selected.
2.01(b),         10       CD                             Implementation of studies in    Delays in
Schedule 2                                               accordance with terms of        implementation
reference and timing.           of studies.
2.01(b),         10       CP                             Implementation of staff training in   Some staff
Schedule 3                                               accordance with a program       training was not
agreed.                         undertaken.
2.01(b),          7        C                             Carry out the resettlement.     None.
Schedule 4
2.02              5        C                             Compliance with procurement     None.
requirements in Schedule 3 of
Development Credit Agreement.
2.03              5        C                             Meeting requirements of General    None.
Conditions, Sections 9.03-9.09
(Credit Agreement) and Sections
9.04-9.09 (Loan Agreement).
2.04(a)           9        C                             Exchange of views with the Bank    None.
2.04(b)           9        C                             Information on interference with  None.
project implementation
3.01              1        C                             Maintain adequate financial     None.
records and audit accounts.
Covenant Class:                                                                 Status:
1 = Accounts/audits                8 = Indigenous people                      C   = covenant complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue    9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting    CD  = complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries    10 = Project implementation not         CP  = complied with partially
3 = Flow and utilization of project     covered by categories 1-9
funds                         11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral
4 = Counterpart funding                 budgetary or other resources
5 = Management aspects of the           allocation
project or executing agency   12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6 = Environmental covenants             regulatory/institutional action
7 = Involuntary resettlement      13 = Other



- 24 -
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
There was no significant lack of compliance with an applicable Bank Operational Manual
Statement (OD or OP/BP)
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
FY              1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997&a   Total
Preappraisal    38.5    44.2      -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -       82.7
Appraisal        -      35.1      -        -        -        -        -       -        -        -       35.1
Negotiations     -       2.1      6.6    14.6       -        -        -       -        -        -       23.3
Supervision      -       -        -        1.5    21.0      7.5    12.7       5.5    11.9       -       60.1
Completion       -        -       -        -        -        -       -        -        -        5.3      5.3
Total        38.5    81.4      6.6    16.1    21.0        7.5    12.7      5.5    11.9       5.3    206.5
/a As of October 1, 1996.



-25 -
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance rating
Specialized      Imple-         Devel-
Stage of project cycle     Month/   Number of   Days         staff skills    mentation       opment       Type of
year     persons    in field   represented La    status &      objectives    problems
Preidentification           12/87        2          5           00
Identification/Preparation  04/88        2          5          EC,EN
Preappraisal                10/88        4          5       EC,EN,EN,FA
Appraisal                   01/89        4          14     EC,EN,EN,OO
Negotiation                 05/89        4           -     EC,EN,DO,LC,
Postappraisal               08/89        1          2           EN
Postappraisal               09/89        3          3        EC,O0,TE
Board approval              04/91        -           -            -
Signing                     06/91
Effective                   09/91        -           -            -
Supervision 1               10/91        3          10       EN,EN,00            I              I
Supervision 2               04/92        3          5        EN,EN,OO            2              1
Supervision 3               11/92        2          5          EN,00             2              1           Ic
Supervision 4               11/93        2          5          EN,OO             2              1            /c
Supervision 5               05/94        2          5          EN,00             2              1           La
Supervision 6               11/94        1          6            RS              -              -
Supervision 7               07/95        2          6          EN,TS             2              1
Supervision 8               05/96        2          6          EN,RA             2              1
Completion                  11/96        2          5          EN,RA             -              -
/a DO: Disbursement Officer; EC: Economist; EN: Engineer; FA: Financial Analyst; LC: Legal Counsel; 00: Operation
Officer; RA: Research Analyst; RS: Resettlement Specialist; TE: Transport Economist; TS: Transport Specialist.
/b 1: Highly satisfactory; 2: Satisfactory.
/c Typical problems included: implementation delays in technical assistance and studies.






-27 -                    ANNEX 1
ANNEX 1: ECONOMIC EVALUATION
Preface
1.    The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) for the Jiangsu Provincial Transport Project
(Report No. 7706-CHA) presented the economic evaluation for the following project
components:
(a)   the upgrading of Nanjing-Shanghai Class II highway;
(b)   rehabilitating of provincial Road Network Rehabilitation (RNR) program,
by three phases, in the southern Jiangsu area;
(c)   rehabilitating a 17-km section of the Grand Canal at Danyang; and
(d)   constructing a new shiplock at Nantong and an adjacent bridge at
Jiuweigang.
2.    The economic analysis presented in this ICR is based on updated data on traffic,
vehicle operating cost (VOC), ship operating cost (SOC), economic cost and transport
user benefits, taking into account revised assumptions regarding future traffic growth
projection. The methodology used in the economic analysis for this ICR is similar to that
used in the SAR and is summarized in the following:
(a)   capital investment and maintenance costs have been revised to reflect
December 1996 prices and are included in the cost stream;
(b)   the benefit stream, also reflecting December 1996 prices, has been
included and consists of savings in VOC, SOC, reduced traffic congestion
on the existing route, and reduction in losses as a result of increased route
safety;
(c)   a project life of 20 years has been assumed and the capital investment
period for all routes commences in 1988-91 and 1996, depending on the
scenarios; and
(d)   full benefits started to accrue on the Nanjing-Shanghai Class II Highway
and Grand Canal in 1992, Jiuweigang bridge in 1993, Nantong Shiplock in
1994, and road network from 1993-96, depending on the roads.



- 28 -                   ANNEX 1
3.    During implementation of the project, there were some modifications related to
the provincial road development plan, e.g., (a) the construction of Nanjing-Shanghai
expressway; and (b) implementation of Phase II and Phase III under RNR program.
These factors were taken into consideration in the economic analysis for this ICR.
PART I: NANJING-SHANGHAI CLASS II HIGHWAY
4.    As in the SAR, the highway was divided into five sections for economic
evaluation.
Section 1:  from Nanjing to Zhenjiang (57.3 km);
Section 2:   from Zhenjiang to Changzhou (70.7 km);
Section 3:   from Changzhou to Wuxi (45.6 km);
Section 4:   from Wuxi to Suzhou (51.2 km); and
Section 5:   from Suzhou to Anting (Shanghai) (54.6 km).
The Bank financed only three sections of the highway (Sections 2, 4 and 5). The other
two sections of the highway (Sections 1 and 3) were financed by domestic finding and
completed in July 1990, one-and-a-half years earlier than the other three Bank-financed
sections. As in the SAR, cost and benefit analysis were carried out separately for each of
the three sections, as well as the three sections together.
5.    Coincident with the implementation of the Bank-financed highway project, the
Jiangsu Provincial Communications Department (JPCD) constructed the new Nanjing-
Shanghai Expressway. It was completed and opened to the public in September 1996. It
is estimated that after 1997, 55-72 percent of the total highway corridor traffic will be
diverted to the new expressway. It is noted that except for the Nanjing-Zhenjiang section,
the traffic volume on the Nanjing-Shanghai highway already reached capacity for a two-
lane, Class II highway in 1995.
Corridor Traffic
6.    The 1995 highway corridor traffic and its distribution between the old and the
new highway are presented in the following table, indicating SAR forecast and actual
traffic census data:



-29 -                         ANNEX 1
NUMBER OF MOTORIZED VEHICLES PER DAY (AADT) FOR 1995:
The Old Road   The New Highway     Total Corridor    Diversion Factor (DF)
(1)             (2)             (3)=(1)+(2)         (4)=(2)/(3)
SAR
Section 1         2,195               5,121             7,316             70.0%
Section 2         1,292               7,329             8,621             85.0%
Section 3         1,241              11,178             12,419            89.6%
Section 4         1,651               9,356             11,007            85.0%
Section 5         1,149               9,679             13,828            70.0%
ICR
Section 1         1,310              13,104             14,414            90.9%
Section 2         2,695              17,968            20,663             87.0%
Section 3         1,071              21,411            22,482             95.2%
Section 4         2,677              17,845            20,522             87.0%
Section 5         4,115              20,580            24,695             83.3%
Ratios (ICR/SAR)
Section 1           -40.3%         155.9%              97.0%                 --
Section 2           108.6%         145.2%              139.7%
Section 3           -13.7%         91.5%                81.0%
Section 4            62.1%         90.7%                86.4%
Section 5           258.1%         112.6%              128.1%
Source: JPCD and the Bank Staff
7.     As shown above, the 1995 corridor traffic (i.e., the sum of traffic on the parallel
sections of the existing arterial road and the new highway), was much higher than the
SAR estimates, by a range of about 81-140 percent for each of the five sections. For
traffic distribution of the corridor (i.e., between the existing arterial road and the new
highway), the five sections were not substantially different from that expected at project
appraisal. This has been reflected in the Diversion Factor (DF) for each section of the
corridor, which indicates that so far, a slightly higher-than-expected percentage of the
traffic prefers to travel on the new highway.
8.     As indicated in the above table, after about four years of the highway's operation
(1992-95), the DF ratio for each section of the corridor has been in the range of 83-95
percent. With the higher corridor traffic demand, the traffic on the new highway was
much higher than the SAR's projection on all sections of the new highway.
Traffic Projection
9.     It is recognized that, normally, the buildup of traffic on a new  highway,
particularly when it operates as a toll facility, is gradual in the early years and the
diversion accelerates. Notwithstanding the higher traffic growth on all sections of the



- 30 -                            ANNEX 1
new highway, the ICR's traffic forecast for the highway is more conservative than the
SAR estimates because: (a) completion of the parallel Nanjing-Shanghai expressway in
1997 was not considered in the SAR, and (b) higher DF ratios to the expressway are
expected. These factors would stagnate the traffic growth on the new Class II highway.
10.    Despite an excellent traffic performance record, the long-term  traffic growth rate
(1994-2015) for the new highway has been estimated, conservatively, in the range of -2.6
percent and 0.3 percent. This estimate is significantly lower than that in the SAR-which
assumed a uniform  growth rate of about 8.6 percent for all five sections-due to the
expected opening of the Nanjing-Shanghai expressway in 1997. Most of the highway
corridor traffic (55-72 percent) may shift to the new expressway (para. 5). The resulting
traffic projections by section are summarized as follows:
TRAFFIC FORECAST COMPARISON FOR THE NEW HIGHWAY (AADT) BY SECTIONS:
Section I     Section 2       Section 3     Section 4     Section 5
Nanjing-     Zhenjiang-      Changzhou-     Wuxi-         Suzhou-
Zhenjiang    Changzhou       Wuxi           Suzhou        Anting
SAR               1994             4,665         6,669          10,197           8,555        8,822
1995             5,121         7,329          11,178           9,356        9,679
2000             8,214         11,807         17,789          14,743        15,507
2010            17,863        25,977          38,600          31,384        34,113
2015            25,958        37,950          56,082          45,218       49,919
Average growth p.a.
1994-2015        8.5%           8.6%           8.5%            8.3%         8.6%
ICR              1994             10,270         16,405         18,636          16,234       17,544
1995            13,104         17,968         21,411          17,845       20,580
2000             8,301          7,404          9,670           7,127         8,735
2010            10,497          8,915         12,727           9,476        10,899
2015            11,010          9,522         13,864          10,567        11,629
Average growth p.a.
1994-2015        0.3%          -2.6%           -1.4%          -2.0%         -1.9%
Note: All figures are rounded.
11.    The projected traffic for the five  sections of the Nanjing-Shanghai Class II
highway for 1994-2015, by type of vehicles, is detailed in Table l.a of this Annex. From
1994-95, actual traffic data have been used. For subsequent years, the following growth
rates have been assumed:
(a)     The normal traffic growth forecast of the new  highway is estimated to
decrease by a range of 8.7-16.8 percent between 1995-2000, due to the
expected opening of the parallel Nanjing-Shanghai expressway in 1997,
reflecting annual average growth rates of 2.2 to 2.9 percent during
2000-10 and a reduction to 1.0-2.2 percent by 2015;
(b)     The generated traffic in the ICR  was assumed to be 5 percent of the
normal traffic.



-31-                      ANNEX 1
By comparison, in the SAR, the normal traffic growth rate for the new highway was
assumed to be about 9.5-10.0 percent between 1995-2000; 7.8-8.2 percent between
2000-10; and 7.6-7.9 percent between 2010-15. The generated traffic growth rate in the
SAR was assumed to be 10-20 percent of the normal traffic.
Economic Costs
12.   Financial costs have been converted to economic costs (Table 3.a) by shadow
pricing for each of the three sections of the highway as shown in Table 2.b. As a result of
the higher-than-SAR estimate of the financial cost of the highway and the shadow pricing
of the financial costs of the highway, the total economic cost of the project in the ICR is
29.7 percent higher than that in the SAR estimates in constant December 1996 prices.
HIGHWAY ECONOMIC COST COMPARISON
(Yuan million)
SAR                  ICR          ICR/SAR
(Jan 1991)   (Dec 1996)    (Dec 1996)       (in %/.)
Zhenjiang-Changzhou        134.00       198.22         240.50         +21.3%
Wuxi-Suzhou                130.00       192.30         319.10         +65.9%
Suzhou-Anting (Shanghai)   147.00       217.44         229.20          +5.4%
Total                    411.00      607.96          788.80         +29.7%
Economic Benefits
13.   The economic analysis includes the benefits derived from (a) VOC savings on the
new highway for normal and generated traffic (Table 4), (b) relieved congestion on the
existing road, and (c) enhanced road safety (Tables 5.a-5.d).
14.   Based on the actual traffic performance, it is estimated that about 85-95 percent of
traffic from the existing arterial road will divert to the new highway. The significant
reduction of traffic on the existing arterial road would diminish congestion and VOCs. In
particular, reduced congestion on the existing arterial road is expected to result in a 15
percent savings of the VOC between 1993 and 1995. Thereafter, because of the gradual
buildup of traffic on the existing arterial road, the savings should be reduced by 1 percent
for each of the remaining five-year periods, to 11 percent by 2015.
15.   In 1988, with an AADT of under 6,000, there was an average of 1.5 accidents per
km per year on the existing road. After the opening of the new Class II highway for
traffic, despite the much higher traffic volume (over 16,000 AADT) in 1995, the number
of accidents only increased to 2.3 per km per year. In order to estimate road accident cost
savings, it was assumed that the reduction in the number of accidents attributable to the



-32 -                              ANNEX I
construction of the highway would be 2.2 accidents per km per year, at a cost of 10,000
yuan per accident.
Economic Evaluation and Sensitivity Analysis
16.    Total costs and benefits streams, Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and Net Present
Value (NPV), for the highway are presented in Table 5.a, and for the three individual
sections of the highway in Table 5.b-5.d. The overall ERR on the highway investment is
estimated to be 50.4 percent, compared against the SAR estimate of 64.0 percent.
Sensitivity Analyses and comparisons with the SAR results are presented in the following
table.
Section 2        Section 4       Section 5
Zhenjiang-         Wuxi-          Suzhou-
Changzhou         Suzhou      Anting (Shanghai)    Total
ICR:
Best estimate of rate of return           44.1%            34.6%              60.1%             50.4%
NPV (12%, million Yuan)              1,254.3            791.6            1,976.8           4,423.6
20% increase in costs and best
estimate of benefits                    39.9%            30.7%             55.0%             42.1%
NPV (12%, million Yuan)              1,217.1            743.7            1,946.4           4,140.9
20% decrease in benefits and
best estimate of costs                 39.0%             29.9%             53.9%             41.2%
NPV (12%, million Yuan)                966.3            585.4            1,551.1           3,288.7
20% increase in costs and 20%
decrease in benefits                    35.2%            26.4%             49.2%             37.1%
NPV (12%, million Yuan)               929.2             537.6            1,520.7           3,170.0
SAR: la
Best estimate of rate of return           57.55%            53.68%            78.40%            64.04
NPV (12%, million Yuan)                411.38           372.04             754.82           1,559.24
20% increase in costs and best
estimate of benefits                    50.11%           46.61%            68.24%            55.72
NPV (12%, million Yuan)               420.60            351.94            723.07           1,465.60
20%/o decrease in benefits and
best estimate of costs                 48.55%            45.12%            66.12%            53.98
NPV (12%, million Yuan)               331.63            276.88            573.17           1,181.68
20% increase in costs and 20%
decrease in benefits (%)               42.14%            39.01%            57.47%            46.86
NPV (12%, million Yuan)               310.85            256.78            550.42           1,118.05
/a: NPV = January 1, 1991 prices.



~ 33 -                  ANNEX 1
PART II: THE BRIDGES AND INTERCHANGE
Background
17.   The project involved two bridges and one interchange construction including the
following:
(a)   Pingwang Bridge:  The new Pingwang bridge was constructed under
the Phase I RNR program, together with a 3-km access road.
(b)   Jiuweigang Bridge: A new bridge was constructed on the west side of
Nantong city, which serves westbound traffic of the city.
(c)   Qimen Interchange: The Qimen interchange was located to serve the
most important cities, including Wuxi, Shanghai, Changshu and Suzhou.
The interchange was opened to public in December 1995, and the traffic
immediately reached about 34,000 AADT. This project was one of the
subcomponents of Phase III under the RNR program.
Traffic Projection
18.  In the SAR, there is no numerical analysis on Jiuweigang bridge and Qimen
interchange. For Pingwang bridge, the actual traffic for 1995 was 9,564 AADT in
comparison to 6,170 AADT forecasted in the SAR. Pingwang bridge also included the
construction of a 3-km access road. Despite the fast traffic growth in the southern
Jiangsu corridor, a conservative approach was taken for the ICR's traffic projection
(about 1-3 percent annual growth) because: (a) the overall traffic demand for the roads,
bridges and interchange are expected to be in line with the highway component, which
would be somewhat affected by the completion of the new expressway in 1997 (paras 9
and 10), (b) the renovation of the existing waterway bottleneck area, financed by the
Bank, would encourage the low-valued break bulk cargoes to use the much cheaper
inland water system (para 34); and (c) the future growth would be limited by its original
design capacity. The detailed traffic performance and projection comparisons, by each
component, are shown in Table l.b and summarized as follows:



ANNEX 1
TRAFFIC FORECAST COMPARISON FOR Two BRIDGES
AND AN INTERCHANGE(AADT)
Pingwang         Jiuweigang           Qirnen
Bridge            Bridge          Interchange
SAR:          1995                    6,170               n.a.              n.a.
2000                    9,020              n.a.               n.a.
2010                     n.a.              n.a.               n.a.
2015                     n.a.              n.a.               n.a.
Average growth p.a.
1995-2000               7.9%               n.a.               n.a.
ICR:          1995                    10,520             13,254            34,767
2000                    12,196            15,365             40,304
2010                    14,152            17,829             46,769
2015                    14,874            18,738             49,155
Average growth p.a.
1995-2015              1.75%              1.75%              1.75%
Note: All figures are rounded.
Economic Costs
19.   All costs necessary for completion of the facilities planned under the project have
been taken into account in the economic evaluation of the project. All inputs and outputs
have been evaluated in constant December 1996 economic costs (Table 2.a). Financial
costs have been converted to economic costs by shadow pricing, using a factor of 0.97 for
Pingwang bridge and Qimen interchange, and 0.98 for Jiuweigang bridge (Table 3.b).
20.   In the ICR, the overall effect of shadow priced economic costs on Pingwang
bridge, Qimen interchange and Jiuweigang bridge at December 1996 prices was to
increase their financial costs by 38.7 percent, 11.1 percent and 47.0 percent, respectively
(Tables 2.a and 2.b). The ICR's total economic cost for Pingwang bridge is 14.0 percent
higher than the SAR estimate. It is 6.1 percent lower for Jiuweigang bridge.
PROJECT ECONOMIC COST COMPARISON
(Yuan million)
SAR                      ICR        ICR/SAR
(Jan 1991)    (Dec 1996)       (Dec 1996)     (in %)
Pingwang Bridge                  22.00         33.00             37.62       +14.0%
Jiuweigang Bridge                37.98         56.14             52.73        - 6.1%
Qimnen interchange                n.a.          n.a.             55.23         n.a.



~ 35 -                     ANNEX 1
Economic Benefits
21.   The economic analysis primarily focused on the benefits derived from (a) VOC
savings on normal traffic due to shorter distance and/or road improvement, including
generated traffic; (b) relieved congestion; and (c) road safety savings.
22.   The ERRs were calculated on the basis of the actual traffic performance. Better
driving conditions reduce congestion and the VOC of the vehicle. Consequently,
congestion on the existing roads is expected to result in a 15 percent savings of the VOC
between 1993 and 1995. Thereafter, because of the gradual buildup of traffic on the two
existing bridges, the savings should be reduced by 1 percent for each of the remaining
five-year periods, to 11 percent by 2015.
23.   For the Pingwang bridge and the Qimen interchange, there are no accident savings
because records do not show any accidents on the project site either with or without the
project. For the Jiuweigang bridge, in 1988 there were two accidents on the old bridges.
After the opening of the new bridge to traffic, the number of accidents was reduced to one
in 1995. Estimating the bridge accident cost savings, it was assumed that the reduction in
the number of accidents, resulting from the construction of the new bridge, would be one
accident per year at a cost of 10,000 Yuan for each accident.
Economic Evaluation and Sensitivity Analysis
24.   Table 6 (1-6), Table 6 (III-5) and Table 7 show the Economic Rate of Return
(ERR), Net Present Value (NPV), and sensitivity calculations for each bridge and
interchange. The ERR of Pingwang bridge is estimated at 39.9 percent (21 percent as
estimated in the SAR). The ERRs of Jiuweigang bridge and Qimen interchange are 21.3
percent and 19.6 percent, respectively. (In the SAR, there are no estimated ERRs for
those components.) Compared with the SAR, the sensitivity of ERR and NPV of the
project to variations in costs and benefits are summarized as follows:
Pingwang Bridge    Jiuweigang         Qimen
Bridge             Interchange
SAR    ICR         SAR    ICR          SAR     ICR
Best estimate of rate of return  21%    39.9%      n.a.    21.3%       n.a.    19.6%
NPV (12%, million Yuan)      n.a.   116.0       n.a.    46.8        n.a.    34.9
20% increase in costs and best
estimate of benefits           n.a.    34.9%       n.a.    18.9%       n.a.    18.0%
NPV (12%, million Yuan)      n.a.   109.6       n.a.    38.9        n.a.    29.8
20% decrease in benefits and
best estimate of costs         n.a.    33.9%       n.a.    18.3%       n.a.    17.9%
NPV (12%, million Yuan)      n.a.    86.4       n.a.    29.6        n.a.    26.4
20% increase in costs and 20%
decrease in benefits           n.a.    29.6%       n.a.    16.1%       n.a.    16.4%
NPV (12%, million Yuan)      n.a.    79.9       n.a.    21.7        n.a.    21.3



- 36 -                   ANNEX 1
PART III: ROAD NETWORK REHABILITATION
Background and Traffic
25.   The Road Network Rehabilitation (RNR) program was implemented by three
phases with a total of 18 subcomponents. All these subcomponents under the RNR
program are the major local trunk routes and current traffic on those routes all reached at
least over 3,000 AADT. The first phase, identified in the SAR, covered the construction
of five roads and one bridge (Pingwang bridge) during 1989-94. The second phase
covered the construction of four roads during 1992-94. And the third phase covers the
construction of seven roads and one interchange (Qimen) during 1993-96.
26.   Since all the 18 subcomponents of the RNR program are located in the same flat-
rolling area, the local economic development and traffic patterns are quite similar. Based
on actual traffic data, the following assumptions have been made in the economic
analyses regarding future traffic growth for the most of the roads: a 3.0 percent per year
traffic increase during 1995-2004, reducing to 2.0 percent thereafter.
Economic Costs and Benefits
27.   Costs and benefits of the RNR program have been converted to December 1996
economic costs. Financial costs have been converted to economic costs by applying
shadow pricing, using a factor of 0.97 (Table 3.a). The overall effect of shadow-pricing
the financial cost of the 18 subcomponents at December 1996 prices has been that the
economic cost became about 20.6 percent higher than the financial costs (Tables 2.a and
2.b).
28.   The benefits have been derived from (a) VOC savings (i) for normal traffic due to
shorter distance and/or road condition improvement, and (ii) for generated traffic;
(b) time savings on freight and passenger transport; and (c) savings in accident cost.
29.   With the project, all 18 subcomponents were upgraded to Class II or Class III
condition. The better pavement of the surface reduces VOC, which yielded the majority
of the project benefits. Generated traffic was assumed to be 5 percent of the normal
traffic.
30.   The better pavement of the roads, bridges and interchange increases vehicle speed
and improves the turnaround time for freight and passenger transport. The benefits to
freight transport (assumed at Y 2.0/hour/vehicle) and passenger transport (assumed at
Y 1.0/hour/passenger) were calculated on this basis.
31.  It was estimated that the accident reduction on the improved surface would be one
accident per 5 km per year at a cost saving of Y 9,000-10,000 per accident, depending on
the road.



~ 37 -                  ANNEX 1
Economic Evaluation and Sensitivity Analysis
32.   The economic evaluation of the RNR program is presented in Tables 6 (I-1 - III-
8), indicating the stream of costs and benefits for years between 1990-2012, VOC data,
and the characteristics of the roads. The ERRs, by three phases, range from 12.0 percent
to 47.4 percent. The overall ERR for the RNR program is 20.8 percent. The detailed
summary of the results are presented in Table 10 and are summarized as follows:
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN ON THE RNR PROGRAM
ERR                            NPV
SAR         ICR                SAR         ICR
Phase I                 42.0%        23.3%              n.a.        402.2
Phase II                 n.a.        19.7%              n.a.        217.8
Phase III                n.a.        18.8%              n.a.        241.5
Total                  n.a.        20.8%              n.a.       861.5
PART IV: GRAND CANAL REHABILITATION AND SHIPLOCK
Background
33.   The project included one canal (at Danyang) rehabilitation and one Shiplock (at
Nantong) construction, listed as follows:
(a)   Grand Canal at Danyang: The section of the Grand Canal at Danyang
with a total length of about 17 km was upgraded to match the design
capacity of the Jianbi Shiplock.
(b)   Nantong Shiplock:  The current traffic demand greatly exceeded its
original design capacity and, hence, the new Nantong shiplock was
constructed to increase the capacity, up to 17 million tons annually.
Traffic Projection
34.   Without the project, the traffic for Danyang canal handled 2.7 million tons of
cargo in 1990. With the project, the traffic of the canal increased to 4.6 million ton in
1993, the first year of opening. In 1995, the canal handled 6.1 million tons, with about 70
percent downstream traffic movement. It was estimated that 90 percent of traffic was low
valued dry bulk cargo, such as coal, ores and construction materials (sand, stone and
brick, etc.). Based on the current economic activities in this area, the following
assumptions have been made in the economic analyses regarding the annual traffic
growth: 12.5 percent increase during 1995-2000, 9 percent between 2000-05 and reduced
by 1 percent every five years, to 7 percent in 2015 (Table l.c).



-38 -                    ANNEX 1
35.   The traffic data collected at Nantong Shiplock showed a simple transport pattern
in cargo movements. About 95 percent of traffic consists of coal, ores and construction
materials, with about 97 percent of cargo moved from downstream to upstream. In the
first year of opening (1994), the new Nantong Shiplock handled 3.9 million tons of cargo,
and 7.5 million tons in 1995. The increase of capacity greatly released the pressure of the
old shiplock. For example, in 1993, before the completion of the project, the old shiplock
handled 9.4 million tons, whereas by 1995, cargo transport had been reduced to 8.4
million tons. To undertake economic analyses, the following assumptions have been
made regarding the annual traffic growth: 7.0 percent annual average increase during
1995-2000, reduced by 2 percent every five years to 1 percent in 2015 (Table l.c).
Economic Costs
36.   All the project costs have been converted to December 1996 economic costs.
Financial costs have been converted to economic costs by shadow pricing, using a factor
of 0.98 for the Danyang canal and 0.95 for Nantong Shiplock (Table 3.b). The overall
effects of shadow-pricing was to increase the economic costs of the Danyang canal and
the Nantong shiplock at December 1996 prices to about 44.1 percent and 50.5 percent
higher than the financial costs (Tables 2.a and 2.b).
37.  In the ICR, the total economic cost for Danyang canal is 6.8 percent higher than
the SAR estimate and 16.9 percent higher in the case of Nantong Shiplock.
PROJECT ECONOMIC COST COMPARISON
(Yuan million)
SAR                  ICR           ICR/SAR
(Jan 1991)  (Dec 1996)  (Dec 1996)        (in %)
Danyang Canal             68.90     101.92         108.84            +6.8%
Nantong Shiplock          52.94      78.73          91.52           +16.3%
Economic Benefits
38.   The economic evaluation considered two options: (a) a "do-nothing" approach
against the most cost-effective solution, and (b) identification of the best alternative
solution. A lack of improvements to the Danyang canal and Nantong shiplock would
result in continued underutilization of the canal and worsen the existing traffic congestion
of shiplocks. For the local people, the waterway has provided the cheapest means and the
most cost-effective solution of transport for shipping low-valued dry bulk cargo. There is
no railway line in Nantong and only one parallel railway line near Danyang canal. The
design capacity of the railway is 42.2 million tons per year, and the actual traffic in 1995
was 42.9 million tons. Without the project, as the pressure of congestion on those



~ 39 -                     ANNEX 1
transport hubs is worsened, the excess traffic would spill over to the much more
expensive highway mode.
39.   A simple queuing modeling has been employed to simulate this chain of events in
order to quantify the order of magnitude of benefits involved. The benefits consist of:
(a)    unit transport cost savings by increasing shipment size;
(b)    reduced travel distances for waterborne traffic with the project;
(c)    elimination of the need to transport via the higher cost mode (highway);
and
(d)    congestion savings resulting from total operating cost savings due to the
fast transport time.
40.   The average shipment per ship for Danyang canal has increased from 50 tons to
about 70 tons. For the Nantong shiplock, the capacity with and without the project were
about 90 tons and 60 tons, respectively. The unit economic waterway transport costs for
various sizes of shipments and VOC used in the economic evaluation are summarized
below:
ECONOMIC BARGE OPERATING COST
(Yuan/ton-km)
50 ton        60 ton        70 ton        90 ton
Variable cost                     0.404         0.340         0.276         0.201
Fixed cost                        0.146         0.119         0.092         0.061
Total                          0.550         0.459         0.368          0.262
Source: China, Inland Waterway Project, Report No. 13934-CHA May 26, 1995, p.120.
VOC FOR MEDIUM TRUCK
(Yuan/1,000 Vehicle-km) La
Fuel                                                               240
Tires                                                               93
Maintenance                                                        251
Crew                                                               239
Depreciation                                                       107
Total                                                              930
La Paved fair flat-rolling for 3.5-ton loading capacity, 110 hp, average speed 35 km per hour and 10-year
lifetime
Source: China, Inland Waterway Project, Report No. 13934-CHA May 26, 1995, p.120.



-40 -                        ANNEX 1
41.   The cost and benefit streams over time, and the resulting economic indicators for
each project component, are summarized in Tables 8 and 9.
42.   Avoiding Traffic Diversion From Inland Waterway to Road.  In the absence
of the project, when the inland waterway (IWW) traffic reaches the saturation point of
full capacity utilization, any excess traffic is assumed to spill over to roads, a more costly
mode of transport. With the project, congestion on the canal and shiplock traffic can be
avoided, resulting in savings from avoiding use of the more expensive road traffic mode.
Conservatively, it was assumed that the trigger point of switchover to roads would be
when the shiplock and canal traffic exceeded 250 percent of its design capacity. It was
also estimated, with the project, that only 50 percent of traffic can take advantage of
larger shipments with the remainder of traffic, taking five years to obtain the full benefit
of large shipments. Without the project, the traffic condition and flow will deteriorate.
The congestion savings were assumed to be 5 percent of existing transport cost and were
increased by 2 percent annually.
Economic Evaluation and Sensitivity Analysis
43.   Tables 8 and 9 show ERRs and sensitivity calculations for the canal and Shiplock.
The ERR of Danyang is estimated to be 24.8 percent (19.6 percent estimated in the SAR).
The ERR of Nantong Shiplock is estimated to be 20.8 percent (20.2 percent estimated in
the SAR). The sensitivity of ERR and NPV in various scenarios in costs and benefits are
summarized as follows:
Danyang Canal            Nantong Shiplock
SAR       ICR             SAR        ICR
Best estimate of rate of return          19.6%      24.8%           20.2%     20.8%
NPV (12%, million Yuan)                83.5     278.7            29.9      80.0
20% increase in costs and best
estimate of benefits                      n.a.      22.3%            n.a.     18.3%
NPV (12%, million Yuan)                 n.a.    254.5             n.a.     63.7
20% decrease in benefits and
best estimate of costs                    n.a.      21.8%            n.a.     17.7%
NPV (12%, million Yuan)                 n.a.     198.8            n.a.     47.7
20% increase in costs and 20%
decrease in benefits                      n.a.      19.7%            n.a.     15.4%
NPV (12%, million Yuan)                 n.a.     174.6            n.a.     31.4
L/ NPV for ICR is million Yuan at December 1996 prices at 12 percent discount rate.
Al NPV for SAR is million Yuan at January 1991 prices at 12 percent discount rate.



-41-                      ANNEX 1
PART V: THE OVERALL ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN AND THE PROJECT RISKS
Overall Economic Rate of Return
44.   The overall economic rate of return on the total project (including the three
subcomponents of the Nanjing-Shanghai Highway rehabilitation, 18 subcomponents of
the three phases of RNR program, Danyang canal, Nantong shiplock and Jiuweigang
bridge) is 38.3 percent and NPV (at 12 percent) is 5.06 billion Yuan (Table 10). (The
overall economic rate return and NPV on the total project were not available in the SAR).
Nanjing-Shanghai      Danyang  Nantong  Jiuweigang
Highway    RNR /a  Canal   Shiplock    Bridge    Total
Best estimate of rate of return (%)
ICR                   50.4%       21.4%   24.8%    20.8%     21.3%    38.5%
SAR                   64.0%        n.a.    19.6%    20.2%     n.a.    n.a.
NPV (12%, million Yuan, December 1995 prices)
ICR                 4,423.6      861.5  278.7      80.0      46.8    5,108.0
SAR /b              1,559.2       n.a.   83.5      29.9      n.a.     n.a.
/a Road Network Rehabilitation.
/b NPV in SAR is million Yuan at January 1991 prices by 12 percent discount.
Financial Evaluation
45.   Most of the roads under the RNR as well as the Danyang Grand Canal, Nantong
Shiplock and the Jiuweigang Bridge are toll free. Thus, the financial evaluation of the
project was focused on the Nanjing-Shanghai Highway (the main component of the
project). The highway is operated as an open toll highway with three toll stations
(Daijiamen, Linjiatong and Kunshan) along the highway. The toll rate does not vary with
distance traveled, only with the size of vehicle (small, medium, large and trailer). The
toll levels have been increased three times since the highway was open to traffic in 1992.
For the last three years (1993-95), the actual toll revenue increased by about 9.6 percent
per year. Traffic on the existing Nanjing-Shanghai Highway would be gradually diverted
to the parallel Nanjing-Shanghai expressway, which was opened to traffic in September
1996. So, the expected future toll revenue of the Highway will reduce. In spite of this
reduction, the estimated financial rate of return (FRR) against the full costs of the
highway is 11.7 percent. This result indicates that the project is likely to recover its
operation cost and to generate sufficient revenue to repay the Bank loan. The toll levels
are not expected to maximize the FRR, but to strike a balance between economic
efficiency and FRR optimization.



-42-                     ANNEX 1
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS RESULTS
Input Data (as of December 1996):
Total cost                                              Y 502.64 million
Debt                                                    Y 202.82 million
Equity                                                  Y 299.82 million
Period of loan                                                20 years
Loan interest rate (onlending rate)                         5.4%
Commitment fee                                              0.75% of balance
Grace period                                                   5 years
Results                                             %  NPV (12%. Y million)
Rate of return on equity                         18.0%  Y 131.64 million
Financial rates of return:
Best estimate                              11.7% Y  -9.86 million
Toll revenue (-10%)                         9.9%  Y -60.76 million
Operating costs (+10%)                     11.5% Y -15.45 million
Toll revenue (-10%) and operating costs (+10%)   9.7%  Y -66.36 million
Project Risks
46.   Most of the components under the project show very robust economic returns.
There is no particular issue that may potentially damage the project. However, despite a
satisfactory overall rate of return on the total project, the ERRs for few components can
be further improved, e.g., through better control of construction costs and an improved
long-term road development plan of the province.



3601
Table L.a: Nanjing~Shanghal Highway Traffic Summary
(AAD1)
No. of
Width Im) La                       Ian"t                 Gedieto (mix. in%) Lc                                    Road clue                                       RowS condolo                                     A.'& speed (knedour)
I         II       Ill       IV         V         I-V        I         if       ill        IV         V          I         II       Ill       IV        V           I        21        II       IV         V           I         II        Ill      IV        IV
Old rood.
a 6 5       6.0        70      6.5-9.0   6.5-9.0      2          H         F         F         F          P         Ill      [if       Ill        Ill       III      Por       Poo~      Poo"      POo"       Poor~      35        35        33        35         is
b    t0        2.5     2.5-12.0  J.S-12.0  B.S-12.0               3.0%      3.0%      3.0%A     3.0%       3.0%     (Paved)  (Paved)  (Paved)  (Poved)  (Paved)
New rowd:
a    to0    10        12-IS     17-19    11-14        2          H         F         F          F         F        I-Il       1I        II        Is        II       Good      Good      Good      Good      Good        56        52         SI        50        57
O    2-23   12        1-Ia      1-20      22-I to               .0       3.0%      3.0%       3.0%      3.0%     (Paved)  (Paved)  (Paved)  (Paved)  (Pored)
---.-- ---- Stuall C.----..   - ----Modiom  DMo---------        --- u.6n .... -.L--oo ----2- Sa11 Trok----                --.---- Mdiao Tettk       .       --Ot.Tmkc-.             .      Tocr-i--            - ------     ----oa- 
Road         Withoa                        Withoet                        without                        Without                       Withoot                        Witho                         Without                        Without
leo-th (boo)    peojoet/_     With Project    PrcieCLe       With Project    project_e      Welt Projet    Project/       WMl Projec      projooll       With Projec     projeell_.    With Project    Proje"e/.      With Project    projeee/       Welt Project
Old      N..        Ol       le Old                Ol         oeOld  Old    New                         l         l        o          l        Old      N,w        Old       Old      New        Old        Old      New         Old       Old      New        Old
road      road      rood      road      rood       road      reed      reed       rood      rood      rood       real     road      road      toed       rood      road      road      rood      read       rood      rood      rood       rood      teal      road
Secton 1.  Naoiog-Zhteojieg (Dootelic fioatcd)
954     876(0      57 30     1,736     1.578       138      2122      102         193       399       363         36       756       607        69     3.664      3.M3       333      1.483     1.348       135      1.137     1.034       t0)    11.297    10.270      1.027
"S9                          1.l081    0.10       171       Z2929      UN0D0      209       832       756         76      1.632     1.484      140     3.268      3.516      332    2Z237       2.034       203     1.665      1.514       151    14.414    13.104      1.310
9907                         1.021      835        106      1.2401    1.021       227       928       208        ISO     2.030      1.67       371     2.042      1.671      371      1.760     1,440       320      1,264     1.034       230    10.361      8.476     1.083
2000                           790       502       290        96S       724       241      1.474     1. 105      369      3.101     2.336       795     1.548     1.161       387       .1134    1.375      459      1,278       958       320    11.070      8,301     2.769
2002                           765       564       201        935       689       246      1. 779    1.311       460      3.903     Z.076     1.027     1,490     1,008       392      1.957     1.442      515      1.350       095       355    12.179      8.975     3.204
201                            780       375       293        933       702       251      2.264       "S6       396      5.049     3.320     1.329     1.569     1.112       397      2.293     1.616      577      1.498      1.104      394    14.246    10.497      3.749
20.3                           784       575       206        050       706       232      2.442      1,709      643      5.476     4.035     1.441     1.513     1.116       39       2.273     1,675      598      1.048      1.141       407    14.996    11.030     3.946
Acce. Rood           2.04
Sectior II: Zlteoji&r%-ChaoSAoo
1994     020       70.70     2.240     1.948       292      2.730     2.381       357      1.480     1.287       193     2.743     2.385       358      5.949     5.173       776     2.590     2.252       350      1.126      979        147    18.866    26.40S      2.461
:"95                         3.188     2.772       416      3.097     3.389       308      2.650     1.442       216      2.582     2.245      337      5.206     4.527       679     2.483     2.159       524      1.649     1.4354      215    20.663    27.968      2.695
1997                         2.441     1.0311      610      2.9085    2.239       746       072        729       243      1,269      032       317      2.380     1.791       597      1.243      952       '311     2.307       900       327    122.05      9,494     3.151
2600                         2.475      1.650      025       2.020     2.029     1.009       708       532       264       920        607       203     1,621     2,085       543       9083      602       302      2,363       9609       454    22.205     7.404     3.701              r.
2602                         2. 622     2.707      023       3,200    2.089      2.229       783       522       274       057        550      299      2.368       90        526       054       356       291      2,458       949,       509    22.2912    7.552     3.040
2010                         3.507      2.284     1.223      4.291     2.794     2.497       054       356       298       22         336       287     2,381       099       482       030       540       290      2.006      1,306      700    23.692      8.023     4.777
2023                         3.844      2.083     2.342      4.704     3.063     2.642       077       572       306       022        329       293     2.344       073       469       823       536       207      2.220      2.445       774    14.623     9.522     5.202
Armt Read            0.00
Section Ill: ChegzitooWooe (DomoteLi finanred)
1994  46.99  4560    2.032     2.01        253       2.62      3.296       265     1.022       973        49      2.823     2.732        07     6.290     5.998       300      3.233     3.079       154       906       03         4       959      2.3           5
"S9                          3.024     2.70        20        .60     35.507       175      2.254     2.059        55     2.864     2.328       236     7.009      7.532       377     2.708     2.379       229      1.252     2.096        55    22.482    22.412      2.871
1997                          2.39      2,305      294       2,070     1692       Ise       630        567        63      2,365     2.128      237      4,000     4.420       490      2.070      983       207       723        652        72    23.206    11.79S      2.312
2060                          2.2421     978       263       1,393     1.194       299       493       424        72      2.099     2.27        303     4.289     3.676       613       644       552        52        642       549         92    22.293     0.670      1.623
2002                          1.102      935       267       2.35      I1241       204       489       415        74      3.083     2.626       467     4.428     3.757       671       572       485        87        665       564        202    12,684     9.913      1.771
2929                         1.165       906       277       14,22     2.206       225       547       464        03      5.016     4.236       760     5,517     4.681       036       496       422        73        028       711        227    25.000    22.727     2.233
20131                        2.186      1.066      3so       1.446     1.227      230        567       4811       96      5.0354    4.967      997      3,932     5.026       856       474       402         72       902       765        137    30.341    13,064     Z.477
Arret Rood           0.99
Section IV; Wooi.Seejto
2994    600.0      51.29     6.248     5.346       062       7.515    6.535       900        403       350        53      2,032      007        233     3.034     2.630       356       324       292        42        224       1206       29    18.670    16.254      2.436
299                          6.220     3,400       020      7.590     6.660       990       493       429         64      2.042      005       236      3.432     2.984       448       667       500        07      2.0019      947       142    20.522    27.845      2.677
1997                         3.2353    2.440       023      2.976     2.9132      994       291        222        70       345       400       236      1.065     1.424       472       822       283       1229     2.07      1.409       470    22.330      9.248     3.882
2060                         2. 443     2.630      023       Z907      2.992      996        229       246        73       409        373       236     1.448       %65       483       460       287        153     2.722      1.813      907    10.690,    7.127      3.563
2002                         2.337      1.32322 3si          2836      2.060      990        223       239         74       392       235       237     2.390       909       407       474       309        265     3.423      2.229     1.204    12.092     7.22      5.06
2020                          2.342     12,32      027       2.062     1.063       99        222       244         77       392       235       237     2.4291      930       498        063      370        296     6.740      4.389     2.351    14.552     9,476     5.076
2023                         2.342      2.25       017       2.063     2.8164     999        224       246        78        392       235       237     2,430       937       502       602       391       229      81,365     5.449     2.020    16.229    20,367     5.662
Arcm Road            0 00
Sectio. V: Sozhcto-MAnttg (Sbaethai)
:994    299.00     34.60     4,092     3.410      082       3.608     4,267       833       0812      735        247     Z.244      2,070      374     6.569      5,424     2.003       596       330        66       .930     2,6000      322    22.033    27,544      3.309
1003                         4.328     4.033       003       3.900    4.927       083      2.040       067       273      2.559     2,226      443      7,602     6.401      12.20      347       289         50     2.240      2.86        373    24.595    20.400     4,22
"97                          3,207     2.232      936       3.797     2.620     1.161       669       463        2906     1,729     1. I"      $529    4.944      2.423     2,322       265       114        52      2,427       962       436    25.820    20.9321    4.81671
2009                         2.870      2.722     1.140      3.300     2.105     1.403       028       372       247      2.597       958       639     4.560     2.742      2.827       Ill       671        44     1.285       772        524    24.537     0.735     5.02
2602                         3.003      1.732     12.21      3.6l      2.142     2.330       647       377       270      2.675       977       608     4.782     2.709      2.092       202       59         42     1.333       778        555    25.212    01.8174    0,338
2929                 ~~~~~~~3,700  2.230  1.942      4.524     2.639      2.885      797       465        332      2.076     2.212      063      3.893     3,438     2.433        86        so        3-6    2,608        036       670    28.00    28.899       7.785
129100                       2.95  2.3    6 35    2,646      4.32.1    2.82      2.013       850       496       354      2.221     2.296       92      6,293     3.672      2.622       82        48         34     2.066       995         72    29.294    21.629     7.60
.Uces, Road 
Tota Id    N6U6ie8Shtotota Illehway                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               :
Ar     573.00    279.40
B;    375.00    292.44
1a   to Real pavemtett;         b. Wilth toa bed.       l-b    Only the 060 section of the new roald(Nanjiog-Zltojimig) it 2/4 Ieee  Le: F:; PF;  H: Hilly.  M: Mooodtloaooo       Ld   &  WholtOtth. accress t r   B : With the acoess reads.   /Le:   Wibhout lIw expteeswety IsfBc.



SBB
Table l.b: Highway Bridges And Interchange Traffic Summary
(AADI)
540 (m)_I                        NM O1h                          (     its Rodd Le             Cou                                                       Ag    d(
a                                       n  m                      u      m                                                              Hi l1 u         
WidPAtheprojed
a / $              C.      4.  122                 2       2       2               I      V       F                       I                     Pw     PMu    Fo               3S      35      t
b   Le             30      35    1.0                                            5Ott   3Mt   SOOt              0a-04) (Paed) (PWd)
With he project
a   La             II    II-it   210              2       2       2               N      F       F               U      1.11    it            Ooad   Good   Goad              56      52      0
b   is             12.e   12-23   15 0                                            3.0il    3     3.ilt          (Paved)  (Paved) (Pwod)
-Small Cr-  -Medium Bus- -Lae Bus-  -Small Tick- -Mediun Tmuck- -La  Tciuk- -Traor-Tiler- - TTota
ToWl    Withot                   Without                Witou                   With                   Witut                  Witho                  Without                 Withut
lath Oan)   project   With Project   proect   Witi Ploject  project   With Project  prect   With Ptoject  project   Widi Project  project   With Projec   pojec    With Prjec   projec    With Proje
O     Ne       O      Ne       O       Old    New      Old    Old   New       Old    Old   New       Old    Old   New       old    Old   New        Old    Old   Naw       Old    Old   New        Old
L Phtgw^aBndge
1990    0.34    0.34    629    -       -        943    -       -       440    -        -      651    -        -       S9S    -       -       514    -       -       153    -        -     4.228    -       -
1994                  1.654   1,654    -      2.480   2.480    -       636    636    -       1.227   1,227    -     2.068   2068    -      1,245   1,245    ,       254    254    -       9.564   9.564    -
1995                  1.,19   1.819    -      2.728   2.728    -       700    700    -       1.349   1,349    -     2.275   2.275    -     1,370   1.370    -       279    279    -    10,520  10.520    -
2000                  2.109   2.109    -      3,163   3,163    -       812    312    -       1,564   1.564    -     2637   2.637    -       1.538   1.538   _       323    323    -    12196  12.196    -
2005                  2.321   2.328    -      3.492   3.492    -       896    896    -       1.727   1.727    -     2.911   2.911    -      1,753   1.753    -      358    358    -    13.465  13.465    -
2010                  2447   2.447    -       3,670   3.670    -       942    942    -       1.815   1.815    -     3.060   3.060    -      1,342   1.342    -      376    376    -    14.152  14.152    -
2015                  2572   2.572    -       3.857   3,857    -       990    990    -       1,903   1,908    -     3.216   3,216    -      1.936   1,936    -      395    395    -    14.874  14.874    -
AeCeaOa    3.54    3.54
11. hiweigBng8ridge
199     0.44    044    731    -        -      1096    -        -      1,167    -      -      1,231    -       -     2,085    --      -       202    -       -       127    -        -     6.645    -       -
1994                  1.513   1.513    -      2.270   2270    -       1,113   1,113    -     1.541   1.541    -     1,946   1,946    -       233    233    -         83      83    -      8.699   8,699    -
1995                  1.858   1,853    -        n787   2737    -      1.651   1,651    -     2.636   2636    -      3.368   3,368    -       852    852    -        102    102    -    13,254  13,254    -
2000                  X.154   2154    -       3.231   3,231    -      1,914   1,914    -     3,056   3,056    -     3,904   3,904    -       938    983    -         11    118    -    15.365  15,365    -
2005                  2378   2.378    -       3,567   3,567    -      2,113  2X113    -      3,374   3,374    -     4,310   4,310    -      1.091   1.091    -       131    131    -    16.964  16,964    -
2010                  2.499   2.499    -       3.749   3,749    -     2.221   2.221    -     3.546   3,546    -     4.530   4,530    -      1,147   1.147    -       137    137    -    17.829  17,829    -
2015                  X626   2.626    -       3,940   3.940    -      2.334  2X334    -      3,727  3,727    -      4,761   4,761    -      1,205   1.205    -       145    145    -    13,738  18.738    -
Aceslad    1.90    1.90
mI. Qinim Intadbw
1995    0.90    0.90  14,075  14,075    -     7,531   7,581    -      2030   2.030    -      3,162   3,162    -     5,963   5,963    -      1,224   1,224    -      732    732    -    34,767  34.767    -
2000                 16,317  16,317    -       3.788   8.788    -     2.353  2X353    -      3666   3,666    -      6,913   6,913    -      1,419   1,419    -       84S    848    -    40304  40,304    -
2005                 18,015  13.015    -      9,703   9,703    -      2.598   2.59           4,048  4,048    -      7,633   7,633    -      1.567   1,567    -      935    935    -    44.499  44.499    -
2010                 13,934  18,934    -      10,198  10,198    -     2.731  2X731    -      4,254  4,254    -      3.022   8,022    -      1,647   1,647    -      983    983    -    46.769 46,769    -
.2015                 19,900  19,900    -     10.718  10.718    -      2,870   2.870    -     4.471   4,471    -     3,431   8.431    -      1,731   1,731    -     1.034   1,034    -    49,155  49,155    -
AmD 0oA    0.00    0.0
La: a: Road pnvmet;          Lb: 1. PirwgBridp                    /Le: F: Flat;
b: Withroadbed.              11.  iwe  _Bridge                      H: Hill.
HI. QiO_m i btr                        h: Mecastadnous



- 45-
snww                                                                                                                          ANNEX 1
Table l.c: Shiplock and Canal Traffic Performance (1980-1995)
and Forecast (2000-2015)
('000 ton)
AcUl                                                      Forcct
19S0      1985      1990       1993       1994        1995           2000       2005        2010       2015
A Nmntwg Old Shiplocc
coal
Up m                  111.7    247.5    215.1        370.9       311.5      277.6           279.5      279.5       279.5      279.5
Downm                  21.5                            -           -          -               -          -
Totl                 133.2    247.5    215.1        370.9       311.5      277.6           279.5      279.5      279.5       279.5
Co  ion
Up_stm                670.4   1,155.0   1,161A       899.4     1,424.1     1,430.2        1,440.2     1,440.2    1,440.2    1.440.2
Downtrm               129.1     112.5      47.8        15.1       15.2        5.1             5.1        5.1        5.1         5.1
Total                799.5   1,267.5   1,209.2      914.5     1,439.3     1,435.3        1,445.3     1,445.3    1,445.3    1,445.3
Normetallic orcs
Up  m                4,413.2   6,187.5   6,583.4    7,195.0    6,942.5     6,486.6        6,531.8     6,531.8    6,531.8    6,531.8
Down m                774.2     150.0    120.1        3S.5        11.3        3.7             3.7        3.7        3.7         3.7
Total               5,188.0   6,337.5   6,703.5    7,233.5    6,953.2     6,490.3        6,535.5     6,535.5    6,535.5    6,535.5
Ode=
Up stream             391.0     660.0    622.3       206.6       222.5      218.7           220.2      220.2      220.2       220.2
Down sem              150.7    427.5      221.5       83.9        42.2       19.4            19.5       19.5       19.5        19.5
Total                541.7   1,147.5    909.2       290.5       265.3      232.1          239.7       239.7      239.7       239.7
Total
Up                    ,526.3   8,250.0   8,64.2    9,271.9     ,900.6      8,413.1        2,471.7    8,471.7    2,471.7    2,471.7
Down gream           1,076.1    750.0     389.4      137.5        69.3       22.2            28.3       22.3       22.3        22.3
Total               6,662.4   9,000.0   9,037.6    9,409.4    8,969.9     2,441.3        2,500.0    2,500.0    8,500.0    2,500.0
B. NuitgNcw Shiplock
Coal
Up atem               rna.       n.a.     nML.        n..        135.0      414.1          520.8       741.3      859.4       903.2
Down stem             nTM..      ILL.      n.I.       nIL.         -          -               -
Total                  -                   -          .         135.0      414.1          580.2       741.3      259.4       903.2
Cmuctionmials
Upm                    n.m..    nII.       n..        nII.       617.1     1,017.2        1,426.7     1,220.9    2,110.9    2,21.6
Downsm                  ma..      Ia.      n.a.       I..          7.5        -              -           '
Total                  -         -         -          -         624.6     1,017.2        1,426.7     1,S20.9    2,110.9    2,212.6
Nonmeallic orts
Up  e                  nm..      nM..      n...       ILL.     3,002.1     5,262.1        8,221.9    10,493.5    12,164.2    12,725.3
Downa                  n..       IM.       n ..       n.m.         5.5        -                    -                -           -
Total                  -         -         -          -       3,013.6    5,262.1         8,221.9    10,493.5    12,164.2    12,725.3
Up aem                 nmL.      n.I.      n.m.       ILL.        96.3      241.1          332.2       431.6      500.3       525.2
Down sILLn.m..                   ILn.m.    n..        n.m.        21.0        -              --                     -
Total                  -         -         -                    117.3      241.1          332.2       431.6      500.3       525.8
Total
Up m                    -         -         --                 3,856.5    7,534.5        10,567.6    13,487.3    15,635.4    16,432.9
Down streum             -         -         -          -          34.0                -                             -          -
Total                       -         -               -       3,290.5    7,534.5        10,567.6    13,427.3    15,635.4   16,432.9
Cont'ed



- 46-
91WW                                                                                                                          ANNEX 1
Table 1.c: Shiplock and Canal Traffic Performance (1980-1995)
and Forecast (2000-2015)
('000 ton)
Acl                                                       Forecast
1980     1985       1990       1993       1994        1995           2000       2005        2010       2015
C. TotlNtong Shiplocks
Coal
Upsm                  111.7    247.5      215.1      370.9       446.5      691.7           860.3     1,020.8    1,138.9    1,18217
Downsuam               21.5            -          -          -                -              -           -          -           -
Total                133.2    247.5      215.1      370.9       446.5      691.7           860.3     1,020.8    1,138.9    1,182.7
Constuctionmatena]
tJ stem               670.4   1,155.0   1,161.4      899.4     2,041.2     2,447.4        2,866.9     3,261.1    3,551.1    3,658.8
Downsm                129.1     112.5      47.8       15.1        22.7        5.1             5.1        5.1        5.1         5.1
Total                799.5   1,267.5   1.209.2      914.5     2,063.9    2.452.5         2,872.0    3,266.2    3,556.2    3.663.9
Nonmelic ores
upstem              4,413.2   6,187.5   6,583.4     7,195.0    9,950.6    12,348.7       14,753.7    17,025.3    18,696.6    19,317.1
Donm                  774.8     150.0     120.1       38.5        16.8        3.7             3.7        3.7        3.7         3.7
Total              5,188.0   6,337.5   6.703.5     7,233.5    9.967.4    12,352.4       14,757.4    17,029.0    18,700.3    19,320.S
Upstm                 391.0     660.0     6s8.3      806.6       318.8      459.8          558.4       651.8      720.5       746.0
Down                  150.7    487.5      221.5       83.9        63.S       19.4            19.5       19.5       19.5        19.5
Toa                  541.7   1,147.5    909.8       890.5       382.6      479.2          577.9       671.3      740.0       765.5
Total
Up de               5,586.3   8,250.0   8,641.2    9,271.9    12,757.1    15,947.6       19,039.3    21,959.0   24,107.1    24,904.6
Down                 1,076.1    750.0     389.4      137.5       103.3       28.2           28.3        28.3       28.3        28.3
Total              6,662.4   9,000.0   9.037.6    9,409.4    12,860.4    15,975.8       19,067.6   21,987.3    24,135.4   24,932.9
D. DsnWg C,alRimbilitstion
Ups                     -         -     1,216.9    2,063.2     1,492.6     1,22.6         3,277.6    5,043.0    7,409.8    10,392.6
Downse                  -                1,493.6    2,577.4    3,516.7    4,294.3         7,722.4    11,881.9    17,458A    24,486.3
Total                  -         -     2,710.5     4,640.6    5,009.3     6,116.9       11,000.0    16,924.9   24,868.2   34,S8.9



- 47-
211
ANNEX 1
Table 2.a: Economic Cost Summary
(December 1996 prices, Yuan million)
1933   19S9     1990      1991    1992   1993    1994    1995    1996            Total
L Economic
A. Nanjing-Shaaghai Clam l Highway I1
29.49  75.31  U1.S4       42.16    0.00   0.31     1.61    0.12     1.12           240.50
Wwu-Suzhou                    39.25  37.27    97.53     91.05    0.00   0.31     1.63     0.32    1.12           319.10
Suzho-Aning (Shanghi)         25.19  45.19    63.69     36.14    0.00   0.33     1.67     0.32    1.12           229.20
Sublotal                      93.93 207.77    255.06    220.05    0.00   1.14    5.03    2.46    3.36            733.30
B. Road Network Rebhabaiao
Phase 1: 1. ChangzouTsnwang           0.00  22.50     49.39    61.73    43.79  27.29    0.00    0.00     0.00           209.70
2. Chanb_u-Su7k                0.00   0.00     0.00      0.00   25.32  37.00    0.00    0.00      0.00            62.32
3. PingwaWanWinWing            0.00   0.00    21.47     15.61    12.76   0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00            49.34
4. Xiaohb-Huanu                0.00   0.00      0.00     0.00   29.91  39.33    24.02    0.00     0.00            93.31
S. Huta-aoqiao                0.00   0.00      0.00     12.23   50.03   0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00             62.31
6. Pinswangsidge               0.00   0.00     0.00     15.71    21.91   0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00            37.62
Subtotal                      0.00  22.50     70.36    105.23   133.77  104.17    24.02    0.00   0.00           515.60
Phase 2: 1. Gdong-Gu1i                0.00   0.00      0.00     0.00   73.03  93.33    56.91     0.00    0.00           223.32
2. Yanxian-Wuxi                0.00   0.00     0.00      0.00   66.79  61.67    55.95    0.00     0.00          14.41
3. Huangtu-Xiagang             0.00   0.00     0.00      0.00    12.37  23.31    15.12    0.00    0.00            50.S0
4. T_Langsi-glai               0.00   0.00     0.00      0.00    0.00  76.31    15.60    0.00     0.00            91.91
Subtotal                      0.00   0.00      0.00      0.00   152.19 259.67   143.51    0.00    0.00           555.44
Phase 3:1. Da*v-biya=g                0.00   0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00  53.95    36.70   93.00     0.00           233.65
2. Zheuing-Xiaohe              0.00   0.00     0.00      0.00    0.00  36.91    54.51    30.63    0.00           122.10
3. Yunting.Yaluji              0.00   0.00     0.00      0.00    0.00  17.02    31.37    23.79    0.00           127.18
4. Iumuun.Chophu               0.00   0.00     0.00      0.00    0.00  16.05    72.05    31.13    0.00           119.23
5. Qimnenlntewha               0.00   0.00     0.00      0.00    0.00   0.00   35.78    19.45    0.00             55.23
6. Gecun-Dawyang               0.00   0.00     0.00      0.00    0.00   0.00     3.63   44.12    13.71            72.23
7. Qishuyan-Yuecheng           0.00   0.00     0.00      0.00    0.00   0.00    13.61    42.47    21.15           77.23
S. Kunshan-Taicang            0.00   0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00   0.00    4.42    30.40    16.74            51.56
Subtotal                       0.00   0.00     0.00      0.00    0.00 123.93   357.07   320.74    56.67          S58.41
Totl Road Nctwok               0.00  22.50    70.36    105.23   340.96 437.77   524.67   320.74    56.67        1929.45
-      -~~~~    -             - --  ---
C. DayangCanalRehabit                0.00   0.00     27.30     56.47   25.07   0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00            103.34
D. Nantong Shi Lock                  0.00   7.37     11.73     19.10   16.45  36.37     0.00    0.00     0.00            91.52
E. JuweiangBtpidge                   0.00   6.52     10.56     21.14    14.51   0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00            52.73
Grand Total                   93.93 244.16    375.51    422.04   396.99 525.73   529.70   323.20    60.03       2971.34
Notes:  /-1: lnluding others (tech. ais. and ta).
/2. All Fiure  rounded.



- 48-
ANNEX 1
Table 2.b: Financial Cost Summary
(Current prices, Yuan million)
1913   1939      1990     1991    1992   1993    1994    1995    1996             Tobl
IL Fin=a (Cuxat):
A Nwjqhuagh  CUaM H Hihway
Thsmiuw.CliaapJiou            14.47  45.38     61.92     31.11     0.00   0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00           152.3S
WVux; &uilou19.26  49.43                       67.98     66.10     0.00   0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00           202.32
Suz%-Anft (Sh-aha)            12.27  23.66     46.02     59.99     0.00   0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00           146.94
Sub%otal                      46.00 123.52    175.92    157.20     0.00   0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00           502.64
B. Road NekRobababalion
Phwe 1: 1. Chaw r _oo-irnwaag          0.00  12.00     32.53     44.72    37.25  22.32    0.00     0.00    0.00           14S.37
2. ChwhuSo                     0.00   0.00      0.00      0.00    13.03  30.26     0.00    0.00     0.00            41.29
3. P   i-Wa       _w6ng        0.00   0.00     13.79     11.31     9.74   0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00            34.34
4. Xlo-Huig                    0.00   0.00      0.00      0.00    21.09  32.62    21.37    0.00     0.00            75.03
5. HW6Caqi&o                   0.00   0.00      0.00      7.67    33.23   0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00            45.90
6. Prwug Bridgp                0.00   0.00      0.00     10.51    16.61   0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00            27.12
SubWOtA                        0.00  12.00     46.37     74.21   140.95  35.20    21.37    0.00     0.00           330.10
Ph= 2: 1. Oeg-u                       0.00   0.00       0.00     0.00    51.14  80.46    50.64    0.00     0.00           1S2.24
2. YanuWWud                    0.00   0.00      0.00      0.00    47.62  50.43    49.73    0.00     0.00           147.93
3. Humghi-Xng                  0.00   0.00      0.00      0.00     8.43  19.06    13.45    0.00     0.00            40.94
4. awumWi-Iahi                 0.00   0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00  61.19    13.33    0.00     0.00            75.07
Soal                           0.00   0.00      0.00      0.00   107.19 211.14   127.75    0.00     0.00           446.08
Ph. 3: 1. Dayang-Iiy4g                0.00   0.00       0.00     0.00     0.00  39.00    76.95    90.32    0.00           206.27
2. Zwjwg-Xaobe                 0.00   0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00  23.44    43.50    29.30    0.00           106.74
3. Yuidng-Ya*j                 0.00   0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00  12.30    71.63    27.96    0.00           111.94
4. L    1yuan-hmhu             0.00   0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00  11.60    63.26    30.23    0.00           105.09
5. Qiea lnterchnge             0.00   0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00   0.00    30.33    13.39    0.00            49.72
6 Gec4u-Dayang                 0.00   0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00   0.00    7.10    43.30    19.46            69.86
7. QibaYuecheng                0.00   0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00   0.00    11.20    41.14    21.91           74.25
S. Kunahan-Tcag                0.00   0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00   0.00    3.64    29.41    17.34            50.39
Subtoal                        0.00   0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00  91.34   313.16   311.05    53.71          774.26
Tol RoladNetwmk                0.00  12.00     46.37     74.21   243.14 3S7.6S   462.23   311.05    53.71         1600.44
C. Danyang Cul R deblati              0.00   0.00     16.48     40.24    13.33   0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00             75.55
D. Nanto  Slip LAk                    0.00   4.00      6.77     12.79    12.79  24.45    0.00     0.00     0.00            60.30
E. lhI_WeBridp                        0.00   3.44      6.34     15.14    10.95   0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00            35.37
P. Odmni                              0.00   0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00   1.02     4.66     2.38    3.36             11.42
Urmd Tola                     46.00 142.96    251.38    299.58   290.71  413.15   466.94   313.43    62.07        2236.72
Note:  /_1: Al FIge an nde&



2M
Table 3.a: Shadow Price Calculation
(December 1996 prices, Million Yun)
ZIienjiang.ChangwJiou              Wwx-Suzhou                            zh-Anting (S angai)                Road Netwok RIhabiltati
Conver
-sian    -      Finncial-           Eono-             Financial-          Econo-           Financial-           Econo-           Financial-          Econo-
fitor   Local   Foreign    Tota       mic    Loca       Forign   Tota      mic   Loc          Foreign   Totl     mic   Loca       Forip    Tota      nMc
land                       1.00   22.05    0.00      22.05      22.05    36.18    0.00    36.18     36.18     21.14     0.00    21.14     21.14  143.98      0.00    143.98    143.98
Labw.
lnkilled                  1.00    0.12    0.72       1.44       1.44     0.98    0.95      1.93     1.93      0.76     0.75      1.51     1.51    5.85      5.82     11.67    11.61
Semi akleddTechnician     0.67    5.09    5.09      10.18      S.50      6.83    6.83     13.66    11.41      3.81     3.82      7.63     6.37   41.36     41.20     82.56    68.91
Supyvior                  2.00    1.27    1.59       2.86      4.13      1.91    2.31      4.22     6.13      1.71     2.00      3.71     5.42   11.78     15.42     27.20    38.98
Matarials
Steel                    1.00    5.08    5.08      10.16      10.16      8.42    8.42    16.84     16.84     5.56      5.57    11.13     11.13   81.67     81.78    163.45    163.45
Timber                   1.00    1.80    1.79       3.59       3.59      0.28    2.76     3.04      3.04     2.54      2.54     5.08      5.08   10.56     10.51    21.07     21.07
Cement                   1.00    9.44    9.45      18.89      18.89      6.13    6.11    12.24     12.24    13.90    13.92    27.82      27.82  143.02    143.16    286.18    286.18
Sand                     0.80    5.31    5.31      10.62       9.56      4.91    4.92     9.83      8.85     4.68      4.68     9.36      8.42   48.17     48.14    96.31     86.68
Stone                    0.80    5.31    5.31      10.62       9.56      4.91    4.92     9.83      8.85     4.68      4.68     9.36      8.42   48.17     48.14    96.31     86.68
Bitunn                    1.00    5.96    5.98     11.94      11.94      9.54    9.54     19.08    19.08      0.57     0.57     1.14      1.14   27.84     27.68    55.52     55.52
Oth                      0.80    4.86    4.85       9.71       8.74      5.38    5.90     11.78    10.60      3.14     3.15     6.29      5.66   58.20     58.02    116.22    104.58
Fud:
Diel                     1.00    3.62    3.64       7.26       7.26      4.65    4.64     9.29      9.29     3.40      3.41     6.S1      6.81   37.00     36.93    73.93     73.93
(aolino                  1.00    0.06    0.06       0.12       0.12      0.06    0.06     0.12      0.12     0.04      0.04     0.08      0.08    0.44      0.49     0.93      0.93
Hay oil                  1.00    0.01    0.02       0.03       0.03      0.02    0.02     0.04      0.04     0.01      0.02     0.03      0.03    0.17      0.18     0.35      0.35
Otdo                     1.00    0.01    0.02       0.03       0.03      0.02    0.02     0.04      0.04     0.01      0.02     0.03      0.03    0.17      0.18     0.35      0.35
Water                      0.80    0.08    0.08       0.16       0.14      0.06    0.08     0.14      0.13     0.06      0.07     0.13      0.12    1.13      1.12     2.25      2.02
ElectricitY                1.50    0.71    0.71       1.42       1.78     0.9S    0.95      1.90      2.38     0.65     0.63      1.28      1.61    6.89     6.80     13.69     17.14
Cautic                     1.00    0.55    0.55       1.10       1.10     0.25    0.22      0.47      0.47     0.17      0.18     0.35      0.35   13.35    13.38     26.73     26.73
Mech.ibl equipnsot         1.00    4.77   13.37      18.14      18.14      9.73   20.17    29.90     29.90     6.32      6.32    12.64     12.64   66.40    66.22    132.62    132.62
0th..                      0.80   12.56    0.00      12.56      10.05    22.29    0.00    22.29      17.83    13.41      8.01    21.42     18.74  126.44     95.56    222.00    196.71
Total                     89.26   63.62     152.88     147.21    124.00   78.82   202.82    195.35    86.56    60.38    146.94    142.52  872.59    700.73   1573.32   1518.48
Overall c.nwalim ko                                              0.96                                 0.96                                  0.97                                 0.97
-I_:AlIth6lldAf,pxreeouaded.
/_2: U..hw  dsnmte - 1.0.



2M
Table 3.b: Shadow Price Calculation
(December 1996 prices, Million Yuan)
Danang Canal Rehabildtton                      Naton Ship Lock                        haweigeng Bridge                  Pinwag Bridge
Conver
-$ion           Financial-          Bcono-   -        Financial-          Econo   -F       Fincial              Econo.           Financial-         Econo-    Total
cetor   Local    Freign    Total      midc    Local     Foeigrn  Total     mic   Local        Facign   Total     mi    Local      Foreign   Total    mric    Prject
Land                       1.00    9.35    0.00       9.35       9.35     6.43    0.00      6.43     6.43      5.85     0.00      5.85     5.85    2.55      0.00      2.55     2.55
tUnislled                 1.00    5.62    5.61      11.23      11.23     3.13    3.12      6.25      6.25     0.76     0.75      1.51     1.51    0.61      0.61      1.22     1.22
SwaiskledtTechniciAn      0.67    4.31    4.32       8.63       7.21     2.78    2.78      5.56     4.64      1.52     1.52      3.04     2.54    0.37      0.37     0.74      0.62
9uevi                     2.00    1.00    1.18       2.18       3.18     0.44    0.73      1.17      1.61     0.64     0.71      1.35     1.99    0.24      0.30     0.54      0.78
Steel                    1.00    0.16    0.16       0.32       0.32      1.37    1.37     2.74      274      1.23      1.23     2.46      2.46    0.95     0.95      1.90      1.90
Tinber                   1.00    0.50    0.51       1.01       1.01      0.69    0.69      1.38     1.38     0.21      0.21     0.42      0.42    0.14     0.14      0.28      0.28                          1
Cemnt                    1.00    2.74    2.72        5.46      5.46      2.67    2.68      5.35     5.35     1.48      1.48     2.96      2.96    2.79      2.79     5.58      5.58                          u
S9
San                      0.80    0.96    0.95       1.91       1.72      2.20    2.20     4.40      3.96     0.77      0.78     1.55      1.40    0.70     0.69      1.39      1.25
stais                    0.80    0.96    0.95       1.91       1.12      2.20    2.20     4.40      3.96     0.77      0.78     1.55      1.40    0.70      0.69     1.39      1.25
Biuiaman                 1.00    0.00    0.00       0.00       0.00      0.05    0.05      0.10     0.10     0.57      0.57     1.14      1.14    0.15      0.15     0.30      0.30
Othu                     0.80    3.52    3.53       7.05       6.35      0.13    0.13      0.26     0.23      1.86     1.87     3.73      3.36    0.54      0.54     1.08      0.97
Ful:
Diel                      1.00    0.02    0.02       0.04      0.04      0.41    0.41      0.82     0.82      0.16     0.16     0.32      0.32    0.17      0.17     0.34      0.34
aoline                   1.00    0.00    0.00       0.00       0.00      0.03    0.03      0.06     0.06      0.31     0.31     0.62      0.62    0.02      0.02     0.04      0.04
Hey oil                  1.00    0.00    0.00        0.00      0.00      0.02    0.02      0.04     0.04     0.01      0.01     0.02      0.02    0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
Od                       1.00    0.00    0.00       0.00      0.00      0.02    0.02      0.04     0.04      0.01     0.01     0.02      0.02    0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
Wator                      0.80    0.06    0.06       0.12       0.11     0.11    0.10      0.21      0.19     0.10      0.10     0.20     0.18    0.01      0.00      0.01     0.01
Elecy                      1.50    1.51    1.51       3.02       3.78     0.81    0.81      1.62      2.03     0.20     0.20      0.40     0.50    0.09      0.09      0.18     0.23
ConInuction                1.00    2.01    2.01       4.02       4.02     0.46    0.46      0.92      0.92     0.38     0.38      0.76     0.76    0.35      0.35      0.70     0.70
Modcanical equipant        1.00    4.49    4.49       8.98       8.98     2.99    2.99      5.98      5.98     2.04      2.04     4.08     4.08    1.69      1.69      3.38     3.38
Ot0r                       0.80    3.57    6.75      10.32       9.61    10.73    2.34     13.07     10.92     2.03     1.86      3.89     3.48    2.73      2.77      5.50     4.95
Total                     40.78   34.77      75.55     74.09     37.67   23.13     60.80    57.65    20.90    14.97    35.87      35.01   14.80     12.32     27.12    26.35
Overall conversionhftor                                          0.98                                 0.95                                 0.98                                 0.97      0.97
/-1: All the fipgu ae rounded.
/ 2: Shadow exhange rate - I .0.



voc
-51 -
ANNEX 1
Table 4: Economic Vehicle Operating Costs
(Yuan per km, December 1996 prices)
----------C;_                   Fair                       Poor
FW3" R     ESI    MomL  FtM Rd    ERE    Mc4ouL  llat Rd   HMt  Mo_.
A. Hihwmay (Paved)
Smill car                 0.626    0.654    0.675    0.725    0.753    0.774    0.938  0.966   0.987
Small bus                 1.094    1.298    1.465    1.356    1.575    1.754    1.735  1.934   2.113
Medium bus                1.724    2.002    2.243    2.194    2.513    2.772    2.892  3.171   3.430
Largp bus                 1.924    2.346    2.721    2.554    3.076    3.505    3.095  3.598   4.027
S ltizik                  0.785    0.981    1.128    0.875    1.069    1.215    1.069  1.239   1.409
Medituntruc               0.850    1.048    1.246    0.930    1.143    1.337    1.124  1.337   1.550
I.arget&d                 1.079    1.322    1.565    1.219    1.481    1.712    1.450  1.712   1.959
Tranctr/baikr             2.192    2.891    3.496    2.499    3.253    3.888    2.975  3.689   4.344
B. Highway (paved)
Snaln ca                  0.846    0.880    0.901    1.144    1.180    1.194    1.563  1.591   1.605
Smailbus                  1.520    1.780    1.947    1.994    2.253    2.413    2.513  2.732   2.892
Medium bus                2.540    2.892    3.133    3351    3.710    3.949    4.268  4.567   4.806
IArge bus                 2.518    3.018    3.362    3.505    4.064    4.474    4.251  4.773   5.183
Small buck                1.030    1.251    1.423    1.191    1.410    1.580    1.458  1.677   1.847
Mediumtnuk                1.087    1.344    2.036    1.240    1.492    2.267    1.512  1.764   2.675
Ipargetuck                1.368    1.733    2.227    1.535    1.913    2.453    1.797  2.175   2.777
Tractortrailer            2.362    3.023    3.590    2.678    3.392    3.987    3.074  3.788   4.403
C. Bridge
Smal car                  0.668    0.698    0.720    0.829    0.861    0.885    1.072  1.104   1.128
Small bus                 1.250    1.484    1.675    1.827    2.122    2.363    2.338  2.606   2.848
Medium bus                1.969    2.286    2.561    2.956    3.385    3.734    3.896  4.271   4.620
Large bus                 2.250    2.743    3.181    3.563    4.291    4.889    4.318  5.020   5.618
Smatrutdck                0.810    1.012    1.164    0.927    1.132    1.286    1.132  1.312   1.492
Madiumnbuck               0.872    1.075    1.278    0.978    1.202    1.406    1.182  1.406   1.630
1auretrud                 1.100    1.348    1.596    1.272    1.545    1.76    1.513  1.786   2.044
Tradwrhailer              2.291    3.022    3.654    2.644    3.441    4.113    3.147  3.902   4.595
Ncte:   Withut tbo project bodh th road cordifiw and flow wil detiorate quickly with ighbraffic growth
and hift towards heavier vehicle Considered 2% p.. coat noruae.
Sourmea: Jangd Proincial Trupmt DaIkstmemat and the Bank



- 52 -
3HH                                                                                                                            ANNEX 1
Table 5.a: Economic Evaluation And Sensitivity Analysis (Total Highway)
(Yuan million, December 1996 prices)
Base Cuc                                               Sensity Anas
Cas e    Case 2   Caw 3   Caw 4
costs                                   m                                         -
-               RuVOC  R ed                          Gener-           Total    Cost
Net I b             Net   Gener-  Cong.On Rcduced                 Net     ated    Total Benfts  (+20%)
Combu   Road                 S.        ed   Exidst    Acdd                C"h   Trafi       Cost           Bendis
Year          -cton  Maht       Total  m sl   Trdc   Road    -               Totl    Flow   (-50%)  (+20%)  (-20%)   (-20%)
TotaL: Na hjingh b Hihwvay
19S7           0.00              0.00                                                  0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00
1933          93.93             93.93                                                (93.93)  (93.93) (112.72)  (93.93) (112.72)
19S9         207.77            207.77                                               (207.77) (207.77) (249.32) (207.77) (249.32)
1990         255.06            255.06                                               (255.06) (255.06) (306.0S) (255.06) (306.03)
1991         220.05           220.05                                                 (220.1) (220.05) (264.06) (220.05) (264.06)
1992           0.00     3.69    3.69   507.23    25.35      7.15     2.51   542.29    533.6  237.28   249.21   199.22   193.49
1993           1.14     3.69     4.33   534.23    29.20     3.30     2.51   624.24   619.41   604.92   613.44   494.56   493.60
1994           5.03     3.69     3.72   674.67    33.74     9.64     2.51   720.55   711.33   694.96   710.03   567.72   565.97
1995           2.46     3.69     6.15   731.23    39.07    11.20     2.51   334.01   327.36   303.34   326.63   661.06   659.32
1996           3.36     3.69    7.05   907.16    45.33     13.03     2.51   963.08   961.03   933.35   959.63   767.41   766.00
1997                    3.69    3.69   925.33    46.29     27.40     3.39  1,003.46   999.77   976.64   999.03   799.09   793.35
1993                    3.69    3.69   941.79    47.10     27.55     3.39  1,020.33 1,016.64   993.10  1,015.90   312.57   311.S3
1999                    3.69    3.69   953.12    47.93     27.71     3.39  1,037.65 1,033.96 1,010.00  1,033.22   326.43   325.69
2000                    3.69     3.69   373.67    43.92    26.70     3.39   953.13   949.49   927.54   943.75   753.35   753.12
2001                    3.69    3.69   934.41    46.31     24.63     3.89  1,009.74 1,006.05   932.65  1,005.31   304.10   303.37
2002                    3.69    3.69   990.15    49.51     21.90     3.39  1,065.45  1,061.76 1,037.02  1,061.02   84S.63   347.94
2003 La                 5.54     5.54  1,065.24    53.27   21.48     3.39  1,143.33  1,133.35 1,111.71  1,137.24   909.57   903.46
2004 /_a                5.54     5.54  1,146.10    57.32   21.06     3.39  1,223.37  1,222.34  1,194.13  1,221.73   977.17   976.06
2005                    3.69     3.69  1,233.19    61.67   20.66     3.39  1,319.41  1,315.72 1,234.39  1,314.93  1,051.33  1,051.09
2006                    3.69     3.69  1,327.01    66.36   20.26     3.39  1,417.52 1,413.33  1,330.66  1,413.09  1,130.32 1,129.53
2007                    3.69     3.69  1,423.07    71.42   19.33     3.39  1,523.26 1,519.57  1,433.37  1,513.33  1,214.92 1,214.13
2003                    3.69     3.69  1,543.14    77.43   19.43     3.39  1,648.94  1,645.25  1,606.55  1,644.51  1,315.46 1,314.72
2009                    3.69     3.69  1,666.32    33.34   19.11     3.39 1,772.66 1,763.97 1,727.31  1,763.23  1,414.44  1,413.70
2010                    3.69     3.69  1,730.63    39.05   13.79     3.39 1,392.41  1,333.72  1,344.20  1,337.93  1,510.24  1,509.50
2011                    3.69     3.69  1,376.67    93.35   16.51     3.89 1,990.92 1,937.23  1,940.31  1,936.49 1,539.04  1,533.30
2012                    3.69     3.69  1,973.12    93.92   14.51     3.39 2,095.44 2,091.75 2,042.29 2,091.01  1,672.65  1,671.92
2013                    3.69     3.69 2,035.35   104.29    12.76     3.39 2,206.29 2,202.60 2,150.46 2,201.86 1,761.35 1,760.61
2014                    3.69     3.69 2,191.70   109.96    11.22     3.39 2,323.77 2,320.03  2,265.11 2,319.34 1,355.32  1,854.53
2015                    3.69     3.69 2,313.54   115.94     9.37     3.39 2,441.24 2,444.55  2,386.59 2,443.31  1,954.90  1,954.16
Total   73.30                   EIRR =                                           50.4%    45.9%    42.1%    41.2%    37.1%
NPV (12%) =                                    4423.6  4142.7   4140.9  3233.9  3170.0
Fht Year Rctum=                                 61.6%
t a:Majornufiscing.
Ib: Net of the mamnce sxcinp on the prooed exprswway and the eirting road.
I_c: All fg    rode



- 53 -
3HH                                                                                                                           ANNEX 1
Table 5.b: Economic Evaluation And Sensitivity Analysis (Section 2)
(Yuan million, December 1996 prices)
Base Case                                              Sensitivity Anabsis
Case I   Case2   Case3   Case4
Costs                                 Benefit                            -   -   -   -
VOC             Reduced                              Gener-           Total    Cost
Net /_b             Net  Gener-  CongOn  Reduced                  Net    ated    Total Benefits  (+20%)
Constru  Road                Say-     ated   Exist    Accid               Cash   Traffic    Cost           Benefits
Year          -ction  Maint     Total    inp   Traffic   Road    -ents       Total    Flow   (-50%)  (+20%)   (-20%)   (-20%)
Secdon 2:   Zhenjiag-Chsngzhou
1987           0.00             0.00                                                   0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00
19SS          29.49            29.49                                                 (29.49)  (29.49)  (35.39)  (29.49)  (35.39)
1989          75.31            75.31                                                 (75.31)  (75.31)  (90.37)  (75.31)  (90.37)
1990          88.84           8.84                                                  (88.84)  (88.84) (106.61)  (88.84) (106.61)
1991          42.S6            42.86                                                 (42.S6)  (42.86)  (51.43)  (42.86)  (51.43)
1992           0.00     1.40    1.40   106.21     5.31      2.76     0.78   115.06   113.66   111.01   113.38    90.65    90.37
1993           0.33     1.40    1.78   133.19     6.66      3.26     0.73   143.S9   142.11   138.73   141.75   113.33   112.98
1994           1.68     1.40    3.08   167.04     8.36      3.85     0.78   180.02   176.94   172.76   176.32   140.94   140.32
1995           0.82     1.40    2.22   209.48    10.4S      4.55     0.78   225.29   223.07   217.83   222.62   178.01   177.56
1996           1.12     1.40    2.52   262.70    13.15      5.38     0.78   282.01   279.49   272.92   278.99   223.09   222.58
1997                   1.40     1.40   269.17    13.45     11.49     1.56   295.67   294.27   287.55   293.99   235.14   234.86
1998                    1.40     1.40   268.85    13.44    11.45     1.56   295.30   293.90   287.18   293.62   234.84   234.56
1999                    1.40    1.40   268.53    13.43     11.41     1.56   294.93   293.53   286.22   293.25   234.54   234.26
2000                    1.40     1.40   268.21    13.41    11.36     1.56   294.54   293.14   286.44   292.86   234.23   233.95
2001                    1.40     1.40   285.39    14.27    10.29     1.56   311.51   310.11   302.98   309.83   247.81   247.53
2002                    1.40     1.40   302.57    15.13     9.21     1.56   328.47   327.07   319.51   326.79   261.38   261.10
2003 /_a                2.10    2.10   325.90    16.30      9.01     1.56   352.77   350.67   342.52   350.25   280.12   279.70
2004 /-a                2.10     2.10   351.03    17.56     8.81     1.56   378.96   376.86   368.08   376.44   301.07   300.65
2005                    1.40     1.40   378.09    18.91     8.62     1.56   407.18   405.78   396.33   405.50   324.34   324.06
2006                    1.40     1.40   407.24    20.37     8.43     1.56   437.60   436.20   426.02   435.92   348.68   348.40
2007                    1.40     1.40   438.64    21.94     3.25     1.56   470.39   463.99   458.02   46S.71   374.91   374.63
200S                    1.40     1.40   472.46    23.63     8.07     1.56   505.72   504.32   492.51   504.04   403.18   402.90
2009                    1.40     1.40   508.88    25.45     7.90     1.56   543.79   542.39   529.67   542.11   433.63   433.35
2010                    1.40     1.40   548.10    27.41     7.73     1.56   584.80   583.40   569.70   583.12   466.44   466.16
2011                    1.40     1.40   578.75    28.94     6.83     1.56   616.08   614.68   600.21   614.40   491.46   491.13
2012                    1.40     1.40   611.12    30.56     6.04     1.56   649.28   647.88   632.60   647.60   518.02   517.74
2013                    1.40     1.40   645.30    32.27     5.34     1.56   684.47   683.07   666.94   682.79   546.18   545.90
2014                    1.40     1.40   681.39    34.07     4.72     1.56   721.74   720.34   703.31   720.06   575.99   575.71
2015                    1.40     1.40   719.50    35.97     4.17     1.56   761.20   759.80   741.82   759.52   607.56   607.28
Toal        240.50                   EIRR =                                          44.1%    43.6%    39.9   39.0%    35.2%
NPV (12%) =                                   1,254.3  1,221.0  1,217.1   966.3   929.2
First Year Return =                             32.5%
/ a: Majo resurfacing
/b: Net of de mnantance savins on the proposed expressway and the existing road.
/Ic: Al figE  re rounded.



- 54 -
3HH                                                                                                                              ANNEX 1
Table 5.c: Economic Evaluation And Sensitivity Analysis (Section 4)
(Yuan million, December 1996 prices)
Base Case                                      -        Sensitivity Analysis
Casc I   Case 2   Case3   Case4
Costs                -                 Ben             c-i
VOC             Reduced                               Gener-            Total    Cost
Net t_b              Net   Gener-  Cong.On  Reduced                Net      ated    Total Benefits  (+20%)
Constru  Road                Sav-      ated   Exist    Accid               Cash   Traffic     Cost           Benefits
Year         -ction  Maint.     Total    ings   Traffic   Road    -ents        Total    Flow   (-50%)  (+20%)   (-20%)   (-20%)
Section 4:   Wuxi-Suzhou
1987           0.00              0.00                                                   0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
1988          39.25             39.25                                                 (39.25)  (39.25)  (47.10)  (39.25)  (47.10)
1989          87.27             87.27                                                 (87.27)  (87.27) (104.72)  (87.27) (104.72)
1990          97.53             97.53                                                 (97.53)  (97.53) (117.04)  (97.53) (117.04)
1991          91.05             91.05                                                 (91.05)  (91.05)  (109.26)  (91.05) (109.26)
1992           0.00     1.09     1.09   129.02     6.44      1.99     1.13   138.58   137.49   134.27   137.27   109.77   109.56
1993           0.38     1.09     1.47   139.21     6.95      2.22     1.13   149.51   148.04   144.57   147.75   118.14   117.84
1994           1.6S     1.09     2.77   150.21     7.51      2.48     1.13   161.32   158.55   154.80   158.00   126.29   125.73
1995           0.82     1.09     1.91   162.07     8.11      2.76     1.13   174.07   172.16   168.11   171.78   137.35   136.96
1996           1.12     1.09     2.21   174.87     8.76      3.08     1.13   187.84   185.63   181.25   185.19   148.06   147.62
1997                    1.09     1.09   173.99     8.69      6.71     1.13   190.52   189.43   185.09   189.21   151.33   151.11
1998                    1.09     1.09   180.02     8.99      6.76     1.13   196.90   195.81   191.32   195.59   156.43   156.21
1999                    1.09     1.09   186.26     9.30      6.81     1.13   203.50   202.41   197.76   202.19   161.71   161.49
2000                    1.09     1.09   157.0S     7.86      6.56     1.13   172.63   171.54   167.61   171.32   137.01   136.80
2001                    1.09     1.09   168.15     8.42      6.03     1.13   183.73   182.64   178.43   182.42   145.89   145.68
2002                    1.09     1.09   179.22     8.97      5.50     1.13   194.82   193.73   189.25   193.51   154.77   154.55
2003 /-a                1.64     1.64   196.08     9.81      5.46     1.13   212.48   210.85   205.94   210.52   168.35   168.02
2004 / a                1.64     1.64   214.52    10.73      5.42     1.13   231.80   230.17   224.80   229.84   183.81   183.48
2005                    1.09     1.09   234.70    11.74      5.38     1.13   252.95   251.86   245.99   251.64   201.27   201.05
2006                    1.09     1.09   256.78    12.84      5.34     1.13   276.09   275.00   268.58   274.78   219.78   219.56
2007                    1.09     1.09   280.93    14.05      5.30     1.13   301.41   300.32   293.30   300.10   240.04   239.82
2008                    1.09     1.09   311.33    15.57      5.26     1.13   333.29   332.20   324.42   331.98   265.54   265.32
2009                    1.09     1.09   340.62    17.03      5.22     1.13   364.00   362.91   354.40   362.69   290.11   289.89
2010                    1.09     1.09   367.91    18.40      5.20     1.13   392.64   391.55   382.35   391.33   313.02   312.80
2011                    1.09     1.09   395.81    19.80      4.66     1.13   421.40   420.31   410.41   420.09   336.03   335.81
2012                    1.09     1.09   425.83    21.30      4.17     1.13   452.43   451.34   440.69   451.12   360.85   360.64
2013                    1.09     1.09   458.13    22.92      3.73     1.13   485.91   484.82   473.36   484.60   387.64   387.42
2014                    1.09     1.09   492.87    24.66      3.34     1.13   522.00   520.91   508.58   520.69   416.51   416.29
2015                    1.09     1.09   530.25    26.52      2.99     1.13   560.89   559.80   546.54   559.58   447.62   447.40
Total       319.10                   EIRR =                                            34.6%    34.1%    30.7%    29.9%    26.4%
====                     NPV (12%) =                                      791.6    767.7    743.7    585.4   537.6
First Year Retun=                                24.1%
I_a: Major resurfacing.
/_b: Net of the tnaintnce savings on the proposed expressway and the existing road.
/c: Al figures are rounded.



- 55 -
ANNEX 1
Table 5.d: Economic Evaluation And Sensitivity Analysis (Section 5)
(Yuan million, December 1996 prices)
Base Case                                              Sensithity Analysis
Case I   Case 2   Case 3   Case4
Cos                          Benefi 
VOC             Reduced                              Gener-           Total    Cost
Net /b              Net   Gener-  Cong.On Reduced                 Net    ated    Total Benefits  (+20%)
Constru  Road                Sav-    ated   Exist     Accid               Cash   Traffic    Cost           Benefits
Year         -ction  Maint.     Total    ings   Traffic   Road    -ents      Total    Flow   (-50%0)  (+20%)  (-20%)  (-20%)
Section S    Suzhou-Anting (Shanghai)
19S7           0.00             0.00                                                   0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00
1988          25.19            25.19                                                 (25.19)  (25.19)  (30.23)  (25.19)  (30.23)
1989          45.19            45.19                                                 (45.19)  (45.19)  (54.23)  (45.19)  (54.23)
1990          68.69             6S.69                                                (68.69)  (68.69)  (82.43)  (68.69)  (82.43)
1991          86.14            86.14                                                 (86.14)  (86.14) (103.37)  (86.14) (103.37)
1992           0.00     1.20     1.20   272.05    13.60     2.40     0.60             (1.20)   (8.00)   (1.44)   (1.20)   (1.44)
1993           0.38     1.20     1.58   311.83    15.59     2.82     0.60   330.84   329.26   321.47   328.94   263.09   262.78
1994           1.67     1.20    2.87   357.43    17.87      3.31     0.60   379.21   376.34   367.40   375.76   300.49   299.92
1995           0.82     1.20    2.02   409.69    20.48      3.89     0.60   434.66   432.64   422.40   432.23   345.70   345.30
1996           1.12     1.20    2.32   469.59    23.47      4.57     0.60   498.23   495.91   484.18   495.45   396.26   395.80
1997                    1.20     1.20   482.72    24.15     9.20     1.20   517.27   516.07   504.00   515.83   412.62   412.38
1998                    1.20     1.20   492.92    24.67     9.34     1.20   528.13   526.93   514.60   526.69   421.30   421.06
1999                    1.20     1.20   503.33    25.20     9.49     1.20   539.22   538.02   525.42   537.78   430.1S   429.94
2000                    1.20     1.20   453.38    22.65     8.78     1.20   486.01   484.81   473.49   484.57   387.61   387.37
2001                    1.20     1.20   480.87    24.12     8.31     1.20   514.50   513.30   501.24   513.06   410.40   410.16
2002                    1.20     1.20   508.36    25.41     7.19     1.20   542.16   540.96   528.26   540.72   432.53   432.29
2003 /-a                1.80     1.80   543.26    27.16     7.01     1.20   578.63   576.83   563.25   576.47   461.10   460.74
2004 /-a                1.80     1.80   580.55    29.03     6.83     1.20   617.61   615.81   601.30   615.45   492.29   491.93
2005                    1.20     1.20   620.40    31.02     6.66     1.20   659.28   658.08   642.57   657.84   526.22   525.98
2006                    1.20     1.20   662.99    33.15     6.49     1.20   703.83   702.63   686.06   702.39   561.86   561.62
2007                    1.20     1.20   708.50    35.43     6.33     1.20   751.46   750.26   732.55   750.02   599.97   599.73
2008                    1.20     1.20   764.35    38.23     6.15     1.20   809.93   808.73   789.62   808.49   646.74   646.50
2009                    1.20     1.20   816.82    40.86     5.99     1.20   864.S7   863.67   843.24   863.43   690.70   690.46
2010                    1.20     1.20   864.67    43.24     5.86     1.20   914.97   913.77   892.15   913.53   730.78   730.54
2011                    1.20     1.20   902.11    45.11     5.02     1.20   953.44   952.24   929.69   952.00   761.55   761.31
2012                    1.20     1.20   941.17    47.06     4.30     1.20   993.73   992.53   969.00   992.29   793.78   793.54
2013                    1.20     1.20   981.92    49.10     3.69     1.20  1,035.91  1,034.71  1,010.16  1,034.47   827.53   827.29
2014                    1.20     1.20  1,024.44    51.23    3.16     1.20  1,080.03  1,078.83  1,053.22  1,078.59   862.82   862.58
2015                    1.20     1.20  1,068.79    53.45    2.71     1.20  1,126.15  1,124.95  1,098.23  1,124.71   899.72   899.48
Totl        229.20                   EIRR =                                          60.1%    59.2%    55.0%    53.9%    49.2%
NPV (12%)                                      1,976.8  1,923.3  1,946.4  1,551.1  1,520.7
Fist Year Return =                              82.4%
/a: Major resurfacig
/b: Net of the maintance savins on the proposed exprsway and the exisng road.
/_c: A2 figuresare routded.



Table 6 (1-1): Economic Analysis of Road Network Rehabilitation
(Changzhou-Tianwang Road)
Charactensiscs                                 VOC (Y/tkm)                       Average
and parameter      Length                                                        speed                      Width  Gradients
ofthe road         (km)            Normal (N)       Tractor (T)                 (km/hr)    Class  Condition   (m)     (%)
Withouttheproject    71.10 -LO        0.309 =CON        0.992 -COT                40.0      IV       Poor  a. 7.0  c. P                a.Widthofpavetnent.
Paved   b  8.5  d. 7.5%           b. Width ofaubgrade.
With the project    68.57 = LN        0.234 - CNN       0.731 - CNT               68.0      III     Good   a. 12.0  c, P               c, M - Mountainous; P  Plain; H  HiD.
Paved  b. 15.0  d. 6.0%           d. Maxiittmm to.
Difference        2.S3 - LD        0.075 - CDN       0.261 - CDT               28.0
Tonnage- standard average (ton/ehicle)  5.20 = TNN       5.00 - TNT                (1) TCS due to shorter distance  (TCS-D)  = Traffic volume (N, T) x 365 x LD x CO (N, T) x AL (N, T)
Loading factor (%)                    70.0% - LFN       60.0N% =LFT               (2) TCS due to road iprovement    (TCS-R)    Traffic volume (N, T) x 365 x LN x CD (N, T) x AL (N, T)
Average loading (tontvehicle)          3.64 = ALN        3.00 =ALT                 (3) Generated traffic            (GT)      =Total TCS x       0.05
Average time saving (hour)             0.77 = TS                                   (4) Time savings of freight      (TSF)       Annual freight traffic x TS x TVF
Accident reduced (year) La            14.00 -AC                                    (5) Time savings of paswenger   (TSP)      =Annua passenger trffc x TS x TVP
Costs per accident (Yuan/accident)    9,000 - CA                                   (6) Road safety savings          (RSS)      AC x CA
Time value-
Freight (Yuan/hour/vehicle)         2.00 = TVF
Passenger (Yuanwhour/passenger)      1.00 = TVP
Base Case (000 Yuan)
Sensitivities
Traffic volunme         Capital costs                                          Benefits                                                                                  Costs
---TCS-D------- -----TCS-R--------                                                   Net    Generated    Tota       Total   (+20%)
Years           Normal  Tractor   Coast   Maint.   Total Normal  Tractor  Normnl  Tractor    GT            TSF      TSP      RSS      Total      cash     traffic     costs    benefits   benefits
----(AADT)                     L/b             (1)     (1)       (2)      (2)      (3)     (4)       (5)      (6)    benefits    flow      (-50%)    (+20Y.)   (-20%)   (-20Y.)
1989                             22,500            22,500                                                                                      (22,500)    (22,500)   (27,000)  (22,500) (27,000)
1990             2,317     117   49,390            49,390                                                                                      (49,390)    (49,390)  (59,268)  (49,390) (59,268)
1991             2,503     182   61,730            61,730                                                                                      (61,730)    (61,730)  (74,076)  (61,730) (74,076)
1992             2,074     119   48,790            48,790                                                                                      (48,790)    (48,790)  (58,548)  (48,790) (58,548)
1993             2.866    1127   27,290            27,290                                                                                      (27,290)    (27,290)  (32,748)  (27,290) (32,748)
1994             3,019     169               483      483    3,134      464   20,703    3,312    1,381    3,178    1,569       126   33,867    33,3U       32,694    33,287    26,611   26,514
1995             4,342     158               483      483    4,507      434   29,776    3,096    1,891    4,124    1,911       126   45,865    45,382      44,437    45,285     36,209   36,112
1996             4,472     163               483      483    4,642      448   30,668    3,194    1,948    4,247    1,969       126   47,242    46,759      45,785    46,662    37,311   37,214
1997             4.606     168               483      483    4,781     462   31,587    3,292    2,006    4,375    2,028        126   48,657    48,174      47,171     48,077    38,443   38,346
1998             4,744     173               483      483    4,924     475   32,533    3,390    2,066    4,505    2,089        126   50,108    49,625      48,592    49,528     39,603   39,507
1999             4,886     178               483      483    5,071     489   33,507    3,488    2,128    4,641    2,151        126   51,601     51,118     50,054    51,021     40,798   40,701
2000             5,033     183               483      483    5,224      503   34,515    3,586    2,191    4,781    2,216       126   53,142    52,659      51,564    52,562    42,031   41,934
2001             5,184     188               483      483    5,381      516   35,550    3,684    2,257    4,924    2,282       126   54,720    54,237      53,109    54,140     43,293   43,196
2002             5,340     194               483      483    5,543      533   36,620    3,802    2,325    5,072    2,350       126   56,371     55,888     54,726     55,791    44,614   44,517
2003 /_c         5,500     200               725      725    5,709      549   37,717    3.919    2,395    5,224    2,421       126   58,060    57,336      56,138    57,191     45,724   45,579
2004 /tc         5.665     206               725      725    5,880      566   38,849    4,037    2,467    5,381    2,493       126   59,799    59,075      57,841     58,930    47,115   46,970
2005             5.778     210               483      483    5,997      577   39,624    4,115    2,516    5,488    2,543       126   60,986    60,503      59,245    60,406     48,306   48,209
2006             5,894     214               483      483    6,118      588   40,419    4,194    2,566    5,598    2,594       126   62,203    61,720      60,437     61,623    49,279   49,183
2007             6,012     218               483      483    6,240      599   41,228    4,272    2,617    5,710    2,646       126   63,438    62,955      61,647     62,858    50,267   50Q171
2008             6,132     222               483      483    6,365      610   42,051    4,351    2,669    5,824    2,699       126   64,695    64,212      62,878    64,115     51,273   51,176
2009             6,255     226               483      483    6,492      621   42,895    4,429    2,722    5,941    2,753       126   65,979    65,496      64,135     65,399    52,300   52,204
2010             6,380     231               483      483    6,622      635   43,752    4,527    2,777    6,059    2,808       126   67,306    66,823      65,435     i6,726    53,362   53,265
2011             6,508     236               483      483    6,755      648   44,630    4,625    2,833    6,181    2,864       126   68,662    68,179      66,763     68,082    54,447   54,350
2012             6,638     241               483      483    6,890      662   45,521    4,723    2,890    6,304    2,921       126   70,037    69,554      68,109    69,457     55,547   55,450
Tota                            209,700    7,728  217,428                                                                ERR =                  16.3%       16.1%      14.0%     13.5%    11.4%
NPV (12%) =           63,974      59,526    33,574     20,781   (9,619)
/ a: Assume the net accident reduction will be I incident for every 5 km on the exifting road p.a..
/b: The average annual maimenance coat (Yuan/km): Without the project-   7,000; With the project:    14,300
/c: Major resurfacing.



Table 6 (1-2): Economic Analysis of Road Network Rehabilitation
(Changshu-Suzhou Road)
Characterisics                                VOC (Y/tkm)                       Average
and parameten      Length                                                       speed                     Width  Gradjents
of the road       (I-)            Normal (N)       Tractor (T)                 (ounthr)   Class  Condition   (m)    (%)
Without the project    33.46 = LO    0.333 = CON       0.992 = COT              36.0      IlI      Poor  a. 7.0  c. P               a. Width ofpavemnt.
Paved  b. 9.0  d. 3.5%            b. Width of subgde.
Withtheproject      33.46 =LN        0.251 =CNN        0.731 =CNT               52.0      it      Good   a. 9.0  c. P               c.M=Mountainous;P= Plain; H=Hill.
Paved  b. 18.0  d. 2.5%           d. Maximum to.
Difference        0.00 = LD       0.081 = CDN       0.261 = CDT               16.0
Tonnage- standard average (ton/vhicle)  5.20 =TNN       5.00 = TNT               (1) TCS due to shorter distance  (TCS-D)  = Traffic volune (N. T) x 365 x LD x CO (N, T) x AL (N, T)
Loading factor (Y)                   65.0% = LFN       60.0% = LFT               (2) TCS due to road improvenent    (TCS-R)   - Traffic volume (N, T) x 365 x LN x CD (N, T) x AL (N, T)
Average loading (ton/vehicle)         3.38 = ALN        3.00 =ALT                (3) Generated traffic           (GT)      = Total TCS x      0.05
Average time saving (hour)            0.29 = TS                                  (4) Time savings of freight     (TSF)     = Annual freigt trafflc x TS x TVF
Accident reduced (year) La            7.00 = AC                                  (5) Time savings of passenger   (TSP)     = Annual passenger traffic x TS x TVP
Costs per accident (Yuan/accident)   9.000 = CA                                  (6) Road safety savings         (RSS)      = AC x CA
Tune value-
Freight (Yuanthour/vehicle)        2.00 = TVF
Passenger (Yuan/hour/passenger)     1.00 = TVP
Base Case (000 Yuan)
Sensitivities
Traffic volume         Capital costs                                         Benefits                                                                                Costs
---  -____-  -               -------  ------TCS-D---  -----ITCS-R-                                                           Net    Generated    TOW       Total   (+20/ )
Years           Normal  Tractor   Const   Maint.   Total  Normal  Tractor  Nomal  Tractor    GT         TSF      TSP      RSS      Total      cash     traffic    costs    benefits  benefits
---(AADT)--                  L/b              (1)     (1)      (2)      (2)      (3)      (4)      (5)     (6)    benefits    flow      (-50%.)   (+20Y.)  (-20%)   (-20/.)
1989
1990                0        0                         0                                                                                         0           0         0         0        0
1991            4,189      135                         0                                                                                         0           0         0         0        0
1992            6,141      143   25,320           25,320                                                                                    (25,320)   (25,320)  (30,384)  (25,320) (30,384)
1993            6,052     145   37,000            37,000                                                                                    (37,000)   (37.000)  (44,400)  (37,000) (44,400)
1994            6,588      198              335      335       0        0   22,046    1,893    1,197    3,599    1,651       63   30,449    30,114      29,516    30,047    24,024   23,957
1995            8,390      241              335      335       0        0   28,076    2,305    1,519    3,635    1.667       63   37.265    36,930      36,171    36,863    29,477   29,410
1996            8,474      243              335      335       0        0   28,357    2,324    1,534    3.671    1,684       63   37,633    37,298      36,531    37,231    29,771   29,704
1997            8,559      245              335      335       0        0   28,641    2,343    1,549    3,708    1,701       63   38,005    37,670      36,896    37,603    30,069   30,002
1998            8,645      247              335      335        0       0   28,929    2,362    1,565    3,745    1.718       63   38,382    38,047      37,265    37,980    30,371   30,304
1999            8,731      249              335      335       0        0   29,217    2,381    1,580    3,782    1,735       63   38,758    38,423      37,633    38,356    30,671   30,604
2000             8,818     251              335      335        0        0   29.508    2,400    1,595    3,820    1,752      63   39,138    38,803      38,006    38,736    30,975   30,908
2001             8,906     254              335      335        0        0   29,802    2,429    1,612    3,858    1,770      63   39,534    39,199      38,393    39,132    31,292   31,225
2002             8,995     257              335      335        0        0   30,100    2,458    1,628    3,897    1,787      63   39,933    39,598      38,784    39,531    31,611   31,544
2003 /_c         9,085     260              503      503        0        0   30,401    2,486    1,644    3,936    1,805      63   40,335    39,833      39,011    39,732    31,766   31,665
2004 t_c         9,176     263              503      503        0       0   30,706    2,515    1,661    3,975    1,823       63   40,743    40,241      39,410    40,140    32,092   31,991
2005             9,268     266              335      335        0       0   31,014    2,544    1,678    4,015    1,842       63   41,156    40,821      39,982    40,754    32,590   32,523
2006             9,361     269              335      335        0        0   31,325    2,572    1,695    4,055    1,860      63   41,570    41,235      40,388    41,168    32,921   32,854
2007             9,455     272              335      335        0       0   31,640    2,601    1,712    4,096    1,879       63   41,991    41,656      40,800    41,589    33,258   33,191
2008             9,550     275              335      335        0       0   31,957    2,630    1,729    4,137    1,897       63   42,413    42,078      41,214    42,011    33,595   33,528
2009             9,646     278              335      335        0        0   32,279    2,658    1,747    4,178    1,916      63   42,841    42,506      41,633    42,439    33,938   33,871
2010             9,742     281              335      335        0       0   32,600    2,687    1,764    4,220    1,936       63   43,270    42,935      42,053    42,868    34,281   34,214
2011             9,839     284              335      335        0       0   32,925    2,716    1,782    4,262    1,955       63   43,703    43,368      42,477    43,301    34,627   34,560
2012             9,937     287              335      335        0       0   33,253    2,744    1,800    4,305    1,974       63   44,139    43,804      42,904    43,737    34,976   34,909
Total                           62,320    5,360   67,680                                                              ERR =                   47.4%      46.6%     40.7%      39.3%    33.6%
_                -----                                                                 NPV (12%) =          171,094    166,521   160,264   126,045  115,214
/_a: Assume the net accident reductin wl be incident for evrey 5klm on the existnroad p.a..
/b: The aveager aual nmtenamce cost (Yua/Ion): Without the project-  5,000.0 ; Withtheproject:   15,OD0
Lc: Majorresurhacing. 



Table 6 (1-3): Economic Analysis of Road Network Rehabilitation
(Pingwang-Wangjiangjing Road)
dCareteristic                                    VOC (YAkin)                         Avae
alld pengthu          0                                sed                                                        With   Gradients
ofthe rad          (ki)             Nonal(N)           Tact   )                     (kn/r)    Clan  Condition   (m)        (%)
Witout dho inject   14.00 -LO          0.287 = CON          0.992 = COT               43.0       IV       Poor  a. 7.0  c. P                a. Width ofpavaet
Paved   b. 9.0  d. 7.2%            b. With ofsaubgrade.
With the prjed      14.00 =LN          0.217 = CNN          0.731 = CNT               62.0       11      Good   a 16.0  c. P                c. M = Mountn.; P  Pilain; H =o.
Pwavd   b. 18.0  d. 3.0%           &. Mawdmuni to.
Difirnce          0.00 - LD          0.070 = CDN         0.261 = CDT                19.0
Teeage- alsnidavge (tonfeide)           5.50 -0TNN           5.00 = TNT               (1) TCS due to da et diatace       (T-D)   - Traffic vhine (N,T) x 365 x LDx CO (N, T) xAL (N T)
Loag factor (%)                        71.0% = LFN          60.0% = LFT               (2) TCS de to neod inrov nt       (TCS-R)  = Traffic vihn. (N. T) x 365 x LN x CD (N, T) x AL (N, T)
Avepraglading (ovice)                   3.91 - ALN           3.00 = ALT               (3) Geatedtraffic                  (ff)      -Tota TCS x        0.05
Avea  tin. seg (hor)                    0.10 -TS                                      (4) Tmesnags offieight             (TSF)     = Amul feight taffic x TS x TVF
Accdent reduced (yew) La                3.00 = AC                                     (5) Time savn_ of pasenr           (TSP)     - Amuad per traffic x TS x TVP
Coab per acaideet (Yuacident)         10,000 - CA                                     (6) Road safety sa                (RSS)      = AC x CA
Timne value
Fto (YusaMiOvei)                      2.00 = TVF
P rUN  (Y        _1-WF   )            1.00 - TVP
Base Case ('000 Yuan)
Sensitivities
Traffic volune           Capital costs                                             Benefits                                                                                     Coab
-TCS-D-  -TCS-R-                                                                       Net  Gnated   Total   Total  (+20%)
Yecn            Nonnl  Tractor      CaU      htaht      Total  Noems    Tactr   Newl   Tractr          GT       TSF      TSP      RSS      Total      caIh t.affic         coats     benefits    b _neft
Lb               (1)       (1)      (2)       (2)      (3)      (4)      (5)      (6)    beefits    no         (-50%)    (+20%)    (-20%)    (-20%)
1989                                                      0                                                                                              0          0           0          0          0                   X
1990                0        0    21,470              21,470                                                                                        (21,470)   (21,470)    (25,764)  (21,470)    (25.764)
1991             3,956     204    15,610              15,610                                                                                        (15,610)    (15,610)    (18,732)  (15,610)    (13,732)
1992             5,649     334    12,760              12,760                                                                                        (12,760)   (12,760)    (15,312)  (12,760)    (15312)
1993             6,708     216                140       140         0        0    9,392        364      513      892      431        30   12,122    11,982      11,726      11,954     9,558       9,530
1994             8,094     185                140       140         0        0   11,333        740      604      956      630        30   14,293    14,153      13,851      14,125    11,294      11,266
1995             3,329     130                140       140         0        0   11,662        520      609    1,032      630        30   14,533    14,393      14,089      14,365    11.486      11,458
1996             8,412     131                140       140         0        0   11,778        524      615    1,043      687        30   14,677    14,537      14,230      14,509    11,602      11,574
1997             3,496     132                140       140          0       0   11,396        523      621    1,053      694        30   14,822    14,682      14,372      14,654    11,718      11,690
1998             8,581     133                140       140          0       0   12,015        532      627    1,064      701        30   14,969    14,S29      14.516      14,801    11,835      11,807
1999             8,667     134                140       140          0       0   12,135        536      634    1,074      708        30   15,117    14,977      14,660      14,949    11,954      11,926
2000             3,754     135                140        140         0        0   12,57        540      640    1,085      715        30   15,267    15,127      14,807      15,099    12,074      12,046
2001             8,842     136                140        140         0        0   12,30        544      646    1,096      722        30   15,413    15,278      14,955      15,250    I,194      12,166
2002 / c         8,930     137                210        210         0        0   12,503       548      653    1,107      729        30   15,570    15,360      15,034      15,318     12,246     12,204
2003 /7c         9,019     138                210       210          0        0   12,623       552      659    1.118      737        30   15,724    15,514      15,185      15,472    12369       12,327
2004             9,109     139                140        140         0        0   1Z,754       556      666    1,129      744        30   15,879    15,739      15,406      15,711    12,563      12,535
2005             9,200     140                140        140         0        0   1Z881        560      672    1,140      751        30   16,034    15,894      15,558      15,866     12,687     12,659
2006             9,292     141                140        140         0        0   13,010       564      679    1,152      759        30   16,194    16,054      15,715      16,026    12815       12,787
2007             9,35      142                140        140         0        0   13,140       568      685    1,163      766        30   16,352    16,212      15,870      16,134    12,942      12,914
2008             9,479     143                140        140         0        0   13,272       572      692    1,175      774        30   16,515    16,375      16,029      16,347    13,072      13,044
2009             9,574     144                140        140         0        0   13,405       576      699    1,187      782        30   16,679    16,539      16,190      16,511    13,203      13,175
2010             9,670     145                140        140         0        0   13,539       580      706    1,198      790        30   16,843    16,703      16,350      16,675    13,334      13,306
2011             9,767     146                140        140         0        0   13,675       584      713    1,210      798        30   17,010    16,870      16,514      16,842    13,468      13,440
2012             9,865     147                140        140         0        0   13,812       53S      720    1,223      806        30   17,179    17,039      16,679      17,011     13,603     13,575
Total                             49,840    2,30    52,220                                                                    ERR -                  22.0%       21.6%       18.8%     18.2%       15.4%
NPV (12%) -           37,609     35,951      29,315     21,793      13,499
t ar A _en. U. net acadent reduction will be 1 inldent for evesy 5 km in w exhing road pa..
/- b:The ausge_ nual mninasnc cost (Yuansick)    WithoutUe prIject-    6,000.0 ; WithU project   16,00D
/-c:Mai u g 



Table 6 (1-4): Economic Analysis of Road Network Rehabilitation
(Xiaohe-Huangtu Road)
Characteisbcs                                  VOC (Y/tkm)                        Average
and parameters      Length                                                         speed                      Widdt   Gradienis
ofthe road         (Ian)            Nonnal (N)       Tractor (T)                  (Wn/br)   Class  Condition   (m)       (%)
Without the project    32.00 = LO      0.292 =CON        0.992 = COT                50.0      III     Poor  a. 9.0  c. P                  a. Width ofpavement.
Paved  b. 12.0  d. 3.5%            b. Width ofsubgrade.
Withtheproject       31.20 =LN         0.221  =CNN       0.731  =CNT                70.0      11      Good   a. 9.0  c. P                 c.M-Mountainous;P= Plain;H=Hill.
Paved  b. 12.0  d. 2.5%             d. Maximum to.
Difference         0.80 = LD        0.071 = CDN       0.261  - CDT               20.0
Tonnage- standard aveage (ton/whicle)   5.50 = TNN        5.00 = TNT                (I) TCS due to shorter distance   (TCS-D)   = Traffic volume (N, T) x 365 x LD x CO (N,T) x AL (N, T)
Loading factor (%/)                    70.0% = LFN       60.01% = LFT               (2) TCS due to road improvement    (TCS-R)   = Traffic volume (N, T) x 365 x LN x CD (N, T) x AL (N, T)
Average loading (ton/vehicle)           3.85 = ALN        3.00 = ALT                (3) Generated traffic             (GT)       =Total TCS x       0.05
Average time saving (hour)              0.19 = TS                                   (4) Time savings of freight      (TSF)       = Annual freight traffic x TS x TVF
Accident reduced (year) /_a             6.00 = AC                                   (5) Time savings of passenger     (TSP)      = Annual passenger traffic x TS x TVP
Costs per accident (Yuan/accident)     9,000 =CA                                     (6) Road safety savings          (RSS)      = AC x CA
Time value-
Freight (Yuan/hour/vehicle)          2.00 = TVF
Passenger (Yuan/hour/passenger)      1.00 = TVP
Base Case ('000 Yuan)
Sensitivities
Traffic volume           Capital costs                                           Benefits                                                                                   Costs
-   --   -----------------------------------  ------TCS-D------- -------TCS-R--------                                       Net    Generated    Total       Total   (+20%)
Years            Normal  Tractor   Const.   Maint    Total  Nornm    Tractor   Norsnal  Tractor    GT        TSF      TSP      RSS       Total      cash     traffic     costs    benefits   benefits
_-(AADT) ------               / b             (1)       (1)      (2)      (2)      (3)     (4)       (5)       (6)    benefits    flow      (-50%)    (+20/)   (-20%/,)  (-20%/)
1989
1990             1,585       56                          0                                                                                             0           0          0         0        0
1991             1,712       71                          0                                                                                             0           0          0         0        0
1992             1,883       48   29,910            29,910                                                                                        (29,910)    (29,910)  (35,892)  (29,910) (35,892)
1993              N.A.    N.A.  39,880              39,880                                                                                        (39,880)    (39,880)  (47.856)  (39,880) (47,856)
1994             2,936      102   24,020            24,020                                                                                        (24,020)    (24,020)  (28,824)  (24,020) (28,824)
1995             3,683      256               307      307    1,209      222   11,492    2,283       760    1,026     261         54   17,307      17,000      16,620    16,939     13,539   13,477
1996             3,793      264               307      307    1,245      229   11,835    2,354      783    1,057      269         54   17,826      17.519      17,128    17,458     13,954   13,892
1997             3,907      272               307      307    1,282      236   12,191    2,425       807    1,089      276        54   18,360      18,053      17,650    17,992     14,381   14,320
1998             4,024      280               307      307    1,321      243   12,556    2,497      831    1,121      285         54   18,908      18,601      18,186    18,540     14,819   14,758
1999             4,145      288               307      307    1,360      250   12,934    2,568       856    1,155      293        54   19,470      19,163      18,735    19,102     15,269   15,208
2000             4,269      297               307      307    1,401      258   13,321    2,648       881    1,190      302        54   20,055      19,748      19,308    19,687     15,737   15,676
2001             4,397      306               307      307    1,443      266   13,720    2,729       908    1,226      311         54   20,657     20,350      19,896    20,289     16,219   16,157
2002             4,529      315               307      307    1,486      274   14,132    2,809       935    1,262      321        54   21,273      20,966      20,499    20,905     16,711   16,650
2003             4,665      324               307      307    1,531      281   14,556    2,889       963    1,300      330         54   21,904     21,597      21,116    21,536     17,216   17.155
2004 / c         4,805      334               461      461    1,577      290   14,993    2,978       992    1,339      340         54   22,563     22,103      21,607    22,010     17,590   17,498
2005 /_c         4,901      341               461      461    1,609      296   15,293    3,041    1,012    1,366       347        54   23,018      22,558      22,052    22,465     17,954   17,862
2006             4,999      348               307      307    1,641      302   15S,598    3,103    1,032    1,393     354          54   23,477     23,170      22,654    23,109     18,475   18,413
2007             5,099      355               307      307    1,674      308   15,910    3,165    1,053    1,421       361        54   23,946      23,639      23,113    23,578     18,850   18,788
2008             5,201      362               307      307    1,707      314   16,229    3,228    1,074    1,449       368         54   24,423     24,116      23,579    24,055     19,231   19.170
2009             5,305      369               307      307    1,741      321   16,553    3,290    1,095    1,479       376         54   24,909     24,602      24,055    24,541     19,620   19,559
2010             5,411      376               307      307    1,776      327   16,884    3,353    1,117    1,508       383         54   25,402     25,095      24,537    25,034    20,015   19,953
2011             5,519      384               307      307    1,811      334   17,221    3,424    1,140    1,538       391         54   25,913     25,606      25,036    25,545     20,423   20,362
2012             5,629      392               307      307    1,847      341   17,564    3,495    1,162    1,569       398         54   26,430     26,123      25,542    26,062     20,837   20,776
Total                             93,810    4,605   98,415                                                                 ERR =                   16.6%       16.2%      13.8%     13.2%    10.7%
,,---------  ------- - -------- - -                                                   NPV (12%)              28,162      25,847     12,715     7,081   (8,368)
/_a: Assume the net accident reduction wiVL be I incident for every 5 kIn on the existing road p.a..
/ b: The average annual maintenance cost (Yuan/min): Without the project-  6,000.0 ; With the project:    16,000
/c: Major resurfacing



Table 6 (1-5): Economic Analysis of Road Network Rehabilitation
(Hutai-Caoqiao Road)
Clraramctesisics                                VOC (Y/dtn)                         Averge
and parameters    Lengh                                                              speed                     Width  Gradients
ofthe road        (Ian)             Normal (N)        Tractor(T)                   Q/hr)    Class  Condition   (r)       (%)
Without the prect    14.84 = LO       0.321 -CON           0.992 = COT               40.0      111      Poor  a. 9.0  c. P               a. Width of pavement
Paved  b. 11.0  d 3.00,           b. Widthofsubgrede.
Withtheprject       13.37 =LN         0.243   CNN          0.731 -CNT                56.0      if      Good   a 12.0  c. P               c.M=Mountinow;P- Plain;H-H-i.
Paved  b. 18.0  dL 2.5%           d. Maximum to.
Differance        1.47 = LD         0.078 = CDN         0.261 = CDT               16.0
T-nag-stsnda aena   e(tonMbice)        5.00 =TNN           5.00 =TNT                 (1) TCSdueto shorterdistance     (TCS-D)  -Trmfficuvolume (N, T)x365xLDxCO (N, T)xAL(N, T)
Loading factor (%)                    70.0% - LFN          60.0eA - LFT              (2) TCS due to road imFovement   (TCS-R)   = Traffic volume (N, T) x 365 x LN x CD (N, T)x AL (N, T)
Averae loading (totetidcle)            3.50 - ALN          3.00 = ALT                (3) Generated traffic            (GT)      = Total TCS x      0.05
Average  time savng (hour)             0.13 =TS                                      (4) Time savig of freight        (TSF)     - Annual freight traffic x TS x TVF
Accident reduced (year) /a             3.00 = AC                                     (5) Time savin  of passenger     (TSP)    = Annual passenger traffic x TS x TVP
Cots per accident (Yu/accident)      10,000 - CA                                     (6) Road safety savny            (RSS)    =ACxCA
Time vahle-
Freight (Yuanthour/vehicle)          2.00 = TVF
Panger (YuahouAnsenger)              1.00 - TVP
Base Case (000 Yuan)
Scnsvitsstics
Traffic voltane          Capital costs                                           Benefits                                                                                    Comts
-          -TCS-D-            -TCS-R-                                                            Net    Generated     Tota       Total     (+20%)
Years           Nomnal  Tractor    CoDMt.   Maint      Total  Normal   Tractor  Norma   Tractor      GT       TSF      TSP     RSS      Total      cash     tratlic     costs    benefits    benefits
-----(AADT    I-               /Lb               (1)       (1)     (2)       (2)      (3)      (4)      (5)     (6)    benefits    now       (-505 )    (+20%)    (-20%)    (-20%)
1989                                                     0                                                                                            0           0          0                    
1990 1.a                   n                             0                                                                                            0           0          0         0           0
1991              n.a.    nLa.   12,230              12,230                                                                                      (12,230)    (12,230)   (14.676)  (12,230)    (14,676)
1992             n.        5 a0 50,080               50,080                                                                                      (50,080)   (50,080)   (60,096)  (50,080)   (60,096)
1993            7,624      352               107       107      4,598     562   10,194      1,345     835    1,391     525        30   19,480    19,373      18,956      19,352    15,477     15.456
1994            8,884     590                107       107      5.358     942   11,879      2,254    1,022    1,101    928        30   23,514    23,407      22,896      23,386    18,704     18,683
1995            8,973      596               107       107      5,411     951   11,998      2,277    1,032    1,112    937        30   23,748    23,641      23,12S      23,620    18,891     18,870
1996            9,063     602                107       107      5,466     961   12,118      2,300    1,042    1,124    947        30   23,988    23,881      23,360      23,860    19,083     19,062
1997            9,833      582               107       107      5,930     929   13,148      2,224    1,112    1,135    956        30   25,464    25,357      24,801      25,336    20,264     20,243
1998            9,931      588               107        107     5,989     939   13,279      2,247    1,123    1,146    966        30   25,719    25,612      25,051      25,591    20,468     20,447
1999            10,030    594                107       107      6,049     948   13,411      2,270    1,134    1,157    975        30   25,974    25,867      25,300      25,86    20,672      20,651
2000            10,130     600                107       107     6,109      958   13,545     2,293    1,145    1,169    985        30   26,234    26,127       25,555     26,106    20,880      20,859
2001            10,231     606               107        107     6,170      967   13,680     2,316    1,157    1,181    995        30   26,496    26,389      25,811      26,368    21,090     21,068
2002            10,333     612               107        107     6,232      977   13,817     2,339    1,168    1,193    1,005      30   26,761    26,654      26,070      26,633    21,302     21,280
2003 / c        10,436     618                161       161     6,294      986   13,954     2,361    1,180    1,205    1,015      30   27,025    26,865      26,275      26,832    21,460     21,427
2004 i/c        10,540     624                161       161     6,356      996   14,093     2,384    1,191    1,217    1,025      30   27,292    27,132       26,536     27,099    21,673      21,641
2005            10,645     630               107       107      6,420    1,006   14,234     2,407    1,203    1,229    1,035      30   27,564    27,457      26,856      27,436    21,944     21,923
2006            10,751     636                107       107     6,484    1,015   14,376     2,430    1,215    1,241    1,046      30   27,837    27,730      27,123      27,709    22,163     22,141
2007            10,859     642               107        107     6,549    1,025   14,520     2,453    1,227    1,253    1,056      30   28,113    28,006      27,393      27,9S5    22X383     22,362
2008            10,968     648               107        107     6,615    1,034   14,666     2,476    1,240    1,266    1,067      30   28,394    28,287      27,667      28,266    22,608     22,587
2009            11,078     654               107        107     6,681    1,044   14,813     2,499    1,252    1,279    1,077      30   28,675    28,568      27,942      28,547    22,833      22,812
2010            11,189     661               107        107     6,748    1,055   14,961     2,526    1,265    1,291    1,088      30   28,964    28,857      28,225      28,836    23,064      23,043
2011            11,301     668               107        107     6,815    1,066   15,111     2,552    1,277    1,304    1,099      30   29,254    29,147      28,509      29,126    23,296     23,275
2012            11,414     675                107       107     6,884    1,077   15,262     2,579    1,290    1,317    1,110      30   29,549    29,442      28,797      29,421    23,532      23,511
Total                             62,310    1,819    64,129                                                                ERR -                  34.8%/     34.2%      29.6%     28.5%       24.0%
NPV(12%) -            97,762     94,515      87,463    67,908     57,609
/-a Asume the not accident reduction wil be I incident for every 5 Ian on the exising road p.a..
Lb: The averageannualaitenancecost (Yuanlr):   Without the project-    7,000.0; With the project  15,800
/c: Major resurfacing.
M



- 61 -
5BB                                                                                                                               ANNEX 1
Table 6 (1-6): Economic Evaluation And Sensitivity Analysis
I. Pingwang Bridge
(Yuan  million, December 1995 prices)
Base Case                                      ---      Sensitivity Analysis
Caset    Case 2   Case 3   Case 4
Costs                                  Benefits                           -_-_                 _       _
-   -  - -   VOC           Reduced                               Gener-            Total    Cost
Net /_b              Net   Gener-  Cong.On  Reduced                Net      ated    Total  Benefits  (+20%)
Constru  Road                Sav-      ated   Exist.    Accid              Cash   Traffic     Cost           Benefits
Year          -ction  Maint.      Total    ings   Traffic   Road    -ents       Total    Flow   (-50%)  (+20%o)  (-20%)   (-20%)
1991           15.71             15.71                                                 (15.71)  (15.71)  (18.85)  (15.71)  (18.85)
1992           21.91             21.91                                                 (21.91)  (21.91)  (26.29)  (21.91)  (26.29)
1993            0.00     0.10     0.10    12.65     0.63      0.00     0.01    13.29    13.19    12.88    13.17    10.53    10.51
1994            0.00     0.10     0.10    14.51     0.73      0.00     0.01    15.25    15.15    14.79    15.13    12.10    12.08
1995            0.00     0.10     0.10    16.64     0.84      0.00     0.01    17.49    17.39    16.97    17.37    13.89    13.87
1996                     0.10     0.10    17.84     0.90      0.00     0.01    18.75    18.65    18.20    1S.63    14.90    14.S8
1997                     0.10     0.10    19.13     0.96      0.00     0.01    20.10    20.00    19.52    19.98    15.98    15.96
1998                     0.10     0.10    20.51     1.03      0.00     0.01    21.55    21.45    20.94    21.43    17.14    17.12
1999                     0.10     0.10    21.99     1.10      0.00     0.01    23.10    23.00    22.45    22.98    18.38    18.36
2000                     0.10     0.10    23.58     1.18      0.00     0.01    24.77    24.67    24.08    24.65    19.72    19.70
2001                     0.10     0.10    24.95     1.25      0.00     0.01    26.21    26.11    25.49    26.09    20.87    20.Q5
2002                     0.10     0.10    26.40     1.33      0.00     0.01    27.74    27.64    26.98    27.62    22.09    22.07
2003 /_a                 0.15     0.15    27.94     1.41      0.00     0.01    29.36    29.21    28.51    29.18    23.34    23.31
2004 /-a                 0.15     0.15    29.57     1.49      0.00     0.01    31.07    30.92    30.18    30.89    24.71    24.68
2005                     0.10     0.10    31.30     1.58      0.00     0.01    32.89    32.79    32.00    32.77    26.21    26.19
2006                     0.10     0.10    32.70     1.65      0.00     0.01    34.36    34.26    33.44    34.24    27.39    27.37
2007                     0.10     0.10    34.16     1.72      0.00     0.01    35.89    35.79    34.93    35.77    28.61    28.59
2008                     0.10     0.10    35.69     1.79      0.00     0.01    37.49    37.39    36.50    37.37    29.89    29.87
2009                     0.10     0.10    37.29     1.87      0.00     0.01    39.17    39.07    38.14    39.05    31.24    31.22
2010                     0.10     0.10    38.96     1.94      0.00     0.01    40.91    40.81    39.84    40.79    32.63    32.61
2011                     0.10     0.10    40.62     2.02      0.00     0.01    42.65    42.55    41.54    42.53    34.02    34.00
2012                     0.10     0.10    42.35     2.11      0.00     0.01    44.47    44.37    43.32    44.35    35.48    35.46
2013                     0.10     0.10    44.15     2.20      0.00     0.01    46.36    46.26    45.16    46.24    36.99    36.97
2014                     0.10     0.10    46.03     2.30      0.00     0.01    48.34    48.24    47.09    48.22    38.57    38.55
2015                     0.10     0.10    48.00     2.40      0.00     0.01    50.41    50.31    49.11    50.29    40.23    40.21
Total          37.62                   EIRR =                                           39.9%    39.2%    34.9%    33.90/o   29.6%
NPV (12%) =                                      116.0    112.5    109.6    86.4    79.9
La: Major resurfacing.
/_b: Net of the maintance savings on the proposed expressway and the existing road.
/_c: All figures are rounded.



Table 6 (11-1): Economic Analysis of Road Network Rehabilitation
(Gelong-Guli Road)
Charateristics                                     VOC (Y/tkmn)                          Average
and parmeters       Lengthi                                                               speed                       Width   Gradients
of the road        (Ian)              Nornial (N)        Tractoir (T)                   (lnm/r)    Clas   Condition   (in)      (%
Wiithout the projet  38.30 = LO          0,296 = CON          0.992 = COT                 40.0       I11      Poor  aL  9.0  C. P                 a. Width of pavement
Paved   b. 12.0  d. 3.5%            b. Width of subgrade.
Wit the project      38.30 - LN          0.224 = CNN          0.731 = CNT                 60.0       II      Good   a. 18.0  c. P                 c. M = Mountainus; P =Plain; H - Hill.
Paved   b. 20.0  d. 2.5%            at Maxinun to.
Difference         0.00 = LD          0.072 = CDN          0.261 = CDT                 20.0
Tonnage- sandard averag(toW-eilue)        5.50 =TNN            5.00 =TNT                  (1) TCS due toashorterdistance     (TCS-D)   = Trafrevoitume (N, T) x365 xLD xCO(N, T) xAL(N, T)
Loadin factor (%)                        69.0% - LFN          60.0% = LFr                 (2) TCS duie to road imprvement    (TCS-R)   -Traffi volumne (N, T) x 365 x LN x CD (N, T) x AL (N, T)
Aveage loadin (ton/vehicle)               3.80 = A.LN          3.00 - ALT                 (3) Generated traffic              (01)       = Total TCS x       0.05
Averag lim saving (hou)                   0.32 - TS                                       (4) Time savings of fieight        (TSF)      = Annual feigiht trafic x TS x TVF
Accident reduced (ear) La                 8.00 - AC                                       (5) Time svings of pasenger        (TSP)      - Annual passenger traffic x TS x TVP
Cotst per accident (Yuain/accident)     10.000 -CA                                        (6) Road safety savings            (RSS)      = AC xCA
Time velue-
Fteigh (Yuan/hour/vehicle)             2.00 - TVF
Passenge (Yuan/hour/passenger)         1.00 - TVP
Base Case (I0O0 Yuan)
Sensitivities
Traffic volume             capital costs                                              Benefits                                                                                          Costs
-TCS-D--   -TCS-R-                                                                         Net    Generated      Total      TOta       (+20%)
Yearn           Nonnat  Tractor       Coast   Main.       Total  Nonal   Tracto    Normal.  Tractor        GT       TSF       TSP      RSS      Total       cash      traffic     coats      benefits    benefits
----4AADT)--         Lb               ~~~(1)     (1)       (2)       (2)      (3)      (4)       (5)       (6)    benefits    flow       (.0%)      (+20%)    (-220%)      (-20%)
1989
1990             7,698      537                              0                                                                                                 0           0            0         0           0
1991             8,313      580                              0                                                                                                 0           0            0         0           0
1992             8,728      609    73,030               73,030                                                                                           (13,030)    (73.030)    (87.636)   (73.030)    (87,636)
1993             4,364      304     98380               98,380                                                                                           (98,380)    (98,380)   (118,056)   (98,380)   (118,056)
1994             5.036      518     56,910              56,910                                                                                           (56,910)    (56,910)    (68,292)   (56,910)    (68,292)
1995             5,791      596                 349        349         0         0   22,182      6,524    1,435    2,798    1,087         80   34,106      33,757      33,040      33,687     26,936      26,866
1996             5,965      614                 349        349         0        0   22,848       6.721    1,478    2,883    1,120         80   35,130     34,781       34,042      34,711     27.755      27.685
1997             6,144      632                 349        349         0         0   23,534      6,918    1,523    2,969    1,153         80   36,177     35,828       35,067      35,758     28,593      28,523
1998             6,328      651                 349        349         0         0   24,239      7,126    1,568    3,058    1,188         80   37,259      36,910      36,126      36,840     29,458      29,388
1999             6,518      671                 349        349         0         0   24,966      7,345    1,616    3,150    1,224         80   38,381      38,032      37,224      37,962     30,356      30.286
2000             6,714      691                 349        349         0         0   25,717      7,564    1,664    3,245    1,260         80   39,530      39,181      38,349      39,111     31,275      31,205
2001             6,915      712                 349        349         0         0   26,487      7,794    1,714    3,342    1,298         80   40,715      40.366      39,509      40,296     32,223      32,133
2002             7,122      733                 349        349         0         0   27,280      8,023    1,765    3,442    1,337         80   41,927      41,578      40.696      41,508     33,193      33,123
2003             7,336      755                 349        349         0         0   28,100      8,264    1,818    3,545    1,377         80   43,184      42,835      41,926      42,765     34,198      34,128
2004 /le         7 556      778                 524        524         0         0   28,942      8,516    1,873    3,652    1,418         80   44,481      43.958      43,021      43,853     35,061      34,957
2005 /_c         7,707      794                 524        524          0        0   29,521      8,691    1,911    3,725    1,447         80   45,375      44,852      43.896      44,747     35,777      35,672
2006             7,861      810                 349        349         0         0   30,111      8,866    1,949    3,799    1,476         80   46,281      45,932      44,958      45,862     36,676      36,606
2007             8,018      826                 349        349         0         0   30,712      9,041    1,988    3,875    1,505         80   47,201      46,852      45.858      46,782     37,412      37,342
2008             8,178      843                 349        349         0         0   31,325      9.227    2,028    3,953    1,535         80   48,148      47,799      46,785      47,729     38,169      38,100
2009             8,342      860                 349        349         0         0   31,953      9,414    2,068    4,032    1,566         80   49,113      48,764      47,730      48,694     38,941      38,872
2010             8,50       877                 349        349         0         0   32,593      9,600    2,110    4,112    1,597         80   50,092      49,743      48,688      49,673     39,725      39,655
2011             8,679      895                 349        349         0         0   33.244      9,797    2.152    4,194    1,629         80   51,096      50,747      49,671      50,677     40,528      40,458
2012             8,853      91                  349        349         0         0   33,910      9,994    2,195    4,278    1,662         80   52,119      51,770      50,673      51,700     41,346      41,276
Total                              228,320    5,235   233,555                                                                      ERR -                   13.5%       13.2%        11.0%A    10.5%         8.3%
NPV (12%) -            21,746      17,374      (15,458)   (19,806)    (57.010)
/:Asumne the not acienmt reduction wil be 1 incident for every 5 Ian on the existing road p.a..
/b: Mme aveag annua maintenance cost (Yuan/lan):   Withou the projec-  7,000.0 ; With the project     16,100
/e: Mijor resurfacing.



Table 6 (11-2): Economic Analysis of Road Network Rehabilitation
(Yanxiang-Wuxi Road)
Characterics                                     VOC (Y/tthn)                         Average
andparametera      Length                                                             spoed                      Width   Gradients
ofthe road         (kin)            Nonnal (N)         Tractor (T)                   (1m/br)    Class  Condition   (m)     (%)
Withoutthe proiect    37.20 -LO        0.281 - CON         0.992 - COT                 46.0      111     Poor  a. 7-9  c. P                 a. Width ofpavement
Paved  b. 10-12  d. 3.0%/          b. Width of aubgrade.
Withtheproject      36.50 -LN          0.211 -CNN          0.731 -CNT                  65.0      11      Good   a. 15.0  c. P                   M -Mountainous-,P   Phn; H-Hl
Paved   b. 18.0  d. 2.5%           d. Maximum to.
Differenos        0.0 -LD           0.070 - CDN          0.261 -CDT                 19.0
Tonnage- stadard aage (tonvehicle)      5.50 - TNN          5.00 - TNT                 (I) TCS due to shorter distance  (TCS-D)  = Traffic vohne (N, T) x 365 x LDx CO (N, T) xAL (N, T)
Leeadingfactor(%)                      71.0% -LFN          60.0% -LFT                  (2) TCS duetormad mprovement      (TCS-R)  -Trafflcvunie(N, T)x365xLNxCD(N.T)xAL(N, T)
Avge loading (ton/vehicle)              3.91 - ALN          3.00 - ALT                 (3) Generated taffic             (GT)       - Total TCS x      0.05
Aveged tme     g (hour)                 0.25 -TS                                       (4) Time a       offreight        (TSF)     - Annual freight traffic x TS x TVF
Accident reduced (yoer) a               7.00 -AC                                       (5) Time savinofpassenger         (TSP)     - Amual passenger taffic x TS x TVP
Coats per aoident (Yuan/accident)     10,000 - CA                                      (6) Road afety saig              (RSS)      - AC x CA
Time val-
Fright (Yuan/our/vehicle)            2.00 = TVF
Passenge (Yuan/hour/passenger)        1.00   TVP
Bse Case COOO Yuan)
Sensitivities
Trafic volume            Capital costs                                             Benefits                                                                                      Costa
-        -TCS-D-             -TCS-R-                                                            Net    Generated      Total      Total     (+20%)
Years           Nonal  Tractor    Coamt   Mamt         Total  Normal   Tractor  Nmal   Traor           GT      TSF      TSP      RSS       Total     cash      traffic     coas      benofits    benefts
----4AABTI    -                 /Lb               (1)       (1)      (2)      (2)       (3)      (4)      (5)      (6)    bnefits    flow       (-50%)     (+20%)    (-20%)    (-20%)
1989                                                      0                                                                                              0           0          0          0          0
1990            8,443      538                            0                                                                                              0           0           0         0          0
1991            9,457      602                            0                                                                                              0           0          0          0          0
1992           10,407    1,041    66,790              66,790                                                                                        (66,790)    (66,790)    (80,148)  (66,790)    (80,148)
1993            9,782      571    61,670              61,670                                                                                        (61,670)    (61.670)    (74,004)  (61,670)    (74,004)
1994           10,007      469    55,950              55,950                                                                                        (55,950)    (55,950)    (67.140)  (55,950)    (67,140)
1995           10,707      502                342       342      3,075     382   39,084       5,237    2,389    4,319    1,320       70   55,876    55,534      54,340      55,466    44.359      44,290
1996           10814       507                342       342      3,106     385   39,475      5,289    2,413    4.362    1,333        70   56,433    56,091      54,885      56,023    44,804      44,736
1997           10,922      512                342       342      3,137     389   39.869      5,341    2,437    4,405    1,346        70   56,994    56,652      55,434      56,584    45,253      45,185
1998           11,031      517                342       342      3,168     393   40,267      5,393    2,461    4,449    1,359        70   57,560    57,218      55,988      57,150    45,706      45,638
1999           11,141      522                342       342      3,199     397   40t669       5,445    2,486    4,494    1,373       70   58,133    57,791      56,548      57,723    46,164      46,096
2000            11,252     527                342       342      3,231      401   41,074      5,497    2,510    4,539    1,387       70   58,709    58,367      57,112      58,299    46,625      46,557
2001            11,365     532                342       342      3,264     404   41,486       5,550    2,535    4,584    1,401       70   59,294    58,952      57,685      58.884    47,093      47,025
2002            11,479     537                342       342      3,297     408   41,903       5,602    2,561    4,630    1,415       70   59,886    59,544      58,264      59,476    47,567      47,498
2003            11,594     542                342       342      3,330      412   42,322      5,654    2,586    4,677    1,429       70   60,480    60,138      58,845      60,070    48,042      47,974
2004 /c         11,710     547                513       513      3,363     416   42,146       5,706    2,612    4,724    1,443       70   61,080    60,567      59,261      60,464    48,351      48,248
2005 /c         11,827     552                513       513      3,397      420   43,173      5,758    2,637    4,771    1,457       70   61,683    61,170      59,852      61,067    48,833      48,731
2006            11,945     558                342       342      3,430     424   43,604       5,821    2,664    4,819    1,472       70   62,304    61,962      60,630      61,894    49,501      49,433
2007            12,064     564                342       342      3,465      429   44,038      5,883    2,691    4,867    1,487       70   62,930    62,588      61,243      62,520    50.002      49,934
2008            12,185     570                342       342      3,499     433   44.480       5,946    2,718    4,915    1,502       70   63,563    63,221      61,862      63,153    50,508      50,440
2009           12,307      576                342       342      3,534     438   44,925       6,009    2,745    4,964    1,517       70   64,202    63,860      62,488      63,792    51,020      50,951
2010            12,430     582                342       342      3,570      442   45,374      6,071    2,773    5,014    1,532       70   64,846    64,504      63,118      64,436    51,535      51,466
2011            12,554     588                342       342      3,605     447   45,827       6,134    2,801    5,064    1,547       70   65,495    65,153      63,753      65,085    52,054      51,986
2012            12,680     594                342       342      3,641     452   46,287       6,196    2,829    5,114    1,563       70   66,152    65,810      64,396      65,742    52,580      52,511
Total                            184,410    5,130   189,540                                                                   ERR -                  24.00%      23.6%       20.5%     19.7%       16.6%
NPV (12%) -          154,780     148,256     124,690    93,732      63,640
/ a Assune the not accident reducon wil be I incidont for every 5 kin on the edsting road p.a..
/_b: The aveeannual maintenance cost (Yuan/inn):   Without the project.    7,000.0; With the project  16,300
/_c: Mojor resurfacin



Table 6 (11-3): Economic Analysis of Road Network Rehabilitation
(Huangtu-Xiagang Road)
Characteristics                                 VOC (Y/tkm)                       Average
and parameters     Length                                                          speed                      Width   Gradients
of the road        (kin)            Normal (N)       Tractor (T)                 (km/hr)    Class  Condition   (m)      (%)
.--   -   ---- -   --  -  ----      ----  .  _.    .._., .    ............... .  ----- --  - -----  _      -   -----   -------
Without the project    18.90 =LO       0.272 = CON       0.992 = COT               50.0      lII      Poor  a. 6.0  c. P                 a. Width ofpavement.
Paved   b. 9.0  d. 3.0/           b. Width of aubgrade.
With the project    17.20 = LN         0.206 = CNN       0.731 = CNT               70.0       II     Good   a. 15.0 . P                  c. M c   Mountainous; P = Plain H =Hill.
Paved   b. 18.0  d. 2.7%           d. Maxinunm to.
Difference         1.70 = LD        0.066 = CDN       0.261 = CDT                20.0
Tonmage- standard average (ton/vehicle)  5.50 = TNN       5.00 = TNT                (1) TCS due to shorter distance  (TCS-D)    Traffic volume (N, T) x 365 x LD x CO (N, T) x AL (N, T)
Loading factor (%)                     75.0% = LFN       60.0% = LFT                (2) TCS due to road improvement    (TCS-R)   = Traffic volume (N, T) x 365 x LN x CD (N, T) x AL (N, T)
Average loading (ton/vehicle)           4.13 = ALN        3.00 = ALT                (3) Generated traffic            (GT)       =Total TCS x        0.05
Average time saving (hour)              0.13 = TS                                   (4) Time savings of freight      (TSF)        Annual freight traffic x TS x TVF
Accident reduced (year) La              4.00 = AC                                   (5) Tine savings of passenger     (TSP)       Annual passenger traffic x TS x TVP
Costs per accident (Yuan/accident)    10,000 = CA                                   (6) Road safety savings           (RSS)     = AC x CA
Time value-
Freight (Yuanwhour/vehcle)           2.00 = TVF
Passenger (Yuan/hour/passenger)      .0oo = TVP
Base Case ('000 Yuan)
Sensitivities
Traffic volume          Capital costs                                           Benefits                                                                                    Costs
-----------  ------ -----------------  -----TCS-D------- -------TCS-R--------                                          Net    Generated    Total      Total   (+20%)
Years           Normal  Tractor   Const.   Maint.   Total  Nonsal  Tractor   Normal  Tractor    GT          TSF       TSP      RSS      Total      cash      traffic     costs    benefits   benefits
---(ADT)----                    / b             (1)     (1)       (2)      (2)      (3)      (4)       (5)      (6)    benefits    flow      (-50%)    (+20%)   (-20%)   (-20%)
1989
1990             3,732      90                           0                                                                                             0           0         0          0        0
1991             4,302     337                           0                                                                                             0           0         0          0        0
1992             6,266     201   12,370             12,370                                                                                       (12,370)    (12,370)  (14,844)  (12,370) (14.844)
1993             9,504     359   23,310             23,310                                                                                       (23,310)    (23,310)  (27,972)  (23,310) (27,972)
1994            10,208     587   15,120             15,120                                                                                       (15,120)    (15,120)  (18,144)  (15,120) (18,144)
1995            10,820     112                191      191    7,546      207   18,612      551    1,346    2,280      681         40   31,263     31,072      30,399     31,034    24,819   24,781
1996            10,928     113                191      191    7,622      209   18,798      555    1,359    2,303      687         40   31,573    31.382       30,703     31,344    25,067   25,029
1997            11,037     114                191      191    7,698      210   18,986      560    1,373    2,326      694         40   31,887     31,696      31,010    31,658     25,319   25,280
1998            11,147     115                191      191    7,774      212   19,175      565    1,386    2,349      701         40   32,202     32,011      31,318    31,973     25,571   25,532
1999            11,258     116                191      191    7,852      214   19,366      570    1,400    2,373      708         40   32,523     32,332      31,632     32,294    25,827   25,789
2000            11,371      117               191      191    7,931      216   19,560      575    1,414    2,397       715        40   32,848     32,657      31,950     32,619     26,087   26,049
2001            11,485      118               191      191    8,010      218   19,756      580    1,428    2,421       722        40   33,175     32.984      32,270     32,946     26,349   26,311
2002            11,600      119               191      191    8,090      220   19,954      585    1,442    2,445       730        40   33,506     33,315      32,594     33,277     26,614   26,576
2003            11,716      120               191      191    8,171      222   20,154      590    1,457    2,470       737        40   33,841     33,650      32,922     33,612     26,882   26,844
2004 /_c        11,833     121                287      287    8,253      223   20,355      595    1,471    2,494       744        40   34,175    33,889       33,153     33,831     27,054   26,996
2005 /_c        11,951      122               287      287    8,335      225   20,558      600    1,486    2,519       752        40   34,515     34,229      33,486     34,171     27,326   27,268
2006            12,071      123               191      191    8,419      227   20,764      605    1,501    2,544       759        40   34,859     34,668      33,918     34,630    27,696   27,658
2007            12,192     124                191      191    8,503      229   20,972      610    1,516    2,570       767        40   35,207     35,016      34,258     34,978     27,975   27,936
2008            12,314      125               191      191    8,588      231   21,182      614    1,531    2,595       775        40   35,556     35,365      34,600     35,327     28,254   28,216
2009            12,437     126                191      191    8,674      233   21,394      619    1,546    2,621       782        40   35,909    35,718       34,945     35,680    28,536   28,498
2010            12,561      127               191      191    8,761      234   21,607      624    1,561    2,647       790        40   36,264     36,073      35.293    36,035     28,820   28,782
2011            12,687      128               191      191    8,848      236   21,824      629    1,577    2,674       798        40   36,626    36,435       35,647     36,397     29,110   29,072
2012            12,814      129               191      191    8,937      238   22,042      634    1,593    2,700       806        40   36,990     36,799      36,003     36,761    29,401   29,363
Total                            50,800    2,865   53,665                                                                  ERR                     43,0%       42.3%     37.5%      36.3%    31.5%
----- --- ------ ---                                                           NPV (12%) =            129,355     125,680    121,072    95,200   86,917
/-a: Assume the net accident reduc'ion wi' be I incident for every 5 km on the existing road p.a..                                                                                                             >
/_b: The average amual maintenance cost (YuaPJkm): Withouttheproject-  5,200.0; Withatheproject  16.800
/_c: Major resurfacing,             u
I-



Table 6 (11-4): Economic Analysis of Road Network Rehabilitation
(Tianwangsi-Lishui Road)
Characteristics                                VOC (Y/tkm)                        Average
and parameters      Length                                                         speed                      Width   Gradients
of the road        (kmn)            Normal (N)       Tractor (T)                  (kn/hr)   Class  Condition   (m)      (%)
Without the project    21.69 =LO      0.292 = CON       0.992 = COT                40.0      III      Poor  a. 7.0  c. P                 a. Width ofpavement.
Paved  b. 9.0  d. 2.7%             b. Width of subgrade.
With the project    20.58 = LN        0.221 - CNN        0.731 - CNT               70.0       If     Good   a. 9.0  c. P                 c. M = Mountainous; P = Plain; Hi  Hi'l.
Paved   b. 12.0  d. 2.3%           d. Maximum to.
Difference         1.11 =LD         o.071 =CDN        0.261 =CDT                 30.0
Tonnage- standard average (ton/vehicle)  5.50 = TNN       5.00 = TNT                (1) TCS due to shorter distance  (TCS-D)   = Traffic volume (N, T) x 365 x LD x CO (N, T) x AL (N, T)
Loading factor (%)                    70.0% = LFN       60.0% = LFT                 (2) TCS due to road improvement    (TCS-R)   = Traffic volume (N, T) x 365 x LN x CD (N, T) x AL (N, T)
Average loading (ton/vehicle)          3.85 = ALN         3.00 = ALT                (3) Generated traffic            (GT)       =Total TCS x        0.05
Average time saving (hour)             0.25 = TS                                    (4) Time savings of freight      (TSF)      = Annual freight traffic x TS x TVF
Accident reduced (year) La              4.00 = AC                                   (5) Time savings of passenger    (TSP)      = Annual passenger traffic x TS x TVP
Costs per accident (Yuan/accident)    9,000 = CA                                    (6) Road safety savings          (RSS)      = AC x CA
Time valie-
Freight (Yuan/hour/vehicle)          2.00   [ fVF
Passenger (Yuan/hour/passenger)      1.00 = TVP
Base Case ('000 Yuan)
Sensitivities
Traffic volume          Capital costs                                           Benefits                                                                                    Costs
- --------------------------- -------TCS-D------- -------TCS-R--------                                               Net    Generated     Total      Total    (+20%/)
Years           Normal  Tractor   Const.   Maint.   Total  Nornal  Tractor  Nornal  Tractor    GT           TSF       TSP      RSS      Total      cash      traffic     coats    benefits   benefits
----(AADT) --- - ---           /_b              (1)      (1)      (2)      (2)      (3)      (4)       (5)      (6)    benefits    flow       (-50%)    (+20%)   (-20%)   (-20%/.)
1989
1990             1,842      199                          0                                                                                             0           0         0          0        0
1991             1,989     217                           0                                                                                             0           0         0          0        0
1992             2,128     232                           0                                                                                             0           0         0          0        0
1993              907      236   76,310             76,310                                                                                       (76,310)    (76,310)   (91,572)  (76,310) (91,572)
1994             2,137     284   15,600             15,600                                                                                       (15,600)    (15,600)   (18.720)   (15,600) (18,720)
1995             3,040     354                164      164    1,384      427    6,257    2,082      508      763      503         36   11,960     11,796      11,542     11,763     9,404    9,371
1996             3,131     365                164      164    1,426      440    6,444    2,147      523      785      518         36   12,319     12,155      11,894     12,122     9,691    9,658
1997             3,225     376                164      164    1,469      453    6,638    2,212      539      809      534         36   12,690     12,526      12,257     12,493     9,988    9,955
1998             3,322     387                164      164    1,513      466    6,837    2,276      555      833       550        36   13,066     12,902      12,625     12,869     10,289   10,256
1999             3,422     399                164      164    1,558      481    7,043    2,347      571      858       566        36   13,460     13,296      13,011     13,263     10,604   10,571
2000             3,525      411               164      164    1,605      495    7,255    2,417       589      884      583        36   13,864      13,700     13,406     13,667     10,927   10,894
2001             3,631      423               164      164    1,654      510    7,473    2,488       606      910      601        36   14,278     14.114      13,811     14,081     11,258   11,226
2002             3,740      436               164      164    1,703      526    7,698    2,564       625      937      619        36   14,708      14,544     14,232     14,511     11,602   11,570
2003             3,852      449               164      164    1,754      541    7,928    2,641       643      966      637        36   15,146      14,982     14,661     14,949     11,953   11,920
2004 /_c         3,968      462               246      246    1,807      557    8,167    2,717       662      994      656        36   15,596      15,350     15,019     15,301     12,231   12,182
2005 /_c         4,047      471               246      246    1,843      568    8,330    2,770       676    1,014      670        36   15,907      15,661     15,323     15,612     12,480   12,430
2006             4,128      480               164      164    1,880      579    8,496    2,823       689    1,035      683        36   16,221      16,057     15,713     16,024     12,813   12,780
2007             4,211      490               164      164    1,918      591    8,667    2,882       703    1,056      697        36   16,550      16,386      16,035    16,353     13,076   13,043
2008             4,295      500               164      164    1,956      603    8,840    2,941       717    1,077      710        36   16,880      16,716     16,358     16,683     13,340   13,307
2009             4,381      510               164      164    1,995      615    9,017    3,000       731    1,098      725        36   17,217      17,053      16,688    17,020     13,610   13,577
2010             4,469      520               164      164    2,035      627    9,198    3,058       746    1,120      739        36   17,559      17,395      17,022    17,362     13,883   13,850
2011             4,558      530               164      164    2,076      639    9,381    3,117       761    1,142      754        36   17,906      17,742      17,362    17,709     14,161    14.128
2012             4,649      541               164      164    2,117      652    9,569    3,182       776    1,165      769        36   18,266      18,102      17,714    18,069     14.449   14,416
Total                             91,910    2,460   94,370                                                                 ERR =                   12.0%       11.7%       9.6%      90%       6.8%
--~-------  ----~-- --~-----                                                              NPV (12%) =                39      (1,691)   (16,273)   (16,280) (32,592)
/a: Assume the net accident reduction wilt be I ncident for every 5 km on the existing road p.a..
/b: The average annual maintenance cost (Yuan/lan): Without the project-  6,000.0 ; With the project:    14,300
/_c: Major resurfacing.
X-



Table 6 (III-1): Economic Analysis of Road Network Rehabilitation
(Danyang-Liyang Road)
Characteristics                                 VOC (Y/tkm)                         Average
and parameters    Length                                                            speed                      Width  Gradients
of the road       (kIn)            Nonnal (N)         Tractor (T)                   km/hr)    Clasg  Condition   (m)     (%)
Without the project    67.00 = LO     0.321 = CON          0.992 = COT               35.0      IV       Poor  a. 7.0  c. P               a. Width ofpavenment.
Paved  b. 8.5  d. 3.0Yo           b. Width of subgrade.
Withtheproject      63.80  LN         0.243 = CNN          0.731 -CNT                65.0      11      Good   a. 12.0  c. P              c.M=Mountainous;P= Plain;H=Hfl.
Paved  b. 15.0  d. 2.5%           d. Maximum to.
Difference        3.20 = LD         0.078 = CDN         0.261 = CDT               30.0
Tormnagestandardaverage(ton/vehicle)   5.00 -TNN            5.00 =TNT                (1) TCSduetoshorterdistnce      (TCS-D)  =Trafflcvolume(N,T)x365xLDxCO(N,T)xAL(N,T)
Loadingfactor('Ai)                    70.0% =LLFN          60.0Y% =LFT               (2) TCSfduetoroadimprovement     (TCS-R)  = Trafficvolume(N,T)x365xLNxCD(N,T)xAL(N,T)
Average loading (tont/hicle)           3.50 = ALN           3.00 = ALT              (3) Generated traffic             (GT)      = Total TCS x      0.05
Average time saving (hour)             0.93 = TS                                     (4) Time savings of freight      (TSF)    = Annual freight traffic x TS x TVF
Accident reduced (year) a             13.00 = AC                                     (5) Time savings ofpasnenger     (TSP)    = Annual passenger traffic x TS x TVP
Costa per accident (Yuantaccident)    9,000 = CA                                     (6) Road safety savings          (RSS)    = AC x CA
Time value-
Freight (Yuanhour/Nvhicle)           2.00 = TVF
Passenger (Yuan/hour/passenger)      1.00 = TVP
Base Case ('000 Yuan)
Sensitivities
Traffic volume          Capital costs                                            Benefits                                                                                    Costs
-TCS-D -   - TCS-R-                                                                  Net    Generated     Total      Total    (+20%/.)
Years           Nonnal  Tractor    Const   Maint       Total  Nonnal   Tractor  Nornal  Tractor      GT       TSF     TSP      RSS      Total      cash     traffic     cosb      benefits    benefits
--(--- <AADT}-                /Lb                (1)       (1)     (2)       (2)      (3)      (4)      (5)     (6)    benefits    flow      (-50/1)    (+20Y)    (-20%)    (-20Ah)
1989
1990            1,596     196
1991             1,787    219
1992            2,001     245
1993            2,201     270    53,950              53,950                                                                                      (53,950)    (53,950)   (64,740)  (53,950)    (64,740)
1994            2,718      184    86,700             86,700                                                                                      (86,700)    (86,700)   (104,040)  (86,700)  (104,040)
1995            5,934     365    93,000              93,000                                                                                      (93,000)    (93,000)   (111,600)  (93.000)   (111,600)
1996            6,112     376                424       424      8,024    1.307   38,998    6,856    2,759    2,022     444       117   60,527    60,103      58,724      60,018    47,998     47,913
1997            6,295     387                424       424      8,264    1,345   40,166    7,056    2,842    2,084     457       117   62,331    61,907      60,486      61,822    49,441     49,356
1998            6,484     399                424       424      8,512    1,386   41,372    7,275    2,927    2,147     471       117   64,207    63,783      62,320      63,698    50,942     50,857
1999            6,679     411                424       424      8,768    1,428   42,616    7,494    3,015    2,212     485       117   66,135    65,711      64,204      65,626    52,484     52,399
2000             6,879     423               424       424      9,031    1,470   43,892     7,713    3,105    2,280    500       117   68,108    67,684      66,132      67,599    54,062     53,978
2001             7,085     436               424       424      9,301    1,515   45,207     7,950    3,199    2,349    515       117   70,153    69,729      68,130      69,644    55,698     55,614
2002             7,298     449               424       424      9.581    1,560   46,566     8,187    3,295    2,420    531       117   72,257    71,833      70.186      71,748    57,382     57,297
2003             7,517     462               424       424      9,869    1,605   47,963     8,424    3,393    2,492    547       117   74,410    73,986      72,290      73,901    59,104     59,019
2004             7,743     476               424       424    10,165    1,654   49,405      8,679    3,495    2,567    563       117   76,645    76,221      74,474      76,136    60,892     60,807
2005 /_c         7,898     486               636       636    10,369    1,689   50,394      8,862    3,566    2,619    575       117   78,191    77,555      75,772      77,428    61,917     61,790
2006 /_c         8,056     496               636       636    10,576    1,724   51,402      9,044    3,637    2,671    586        117   79,757    79,121     77,303      78,994    63,170     63,042
2007             8,217     506               424       424    10,788    1,758   52,430      9,226    3,710    2,725    598       117   81,352    80,928      79,073      80,843    64,658     64,573
2008             8,381     516               424       424    11,003    1,793   53,476      9,409    3,784    2.780    610       117   82,972    82,548      80,656      82,463    65,954     65,869
2009             8,549     526               424       424    11,223    1,828   54,548      9,591    3,860    2,836    622       117   84,625    84,201      82,271      84,116    67,276     67,191
2010             8,720     537               424       424    11,448    1,866   55,639      9,792    3,937    2,892    634       117   86,325    85,901      83,933      85,816    68,636     68,551
2011             8,894     548               424       424    11,676    1,904   56,749      9,992    4,016    2,949    647       117   88,050    87,626      85,618      87,541    70,016     69,931
2012            9,072      559               424       424    11,910    1,942   57,885    10,193    4,097    3,009     660       117   89,813    89,389      87,341      89,304    71,426     71,342
Total                            233,650    5,936   239,586                                                                ERR =                  23.2%       22.8%     19.7%     19.0%       15.9%/
NPV (12%) =          173,413    165,227     136,267   101,586     64.441
/-a: Astnme the net accident reduction wil be I incident for every 5 kin on the existing road p.a..
/Ib: The avrage annuatl maintenance cost (YuawnIn):   Without the project-    7,000.0 ; With the project  14,000
/_c: Major resurfacing.



Table 6 (111-2): Economic Analysis of Road Network Rehabilitation
(Zhenjiang-Xiaohe Road)
Charatesistcs                                    VOC (Y/tkm)                          Average
and parameters     Length                                                             speed                      Width   Gradients
ofthe road         (km)             Nonal (N)          Tractor (T)                   (m/br)    Class  Condition   (m)       (%/,)
Without the projed  42.00 = LO         0.314 = CON          0.992 = COT                40.0      III      Poor  a. 7.0  c. P                a. Width ofpavement.
Paved  b. 9.0  d 2.8%A             b. Width ofsubgrade.
With theprojetd     42.00 -LN          0.237 = CNN          0.731 = CNT                60.0      II      Good   a. 12.0  c. P               c. M = Mountainous;P= Plain H =Hill
Paved  b. 15.0  d 2.2%             d. Masunun to.
Difference        0.00 =LD           0.077 = CDN         0.261 - CDT                20.0
Tonage- sndard avrage (ton/vehicl)      5.50 = TNN           5.G0  - TNT              (1) TCS due to shorter distance    (TCS.D)  -Traffic volue (N, T) x 365 x LD x CO (N, T) x AL (N, T)
Loading factor (%)                     65.0% =LFN           60.0% = LFT                (2) TCSduetoroadimprovement       (TCS-R)   =Tralflcvohime(N,T)x365 xLNxCD(N,T)xAL(N,T)
Averageloading (ton/vehicle)            3.58 = ALN           3.00 = ALT                (3) Generated trafflc             (GT)      = Total TCS x      0.05
Avge time saving (hour)                 0.35 = TS                                      (4) Time savings of fieight       (TSF)     - Annual freight traffic x TS x TVF
Accident reduced (year) /a              8.00 =AC                                       (5) Time savings ofpassenger      (TSP)     = Annual passenger traffic x TS x TVP
Cosb pr accident (Yuan/accident)       9,000 =CA                                      (6) Road safety savngs            (RSS)      =ACxCA
Time value-
Freight (Yuan/hour/vehicle)           2.00 = TVF
Passenger (Yuan/hour/passenger)       1.00 = TVP
Base Case (000 Yuan)
Sensitivities
Traffic volutne           Capital costs                                            Benefits                                                                                      ctost
- -         -TCS-D---  -TCS-R-                                                                      Net  Generated  Total   Total  (+20%)
Years           Nonral  Tractor    Conat.   Maint       Total  Normal   Tractor  Normal  Trator        GT       TSF      TSP      RSS      Total      cash      traffic     costs    benefds    benefits
---4AADT)_                      I_b               (1)       (1)      (2)       (2)      (3)      (4)      (5)      (6)    benefits    flow      (-50'f)    (+20%/.)   (-20%)    (-20%A)
1989                                                                                                                                                                                                                    O
1990             2,395     143
1991             3,234     210
1992            3.557      231
1993             3,913     234    36,910              36,910                                                                                        (36,910)    (36,910)    (44,292)  (36,910)    (44.292)
1994             1,820      90    54,510              54,510                                                                                        (54,510)    (54,510)    (65,412)  (54,510)    (65,412)
1995             3,986     320    30,680              30,680                                                                                        (30,680)    (30,680)    (36,816)  (30,680)    (36,816)
1996             4,106     330                374       374          0        0   17,247      3,961    1,060    2,767     707        72   25,814    25,440       24.910     25,365    20,277      20,202
1997             4,229     340                374       374          0        0   17,764      4,081    1,092    2,850     729        72   26,588    26,214       25,668     26,139    20,896      20,822
1998             4,356     350                374       374          0        0   18,297      4,201    1,125    2,936     750        72   27,381    27,007       26,445     26,932    21,531      21,456
1999             4,487     361                374       374          0        0   18,847      4,333    1,159    3,024     773        72   28,208    27,834       27,255     27,759    22,192      22,118
2000             4,622     372                374       374          0        0   19,414      4,465    1,194    3,115     796        72   29,056    28,682       28,085     28,607    22,871      22,796
2001             4,761     383                374       374          0        0   19,998      4,597    1,230    3,209     820        72   29,926    29,552       28,937     29,477    23,567      23,492
2002             4.904     394                374        374         0        0   20,599      4,729    1,266    3,305     844        72   30,815    30,441       29.808     30,366    24,278      24,203
2003             5,051     406                374       374          0        0   21,216      4,873    1,304    3,405     869        72   31,739    31,365       30,713      31,290    25,017     24,942
2004             5,203     418                374       374          0        0   21,855      5,017    1,344    3,507     896        72   32,691    32,317       31,645     32,242    25,779      25,704
2005 /_c         5,307     426                561        561         0        0   22,292      5,113    1,370    3,577     914        72   33,338    32,777       32,092     32,665    26,109      25,997
2006 /ic         5,413     435                561        561         0        0   22,737      5,221    1,398    3,648     932        72   34,008    33,447       32,748     33,335    26,645      26,533
2007             5,521     444                374        374         0        0   23,191      5,330    1,426    3,121     950        72   34,690    34,316       33,603     34,241    27,378      27,303
2008             5,631     453                374        374         0        0   23,653      5,438    1,455    3,795     969        72   35,382    35,008       34,281     34,933    27,932      27,857
2009             5,744     462                374        374         0        0   24,127      5,546    1,484    3,871     988        72   36,088    35,714       34,972     35,639    28,496      28,422
2010             5,859     471                374       374          0        0   24,610      5,654    1,513    3,949    1,008       72   36,806    36,432       35,676     36,357    29,071      28,996
2011             5.976     480                374        374         0        0   25,102      5,762    1,543    4,028    1,028       72   37,535    37,161       36,390     37,086    29,654      29,579
2012             6,096     490                374        374         0        0   25,606      5,882    1,574    4,108    1,049       72   38,291    37,917       37,130     37,842    30,259      30,184
Total                             122,100    5,236   127,336                                                                  ERR =                   18.6%      18.3%       15.6%     15.0'A      12.3%
NPV(12%)              52,941      49,795      32,896    22,308       2,263
/_a Anume the not accident reduction will be I incident for every 5 km on the existing road p.a..
L b: The average annual maintenance cost (Yuan/km):   Without the projed-  7,000.0   Withtheproject  15,900
Lc: Major resurfacing.



Table 6 (111-3): Economic Analysis of Road Network Rehabilitation
(Yunting-Yaluji Road)
Characteristics                                 VOC (Y/tkm)                         Average
and parameters    Length                                                            speed                      Width  Gradients
of the road       (1km)            Normal (N)         Tractor (T)                  (1dmr)    Class  Condition   (m)      (%)
Withouttheproject    41.20 =LO        0.303 = CON         0.992 =COT                 35.0      IV       Poor  a. 5.5  c. P               a. Widthofpavement
Paved  b. 7.0  d. 3.1%            b.Widthofsubgrade.
Withtheproject      38.60 =LN         0.229 =CNN          0.731 =CNT                 65.0      II      Good   a. 15.0  c. P              c.M=Mountainousw;P  PIainH=HiL
Paved  b. 1I.0  d. 2.6%           d. Maximun to.
Difference        2.60 = LD        0.074 = CDN          0.261 - CDT               30.0
Tonag- standard averagp (tonhebicle)   5.30 = TNN          5.00 - TNT                (1) TCS due to shorter distance  (TCS-D)    Traffic vohume (N, T) x 365 x LD x CO (N, T) x AL (N, T)
Loading factor (%)                    70.0% - LFN         60.0% = LFr                (2) TCS due to road irovement    (TCS-R)  = Traffic volume (N, T) x 365 x LN x CD (N, T) x AL (N, T)
Avrage loading (ton/vehiclc)           3.71 = ALN          3.00 = ALT                (3) Generated traffc             (GT)      =Total TCS x       0.05
Avege time sing (hour)                 0.58 = TS                                     (4) Tine savgs offieight         (TSF)     =Annual fright traffic x TS x TVF
Accident reduced (year) La             8.00 =AC                                      (5) Time aving ofpa g            (TSP)     =Annual passenger trffic x TS x TVP
Coats per accident (Yuaniaccident)    9,000 =CA                                      (6) Road safety savins           (RSS)     =ACxCA
Time value-
Freiht (Yuan/hour/vehicle)          2.00 = TVF
Passenger (Yuan/hour/passenger)     1.00   TVP
Base Case (000 Yuan)
Sensitivities
Traffic volumne         Capital costs                                            Benefits                                                                                    Coast
-TCS-D-           ---TCS-R-                                                          Net    Generated     Total      Total     (+20%)
Years           Normal  Tractor    Conat   Maint       Total  Normal   Tractor  Normal  Tractor      aT       TSF      TSP     RSS      Total      cash     traffic     coats     benefits    benefwt
(-4AADT}                   /Lb              (1)       (1)      (2)      (2)       (3)     (4)      (5)      (6)    benefits    fow      (-50%)    (+20%)    (-20%)    (-20%)
1989
1990             1,904      89
1991             2,058     108
1992            2,284      119
1993            2,512      131    17,020             17,020                                                                                      (17,020)   (17,020)   (20,424)  (17,020)    (20,424)
1994             1,100     n.a.   81,370             81,370                                                                                      (81,370)   (81,370)   (97,644)  (81.370)    (97.644)
1995            2,810      313    28,790             28,790                                                                                      (28,790)   (28.790)   (34,548)  (28,790)    (34,548)
1996            2,894      322               419       419      3,087     909   11,172      3,552     936    2,927     899        72   23,554    23,135      22,667      23,051    18,424     18,340
1997            2,981      332               419       419      3,180     937   11,508      3,663     964    3.014     926        72   24,264    23,845      23,363      23,761    18,992     18,908
1998            3,070      342               419       419      3,275     966   11,851      3,773     993    3,105     954        72   24,989    24,570      24,074      24,486    19,572      19,488
1999            3,162      352               419       419      3,373     994   12.207      3,883    1,023    3,199    982        72   25,733    25,314      24,803      25,230    20,167     20,084
2000             3,257     363               419       419      3,474    1,025   12,573     4,005    1,054    3.294    1,012      72   26,509    26,090      25,563      26,006    20,788     20,704
2001             3,355     374               419       419      3,579    1,056   12,952     4,126    1,086    3,394    1,042      72   27,307    26,888      26,345      26,804    21,427     21,343
2002             3,456     385               419       419      3,686    1,087   13,341     4,247    1,118    3,495    1,074      72   28,120    27,701      27,142      27,617    22,077      21,993
2003             3,560     397               419       419      3,797    1,121   13,743     4,380    1,152    3,600    1,106      72   28,971    28,552      27,976      28,468    22,758     22,674
2004 / c         3,667     409               629       629      3,912    1,155   14,156     4,512    1,187    3,709    1,139      72   29,842    29,214      28,620      29,088    23,245     23,119
2005 /ic         3740      417               629       629      3,989    1,177   14.438     4,600    1,210    3,783    1,162      72   30,431    29,803      29,198      29,677    23,716      23,591
2006             3,815     425               419       419      4,069    1,200   14,727     4,688    1,234    3,859    1,185      72   31,034    30,615      29,998      30,531    24,408     24,324
2007             3,891     434               419       419      4,150    1,225   15,021     4,788    1,259    3,936    1,209      72   31,660    31.241      30,612      31,157    24,909     24,825
2008             3,969     443               419       419      4,234    1,251   15.322     4,887    1,285    4,014    1,233      72   32,298    31,879      31,237      31,795    25,419     25,336
2009             4,048     452               419       419      4,318    1,276   15,627     4,986    1,310    4,095    1,258      72   32,942    32,523      31,868      32,439    25,935     25,851
2010             4,129     461               419       419      4,404    1,302   15,940     5,086    1,337    4,176    1,283      72   33,600    33,181      32,513      33,097    26,461     26,377
2011             4,212     470               419       419      4,493    1,327   16,260     5,185    1,363    4,260    1,308      72   34,268    33,849      33,168      33,765    26,995     26,912
2012             4,296     479               419       419      4,582    1,352   16,584     5,284    1,390    4,346    1,335      72   34,945    34,526      33,831      34,442    27,537     27,453
Total                            127,180    5,866   133,046                                                                ERR =                  16.8%       16.4%      13.9%     13.2%       10.6%
NPV (12%) =           36,997     34,220      16,440     9,041     (11,515)
/a Anme the net accident reduction will be I incident for every 5 km on the existng road p.as.
/ b: The average annual maintesance cost (Yuantkm):   Without the projec-  5,000.0 ; With the project  16,200
/c: Major resurfacing.
I-



Table 6 (111-4): Economic Analysis of Road Network Rehabilitation
(Luyuan-Changshu Road)
Characteistics                                   VOC (Y/tkm)                         Average
and parameters     Length                                                             speed                      Widt    Gradients
oftheroad          (kmn)            Normal (N)         Tractor (T)                   (mibr)    Class  Condition   (m)      (%)
Whout the project    27.00 - LO        0.292 = CON         0.992 = COT                40.0       III      Poor  a. 7.0  c. P                a. Width of pavement
Paved  b. 12.0  dL 3.5%           b. Width of subgrade.
Wi the poect        25.66 - LN         0.221 - CNN         0.731 - C4T                 MO0       11      Good   a. 11.0  c. P               c. M - Muainos; P   Plain; 11  "aL
Paved  b. 18.0  dL 3.0%           d. Maxinuan to.
Difference         1.34 - LD        0.071 = CDN          0.261 = CDT                40.0
Tonnage- atndard avge (tonhalice)       5.50 = TNN           5.00 = TNT               (1) TCS due to shorter distance   (TCS-D)  - Traffic vohmne (N, T) x 365 x LD x CO (N, T) x AL (N, T)
Loading factor (%)                     70.0% - LFN         60.0% - LFT                (2) TCS due to road imWrovement   (TCS-R)   - Traffic vohati (N, T) x 365 x LN x CD (N, T) x AL (N, T)
Aver  loading (tonvehicle)              3.85 = ALN          3.00 = ALT                (3) Generated trafic               (GT)      = Total TCSx       0.05
Aage time savng (hou)                   0.35 =TS                                      (4) Timeinge of freight            (TSF)     - Annual freight taffic x TS x TVF
Acident reduced (year) a                5.00 -AC                                      (5) Time savings 'ofpassenger     (TSP)      = Annual passgr traffic x TS x TVP
Cosb per accident (Yuantaccdent)      10,000 = CA                                     (6) Road safty savi_              (RSS)      = AC x CA
Time value-
Friht (Yuan/hourhvhicle)             2.00 - TVF
Pasnge (Yua/houreger)                1.00 = TVP
Base Case ('000 Yuan)
Sensitivities
Trafficvolume            Capital costs                                             Benefits                                                                                     Coats
- TCS-D-           -TCS-R -                                                            Net    Generated      Total      Total    (+20%)
Years           Nonnal  Tractor    Cost.   Maint       Total  Nmal   Tractor  Nonmal  Tractor          OT       TSF      TSP     RSS       Total     cash       traffc     costs     benefits    benefits
----4AADT)-                     Lb                (1)      (1)       (2)      (2)       (3)      (4)      (5)      (6)    benefis    flow       (-50%)     (+20%)    (-20%)    (-20%)
1989
1990             5,763     154                                                                                                                                                                                          "0
1991             7,250     138
1992            6,548      137
1993             5.180      87    16,050              16,050                                                                                       (16,050)    (16,050)    (19,260)  (16,050)    (19,260)
1994             6,858      71    72,050              72,050                                                                                       (72,050)    (72,050)    (86.460)  (72.050)    (K,460)
1995             5,936      54    31,130              31,130                                                                                       (31,130)    (31,130)    (37,356)  (31,130)    (37,356)
1996             6,114      56                250       250      3,361      81   15,690        411      977    2,723    1,075        50   24,368    24,118      23,630      24,068    19,244      19,194
1997             6,297      58                250       250      3,462      84   16,160        425    1,007    2,805    1,107        50   25,100    24,850      24,347      24,800    19,830      19,780
1998             6,486      60                250       250      3,566      87   16,645        440    1,037    2,889    1,140        50   25,854    25,604      25.086      25,554    20,433      20.383
1999             6,681      62                250       250      3,673      90   17,145        455    1,068    2,976    1,175        50   26,632    26,382      25,848      26,332    21,056      21,006
2000             6,881      64                250       250      3,783       93   17,658       469    1,100    3,065    1,210        50   27,428    27,178      26,628      27,128    21,692      21,642
2001             7,087      66                250       250      3,896      96   18,187        484    1,133    3,157    1,246        50   28,249    27,999      27,433      27,949    22.349      22,299
2002             7,300      68                250       250      4,013      99   18,734        499    1,167    3,252    1,283        50   29,097    28,847      28,264      28,797    23,02S      22,978
2003             7,519      70                250       250      4,134      102   19,296       513    1,202    3,350    1,322        50   29,969    29,719      29,118      29,669    23,725      23,675
2004 /_c         7,745      72                375       375      4,258      105   19,876       528    1,238    3,450    1,362        50   30,867    30,492      29.873      30,417    24,319      24,244
2005 /_c         7,900      73                375       375      4,343      106   20,273       535    1,263    3,519    1,389        50   31.478    31,103      30,472      31,028    24,807      24,732
2006             S,058      74                250       250      4,430     lOS   20,619        543    1,2SS    3,5S9    1,417       S   32,104    31,S54       31,210      31,S04    25,433      25,383
2007             8,219      75                250       250      4,518      109   21,092       550    1,313    3,661    1,445        50   32,738    32,488      31,832      32,438    25,940      25,890
2008             8,383      77                250       250      4.609      112   21,513       565    1,340    3,734    1.474        50   33,397    33,147      32,477      33,097    26,468      26,418
2009             8,551      79                250       250      4,701      115   21,944       579    1,367    3,808    1,503        50   34,067    33,817      33,134      33,767    27,004      26,954
2010             8,722      81                250       250      4,795      118   22,383       594    1,395    3,885    1,534        50   34,754    34,504      33,807      34,454    27,553      27,503
2011             8,896      83                250       250      4,891      121   22,829       609    1,423    3,963    1,564        50   35,450    35,200      34,489      35,150    28,110      28,060
2012             9,074      85                250       250      4,988      124   23,286       623    1,451    4,042    1,596        50   36,160    35,910      35,185      35,860    28,678      28,628
Total                            119,230    3,500   122,730                                                                   ERR-                   18.7%       18.3%       15.6%     14.9%       12.2%
-  --                                                               NPV (12%) =           49,349      46,451      30,299    20,428       1,378
La: Assmne the net accident reduction wvli be  incident for every 5 km on the existing road p.a.
b: The aveage annual maintenance cost (Yuan/ki):   Without the project-  5,000.0  With the project:  15,000
/_c: Maor resurtcing.



- 70 -
5B8                                                                                                                             ANNEX 1
Table 6 (II-5): Economic Evaluation And Sensitivity Analysis
IIL Qimen Interchange
(Yuan million, December 1995 prices)
Bae Casn                                               Semitshd Anais
Can I   Cae 2   Cue 3   Cue 4
Costs                                 B            e                     -    -
VOC             Rcduced                              Gener-           Total    Cost
Ndt b               Net  Gerat   CosgOn  Reduced                  Net    ated    Total Be_fits  (+10%)
Conhu  Road                  Say-     ged   ExisL    Accid                Csh   Traffic     Coat           Benefits
Year          -con  Maint        Total    mip   Traffic   Road    -ents       Total    Flow   (-50%)  (+10%)  (-10%)  (-10%)
1994           35.78            35.78                                                 (35.73)  (35.78)  (39.36)  (35.73)  (39.36)
1995           19.45            19.45                                                 (19.45)  (19.45)  (21.40)  (19.45)  (21.40)
1996            0.00    0.50     0.50     8.34     0.44      0.00     0.00     9.23     8.73     8.56     3.73    7.85     7.80
1997                    0.50     0.50     9.53     0.47      0.00     0.00    10.00     9.50     9.27     9.45     8.50    8.45
1998                    0.50     0.50    10.27     0.51      0.00     0.00    10.78    10.28    10.03    10.23    9.20     9.15
1999                    0.50     0.50    11.07     0.55      0.00     0.00    11.62    11.12    10.85    11.07    9.96     9.91
2000                     0.50    0.50    11.92     0.60      0.00     0.00    12.52    12.02    11.72    11.97    10.77    10.72
2001                     0.50    0.50    12.66     0.64      0.00     0.00    13.30    12.30    12.48    12.75    11.47    11.42
2002                     0.50    0.50    13.45     0.68      0.00     0.00    14.13    13.63    13.29    13.53    12.22    12.17
2003 / a                 0.75    0.75    14.29     0.72      0.00     0.00    15.01    14.26    13.90    14.19    12.76    12.68
2004 /a                  0.75    0.75    15.18     0.76      0.00     0.00    15.94    15.19    14.81    15.12    13.60    13.52
2005                     0.50    0.50    16.13     0.81      0.00     0.00    16.94    16.44    16.04    16.39    14.75    14.70
2006                     0.50    0.50    16.90     0.85      0.00     0.00    17.75    17.25    16.83    17.20    15.48    15.43
2007                     0.50    0.50    17.71     0.89      0.00     0.00    18.60    13.10    17.66    18.05    16.24    16.19
2008                     0.50    0.50    18.56     0.93      0.00     0.00    19.49    18.99    18.53    18.94    17.04    16.99
2009                    0.50     0.50    19.45     0.93      0.00     0.00    20.43    19.93    19.44    19.33    17.89    17.34
2010                     0.50    0.50    20.39     1.03      0.00     0.00    21.42    20.92    20.41    20.37    13.73    13.73
2011                     0.50    0.50    21.31     1.08      0.00     0.00    22.39    21.39    21.35    21.34    19.65    19.60
2012                     0.50    0.50    22.27     1.13      0.00     0.00    23.40    22.90    22.34    22.35    20.56    20.51
2013                     0.50    0.50    23.28     1.18      0.00     0.00    24.46    23.96    23.37    23.91    21.51    21.46
2014                     0.50    0.50    24.33     1.23      0.00     0.00    25.56    25.06    24.45    25.01    22.50    22.45
2015                    0.50     0.50    25.43     1.28      0.00     0.00    26.71    26.21    25.57    26.16    23.54    23.49
Tota          55.23                   EIR =                                           19.6%    19.2%    18.0%    17.9%    16.4%
NPV (12%) =                                      34.9    32.9    29.8    26.4    21.3
/a: MA* renulfAcdn&
/_b: Net of theintanec Lawsp onset proposed exroway and the exitikg roa.
/ c: All Sgures are rounded.



Table 6 (111-6): Economic Analysis of Road Network Rehabilitation
(Gecun-Danyang Road)
Characteristics                                  VOC (Y/tkm)                        Average
and parameters      Length                                                           speed                      Widtd   Gradienlts
of the road         (kmn)            Normal (N)        Tractor (T)                  (kn/hi)    Ciass  Conditon   (m)       (%)
Without the project  23.10 =LO         0.321 - CON        0.992 = COT                35.0      IV        Poor  a. 7-9  c. P                 a. Width ofpavement.
Paved  b. 9-10  d. 3.1%             b. Width ofsubgrade.
With the project     22.20 = LN        0.243 = CNN        0.731  = CNT               64.0       11      Good   a. 12.0  c. P                c. M = Mountainous; P = Plain; H - Hill.
Paved   b. 15.0  d. 2.2%            d. Moximum to.
Difference         0.90 = LD         0.078 = CDN       0.261 = CDT                29.0
Tonnage- standard average (ton/vehicle)  5.00 = TNN        5.00 - TNT                 (1) TCS due to shorter distance   (TCS-D)   = Traffic volume (N, T) x 365 x LD x CO (N. T) x AL (N, T)
Loading factor (%)                     70.0% = LFN        60.0%1. = LFT               (2) TCS due to road improvement    (TCS-R)   = Traffic volume (N, T) x 36S x LN x CD (N, T) x AL (N, T)
Average loading (ton/vehicle)           3.50 = ALN         3.00 = ALT                 (3) Generated traffic             (GT)       = Total TCS x       0.05
Average time saving (hour)              0.31 = TS                                     (4) Tise savings of freight       (TSF)      = Annual freight traffic x TS x TVF
Accident reduced (year) /_a              5.00 = AC                                    (5) Time savings of passenger     (TSP)      = Annual passrnger traffic x TS x TVP
Costs per accident (Yuan/accident)     9,000 = CA                                     (6) Road safety savings           (RSS)      = AC x CA
Time value-
Freight (Yuan/hour/vehicle)           2.00 = TVF
Passenger (Yuan/bour/passenger)       1.00 = TVP
Base Case ('000 Yuan)
Sensitivities
Traffic volume           Capital costs                     .                      Benefits                                                                                     Costs
- - -  .---------------------- ----TCS-D------- ------TCS-R------                                                  Net    Generated      Total      Total    (+20%)
Years            Normal  Tractor   Coast.   Maint.   Total  Normal  Tractor   Nonmal  Tractor    GT            TSF      TSP      RSS       Total      cash      traffic     costs     benefits   benefits
---AADT)-.-.                    ILb              (1)      (1)       (2)      (2)      (3)      (4)       (5)      (6)     benefits    'dow      (-50%A)    (+20%/.)   (-20%/.)  (-20%/.)
1989
1990             2,566      136
1991             2,394      143
1992             2,126       65
1993             2,568       56
1994                n.a.     na.   8,630              8,630                                                                                           (8,630)     (8,630)   (10,356)    (8,630) (10,356)
1995                n.a.     n.a.  44,820            44,820                                                                                          (44,820)    (44,820)   (53,784)   (44,820) (53,784)
1996 /_d         2,806       61   18,780       109   18,889      518        30    3,115      194       97       514      352         23    4,841    (14,048)    (14,096)   (17,826)   (15,016) (18,794)
1997             2,890       63               218       218    1,067        62    6,416      400      397    1,059       724         45   10,170      9,952       9,754      9,908      7,918    7,874
1998             2,977       65               218       218    1,099        64    6,610      412      409    1,091       745         45   10,475      10,257      10,053    10,213      8,162    8,118
1999             3,066       67               218       218    1,132        65    6,807      425      421    1,123       767         45   10,785      10,567      10,357    10,523      8,410    8,366
2000             3,158       69                218      218    1,166        67    7,011      438       434    1,157      791         45   11,109      10,891      10,674     10,847     8,669    8.626
2001             3,253       71                218      218    1,201        69    7,222      450       447    1,192      814         45   11,440      11.222      10,999     11,178     8,934    8,890
2002              3,351      73                218      218    1,237        71    7,440       463      461    1,227      839         45   11,783      11,565      11,335     11,521     9,208    9,165
2003              3,452      75                218      218    1,275        73    7,664       476      474    1,264      864         45   12,135      11,917      11,680     11,873     9,490    9,446
2004             3,556       77                218      218    1,313        75    7,895       489      489    1,303      890         45   12,499      12,281      12,037     12,237     9,781    9,738
2005 /_c          3,627      79                327      327    1,339        77    8,053       501      499    1,329      908         45   12,751      12,424      12,175     12,359     9,874    9,808
2006 /Ic          3,700      81                327      327    1,366        79    8,215       514      509    1,355      926         45   13,009      12,682      12,428     12,617     10,080   10.015
2007             3,774       83                218      218    1,393        81    8,379       527      519    1,382      944         45   13,270      13,052      12,793     13,008    10,398   10,354
2008             3,849       85                218      218    1,421        83    8,546       539      529    1,410      963         45   13,536      13,318      13,054     13,274    10,611   10,567
2009             3,926       87                218      218    1,450        85    8,717      552       540    1,438      983         45   13,810      13,592      13,322     13,548    10,830   10,786
2010             4,005       89                218      218    1,479        87    8,892       565      551    1,467    1,002         45   14,088      13,870      13,595     13,826    11,052   11,009
2011              4,085      91                218      218    1,508        89    9,070       577      562    1,496    1,022         45   14,369      14.151      13,870     14,107    11,277   11,234
2012              4,167      93                218      218    1,539        91    9,252       590      574    1,526    1,043         45   14,660      14,442      14,155     14,398    11,510   11,466
Total                             72,230    2,943   75,173                                                                   ERR =                    13.1%       12.8%      10.2%       9.6%     7.1%
--------~ --~ -- -~'~~'-~~~                                                                  NPV (12%) =             4,014       2,837     (7,591)    (8,392) (19,996)
/_a: Assume the net accident reduction will be I incident for every 5 kmn on the existing road p.a..                                                                                                                 Z
ILb: The average annual mamntenance cost (Yuan/km): Without the project-  5,000.0 ; With the project:    15,000
Lc: Major resurfacing&
/ d: Openi1gthe second hslf of the yeaw.



Table 6 (111-7): Economic Analysis of Road Network Rehabilitation
(Qishuyan-Yuecheng Road)
Characterutics                                  VOC (Y/tkmn)                       Average
and parameteb       Length                                                         speed                      Width   Gradients
of the road        (Ian)            Normal (N)       Tractor (T)                  (km/br)    Class  Condition   (m)      (%)
Without theproject    23.10 =LO        0.321 = CON       0.992 = COT               35.0      IV       Poor   a. 6.5  c. P                a. Widthofpavement.
Paved   b. 8.0  d. 3.5%            b. Width ofsubgrade.
With the project    22.41  = LN        0.243 =CNN        0.731 =CNT                70.0       11      Good   a. 12.0  c. P               c. M = Mountainous; P   Plain; H  Hill.
Paved   b. 15.0  d. 2.7%           d. Maximum to.
Difference         0.69  - LD       0.078 = CDN       0.261 = CDT               35.0
Tonnage- standard average (ton/vehicle)  5.00 = TNN       5.00 =TNT                 (I) TCS due to shorter distance   (TCS-D)   = Traffic volume (N, T) x 365 x LD x CO (N. T) x AL (N, T)
Loading factor (%)                     70.0% = LFN       60.0/. - LFT              (2) TCS due to road improvement    (TCS-R)   = Traffic volume (N, T) x 365 x LN x CD (N, T) x AL (N, T)
Average loading (ton/vebicle)           3.50 = ALN        3.00 =ALT                 (3) Generated traffic             (GT)       =Total TCSx        0.05
Average time saving (hour)              0.34 = TS                                   (4) Time savings of freight       (TSF)     = Annual freight traffic x TS x TVF
Accident reduced (year) /Ia             5.00 = AC                                   (5) Time savings of passenger     (TSP)      = Annual passenger traffic x TS x TVP
Costs per accident (Yuan/accident)     9,000 = CA                                   (6) Road safety savings           (RSS)      = AC x CA
Timne value-
Freight (Yuarthour/vehicle)          2.00 = TVF
Passenger (Yuanfhour/passenger)      1.00 =TVP
Base Case ('000 Yuan)
Sensitivities
Traffic volume           Capital costs                                          Benefits                                                                                    Costs
-- --------------------------------- -----TCS-D------- -----TCS-R-----                                           Net    Generated     Total      Total   (+20%)
Years           Nonnal  Tractor   Const.   Maint.   Total  Nonral  Tractor  Normal  Tractor    GT           TSF       TSP      RSS      Total      cash       traffic    costs    benefits   benefits
---(AADT} --- - ---            /_b              (1)      (1)      (2)      (2)      (3)      (4)       (5)      (6)    benefits    flow      (.30%)    (+20%)   (-20%)   (-20%/,)
1989
1990             1,489       80
1991             1,182       33
1992             1,862      115
1993             3,325     i 240
1994             3,624      262   13,610            13,610                                                                                       (13,610)    (13,610)  (16,332)  (13,610) (16,332)
1995             3,950      286   42,470            42,470                                                                                       (42,470)    (42,470)  (50,964)  (42,470) (50,964)
1996 /_d         3,633      262   21,150      110   21,260      514       98    4,071      839       138     780       464        23    6,926   (14,334)    (14,403)   (18,586)  (15,719) (19,971)
1997             3,742      270               220      220    1,059      202    8,387    1,729       569    1,606      956        45   14,553     14,333      14,049     14,289    11,422   11,378
1998             3,854      278               220      220    1,091      208    8,638    1,780      586    1,654       984        45   14,986     14,766      14,413     14,722     11,769   11,725
1999             3,970      286               220      220    1,124      214    8,898    1,832      603    1,704    1,014         45   15,434     15,214      14,913     15,170    12,127   12,083
2000             4,089      295               220      220    1,158      221    9,164    1,889       622    1,755    1,044        45   15,898      15,678      15,367    15,634    12,498   12,454
2001             4,212      304               220      220    1,192      228    9,440    1,947       640    1,807    1,075        45   16,374      16,154      15,834    16,110    12,879   12,835
2002             4,338      313               220      220    1.228      235    9,722    2,005       660    1,862    1,108         45   16,865     16,645      16,315    16,601     13,272   13,228
2003             4,468      322               220      220    1,265      241   10,014    2,062       679    1,917    1,141        45   17,364      17,144      16,805    17,100     13,671   13,627
2004             4,602      332               220      220    1,303      249   10,314    2,126       700    1,975    1,175         45   17,887     17,667      17,317    17,623     14,090   14,046
2005 /_c         4,694      339               330      330    1,329      254   10,520    2,171       714    2,015    1,199         45   18,247     17,917      17,560    17,851     14,268   14,202
2006 /_c         4,788      346               330      330    1,355      259   10,731    2,216       728    2,055    1,223        45   18,612      18,282      17,918    18,216    14,560   14,494
2007             4,884      353               220      220    1,383      264   10,946    2,261       743    2,096    1,247        45   18,985      18,765      18,394    18,721     14,968   14,924
2008             4,982      360               220      220    1,410      270   11,166    2,306       758    2,138    1,272        45   19,365      19,145      18,766    19,101     15,272   15,228
2009             5,082      367               220      220    1,439      275   11,390    2,351       773    2,181    1,298        45   19,752      19,532      19,146    19,488     15,582   15,538
2010             5,184      374               220      220    1,467      280   11,619    2,395       788    2,224    1,323        45   20,141      19,921      19,527    19,877     15,893   15,849
2011             5,288      381               220      220    1,497      285   11,852    2,440       804    2,268    1,350        45   20,541     20,321       19,919    20,277     16,213   16,169
2012             5,394      389               220      220    1,527      291   12,089    2,491       820    2,314    1,377        45   20,954    20,734       20,324     20,690     16,543   16,499
Total                             77,230    2,970   80,200                                                                 ERR                     18.1%       17.8%      14.8%     14.1%    11.2%
--- - ------  ------- ----------                                            NPV (12%)              26,465      24,777     14,008     8,715   (3,743)
/_a: Assume the net accident reduction will be I incident for evesy 5 krn on the existing road p.a..
Lb: The average annual maintenance cost (Yuan/km): Without the project-  5,000.0 ; With the project:    15,000
/_c: Major resurfacing,
/d: Opening the second half of the year.



Table 6 (111-8): Economic Analysis of Road Network Rehabilitation
(Kunshan-Taicang Road)
Characteristics                                 VOC (Y/tkm)                        Average
and parameters      Length                                                         speed                      Width   Gradients
of the road        (Ion)            Normal (N)       Tractor (T)                  (kmn/hr)   Cass  Condition   (m)      (%)
Without the project    13.60 = LO      0.375 = CON       0.992 = COT                46.0     IV        Poor  a. 9.0  c. P                a. Width ofpavement.
Paved  b. 12.0  d. 3.0%            b. Width of subgrade.
With the project     13.60 = LN        0.283 = CNN       0.731 = CNT                70.0      If      Good   a. 15.0  c. P               c. M = Mountainous; P   Plain; H  Hill.
Paved  b. 18.0  d. 2.6%            d. Maximusn to,
Difference         0.00 = LD        0.091 = CDN       0.261 - CDT                24.0
Tonnage- standard average (ton/vehicle)  5.00 = TNN       5.00 = TNT                (1) TCS due to shorter distance  (TCS-D)  = Traffic volume (N, T) x 365 x LD x CO (N, T) x AL (N, T)
Loading fhactor (%)                    60.0%/. = LFN     60.0/% = LFT               (2) TCS due to road improvement    (TCS-R)   = Traffic volume (N, T) x 365 x LN x CD (N, T) x AL (N, T)
Average loadg (ton/vehicle)             3.00 = ALN        3.00 = ALT                (3) Generated traffic            (GT)       =Total TCS x        0.05
Average time saving (hour)              0 10 = TS                                   (4) Time savings of freight       (TSF)     = Annual freight traffic x TS x TVF
Accident reduced (year)/ a              3.00 = AC                                   (5) Time savings ofpassenger      (TSP)     = Annual passenger traffic x TS x TVP
Costs per accident (Yuan/accident)    10,000 = CA                                   (6) Road afety savings            (RSS)     = AC x CA
Tune value-
Freight (Yuan/hour/vehicle)          2.00 = TVF
Passenger (Yuan/hour/passenger)      1.00 = TVP
Base Case ('000 Yuan)
Sensitivities
Trafhic volume          Capital costs                                            Benefits                                                                                   Costs
- ----------  ----------------------------- ------TCS-D------ ---TCS-R-------                                                Net    Generated     Total      Total    (+20/.)
Years            Nornal  Tractor   Const.   Maint.   Total  Normal  Tractor   Normal  Tractor    GT          TSF      TSP      RSS      Total      cash       traffic    costs    benefits   benefits
------(AADT)---               bIb               (1)      (1)      (2)      (2)      (3)      (4)       (5)      (6)    benefits    flow      (-50%)    (+20%)   (-20%/)   (-20/.)
1989
1990               n.a.     n.a.
1991             2,082       27
1992             3,282       23
1993             4,963    176
1994               n.a.     n.a.   4,420             4,420                                                                                         (4,420)     (4,420)   (5,304)   (4,420)  (5,304)
1995               n.a.     n.a.  30,400            30,400                                                                                       (30,400)    (30,400)   (36,480)  (30,400) (36,480)
1996 I_d         5,423       83   16,740       61   16,801        0        0    3,688       162       96      324      221        15    4,506   (12,296)    (12,344)   (15,656)  (13,197) (16,557)
1997             5,586       85               122      122        0        0    7,598       330      396      668      456        30    9,478      9,356       9,158      9,332      7,460    7,436
1998             5,754       88               122      122        0        0    7,826       342      408      688      469        30    9,763      9.641       9,437      9,617      7,688    7,664
1999             5,927       91               122      122        0        0    8,062       354      421      708      483        30   10,058      9,936       9,726      9,912      7,924    7,900
2000             6,105       94               122      122        0        0    8,304       365      433      730      498        30   10,360      10,238      10,022    10,214      8,166    8,142
2001             6,288       97               122      122        0        0    8,553       377      447      752      513        30   10,672      10,550      10,327    10,526      8,416    8,391
2002             6,477      100               122      122        0        0    8,810       389      460      774      528        30   10,991      10,869      10,639    10,845      8,671    8,646
2003             6,671      103               122      122        0        0    9,073       400      474      797      544        30   11,318      11,196      10,959    11,172      8,932    8,908
2004             6,871      106               122      122        0        0    9,345       412      488      821      560        30   11,656      11,534      11,290    11,510      9,203    9,178
2005 /_c         7,008      108               183      183        0        0    9,532       420      498      838      572        30   11,890      11,707      11,458    11,670      9,329    9,292
2006 i/c         7,148      110               183      183        0        0    9,722       428      508      855      583        30   12,126      11,943      11,689    11,906      9,518    9,481
2007             7,291      112               122      122        0        0    9,917       435      518      872      595        30   12,367      12,245      11,986    12,221      9,772    9,747
2008             7,437      114               122      122        0        0   10,115       443      528      889      606        30   12,611      12,489      12,225    12,465      9,967    9,942
2009             7,586      116               122      122        0        0   10,318       451      538      907      619        30   12,863      12,741      12,472    12,717     10,168   10,144
2010             7,738      118               122      122        0        0   10,525       459      549      925      631        30   13,119      12,997      12,723    12,973     10,373   10,349
2011             7,893      120               122      122        0        0   10,736       466      560      943      644        30   13,379      13,257      12,977    13,233     10,581   10,557
2012             8,051      122               122      122        0        0   10,950       474      571      962      657        30   13,644      13,522      13,237    13,498     10,793   10,769
Total                             51,560    1,647   53,207                                                                 ERR =                   18.2%       17.8%      14.8%     14.1%    11.1%
----   -------- ---------                                                                 NPV (12%) =            17,044      15,868      8,890      5,479   (2,675)
/-a: Assume the net accident reduction will be I incident for every 5 kIn on the existing road p.a..
/ b: The average amnual maintenance cost (Yuanlkm): Without the project-  6,000.0 ; With the project:    15,000
I c: Major resurfacingW
/d: Opening the scond half of the year.



- 74 -
5BB                                                                                                                             ANNEX 1
Table 7: Economic Evaluation And Sensitivity Analysis
II. Juiweigang Bridge
(Yuan million, December 1996 prices)
Base Case                                              Sensitivity Analysis
Case 1   Case 2   Case3   Case4
Costs                                 Benefits                           -
-    VOC             Reduced                              Gener-            Total    Cost
Net/ b              Net   Gener-  Cong.On  Reduced                Net    ated    Total  Benefits  (+20%)
Constru  Road                Sav-     ated   Exist.    Accid              Cash   Traffic    Cost           Benefits
Year           -ction  Maint.    Total    ings   Traffic   Road    -entS      Total    Flow   (-50%)  (+20%)  (-20%)  (-20%)
1989            6.52             6.52                                                  (6.52)   (6.52)   (7.82)   (6.52)   (7.82)
1990           10.56             10.56                                                (10.56)  (10.56)  (12.67)  (10.56)  (12.67)
1991           21.14            21.14                                                 (21.14)  (21.14)  (25.37)  (21.14)  (25.37)
1992           14.51             14.51                                                (14.51)  (14.51)  (17.41)  (14.51)  (17.41)
1993            0.00     0.20    0.20     5.99     0.30      0.00     0.01     6.30     6.10     5.95     6.06     4.84    4.80
1994            0.00     0.20    0.20     8.71     0.44      0.00     0.01     9.16     8.96     8.74     8.92     7.13    7.09
1995            0.00     0.20    0.20    12.67     0.64      0.00     0.01    13.32    13.12    12.80    13.08    10.46    10.42
1996            0.00    0.20     0.20    13.58     0.68      0.00     0.01    14.27    14.07    13.73    14.03    11.22    11.18
1997                     0.20    0.20    14.56     0.73      0.00     0.01    15.30    15.10    14.74    15.06    12.04    12.00
199S                     0.20    0.20    15.61     0.78      0.00     0.01    16.40    16.20    15.81    16.16    12.92    12.88
1999                     0.20    0.20    16.73     0.83      0.00     0.01    17.57    17.37    16.96    17.33    13.86    13.82
2000                     0.20     0.20    17.94    0.89      0.00     0.01    18.84    18.64    18.20    18.60    14.87    14.83
2001                     0.20     0.20    18.98    0.94      0.00     0.01    19.93    19.73    19.26    19.69    15.74    15.70
2002                     0.20     0.20    20.08    0.99      0.00     0.01    21.08    20.88    20.39    20.84    16.66    16.62
2003 /_a                 0.30     0.30    21.24    1.05      0.00     0.01    22.30    22.00    21.48    21.94    17.54    17.48
2004 /-a                 0.30     0.30    22.47    1.11      0.00     0.01    23.59    23.29    22.74    23.23    18.57    18.51
2005                     0.20     0.20    23.77    1.18      0.00     0.01    24.96    24.76    24.17    24.72    19.77    19.73
2006                     0.20     0.20    24.83    1.23      0.00     0.01    26.07    25.87    25.26    25.83    20.66    20.62
2007                     0.20     0.20    25.94    1.29      0.00     0.01    27.24    27.04    26.40    27.00    21.59    21.55
2008                     0.20     0.20    27.10     1.35     0.00     0.01    28.46    28.26    27.59    28.22    22.57    22.53
2009                     0.20     0.20    28.31     1.41     0.00     0.01    29.73    29.53    28.83    29.49    23.58    23.54
2010                     0.20     0.20    29.58     1.48     0.00     0.01    31.07    30.87    30.13    30.83    24.66    24.62
2011                     0.20     0.20    30.83     1.54     0.00     0.01    32.38    32.18    31.41    32.14    25.70    25.66
2012                     0.20     0.20    32.14     1.61     0.00     0.01    33.76    33.56    32.76    33.52    26.81    26.77
2013                     0.20     0.20    33.50     1.68     0.00     0.01    35.19    34.99    34.15    34.95    27.95    27.91
2014                     0.20     0.20    34.92     1.75     0.00     0.01    36.68    36.48    35.61    36.44    29.14    29.10
2015                     0.20     0.20    36.40     1.82     0.00     0.01    38.23    38.03    37.12    37.99    30.38    30.34
Total         52.73                   EIRR =                                          21.3%    21.0%    18.9%    18.3%    16.1%
NPV (12%) =                                      46.8    44.8      38.9    29.6    21.7
/La: Major resurfacing.
/_b: Net of the maintance savings on the proposed expressway and the existing road.
/Ic: All figures are rounded.



- 75 -
6CC
ANNEX 1
Table 8: Economic Analysis of the construction of the Grand Canal at Danyang
(Yuan million, December 1996 prices)
Economic cost of the project (mil.Y):  108.84           Maint. costs as % of invest.(mil. Y):  5.1%
Distance IWW route (km):               17.00            Distance highway rerouting (km):     100.00
Sensitivity Analysis
Base Case                                                   Benefits
Benefits                Net                       (-20%.)
Costs            Inland    High-   Congest.            cash     Costs   Benefits   costs
Year           Capital   Maint.   Total   waterway    ways   savings    Total    flow    (+20%/.)  (-20%/o)  (+20%)
1989                                0.00                                          0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
1990             27.30             27.30                                        (27.30)  (32.76)  (27.30)  (32.76)
1991             56.47             56.47                                        (56.47)  (67.76)  (56.47)  (67.76)
1992             25.07     2.75    27.82    12.00      0.00     1.81    13.81   (14.01)  (19.57)  (16.77)  (22.34)
1993                       5.50     5.50    14.36      0.00     2.17    16.53    11.03     9.93     7.72     6.62
1994                       5.50     5.50    15.50      0.00     2.34    17.84    12.34    11.24     8.77     7.67
1995                       5.50     5.50    18.93      0.00     2.86    21.79    16.29    15.19    11.93    10.83
1996                       5.50     5.50    21.29      0.00     3.22    24.51    19.01    17.91    14.11    13.01
1997                       5.50     5.50    23.95      0.00     3.62    27.57    22.07    20.97    16.56    15.46
1998                       5.50     5.50    26.92     0.00      4.07    30.99    25.49    24.39    19.29    18.19
1999                       5.50     5.50    30.26      0.00     4.57    34.83    29.33    28.23    22.36    21.26
2000                        5.50     5.50    34.03     0.00     5.14    39.17    33.67    32.57    25.84    24.74
2001                        5.50     5.50    37.10     0.00     5.61    42.71    37.21    36.11    28.67    27.57
2002                       5.50      5.50    40.44     3.46     6.11    50.01    44.51    43.41    34.51    33.41
2003                       5.50      5.50    44.09    16.30     6.66    67.05    61.55    60.45    48.14    47.04
2004 /_1                   8.25      8.25    48.05    30.17     7.26    85.48    77.23    75.58    60.13    58.48
2005 /_1                   8.25      8.25    52.37    45.33     7.91   105.61    97.36    95.71    76.24    74.59
2006                        5.50     5.50    56.56    60.04     8.55   125.15   119.65   118.55    94.62    93.52
2007                       5.50      5.50    61.08    75.89     9.23   146.20   140.70   139.60   111.46   110.36
2008                       5.50      5.50    65.96    93.06     9.97   168.99   163.49   162.39   129.69   128.59
2009                       5.50      5.50    71.25   111.61    10.77   193.63   188.13   187.03   149.40   148.30
2010                        5.50     5.50    76.94   131.56    11.63   220.13   214.63   213.53   170.60   169.50
2011                        5.50     5.50    82.33   150.48    12.44   245.25   239.75   238.65   190.70   189.60
2012                        5.50     5.50    88.09   170.66    13.31   272.06   266.56   265.46   212.15   211.05
2013                       5.50      5.50    94.24   192.28    14.24   300.76   295.26   294.16   235.11   234.01
2014                        5.50     5.50   100.83   215.42    15.24   331.49   325.99   324.89   259.69   258.59
2015                       5.50      5.50   107.92   240.27    16.31   364.50   359.00   357.90   286.10   285.00
2016                        5.50     5.50   115.47   266.76    17.45   399.68   394.18   393.08   314.24   313.14
2017                        5.50     5.50   123.54   295.11    18.67   437.32   431.82   430.72   344.36   343.26
Total           108.84                                        ERR =              24.8%    22.3%    21.8%    19.7%
NPV (12%) =            278.67   254.51   198.76   174.59
i1: Major maintenance.



- 76 -
78s
ANNEX 1
Table 9: Economic Analysis of the Construction of the Nantong Shiplock
(Yuan million, December 1996 prices)
Economic cost of the project (Yuan moillion):   91.52                   Maint. costs as % of invest.:  4.90/o
Disance IWW routing Om):   With out the project  174.50                 Distance highway routing (1m):   100.00
With out the project  174.50
Sensitivity Aialwys
Bae Cas                                                         Benefits
Benefits                      Net                      (-20%)
Costs                              High-   Conge.               cash     Cosb   Benefits   costs
Year         Capital   Maint    Total   IWW/I  rVWW/_2   ways   savings    Total        flow   (+20%A)  (-20%)  (+20%/)
1989             7.37              7.37                                                  (7.37)   (8.84)   (7.37)   (8.84)
1990            11.73             11.73                                                 (11.73)  (14.08)  (11.73)  (14.08)
1991            19.10             19.10                                                 (19.10)  (22.92)  (19.10)  (22.92)
1992            16.45             16.45                                                 (16.45)  (19.74)  (16.45)  (19.74)
1993            36.87             36.87                                                 (36.87)  (44.24)  (36.87)  (44.24)
1994                      4.50     4.50     6.69      0.00     0.00     0.78     7.47     2.97     2.07     1.48     0.58
1995                      4.50     4.50    15.54      0.00     0.00     1.89    17.43    12.93    12.03     9.44     8.54
1996                      4.50     4.50    19.40      0.00     0.00     2.40    21.80    17.30    16.40    12.94    12.04
1997                      4.50     4.50    23.71      0.00     0.00     3.00    26.71    22.21    21.31    16.87    15.97
1998                      4.50     4.50    28.53      0.00     0.00     3.68    32.21    27.71    26.81    21.27    20.37
1999                      4.50     4.50    33.93      0.00     0.00     4.46    38.39    33.89    32.99    26.21    25.31
2000                      4.50     4.50    36.33      0.00     0.00     4.87    41.20    36.70    35.80    28.46    27.56
2001                      4.50     4.50    38.16      0.00     0.00     5.22    43.38    38.88    37.98    30.20    29.30
2002                      4.50     4.50    40.08      0.00     0.00     5.59    45.67    41.17    40.27    3204    31.14
2003                      4.50     4.50    42.08      0.00     0.00     5.99    48.07    43.57    42.67    33.96    33.06
2004 /_3                  6.75     6.75    44.17      0.00     0.00     6.41    50.58    43.83    42.48    33.71    32.36
2005 /_3                  6.75     6.75    46.36      0.00     0.00     6.87    53.23    46.48    45.13    35.83    34.48
2006                      4.50     4.50    47.75      0.00     0.00     7.21    54.96    50.46    49.56    39.47    38.57
2007                      4.50     4.50    49.19      0.00     0.00     7.58    56.77    52.27    51.37    40.92    40.02
2008                      4.50     4.50    50.67      0.00     0.00     7.96    58.63    54.13    53.23    42.40    41.50
2009                      4.50     4.50    52.18      0.00     0.00     8.36    60.54    56.04    55.14    43.93    43.03
2010                      4.50     4.50    53.75      0.00     0.00     8.79    62.54    58.04    57.14    45.53    44.63
2011                      4.50     4.50    54.28      0.00     0.00     9.05    63.33    58.83    57.93    46.16    45.26
2012                      4.50     4.50    54.83      0.00     0.00     9.33    64.16    59.66    58.76    46.83    45.93
2013                      4.50     4.50    55.38      0.00     0.00     9.61    64.99    60.49    59.59    47.49    46.59
2014                      4.50     4.50    55.93      0.00     0.00     9.90    65.83    61.33    60.43    48.16    47.26
2015                      4.50     4.50    56.49      0.00     0.00    10.20    66.69    62.19    61.29    48.85    47.95
2016                      4.50     4.50    57.06      0.00     0.00    10.51    67.57    63.07    62.17    49.56    48.66
2017                      4.50     4.50    57.65      0.00     0.00    10.83    68.48    63.98    63.08    50.28    49.38
Total          91.52                                                  ERR=              20.8%    18.3%    17.7%    15.4%
-                                                NPV (12%) =              80.0    63.7    47.7       31.4
/_1: Transport cost savingp
/ 2: Distance savin.
/73. Major maintenance.



- 77 -
21H
ANNEX I
Table 10: Length, Cost, Traffic and ERR Summary
(SAR vs ICR)
Legth                                 Unit             Normal Traffc
of the       Total Economic Cost      Cost
Route   Jan.91    Dec.'96  ICPJSAR  (Y miL           ICRISAR           ICRISAR   ERR
(km)  -(Yuan milion)-   (m %)   / km)   AADT   (in %)   AADT   (in %)   (in %)
A. Nanjng-Shnha Class 11 Highway                                                            1995              2010
Zhenjiang-Changthou           ICR        70.7     -        240.50    -        3.40   17,968    -        8,915     -      44.1
SAR       60.8   134.00     19S.22   21.3      3.26    7,329   145.2%   25,977   -65.7%   57.6
Wui-Suzhou                    ICR        51.2     -        319.10     -       6.23   17,845    -        9,476    -       34.6
SAR       58.3   130.00     192.30   65.9      3.30    9,356    90.7%   31,384   -69.8%   53.7
Suzhou-Antig (Shanghai)       ICR       54.6      -        229.20     -       4.20   20,480    -       10,899    -       60.1
SAR       74.7   147.00    217.44    5.4       2.91    9,679   111.6%   34,113   -68.1%   78.4
Total                         ICR      176.50     -        788.S0     -       4.47                                       50.4
SAR    193.80    411.00    607.96   29.7       3.14                                       64.0
B. Road Network Rehabitation                                                                 1993              2002
Phase 1:
1. Changzhou- Tianwang        ICR       68.6      -        209.70     -       3.06    2,993    -        5,534    -       16.3
SAR       71.0    105.00    155.00   35.3      2.18    5,400   -44.6%   13,200   -5S.1%   42.0
2. Chawgshu- Suzhou           ICR       33.5      -         62.32     -       1.86    6,197    -        9,252    -       47.4
SAR       33.5     39.00     58.00    7.4      1.73    7,100   -12.7%   14,000   -33.9%   63.0
3. Pingwang- W  ,angp         ICR        14.0     -         49.84     -       3.56    6,924    -        9,067    -       22.0
SAR       14.5     30.00     44.00   13.3      3.03    4,500    53.9%    8,900     1.9%   29.0
4. Xiaohe- Huangt             ICR       31.2      -         93.81     -       3.01    1,931  (1992)     4,844    -       16.6
SAR       30.0     31.00     46.00   103.9     1.53    4,700   -58.9%    9,300   -47.9%   49.0
5. Hutai- Caoqiao             ICR       13.4      -         62.31     -       4.65    7,976    -       10,945    -       34.8
SAR       13.0     26.00     38.00   64.0      2.92    6,900    15.6%   13,500   -18.9%   32.0
6. Pigwang Bidge              ICR        3.5      -         37.62     -      10.75    9,564  (1994)    13,465  (2005)    39.9
SAR        3.3     22.00     33.00   14.0    10.00    5,300    80.5%   10,500    28.2%   21.0
Subtotal              ICR      164.20     -        515.60    -        3.14                                       23.9
SAR    165.30    253.00    374.00   37.9       2.26                                       42.0
Phan 2: /1
1. Gelong- Gui                ICR       38.3      -        228.32    -        5.96    4,668    -        7,855    -       13.5
2. Yanuxang- Wuwi             ICR       36.5      -        184.41     -       5.05   10,353    -       12,016    -       24.0
3. Huant- Xiagag              ICR        17.2     -         50.80    -        2.95    9,863    -       11,719    -       43.0
4. rianwangui- Lishui         ICR       20.6      -         91.91     -       4.46    1,143    -        4,176    -       12.0
Subtotal              ICR      112.60     =        555.44    =        4.93                                       20.3
Phase 3: /1
1. Daqyang- Liyang            ICR       63.8      -        233.65     -       3.66    2,471    -        7,747    -       23.2
2. Zhenjiang- Xiaohe          ICR       42.0      -        122.10     -       2.91    4,147    -        5,298    -       18.6
3. Yunting- Yaluji            ICR       38.6      -        127.18     -       3.29    2,643    -        3,841    -       16.8
4. Luyuan- Changshu           ICR       25.7      -        119.23     -       4.64    5,267    -        7,368    -       18.7
5. Qimen nterchamge           ICR        0.9      -         55.23     -      61.37   34,767    -       46,769    -       19.6
6. Gecun- Danyang             ICR       22.2      -         72.23     -       3.25    2,624    -        3,424    -       13.1
7. Qishuyan-Yuccheng          ICR       22.4      -         77.23     -       3.45    3,565    -        4,651    -       18.1
8. Kunshan- Taicang           ICR       13.6      -         51.56     -       3.79    5,039    -        6,577    -       18.2
Subtotal              ICR      229.20              858.41    =        3.75                                       19.3
Total Road Network            ICR     506.00      -       1,929.45    -       3.81   1995              2010              21.4
SAR    450.00   1,101.29   1,627.99   18.5     -      Mton              Mton
C. Danyang Grand Cakmal RehabIlittion    ICR    17.0     -         108.84    -       6.40      6.1     -        24.9     -       24.8
SAR       17.0   68.90      101.92    6.8      6.00     10.6   -42.5%     16.5    50.9%   19.6
D. Nantong Shiplock                   ICR        0.2     -          91.52    -     457.60      16.0    -         24.1    -       20.8
SAR        0.2   52.94       78.31   16.9   391.55      19.3   -17.1%     23.0    4.8%   20.2
E. JiuweigangBidge L1                 ICR        2.3     -          52.73    -      22.93   13,254  (AADI)   17,829  (AADT)   21.3
SAR       -      37.99       56.14   -6.1      -       -         -       -        -        -
Grand Total_/1                ICR                 -      2,971.34    -                                                   38.5
SAR              1,672.11   2,472.32   20.2                                                 -
Notes: /-I: The SAR's infonmatio were not available.
/2: All Fures were rounded



-78 -                      ANNEX2
ANNEX 2: ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE
1.    This Aide Memoire records the major points of discussions and understandings
reached among representatives of Jiangsu Provincial Communications Department
(JPCD) and the World Bank mission (Messrs. Yasuhiro Kawabata and Han-Kang Yen)
during November 7-9, 1996 in Nanjing, regarding the preparation of an Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) for the Jiangsu Provincial Transport Project (Ln 3316-CHA/Cr
2226-CHA).
Background
2.    A loan in the amount of $100 million and a credit in the amount of SDR 38.5
million ($53.6 million equivalent) for the Jiangsu Provincial Transport Project were
approved on April 9, 1991 and became effective in September 1991. The project as a
whole started in July 1989 and was completed in June 1996 except some incomplete staff
training program. The loan/credit were fully disbursed and the both accounts closed on
September 24, 1996.
3.   In November 1995 the Bank provided JPCD with the information related to the
Bank's requirements regarding the ICR, and outlined the key steps involved in its
preparation. Following this, Messrs. Y. Kawabata and H. Yen visited the Province to
carry out the last supervision in May 1996 and the Bank mission was provided with
sufficient information to prepare the economic evaluation section of a draft ICR report.
ICR Preparation
4.    JPCD submitted to the Bank in July 1996 a report on the implementation of the
Jiangsu Provincial Transport Project as well as additional information on the
implementation of the project. Based on the information provided by JPCD, and records
available in the Bank, the Bank staff prepared the draft ICR and sent it to JPCD for their
review at the end of September 1996.
5.    The objectives of the ICR mission were to: (a) discuss with JPCD the draft
economic evaluation for the civil works component of the project; (b) confirm the data
and information provided in the draft ICR to assure the accuracy of the data and contents;
and (c) agree on the schedule for finalization of the report.
6.    The ICR mission received the comments made by JPCD on the draft ICR during
its stay in Nanjing and discussed these comments. It was confirmed by both parties that
the data and information covered in the draft ICR are correct and appropriate. It was
further agreed that the comments made by JPCD would be reflected in finalizing the ICR.



-79 -                      ANNEX2
7.    The tentative schedule for the further processing of the ICR is as follows:
(a)   JPCD will send the additional information to the Bank by November 30,
1996.
(b)   The Bank will finalize the ICR and send to the Board of the Bank by
December 31, 1996.
November 9, 1996
Nanjing, China
Note: The original of the Aide Memoire, signed by a representative of JPCD and the
Bank, is in the Project File.



- 80 -                      ANNEX3
ANNEX 3: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
Project Review from Borrower's Perspective
1.    Jiangsu Provincial Transport Project was the first project financed by the World Bank
dealing with road network and canal rehabilitation in the Jiangsu province. The project was
prepared and negotiated with the Bank by SPC and MOF by way of exception to other
previous transportation projects.
The province completed a detailed feasibility study for the Nanjing-Shanghai Corridor in
1987, and concluded that a new road system was urgently needed in southern Jiangsu in order
to meet the rapid economic development in the area.
Thanks to the Bank's loan, a comprehensive RNR project mostly in the southern area,
including some undeveloped key sections on the existing Nanjing-Shanghai road, is providing
relief to the overcrowded transport corridor.
2.    The project was programmed in three phases, and the first phase was started in mid
1989 and continued without interruption until September 1991. The payment for construction
was retroactively disbursed from the Bank two years later, and the first phase project was then
successfully completed by the end of 1991 for the Nanjing-Shanghai highway, and 1993 for
the road network, respectively, and put into operation.
The first ever road project to be built in Jiangsu, the traffic volume of the Nanjing-Shanghai
Class 2 highway has greatly increased each year after completion
In addition to the roads, a second shiplock construction project, also in Nantong city, and
rehabilitation of a bottleneck section of 17 km of Grand Canal in Danyang city, were allocated
in the loan for traffic enhancement purposes.
3.    For construction of the first Bank project, a well organized engineering supervision
system was adopted, staff training was executed before the commencement of the works, and
testing equipment and site laboratories were established on time. The completed Nanjing-
Shanghai road carries more than three times the traffic than its design capacity and is currently
still carrying a large share in the important transport corridor. We consider this to be an
indisputable success due to an enhanced procurement strategy, under the guidance of the
Bank.
In addition to the different types of civil work projects, as roads, bridges, canal and shiplock,
are specially included in this project, several other components were featured, such as



-81-                        ANNEX3
technical assistance in design, construction industry, technical school teaching facilities and
studies.
Besides, the procurement of maintenance equipment and advanced testing equipment for
research purposes, the borrower gave particular to the modernization of the provincial
highway system.
4.    Foreign consultants from different countries have been involved in construction
supervision, bidding document review, staff training, pavement management systems training,
and corridor study. Chinese counterparts worked with them and obtained valuable
intemational practices. As a result, first joint venture with a consulting engineering firm at the
provincial level within China was founded in 1994 enabling future exchanges in technical and
managerial aspects.
5.    The project was implemented strictly following the SAR; three additional sections for
phase III of RNR were added because of currency exchange rate adjustment in the year 1994.
In order to meet the deadline, particular attention was given to the procurement of these
sections, and good coordination with the cities involved in the area was provided.
All the components of the project, with the exception of staff training, of which the number of
the trainees was reduced, and disbursement was completed on time.
6.    During implementation period the World Bank sent many missions to the project,
annual routine inspection was effective, responses to our requests were quick, and a good
relationship was established between the Jiangsu implementation office and the Bank staff,
who provided us with assistance at every level.
Even though the Bank staff who were responsible for the project have undergone substantial
changes since 1987, the provincial staff has remained the same continuously and satisfactorily.
7.    A post project evaluation of the overcrowded but efficient Nanjing-Shanghai highway
is preassigned to JPCD's technical group in order to derive reliable road construction data to
cope with continuing developing economical demands in the province.
8.    The ICR drafted by the World Bank is complete, the major items of the project
executed and analysis provided are correct and useful. We acknowledge the outstanding
overall success gained through the first World Bank's comprehensive transportation project.



MAP SECTION



IBRD 2837
.13                              li9                                                 Xi.gh.% -  1 io,,,1I9  (
.1:1                                                                       Xingkg      125                                                                                                                                    R CHNINA  RUSSIAN FEDERATION   t  >
.    '>     .        GaGoyou                                                      H.
( _!  <,    HU t                  *              5yerS                                             ,                JIANGSU PROVINCE                                        ,_.-!                                _
,                           I,    -ioyou                                                                9TRANSPORT PROJECT
MONGOLIA            )
d.,_r*,_._ .... _  ~_,,.. gTioochoou  I                                                                                                      \ \ % PROJECT COMPONENTS                                     rONGOLIA vPJECT                  4
(NI ......  -                                                                                                                                    Rh\ Hni  KILOMETERS
A N H U I (J d-~Jngn  NUSUIHNNu 
\   7   0                               Ynngzhouv    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J I A  N  G  S U                                     Rt                                                          Y e I Io w    C H I N AH   'a^p
L.h.                                                                                      R.d..gd~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EiRPO
\S  -'-'  2hnn1 '   YSzhFng   ,,,,,Sh,p Loc   hi i  !     .,I                            Ch-o
39 ~ ~    ~    ~     ~    C      hon                            Thnin Sd@@     I   S   0xionho  obrG5       rJnjoe             Sonn                        r                                                                 2 Se       6+ E7-               Ch.no. n
S                                                            S."~~~~
C .. 4t               .            , 5 9??i \ h-g 1oe,  Zh..Ii..g................................ Ship                         dioe /                                                                                                Sol1
t\ }#7 ( H ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                               MonRo!                                          .l2 N~~                                                  IL;    O6c uS3e7nglnng  ann
(                                                                              W*ICPIUO                           -                         r'Jonpong~\a  PunliLVC REPun                                                  N      AHEgziSHloNiL5 I. PELEhIEOS
Got                        Siohi              z_                             nuCQ>                                              C nmn              ._cEvNcnWphe Water Gae  Jingjiogp  ShipLk
.2                                )                          \ZhonTjiogocg
ft                              Jio/GngnhurD   ~YIzing  JUrong                                                  iongim                      A i                 A                                                                              122'
-  -                                              I   t                     ~~~~~~~~~       ~       ~~~~~~~~~     ~~~~~~~Ship Lock  SiLOkMNIc.a;
I A   C                        '                            A  Ufl 1.   ZcjLc        c              hi 
NANJING-SHANGHM HIGHWAY
\ / /                                                                                                                                                                                 I          Gi 0                                        RETRHAKRITATICLASSLII ROAD-S
M., oR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -    -ho   EISTING ALIGNMENT .REHABIUTATTONJ-
H''!                                                                                                                        --   -       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COMPLETED SECTION (RY GOVERNMENT)
Uhsk.i                                                                                                                                                           Ch1  z ii r { y  8   Chongming                     PROVINCIAL ROAD NETWOR
ks p Xo                      ool                 ~d ongo  0  G  o l  %.          ]           rEHABILITATION: PHASE BOINDA III
Th ud9o lpor ajee>    \-  ~ 
-                                                                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GRAND CANAL REHABILIATION'
H  ~ ~      ~     ~      /A                                                        SHIP LOCK NANTCNUGI
)                                                   Cooqi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~uc,                                                                                                                      BRIDGES IJILUWEIGANG AND PINGWANGI.
Liycng                                                         'xINTERCHANGE (QIMEN('
Oog                 BokpNANJING-SHANIGHAI EXPRESSWAY
Wulpo                  /OcoUku%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Rc Bonk Proo.L
AAci;                        SAGHAI                                   0    SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
f ~~~~~~~~~~~~~TiHuNATTONAS HIGHWAYS
PROVINCIAL HIGHWAYS
OTHER ROADS
DOUBED-TRACK RAILROADS
SINGLE-TUACK RAILROADS
'31                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         KNg-RIEES MUD CANALS         311
GRAND CANAL
16. c-P -s, ... dcd                 AN        U                                                                                                                             .                  SHA GHAI SHI                                        A       SHIL IOCKS
sfb  d.-e. caIe d_tcicafla .                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CENT ROUNDARIES
A,.ca  ao,ad.UA   n!                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PROVINCE ROLINDARIES
,h. ~lP/d Sc. G.opap dc.
dclli,-  --    INEERNASIONAL. ROUNDARIES
U., -ld-OCSIUC1... UI7UIAKr    .                                                                                                                                                       ...NSETI
-A Ib cdc..                              119                                                   T.N   ,     20         ZHEIJIAl  G42~lan                                        2                                                                  2
NOVDMBER 1996



IBRD 2837
35                                       i7 _                            IE          Iisiy                li9                             150o                             1i-                                                              123-                 330'
SHANDONG                                               a                                                                                             CHINA
!- - . / Gonyu                                              JIANGSU PROVINCE TRANSPORT PROJECT
F1J O90         PF n                                                  r',..,  "                         Unyungong                                      PROVINCIAL TRANSPORT NETWORK AND FUTURE PLAN
Fn_,xXiog9     \'                                                                              L :j  \   ~~9/"~,) .    j   ony$zgongshi                    FOR DEVELOPMENT OF TRANSPORT CORRIDORS
(                                                                                                                                                                     PLANNED TRANSPORTATION:                           EXISTING TRANSPORTATION:
\ H E N      A ~         N  noN                           PIT0  - n                                                                                      --  -.U' EXPRESSWAY UNDER CONSTRUCTION                      NANJING - SHANGHAI EXPRESSWAY
HENAN   ~~~  TOOgIHO.  ~~~~n   joongs~~~ui                                                                                         PLANNED EXPRESSWAY                     --4-'5-  MAJOR RAILROANEDDSXPESSWA
Suzhou-\                 Shuyong ,{  CuOSn-  s
-r"-----  ,,   .                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~        ~       ~~~~~~~CLASS I HIGHWAY UNDER CONSTRUCTION  NATIONAL KIGHWAYS
V         '                                                                                   He                       '055 ~~~~~mVqPLANNED CLASS I HIGHWAY                     PROVINCIAL HIGH WAYS
~~  ~ ~   U   I                    L.                               Slyong                           Pun.ng ,.                                      HIGH SPEED RAILROAD                    -          OTHER ROADS AND TOWNSQLi.,Nhi  0HIG  SPED AILOADCrTER OAD
A    N    H    U    I      GuX                      1 (      "'                  Long"  /           t                            < h.c                                                                             SELECTED CrlIES AND TOWNS
8       PROVINCE CAPITALS
RIVERS AND CANALS
33                                             BongJn                                                                                                                                                                                                            332
GRAND CANAL
"I      25      IO       75       100t                                                               T lo    --                                                                                                                     PREFECTURE SOUJNDARIES
KILOMETERS                                          '                                                                       o-PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
ng                                             ...... ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL ROUNDARIRS
RUSSIAN FEDERATION                                                                                                   f I  l                                                |INS=TI
_ ) ._ ,1     ,    _, IC 00                                                                                                                                       .=t TJnp B ,,; ioRong
MONGOLIA                                                             T. *33                                                                                           I'O.ing                                                        YellowiU
ON  /osn15 ; ( 2                                                                                                                                                                                  Y  e |           w         3 OW2
.H^r ~  ~    ~     &-* fj                                                      Mo5ao                                    .. - )oo aE ox                                            '\ 0,=2 So U  o
C  H  I N  A   - ...co  ,suA "  5AGt
zosAoyg   CIsisn                                                                                                                         .              SHANGHAI~~~~~~~~M..n  z=
14                                                                                                   """$1" '~  .tACO1  %    ;          Wuyiong42    S'-'<                                                      This aop no.prodioo yXEA
5LA                          r                                                                   c/f Cogin                                             /              I                   SHNGAI SHI                                     g& ;,,"sonto~o opdo
E /; L&\A'.E Ch,O.,            _ us- 3              A    N    H                             -n50 HJIN                                                                   2    1      ;12'1
JIE5NAO    5~  SusIs                                                                                   To HeNG  oisosu  ZHEJIANG                                                                                          NOVEMBERJlOE
Tr5orLMOI) oil                                                                                                                            Po Hon  ~~~~~~~fwj  S~~'  ,                           122'                               123~h



