Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7706-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
JIANGSU PROVINCIAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
March 18, 1991
Transport Operations Division
Country Department III
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the perfonmance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of February 1991)
Currency :iame                                          Renminbi
Currency unit                                           Yuan (Y) = 100 Fen
$1.00                                                   Y 5.22
$0.19                                                   Y 1.0
$1.0 million                                            Y 5.22 million
$191,570                                                Y 1.0 million
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - DecembeL 31
WEIGHT AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                                              3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                                         0.621 mile (mi)
1 square meter (m2'                                      10.76 square feet (ft2)
1 square kilometer (km2)                                 0.4 square miles (mi2)
1 hectare (ha) = 0.01 km2                                2.47 acres (ac) = 15 mu
1 mu                                                     666.7 m2 = 0.0667 ha
1 kilogram (kg)                                          2.2046 pounds (lbs)
1 metric ton (m ton)                                     2,204 pounds (lbs)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAD     -  Computer Aided Design
8FYP    -  Eighth Five-Year Plan
ERR     -  Economic Rate of Return
GOC     -  Government of China
GOVAI   -  GLoss Output Value of Agriculture and Industry
ICB     -  International Competitive Bidding
JPCD    -  Jiangsu Provincial Communications Department
JPG     -  Jiangsu Provincial Government
JPTPDI  -  Jiangsu Provincial Transport Planning, Survey and Design Institute
MR      - Ministry of Railways
LCB     -  Local Competitive Bidding
MOC     - Ministry of Communications
O-D     -  Origin-Destination
pcu     -  Passenger car unit
PPC     -  Provincial Planning Commission
SAA     -  State Audit Administration
7FYP    -  Seventh Five-Year Plan
SPC     -  State Planning Commission
VOC     -  Vehicle operating costs
vpd     - Vehicles per day



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
JIANGSU PROVINCIAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan/Credit and Project Summary .                 . . . . . . . . . . .        iv
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR........ .   .                                     i
A.  Introduction   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          1
B.    Traffic  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  1
C.  Investment   ....  .  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . .            2
D. Transport Issues and Objectives  . . . . . . . . . . .             2
E. Bank Group Participation in Transport Sector   . . . . .           4
II.   JIANGSU PROVINCE   ....*.................                             6
A. Economic Background  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           6
B. The Tratisport System   . . . . . . . . . . . . . I   .            7
C.  Traffic Growth and Characteristics   . . . . . . . . . .          9
D. Transport Administration   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          10
E. .;anning, Budgeting, and Financing Inland Waterways  . .          11
F.  Engineering, Construction, and Maintenance   . . . . . .         13
G. Development Objectives and Strategy  . . . . . . . . . .          13
III. THE PROJECT ................. .                                        15
A.  Background and Preparation          ... .15
B.  Project Objectives       . .        .    .. . .                  15
C.  Detailed Features  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         16
D.  Cost Estimates         . . . ..               .  ... . .         25
E. Financing.. . . ... 26
F. Implementation         .. ..                                      27
G. Procurement                ....28
H. Disbursements  . . ..                          .  . . . .         30
I.  Auditing, Reporting, and Monitoring  . . . . . . . . . .         31
J.  Environmental Effects  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         31
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to China in
January 1989. Mission members included S. Teravaninthorn (Economist/Task
Manager); A. Sabeti (Transport Specialist); J. Veniard (Sr. Operations
Officer); G. Mahoney, P. Malone, and A. Hochstein (Engineers/Consultants).
This report was subsequently revised on the basis of short visits to Jiangs-
and information provided by provincial authorities. The peer reviewers for
this project were Messrs. G. Trnka, I. Mobarek, and Ms. F. Johansen. The
Division Chief is Daud Ahmad and the Country Director is Mr. Shahid Javed
Burki.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- At -
Page No.
IV.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION  . . . . . . . . . . ..  . . . . . . .  .    33
A. Main Benefits and Beneficiaries  . . . . . . . . . . . .     33
B.  Rehabilitation of the Southern Jiangsu Road Network  . .    34
C.  Upgrading of the Nanjing-Shanghai Road   . . . . . . . .    34
D.  Rehabilitation of the Grand Canal at Danyang   . . . . .    37
E.  Construction of the Nantong Shiplock and Jiuweigang Bridge   41
Nantong Shiplock   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    41
Jiuweigang Bridge  . . . . . . . . . . . ; . . . . .    43
V.  AGREEtENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS   . . . . . . . . . .     43
TABLES
1.1     China:  Freight Traffic Intensities in Selected Countries        46
1.2     China:  Road and Railway Network Density in Selected Countries   47
1.3     China:  Freight Traffic  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     48
1.4     China:  Passenger Traffic  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       49
1.5     China:  Transport Investment vs. Economic Output   . . . . .     50
1.6     China:  Investment in the Transport Sector  . . .  . . . .       51
2.1      Jiangsu: Economic Data, 1988  . . . . .  .      ..    . . .     52
2.2      Jiangsu: Density of Transport Network By Region and Mode, 1989  53
2.3      Jiangsu:  Provincial Road Network, 1989  . . . . . . . . . .    54
2.4      Jiangsu: Provincial Inland Waterway Network, 1989   . . . .     55
2.5     Jiangsus Freight and Passenger Traffic Growth, 1980-89  . .      56
2.6      Jiangsus  Provincial Vehicle Fleet, 1980-89  . . . . . . . .    57
2.7      Jiangsu: Estimate of Highway Expenditures and Road User's
Contribution, 1985-89  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    58
2.8      Jiangsu: Fuel Prices  . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . .     59
3.1     China:  Highway Design Standards   . . . . . . . . . . . . .     60
3.2     Estimated Disbursement Schedule  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     61
4.1     Economic Cost Conversion Factors, 1990   . . . . . . . . . .     62
4.2     ERRs for Southern Road Network Rehabilitation for Selected
Phase 1 Components.                  . ..              .        63
4.3     Traffic on the Nanjing-Shanghai Road Without the Project   .     64
4.4     Projected Traffic on the Upgraded Nanjing-Shanghai Road and
on Existing Road with Project  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    65
4.5     Traffic on the Rehabilitated Nanjing-Shanghai Highway in
Passenger Car Equivalent Units (PCUs)  . . . . . . . . . . .    67



- ili -
Page No.
4.6      Economic Rates of Return (ERR) and Sensitivity Analysis of
Nanjing-Shanghai Reod  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       68
4.7      Economic Analysis of the Rehabilitation of the Grand Canal
at Danyang   . .                       . . . . . . . . . . .       69
4.8      Economic Analysis of the Construction of the Mew Nantong
Shiplock.0 .                      .. . . . .   .       . . .       70
FIGURE
1.  Capacity of Nantong Lock as a Function of Chamber Dimensions  . .       71
CHARTS
1.  Organization of the Provincial Communications Department  . . . .       72
2. Organization of the Highway Bureau of the Provincial
Cor inications Department......                                         73
ANNEXES
1. Economic Evaluation and Procurement Guidelines for Preparing the Second
and Third Phases of the JPCD Road Network Rehabilitation Program
2. Terms of Reference for Consultant Services for Construction Supervision
3. Terms of Reference for Jiangsu Highway Data Bank Preparation, Pavement
Evaluation and Strengthening Program, and Maintenance Management Study
4. Project Implementation Schedule
5. Project Monitoring Indices
6. Roads Selected for First Phase of Provincial Road Network Rehabilitation
7.  Selected D-,cuments and Data Available in the Project File
MAPS
1. Jiangsu Province Transport Project: The Project Components - IBRD 21331
2. Jiangsu Provincial Transport System and its Future Development Plan -
IBRD 21332R



- iv -
CHINA.
JIANGSU PROVINCIAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
Loan/Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                  People's Republic of China
Beneficiary:               Jiangsu Province
Amount:                    Loan:  $100.0 million equivalent
Credits SDR 38.5 million ($53.6 million equiva-
lent)
Terms:                     Loan:  20 years, including 5 years of grace, at
standard variable interest rate
Credit: Standard, with 35 years maturity
On-Lending Terms:          Between the Ministry of Finance and Jiangsu Prov-
ince: 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at
5.925 percent with 0.75 percent commitment fee on
outstanding balance.
Project Objectives:        The proposed project has two objectivess  (i) in
the short-term, to help mitigate the most serious
constraints posed by the province's inadequate
transport infrastructure on its fast-developing
economy and that of its neighbors; and (ii) in the
long-term, to assist the province in upgrading the
planning, budgeting, and implementation of trans-
port works, and in developing more efficient con-
struction entities. A large tecimical assistance
component is designed to help strengthen the abil-
ity of provincial transport staff to efficiently
plan and implement the proposed project und to
achieve the long-term institutional objectives.
Project Descriptions:      The project includess  (a) a slice of JPG's road
network rehabilitation program, the first such pro-
gram within the Bank Group's transport projects in
China; (b) rehabilitation of the Nanjing-Shanghai
corridor road; (c) rehabilitation of the Danyang
section of the Grand Canal; (d) construction of a
new shiplock at Nantong and an adjacent bridge at
Jiuweigang; (e) consulting services to help train
JPCD staff in the supervision and quality control
of civil works included in the project; (f) assist-
ance to JPCD in devising an immediate and long term
plan of action to develop independent construction
units; and (g) technical assistance for: (i) eval-



ua*irng existing road pavements and preparing a
pavement strengthening and maintenance program;
(ii) improving the design and planning of roads and
waterways, including establishment of a road data
bank, and introducing computer-aided design;
(iii) assistance in carrying out the provincial
transport corridor study; and (iv) staff training.
The main thrust of the technical assistance compo-
nent is to strengthen the ability of transport
staff at both the provincial and county levels in
the areas of pro3ect management, transport invest-
ment planning, and implementation.
Pro3ect Benefits           The principal benefits accruing to users of the
and Risks:               newly rehabilitated highway and waterway would be
savings in vehicle operating costs, savings in ship
and barge waiting times, and reduced accidents.
Technically, there are no risks foreseen because
the technology to be used with all the works is
well established. This is a multi-faceted and
fairly complex project and yet is the first project
the Bank Group has initiated with Jiangsu Province.
The project contains a large number of subprojects
(the provincial road rehabilitation program) which
will be carried out by construction units of cities
and counties with JPCD fully responsible for over-
all implementation. Ir order to minimize implemen-
tation risks, the Bank hass (i) agreed with JPCD
on an implementation organization with clear lines
of authority and responsibility; and (ii) required
JPCD to carry out, with consultant assistance,
Independent supervision of all civil works con-
struction including that by city and county con-
struction units. The performance of project imple-
menting agencies since Appraisal (January 1989) has
been quite good despite funding delays.



_ vi -
Project Costst                                  Local         Foreiyn        Total
---------- ($ million) ---------
Civil Works
Road Network Rehabilitation Program           87.0           58.0          145.0
Nanjing-Shanghai Road                         25.0           30.5           55.5
Grand Canal Rehabilitation at Danyang           7.3           4.8           12.1
Nantong Ship Lock                              3.5            4.7            8.2
Jiuweigang Bridge                              2.3            2.7            5.0
Supervision of Construction                      2.1            1.6            3.7
Development of Construction Units                 0.1           0.2            0.3
Equipment                                         1.3           9.5           10.8
Technical Assistance and Training                0.5            1.8            2.3
Base Cost                                129.2          114.1          243.3
Physical Contingencies                          11.2            9.9           21.1
Price Contingencies                             13.6           12.2           25.8
Subtotal                                 154.0          136.2          290.2
Land Acquisition                                22.6            -             22.6
Total Project Costs la                   176.6          136.2          312.C
Financing Plans
Provincial government                        159.2            -            159.2
IBRD                                          17.4           82.6          100.0
IDA                                            -             53.6           53.6
Total Financing Required                 176.6          136.2          312.8
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank Group FY                     1992      1993       1994      1995       1996
---------------- ($ million) ---------------
An.aual                           41.3      43.3       31.0       23.0      15.0
Cumulative                        41.3      84.6      115.6     138.6      153.6
Economic Rate of Returns   42 percent for the first phase of the program of
road network rehabilitation; 64 percent for
upgrading of the Nanjing-Shanghai road; 19 percent
for rehabilitation of the Grand Canal at Danyang;
and 20 percent for construction of the new Nantong
shiplock.
/a   Import duties and taxes are not included in project costs, as the
Government will exempt the project from import duties and taxes.



CHINA
JIANGSU PROVINCIAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Introduction
1.1       The transport system in China is characterized by intensive freight
traffic in relation to economic output, heavily suppressed demand, high utili-
zation of assets, a strong emphasis on railways, and distortions in tariffs
and costs. Freight traffic intensity in China, measured in ton-km per dollar
of GNP is even higher than in the Soviet Union, and is much higher than in
India, Brazil or the United States (Table 1.1). The major reasons behind
China's high freight traffic intensitv are a relatively large heavy industry
sector, a large volume of other low value-added products, and reliance on coal
as the major source of energy. In addition, energy efficiency in China is
relatively low, and there is still little pre-processing of raw materials
before shippi.g.  On the other hand, the density of China's transport network,
measured both on the basis of geographic area and population, is among the
lowest in tne world (Table 1.2).
B. Traffic
1.2       Freight Traffic.  The economic reforms introduced since 1979 have
provided the impetus for a large upsurge in both freight and passenger traf-
fic, severely taxing the transport system. Freight traffic has grown at about
9 percent per annum; port freight traffic also has grown at about 9 percent
per annum; and intercity highway freight traffic has grown at about 1l percent
per annum--consistently higher than the growth of gross domestic production
(Table 1.3). These rates would have been even higher were it not for the
capacity constraints which are now evident in all modes. Many power plants
and factories have fallen short of their production goals because the trans-
port system has not been able to deliver the needed raw materials in time.
Coal production in Sbanxi province, the largest coal producer, continues to be
hampered by inadequate rail capacity. Rural areas throughout the country are
short of transport services, both for crops and for local light industry. The
capacity of navigable waterways has declined due to insufficient investment
for upgrading and maintaining navigation channels. At the ports, lack of
proper facilities limits the handling in bulk of commodities such as fertiliz-
ers, cement, and grain.
1.3       Passenger Traffic.  The transport system is further taxed by the
marked growth in the demand for passenger travel in recent years. Since the
economic reforms of 1979, passenger traffic has grown at about 12 percent per
annum, illustrating the positive relationship between growth in income and
growth in demand for travel (Table 1.4). Nonetheless, passenger travel per
capita in China remains very low, in part because of severe capacity con-
straints. Civil aviation is very limited, and most long-distance journeys are
made by rail.



CHINA
JIANGSU PROVINCIAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
1. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Introduction
1.1       The transport system in China is characterized by intensive freight
traffic in relation to economic output, heavily supDressed demand, high utili-
zatior. of assets, a strong emphasis on railways, and distortions in tariffs
anid costs. Freight traffic intensity in China, measured in ton-km per dollar
of GNP is even higher than in the Soviet Union, and is much higher than in
India, Brazil or the UJnited States (Table 1.1). The major reasons behind
China's high freighL traffic intensity are a relatively large heavy industry
sector, a large volume of other low value-added products, and reliance on coal
as the major source of energy. In addition, energy efficiency in China is
relatively low, and there is still little pre-processing of raw materials
before shipping. On the other hand, the density of China's transport network,
meL,3ured both on the basis of geographic area and population, is among the
low-.- in the world (Table 1.2).
B. Traffic
1.2       Freight Traffic.  The economic reforms introduced since 1979 have
provided the impetus for a large upsurge in both freight and passenger traf-
fic, severely taxing the transport system. Freight traffic has grown at about
9 percent per annum; port freight traffic also has grown at about 9 percent
per annum; and intercity highway freight traffic has grown at about 18 percent
per annum--consistently higher than the growth of grocs domestic production
(Table 1.3). These rates would have been even higher were it not for the
capacity constraints which are now evident in all modes. Many power plants
and factories have fallen short of their production goals because the trans-
port system has not been able to deliver the needed raw materials in time.
Coal production in Shanxi province, the largest coal producer, continues to be
hampered by inadequate rail capacity. Rural areas throughout the country are
short of transport services, both for crops and for local light industry. The
capacity of navigable waterways has declined due to insufficient investment
for upgrading and maintaining navigation channels. At the ports, lack of
proper facilities limits the handling in bulk of commodities such as fertiliz-
ers, cement, and grain.
1.3       Passenger Traffic.  The transport system is further taxed by the
marked growth in the demand for passenger travel in recent years. Since the
economic reforms of 1979, passenger traffic has grown at about 12 percent per
annum, illustrating the pos:.tive relationship between growth in income and
growth in demand for travel (Table 1.4). Nonetheless, passenger travel per
capita in China remains very low, in part because of severe capacity con-
straints. Civil aviation is very limited, and most long-distance journeys are
made by rail.



-3-
(e)  severe shortages of human resource skills in specific key ares,
particularly in multimodal planning and policy analysis, economic
analysis, and user-centered logistics management; and
(f) structural weaknesses in highway construction capabilities related
to procurement procedures, quality control of works, and project and
company management.
1.7       Achieving a better balance between demand and supply is vital
because chronic shortages of transport services have been increasingly con-
straining the growth of the Chinese economy. Its effects have been seen in
the past in electric power shortages due to lack of coal transport capacity.
But transport constraints are an economic problem well beyond their effects on
tne energy sector. The poor quality of transport services resulting from
shortages of often outmoded equipment and substandard, often congested infra-
structure imposes high costs and impedes the integration of markets, which is
one of the major sources of economic efficiency in modern societies. The
ability of China to compete in world export markets is also reduced, particu-
larly for light manufacturing and high-value agricultural exports, which
require flexible, fast door-to-door services.
1.8       Pricing distortions are also a major problem.  Cost analyses con-
ducted during the Guangdong Comprehensive Transport Study suggest that nation-
wide long-distance coal transport, for example, is underpriced by as much as
40 percent relative to long-run incremental costs, thus generating uneconomic
excess demands which clog the transport system. Distortions in the opposite
oirection occur in highways and aviation, where tariffs may exceed long-run
incremental costs by wide margins, thus distorting the choice of modes.
1.9       China has so far failed to exploit the full spectrum of modern
transport technology. It still telies on the railway to handle much traffic
that could be better served by the two major transportation innovations of the
20th centurys the modern highway vehicle and the airplane. There is some
traffic on certain railway routes which could be more economically served by
coastal shipping. The rai.lway needs to shed as much of that traffic as possi-
ble in order to free capacity to concentrate on other traffic where its com-
parative advantage is greatest, namely long-haul bulk commodities. The Minis-
try of Railways (MR) recognizes this and has taken measures in that direction
in recent years.
1.10      Over the long run, however, China's choice of which modes to expand
and by how much should be based on an understanding of the differences in
costs and service characteristics of the different modes, on the one hand, and
prospective changes in the structure and level of transport demand, on the
other. At the present time, however, China has too few planners and policy
analysts who have the analytical tools or perspective to delineate those
choices or to identify the instruments to effect the necessary changes.
1.11      The Government has already taken steps to respond to some of these
challenges. It has made major adjustments in transport tariffs and further
adjustments may be anticipated. In addition, it has allowed local authorities
more autonomy to plan, finance, and implement projects which will expand



-4-
trauisport capacity. It has also allowed private individuals to provide pas-
senger and freight transport services on roads and inland waterways and has
encouraged provincial authorities to develop local railway systems. The Gov-
ernment is introducing more modern technology in the transport system primar-
ily by imp:oving rolling stock technology in the railway subsector; enhancing
container and bulk handling capacity in the port subs3ctor; improving road
pavement desigt. and geometric standards for the expansion of motorization in
the lhighway subsector; and increasing the use of computers in operations in.
all modes. These actions have spurred the growth and modernization of the
transport system in recent years.
E. Bank Group Participation in Transport Sector
1.12      The Bank Group has supported the initiatives of the Government in
the transport sector through lending, sector studies, technical asslstance,
and training.  Through 1989, the Bank Group had loaned about $2.1 billion to
China under 17 projects for the transport sector and presently is preparing
several new transport sector projects.
1.13      The railway subsector has received ahout $1,035 million in Bank
Group funding under five projects (Loan 2394-CHA; Loan 2540-CHA; Loan 2678-
CHA/Credit 1680-CHA; Loan 2968-CHA; and Loan 3060-CHA/Credit 2014-CHA). These
projects have assisted wi;:h the expansion of capacity on key routes and tne
manufacture of electric locomotives, passenger coaches, and signaling equip-
ment. The most recent project--construction of a new line in Inner Mongolia--
is the first time the Bank is financing the development of a provincial rail-
way in China. A pilot railway operations costing system and a management
information system are being introduced in MR and a strategic planning study
is under way as a result of a collaborative Bank/MR effort.
1.14      The highway subsector has received ebout $569 million in Bank Group
financitng under six projects (Loan 2539-CHA/Credit 1594-CHA; Loan 2811-CHA/
Credit 1792-CHA; Loan 2951-CHA/Credit 1917-CHA; Loan 2952-CHA; Credit 1984-
CHA; and Loan 3073-CHA/Credit 2025-CHA). These projects provide for the con-
struction of high-quality national and provincial roads totalling about
1,100 km, and the expansion and improvement of some 2,800 km of rural roads
and major bridges. When completed, some of these roads will help to provide
vital missing links in the national highway ne-work; others will help to ease
severe congestion in parts of the network or provide access to remote areas.
The projects are also designed to provide foreign technical assistance and
training of Chinese personnel in areas such as supervision and quality control
of road construction, design, and planning. Finally, the proiects support
studies on key issues of highway development such as road safety, pavement
management, user charges, and methods of financing the expansion, improvement,
and rehabilitation of the road network. The First Highway Project (Loan 2539-
CHA, Credit 1594-CHA) is essentially completed; a PCR will be prepared next
year.
1.15      The ports subsector has received $495 million of Bank Group financ-
ing under six projects (Loans 2207-CHA, 2689-CHA, 2907-CHA, 2877-CHA, 3006-
CHA, and 3007-CHA). Most of the loan funds are being used in Shanghai,
Tianjin, Dalian, Huangpu, Ningbo, and Xiamen for construction of terminals,
jetties, and berths for handling bulk commodities, general cargo, and contain-



ers, as well as the dredging of navigation channels. Funds also have been
used for training, technical assistance, and various studies such as port
planning, operations management, and containerization.
1.16      The dialogue betweon the Government and the Bank Group on transport
sector operattions and strategy has been strengthened both through the project.
preparation activities and project-financed studies mentioned above and
through independent studies carried out in collaboration with Chinese authori-
ties. A provincial transport study has been conducted in Guangdong Province
to support the design of a new multimodal transport plan in the province. The
Bank Group also conducted a survey of the national water transport system,
which has reaffirmed the need tc further exploit the large potential of the
Chinese waterways. Chinese authorities and the Bank Group are in the process
of undertaking new transport studies which will focus on long-term strategies
for the country transport system. These studies include a multi-port optimi-
zation study which will evaluate medium- to long-term options for developing
the deep-water seaport at Ningbo; a study of strategic issues in ports and
shipping in southern China; a multimodal transport study which will examine
strategic options in developing the transport system for the Yangtze Economic,
Zone; a coal transport study which will evaluate strategies for alleviating
coal shortages, through the year 2005; and a railway investment study.
1.17      These actions have spurred the growth and modernization of the
transport system in recent years. However, much more needs to be done to
bring about the changes required to effectively deal with the emerging issues.
In order to significantly alleviate the transport bottlenecks and rationalize
the transport system, the government should, by the year 2000, take the fol-
lowing measures:
(a) step up the total level of transport investment in relation to GNP,
to expand capacity to meet the new traffic demands and to clea&r up
the backlogs caused by past underinvestment;
(b)  realize the most economical balance of investments among the major
freight transport modes of railway, highway, and water;
(c) realign further the prices of freight transport services and those
of the major commodities, especially coal, to bring them closer to
their true costs;
(d) increase further the productivity of existing transport assets
through technological modernization; and management reforms; and
(e)  improve multimodal investment decisions, both across and'within
modes, through the use of analysis and planning tools that more
optimally determine the economic priorities of transport investments
under budget constraints.
1.18      The Bank strategy has been, and will continu  to be, to support the
government in implementing the above measures. In the past, the Bank has
focused its efforts primarily on traffic capacity expansion and operational
efficiency improvement. While this emphasis will remain, the Bank will as far



-6-
as practical broaden its strategy to assist the government in other areas,
including investment planning, operational management, and the reduction of
transport demand through industrial efficiency improvements.
II. JIMAGSU PROVINCE
A. Economic Backg-round
2.1       Jiangsu is one of the most developed provinces in China.  It is
characterized by a gentle terrain, long coastline, and the presence of many
lakes and rivers. Although Jiangsu lacks raw materials and energy resources,
its privileged situation at the edge of the subtropical zone--close to the
Shanghai economic center--and its fertile soils, well-developed urban centers,
and large system of waterways have helped the province to become the leading
producer of agricultural and industrial goods in the country.
2.2       Jiangsu's agricultural and industrial products are among the top
producers in the country.  In the agricultural sector, grain, cotton, and oil
crops are dominant. In the industrial sector, textile products, electronics,
and chemicals stand out. Growth in both agriculture and industry has spurred
the development of commerce, banking, education and tourism in the province.
Industrial gross output value in 1988 (at current prices) was Y 215 billion
($58.0 billion) or about 11.8 percent of the country's total; agricultural
gross output value was Y 49.8 billion ($13.4 billion) or about 8.5 percent of
the country's total.  Since 1980, the economy of the province has grown at an
annual rate of 16 percent.
2.3       The Yangtze River, located in the lower reaches of the province, has
been a major factor in the development of Jiangsu over the centuries. The
river divides the province into Northern Jiangsu, covering about two-thirds of
the territory, and Southern Jiangsu which is smaller but more populous.
Southern Jiangsu is the most developed area of the province, and it accounts
for a large part of the province's industrial and agricultural production.
Southern Jiangsu contains five major cities:  N'anjing, Zhenjiang, Changzhou,
Wuxi, and Suzhou. All have populations of above 1.0 million and rank among
the country's top cities in terms of industrial output value (Table 2.1).
2.4       The dynamic, fast-growing economy of Jiangsu poses large and varied
demands on the transport system, and these demands must be considered in fur-
ther developing the provincial transport system. Though extensive, the pre-
sent system poses significant limitations on economic development in the pro-
vince and surrounding areas.



-7-
B. The Transport System
2.5       The density of the transport network for highways, waterways, and
railways in Jiangsu is higher than the national average. However, it is not
sufficient to service the vigorous economic activities of the area. The den-
sity of roads in Jiangsu is 2.3 times the national average, the density of.
inland waterways is 21 times the national average, and that of the railways
1.3 times the national average (Table 2.2), and all parts of the province are
served by at least one mode. The province is exceptional in its heavy reli-
ance on inland waterways; in Southern Jiangsu, waterways provide direct access
to 75 percent of all townships. However, for such an economically active
area, where per capita GOVAI is four times the national average (Table 2.1),
transport facilities are inadequate, constraining current demand and inhibit-
ing future economic growth. Highways and waterways are seriously congested,
particularly near the major cities. Engineering standards are low, and main-
tenance of the highways is especially poor.
2.6       Except for the railways, the transport network is extensive and
distributed widely throughout the province. Four major traffic corridors can
be identified; two running east-west and two running north-south. Of the two
east-west corridors one is located at the northern tip of the province and is
erved by the Xuzhou-Lianyungang railway and highway; the other is located
along the Yangtze axis and is served by the Nanjing-Shanghai road and railway.
Of the two north-south corridors, one is located in the coastal area of the
province and is served by shipping lines, two sea ports, and one low standard
road; the other is located in the center of the province and is served by the
Grand Canal, the Lianyungang-Nanjing road, and the Nanjing bridge, as well as
a number of ferry crossings on the Yangtze (see Map 2133-).
2.7       It should be noted that the configuration of the entire transport
network in the broad Shanghai-Nanjing-Nantong cQrridor has been fundamentally
shaped by the presence of the Yangtze River. The Yangtze is both a vital
artery of waterborne transport and a formidable barrier to land transport
(rail and road).  It not only constrains development in the northern, predomi-
nantly agricultural, part of Jiangsu province, but also hinders access of the
major industrial zone in the south (including Shanghai) to the north and
northeast of China.  The road-rail bridge at Nanjing is the closest fixed
crossing of the Yangtze to the sea, yet Nanjing is some 350 km (by river) from
the estuary.   Between Nanjing and the river mouth, close to Shanghai, only
ferries are available to serve traffic crossing the Yangtze. A second fixed
river crossing is being proposed for the Eighth Five-Year Plan.
2.8       qighways:  At the end of 1989, the provincial highway network
totalled 24,609 km of roads. Of this only 231 km (0.9 percent) were of
Class I (four lanes) standard; 2,533 km (10.4 percent) were of Class II stan-
dard; 17,578 km (71.4 percent) were of Class III and IV standard; and 4,-267 km
(17.3 percent) were unclassified earth roads. About one third of the roads in
the province (7,800 km) are located in Southern Jiangsu. Table 2.3 shows the
technical and administrative classification of the network.
2.9       Similar to elsewhere in China, most of the road network in Jiangsu
was built during the 1960s when the demands for road transport were small. As



a result, most roads in use today were designed for lighter vehicles and traf-
fic of less than 5,000 ADT and now no longer can meet the demand. This is
compounded by the resulting deterioration of these roads under increasing
traffic and heavier modern trucks. These paved roads need immediate strength-
ening if they are not to be damaged beyond repair. Pavement reconstruction is
needed, as is the upgrading of geometric standards of many roads where align-
ments, widths, bridge widths, and strength no longer satisfy the traffic
demand. On much of the paved network, the rapid growth of traffic has
resulted in congestion, low vehicle speeds, reduced capacity, and poor safety
conditions. In fact, accident rates in the province and throughout China are
among the highest in che world.
2.10      Provincial authorities consider improving the condition of roads and
upgrading their standards as crucial for economic growth in the province and
have embarked on an ambitious program of rehabilitation and modernization.
The province has been investing about Y 300.0 million per year during the
Seventh Five-Year Plan in these works and plans to increase the investment
during the Eighth Five Year Plan.
2.11      Waterways.  The inland waterway network of the province, with close
to 24,000 km is exceptionally extensive. Of this, 500 km (2 percent) of
waterways are of Class II and III standard (accommodating 1,000 ton/barges);
about 3,600 km are of Class IV-VI standard (100-500 tons); and of the remain-
der, about 14,800 km (62 percent) is navigable for 3.0 tons barges (Table
2.4). The network is well distributed throughout the province, its two prin-
cipal features being the Yangtze River and the Grand Canal. The Yangtze River
flows within the province at the river's lowest 390-km stretch. In this sec-
tion the river can handle ships up to 10,000 dwt. About 680 km of the Grand
Canal lies within Jiangsu and directly serves the most economically developed
areas of the province--the southern cities of Zhenjiang, Changzhou, Wuxi, and
Suzhou. In addition, there are four main canals in the southeastern direction
between Zhenjiang and Shanghai, and three north-south canals connecting with
the Yangtze. There are nine ports on the Yangtze, some 70 inland waterway
ports, and about 400 minor piers; the inland ports, however, are poorly
equipped.
2.12      The low standard of both canals and ports has stunted the develop-
ment of water transport in the province.  Many narrow and low clearance
bridges, low capacity locks, and narrow, shallow channels have limited the
size of ship fleets to an average of 22.5 tons. Heavy congestion occurs in
many places and in key sections of the main canals, particularly during the
low water level season. Low lock capacity and heavy traffic bring long
delays, estimated at 20 percent of the total navigation time in the northern
section of the Grand Canal alone. The situation is worse in tributary canals.
2.13      Provincial authorities are concerned about the capacity constraints
within the secondary canals and have ambitious U.lans to upgrade the entire
system.  The goal is to bring the canals up to a Class VI standard, in order
to provide navigation to 100 ton barges.  The rehabilitation of the Grand
Canal is under way; its 400 km-long north section has been upgraded to
Class IV. After an investment of Y 600.0 million this section now can accom-
modate vessels of 500 tons. Major rehabilitation of the remaining 212 km-long



-9-
south section of the Grand Canal and its tributaries is included as part of
the Eighth Five-Year Plan (8FYP).
2.14      Railways:  The railway network in the province is composed of two
lines: the Longhai line close to the northern provincial boundary, and the
Nanjing-Shanghai trunk line in the south, together totalling 710 km. Despite
the relatively short length of track in the province, the Nanjing-Shanghai
high-density line is an important link to the major industrial production and
large population in southern Jiangsu. For example, in 1989, 29.2 billion ton-
km of freight were transported on the railways and 13.8 billion pkm of passen-
gers were transported, representing 43 percent and 40 percent, respectively,
of the total freight and passenger transport in the province.
C. Traffic Growth and Characteristics
2.15      Between 1980 and 1985, freight and passenger traffic in Jiangsu
Province grew at about 8 percent and 14 percent per annum, respectively.
Although these growth rates have slowed down over the past two years, they
were still sizable at about 5 percent and 6 percent per annum, respectively,
between 1985 and 1989. Freight transport, which in the past relied heavily on
railways, (52 percent of total ton-km in 1980) seems to have become a more
balanced mode (42 percent of the total in 1989) as non-official truck and
barge fleets have become a competitive force in recent years. The relaxation
of trucking and barge regulations, besides revitalizing the industry, has
increased the share of the non-official track fleet to over 70 percent of
freight traffic on highways and that of barges to 35 percent of waterways
traffic. For passenger traffic, highways appeared to be the most competitive
mode, with a 58 percent share of traffic in 1989. In contrast, the participa-
tion of waterways in passenger transport has fallen drastically in recent
years (Table 2.5). This trend, due to the development of competitive road
transport, was accelerated as a consequence of delays experienced due to con-
gestion along the main canal routes.
2.16      The competitiveness of the highway subsector has been supported by
the rapid expansion of the vehicle fleet. The vehicle fleet was about 258,000
units in 1989 having increased close to four times since 1980. In addition to
vehicles, there are close to 300,000 units of full and part-time transport
tractors (Table 2.6). On the one hand, the rapid growth of vehicle .fleets
supported the competitiveness of highway transport at a time when the rolling
stocks of the rival railways were more restrictive. On the other hand, this
method of expanding highway transport was not very efficient because it was
done by keeping a large stock of old, outmoded vehicles with low engine power
and low fuel efficiency. Moreover, the resulting mix of fast and slow moving
traffic makes the motorization pattern inefficient and further reduces the
capacity of roads. However, this should be considered an interim process
before the country finally can move to full motorization.



- 10 -
D. Transport Administration
2.17      As in other provinces in China, the railways in Jiangsu are the
responsibility of the Hinistry of Railways, and certain elements of the high-
way and waterway system are the direct responsibility of the Ministry of Com-
munication (MOC). Otherwise the transport system in the province, and partic-
ularly the waterways and highways, falls under the responsibility of the
Jiangsu Provincial Communications Department (JPCD). HOC provides general
policy guidance and support through its national policies and regulations and
its design and construction standards. For some large projects of national
importance MOC's approval and financial support is required. Otherwise JPCD
is financially independent of MOC in carrying out all planning, construction,
maintenance and administration of roads and waterways in the province. Coun-
ties and major cities participate in this process with JPCD.
2.18      JPCD reports directly to the provincial government and acts as its
administrative arm for planning, budgeting and financing of the transport
sector. The department conforms to the professional, technical, and general
transport policy guidances issued by MOC, but administratively conforms to the
development plans and project approvals issued by the Provincial Planning and
Economic Commission--the provincial counterpart of the State Planning Commis-
sion. JPCD is organizationally sound (Chart 1) and appears to have an ade-
quate number of competent staff to carry out its major functions. Nonethe-
less, training is needed in certain areas to be addressed in this project
(para. 3.25)
2.19      The inland waterways in the province are administered by at least
three levels of authority: the Central Government, the Provincial Government,
and Township Governments. The Yangtze River and the Grand Canal north of the
Yangtze River within Jiangsu Province are under the control of the Central
Government via the Ministry of Communications (MOC). The vast network of
tributaries and canals, including the Grand Canal south of the Yangtze River,
is basically under the control of the Provincial Government via JPCD.
Finally, specific segments of inland waterways in the province are under the
control of city and county communications bureaus.
2.20      The main flow of the Yangtze is managed by the Chrangjiang Adminis-
tration, which is a part of MOC. MOC's authority over waterways in the pro-
vince is limited to: (a) technical assistance, especially through its water
design and research institutes; (b) regulations for technical and operating
standards; (c) coordination and leadership in the national planning of ports
and waterways; and (d) representation in the Central Government and other
water-related ministries such as the Ministry of Water Resources and Electric
Power.  The authorities which directly administer the waterways are responsi-
ble for the flow of the Yangtze River and local communications bureaus for
other maintenance and the construction and safety of waterway infrastructures
such as channels and locks.
2.21      Cargo handling is performed at public ports, which usually belong to
cities or counties, and at berths that belong to independent, non-transport
enterprises. Fleets operating in the inland waterways are owned by a wide
variety of entities: the Central Government, local governments, enterprises,



- 11 -
collectives, and private fleets. Most of the traffic is generated in the open
market; however, some portion is still being allocated by the Changjiang
Administration and local communications bureaux.
E. Planning, Budgetins, and Financing
Highway System
2.22      Planning.  JPCD has overall responsibility for planning investments
in and maintaining the provincial highway network. However, the highway
administration units at the prefecture, county, and village levels have con-
siderable autonomy in planning smaller road investments. These smaller in
vestments are subject to the approval of JPCD, largely as a formality. The
administration of the road network in the province takes place at three lev-
els: (a) JPCD; (b) the county highway bureau; and (c) the village highway
units. Chart 2 illustrates the relationship between the highway bureau of
JPCD and its lower-level highway units. JPCD administers mainly provincial
and trunk roads and a small number of important county roads; the county high-
way bureaus administer the county and rural roads; the village highway units
administer the village roads. These three administrative groups prepare
investment plans for the highway network under their jurisdiction and submit
them to the planning division of JPCD by September of each year for the next
year's plan starting January lst each year. Before the end of November, JPCD
approves the next year's plan for each county or local authority concerned.
Similarly, JPCD prepares the five-year road development plan using inputs from
lower level administrative groups revised to reflect national or provincial
development policy guidelines and objectives for the plan period.
2.23      Budgeting.  As is done in almost all sectors in China, JPCD's plan-
ning division adopts a balanced budget policy. The proposed highway invest-
ment is always balanced against the revenue earmarked for highway development;
the amount of investment approved for each year is closely related to the
amount of road maintenance fees and other revenues expected for the same year.
In October of e h year and before JPCD approves the following year's pro-
jects, the current year's planned investments are reviewed against actual
investments and revenue receipts and adjustments are made where needed.
2.24      Financing.  The road maintenance fee provides the main source of
funds to finance construction and maintenance of the highway sector. This fee
is collected by JPCD from motor vehicles throughout the province. JPCD deter-
mines the fee rates and, through the provincial government, reports the fee to
the State Council for approval before ft becomes effective. The rates vary
according to the type and size of vehicles, as follows: (a) vehicles owned by
state transport companies are charged 15 percent of their gross revenue;
(b) vehicles owned by collective and private transport cormpanies are charged Y
120 per month per one payload ton, or Y 120 per month per 10 passenger seats;
and (c) passenger cars are charged Y 70 per month. The rates reflect
increases effected in 1986 for state owned transport companies and in 1988 for
collective and private transport companies.
2.25      In addition to the road maintenance fee, other resources for highway
works are obtained from: (a) MOC, who contributes to new construction and



- 12 -
major upgrading of national and provincial roads on a selective basis; and
(b) the provincial finance bureau, who provides budgetary resources for new
provincial road construction and emergency programs for flood damaged roads.
2.26      Total resources allocated for road uses in Jiangsu amounted to
Y 770.0 million in 1989 implying a growth in real terms since 1985 of 12 per-
cent per annum. These funds originated 85 percent from the road maintenance
fees, the rest from MOC allocation assistance and tolls collection. The MOC
assistance, amounting to Y 85.0 million was less than the provincial contribu-
tion to MOF (Y 119.0 million) from the road maintenance fees collected from
highway users in Jiangsu, not counting fuel taxes (Table 2.7).
2.27      Fuel prices in China are not subsidized.  Fuel taxes are charged to
road users but may not be allocated back to road works. These taxes are heav-
ily levied by MOF. They currently amount to 43 percent of the base price of
gasolines and 13 percent of the base price of diesel fuels. Total fuel pri-
ces, including taxes, show that prices at the pump for planned fuel alloca-
tions are comparalle to intermational market prices, while those charged in
the open market are well above international market prices and. are increasing
at a rate comparable to the consumer price index (Table 2.8).
2.28      The revenues from road maintenance fees are distributed as follows:
(a) 15 percent is remitted to MOF as the Energy and Transport Fund; (b) 2 per-
cent is remitted to the Public Security Bureau (starting 1987) for highway
patrol; and (c) 83 percent is retained by JPCD for highway works. Table 2.7
shows road maintenance fees and other resources and expenditures in Jiangsu
province in 1985-89. Over the period road maintenance revenues and expendi-
tures increased at a rate of about 20 percent per annum. The five cities in
Southern Jiangsu contributed over 50 percent of the province's maintenance
revenues but expended only about 40 percent of provincial expenditures. In
other words, revenues from this part of the province helped to subsidize road
construction in poorer parts of the province. Of the total budget of
Y 770.0 million in 1989, about 32 percent was expended on new highway con-
struction and modernization; 26 percent on road rehabilitation; 34 percent on
road maintenance; and 8 percent on administration and overhead costs.
Inland Waterways
2.29      The financing of maintenance, operation, and construction costs of
inland waterways is, as in the road sector, dependent on user charges and
government contributions, on the basis of a balanced budget policy. On a
provincial level, the intent is to collect user charges sufficient to cover at
least all maintenance and operational costs. Sources of funds for construc-
tion include grants from the central and provincIu1 governments.  User charges
are levied as a percentage (6.5 percent) of gross revenues for larger shipping
companies and as a combination of license fees and taxes per available horse-
power for small barge operators. Lockage tolls are also charged at navigation
locks.



- 13 -
F. Engineering, Construction, and Maintenance
2.30      Engineering of major works is carried out by JPCD through the
Jiangsu Provincial Transport Planning and Design Institute (JPTPDI) or other
design institutes on contract to JPTPDI. Although the work appears thorough
and well presented, geometric and structural design work is intensively manual
and could benefit from the use of computer-aided methods. Engineering of
minor works such as small rehabilitation jobs and betterments is carried out
directly by the Highway Administrations of the cities and counties.
2.31      Road and bridge construction typically has been carried out as a
force account operation by city and county construction units (presently num-
bsring about 90). The one construction unit of the JPCD is used only for
special projects including waterway construction. The city and county units
operate entirely within their political boundaries and have a lot of indepen-
dence in scheduling work and maintaining quality control. The quality of
completed structural work appears adequate; the quality of earthwork and pave-
ment construction is less uniform, although generally acceptable. However,
there appears to be no independent supervision of works. Following the State
Planning Commission's directive, the JPCD now has adopted a policy of competi-
tive bidding for all but minor works. The road, bridge, and waterway con
tracts to be financed under the project will provide opportunitits to begin
implementing this policy. In addition, the project will assist the construc-
tion units in converting into independent entities that can participate in
competitive bidding (paras. 3.27-3.29); it also will provide assistance to
initiate independent supervision of work (para. 3.21).
2.32      Highway maintenance is carried out entirely by city and county
units, and the quality of maintenance varies widely. Maintenance operations
are appropriately labor-intensive, but there is a need for basic equipment to
improve quality. Maintenance expenditures average about Y 21,000 per km in
southern Jiangsu, a level somewhat higher than for other provinces. However,
this level is justified because of the poor condition of most roads and the
recent growth in traffic. Under the project, the planning and operation of
both routine and periodic maintenance would be improved. Technical assistance
would be provided to set up a road data bank to be used as a basis for prepar-
ing road maintenance programs. Basic maintenance equipment also would be
provided.
G. Development Obiectives and Strategy
2.33      Jiangsu is one of the most advanced provinces in China, but to sus-
tain the growtL. of its economy and that of its neighbors the province must
augment its transport infrastructure and tmodernize its facilities and opera-
tions. It also needs to strengthen the planning of transport investments and
look beyond the narrow project-by-project approach in order to integrate the
plans in a wider regional and multimodal context.
2.34      The transport policy objectives of Jiangsu province for the Eighth
Five-Year Plan emphas,.ze the construction and rehabilitation of infrastructure
and the modernization of facilities to increase the adaptability, quality of



- 14 -
service and of engineering, and economic efficiency of all modes. It proposes
to complete the following before the year 20003
(a) On highways. the province has a long-term plan to construct and
rehabilitate eight trunk highways, four on the north-south corridor
and four on the east-west corridor (Map 21332). The north-south
co.ridor roads consist of the Xuzhoufengxian-Yixing road, the
Nanjing-Lianyungang road, the Xinyi-Jiangdu road, and the
Lianyungang-Nantong-Shanghai road. The Xuzhou-Fengxian-Yixing road
would extend 530 km and run from Fungxian on the northwest border
with Shandong province down to Nanjing, Yixing and connect to the
road leading to Hangzhou in Zhejiang province. The Nanjing-
Lianyungang road would extend 300 km and connect the provincial
capital to one of its important coastal port cities. The Xinyi-
Jiangdu road would extend 300 km from the Shandong border to a major
town on the Yangtze River. The road would connect to the Nanjing-
Nantong road on the east-west corridor and would provide important
access to a proposed new Yangtze River crossing. The Lianyungang-
Nantong road would be a 450 km coastal north-south highway linking
the two major provincial ports to Shanghai. The east-west corridor
roads consist of Xuzhou-Lianyungang, Nanjing-Nantong, the Yanjiang
Road, and the Nanjing-Shanghai corridor road. The Xuzhou-
Lianyungang road would extend 250 km and link the first and fourth
north-south corridor roads described above. The Nanjing-Nantong
road would extend 275 km and connect all major towns along the
northern bank of the Yangtze River. The Yanjiang Road would be
300 km long and it would parallel the Nanjing-Nantong road, but on
the southern bank of the Yangtze River. The Nanjing-Shanghai road,
detailed in paras. 3.11-3.13, ia proposed to be financed under this
project.
(b) On waterways, the main focus also would be upgrading the main north-
south and east-west waterway corridors (Map 21332). The north-south
corridor work would consist of major rehabilitation of the Grand
Canal. By the end of the Seventh Five-Year Plan, rehabilitation on
the northern section of the Grand Canal was completed to a Class IV
standard (para. 2.13). Rehabilitation of the southern section to a
Class V standard is proposed for implementation during the Eighth
and Ninth Five-Year Plans. The longer-term plan for the Grand Canal.
is to upgrade it to a Class III (1,000 tons) standard when traffic
requires. The east-west corridor work would involve: (i) upgrading
the Huai River--one of the major rivers linking central Jiangsu
province to neighboring Anhui province; (ii) upgrading facilities of
river ports along the Yangtze River and building about 16 ship locks
on the important intersection between the canal and the Yangtze.
(c) For the province-wide road and waterway rehabilitation program,
roads and waterways that serve as secondary networks feeding into
the trunk lines would be upgraded, bridges would be constructed,
pavements strengthened, and ferry crossings and major city bypasses
built.



- 15 _
2.35      The Rank fully supports the Jiangsu Government in improving the
planning and capacity of the transport system. The overall goals of the Bank-
Jiangsu relationship are twofolds (i) in the short-term, to help mitigate the
most serious constraints posed by the province's inadequate transport .nfra-
structure on its fast developing economy and that of its neighbors: and
(ii) in the long-term, to assist the province in upgrading the planning, bud-
geting, and implementation of transport works, in developing more efficient
construction entities. A large technical assistance component is designed to
help strengthen the ability of provincial transport staff to efficiently plan
and implement the proposed project and to achieve the long-term institutional
objectives.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Background and Preparation
3.1       The processes of economic reform and decentralization of power in
China have broadened the Bank's operational dialogue with provinces in the
country. As Jiangsu province stands to become a major transport bottleneck in
the country, its transport sector needs immediate attention in order not to
obstruct economic development. The proposed operation is expected to be the
first of a series of loans to provide foreign capital for Jiangsu province
over the next several years. Restrictions on government funds are increasing
and more and more the provinces are expected to raise their own funds.
Jiang'u, a fast growing and relatively rich province, still has limited access
to foreign capital for development projects.
3.2       The proposed Bank project would support urgently needed infrastruc-
ture improvements and would directly support the planning and implementation
of a multi-year program for rehabilitation and maintenance of the road network
in Jiangsu. It also would help the provincial transport construction units
become more independent, efficient, and competitive. Part of the technical
assistance under the project would be used to finance a study of the major
transport corridors in the province. In this way the Bank would be able to
help the province formulate and implement appropriate strategies and invest-
ment plans which will allow the Bank to participate in long term infrastruc-
ture development policies.
3.3       The project was prepared by JPCD through the Jiangsu Provincial
Transport Planning and Design Institute (JPTPDI).  Detailed engineering and
tender documents were prepared with tle assistance of MOC's Second Highway
Survey and Design Institute (in Wuhan), the Second Railway Design Institute
(in Chengdu), and the Jiangsu Provincial Transport Scientific and Research
Institute.
B. Proiect Obiectives
3.4       In accordance with the overall goal of the Bank-Jiangsu relationship
(para. 2.34) and the provincial objectives of the Seventh and Eighth Five-Year
Plans (FYP), the Jiangsu government emphasizes the rehabilitation and modern-



- 16 -
ization of facilities to increase the adaptability, quality of service and
engineering, and economic efficiency of all modes of transport. The programs
specifically respond to the need for transport facilities in the southern part
of the province which constrains demand and future economic growth.
3.5       The main thrust of the institutional and technological objectives is
to strengthen the ability of transport staff at both the provincial and county
levels in the areas of transport investment planning, and project management
and implementation. These objectives include:
(a) assisting in introducing competitive bidding for civil works and in
developing the local construction industry;
(b) introducing improved technology to evaluate existing paved roads and
prepare pavement strengthening and maintenance management programs;
(c) introducing improved transport planning techniques by establishing a
computerized road data bank;
(d) modernizing design, construction and material specifications and
contract documentation; and
(e) staff training.
C. Detailed Features
3.6       To accomplish these objectives, the project would include:
(a) rehabilitating about 450 km of provincial roads, as outlined in the
province's five-year program for rehabilitating roads in southern
Jiangsu;
(b)  upgrading about 176.5 km of the Nanjing-Shanghai highway to Class II
standards;
(c) rehabilitating a 17-km section of the Grand Canal near Danyang;
(d) constructing a new shiplock at Nantong and an adjacent bridge at
Jiuweigang;
(e) consulting services to train JPCD staff in supervision and quality
control of road construction;
(f) assisting JPCD in the immediate and long term plan of action to
develop ite transport construction units;
(g) evaluating existing road pavements in order to prepare a program of
road strengthening, betterment, and maintenance management;
(h) assisting JPCD in improving the planning and design of roads and
waterways, including establishing a road data bank, equipping the



- 17 -
central soils and materials laboratory and introducing computer-
aided design;
(i) assisting in carrying out the provincial transport corridor study;
and
(j) staff training.
3.7       Provincial Road Upgrading.  The southern part of Jiangsu province--
the area south of the Yangtze--has about 7,800 km of roads, about 90 percent
of which are paved. The network was designed for light vehicles and rela-
tively modest traffic volumes of less than 5,000 vpd. The explosive growth of
economic activity in recent years has resulted in greater traffic volumes and
vehicle weights than predicted; the result is damaged pavements and a road
geometry unsuited to the present traffic. Traffic movement is slow, economi-
cally costly, and accidents abound. Conservatively estimated, traffic volumes
will exceed 6,500 vpd everywhere on the network by the mid-1990s.
3.8       Thus, the province is faced with the immediate need to rehabJlitate
and upgrade the network. Financial constraints have limited spending on
rehabilitation to about 30-35 percent of road maintenance revenues a year, or
about Y 200 million in 1989 for the whole province. At this level only the
most pressing needs can be addressed. The province thierefore has been selec-
tive and, as a rule, has not rehabilitated complete roads, but only the worst
sections and the most restrictive bridges. There are no formal economic or
technical criteria for the selections made, but the traditional approach of
addressing the obvious priority appears to be sound and such "spot" improve-
ment programs normally yield high economic returns. An improved methodology
still is needed to prepare a longer range rehabilitation program, and this
will be initiatei under the project (para. 3.22).
3.9       Using the traditional approach, JPCD developed a five-year (1989-
1994) road rehabilitation and improvement program for southern Jiangsu. The
progrum includes bridge reconstruction, pavement overlay, and alignment
improvement in addition to major road upgrading. The overall program was
fully assessed and could be considered as an extension of the Bank Group's
first highway project in China whereby a study to assess the methodology for
pavement evaluation was carried out by the Highway Scientific and Research
Institute of MOC. The study evaluated and identified about 1,800 imi of paved
road network in Jiangsu Province requiring urgent rehabilitation, of which
about 450 km will be financed under this project. The program for major road
upgrading involves an estimated base cost of about Y 1,600 million ($300 mil-
lion).  This would rehabilitate about 1,000 km of roads, at an average cost of
works of about Y 1.6 million per km at today's bas3 cost. The proposed Bank
involvement under this loan would support about 46 percent of JPCD's program
to be implemented in three phases, or about 450 km. The base cost of this
would be about Y 757.0 million ($145.0 million). The priority roads to be
financed b) the Bank include major roads feeding into the trunk corridors of
Nanjing-Hangzhou, Nanjing-Shanghai, and the Yanjiang Road, which comprise the
most important north-south and east-west arteries in the south of the province
(para. 2.34). Rehabilitation and betterment of the supporting network is
essential in order to disseminate benefits from the major investment on the



- 18 -
important corridor roads, and to avoid the situation where bottlenecks simply
are shifted from the major arteries to their supporting network.
3.10      The first phase of Bank-supported program would consist of rehabili-
tation work on one bridge and five road sections totalling about 165 km (Map
21331). With some minor exceptions, most existing alignments would be used
and the road works would consist mainl- of embankment, shoulder, and bridge
widening. Pavement resurfacing and new pavements also will be applied where
necessary. The preliminary engineering and feasibility studies for these
roads have been reviewed by the Bank and detailed engineering has been com-
pleted by various design institutes. In general, roads will be upgraded to
Class II standards (Table 3.1) except in some heavily built-up areas. Spec-
ific road sections to be rehabilitated in the second and third phases will be
identified on a continuous basis and submitted to the Bank for review and
approval before they are included in the province's annual program (July 1 to
June 30). At negotiations assurances were obtained from Jiangsu Province
that: (a) it will select roads to be rehabilitated under provincial road
upgrading in accordance with economic criteria and procurement procedures
agreed with the Bank Group (Annex 1); and (b) it will provide to the Bank
Group for concurrence the list of roads for the second and thiri phases by
October 31, 1991 and October 31, 1992, respectively.
3.11      Rehabilitation of the Class II Nanjing-Shanghai Highway.  Although
it is part of the province's road rehabilitation plan in southern Jiangsu,
rehabilitation of the Nanjing-Shanghai trunk highway stands as a separate
project component because of its importance and special features. The exist-
ing highway represents the principal road element in the heavily-trafficked
Nanjing-Shanghai corridor, a corridor which serves about 20 million people in
major industrial cities such as Suzhou, Wuxi, Changzhou, and Zhenjiang. In
addition to the highway, traffic in the corridor also is carried by rail and
inland waterways, although these modes also are saturated. The traffic
includes local and provincial movements, and movements between Shanghai and
the western and northern provinces of China. Freight and passenger traffic in
the corridor is growing rapidly (para. 2.15). The railway has reached capac-
ity and is no longer taking short-distance shipments. Inland waterways also
are congested and, like the railways, are not suitable for relatively short-
haul traffic. The burden of absorbing the increasing passenger and freight
movements therefore is falling on the highway.
3.12      Most of the Nanjing-Shanghai Highway lies in Jiangsu province.  The
highway is a low standard road in poor physical condition; pavements are fail-
ing, and partly because of the incidence of non-motorized traffic, accidents
are frequent. Traffic flows average 5,000 vpd in the inter-urban sections,
rising to 8,000 vpd near the cities; a road journey from Shanghai to Nanjing
(about 350 km by the existing road) now takes over 10 hours. In its present
condition the road no longer can economically handle the volume of traffic,
and future growth will aggravate the situation. To resolve this problem, in
1987 the province undertook a study of the feasibility of rehabilitating and
improving the existing road. The study, carried out by JPTPDI, recommended
upgrading the entire road to a Class II (2 lanes, paved) standard, except
close to the major cities and towns, where a higher, Class I (4 lanes) stan-
dard was recommended. After rehabilitation, the length of the rehabilitated



- 19 -
road will be 278 km. The proposed work is partly on a new alignment, but
wherever practicable ises the existing alignment.  Both, concrete and asphalt
pavements will be used, where appropriate. Intersections with other roads
will normally be at grade.
3.13      For construction administration purposes, the proposed rehabilita-
tion has been divided according to the five city boundaries. Because of the
urgent need to rehabilitate seriously deteriorated portions of the road, each
city already has started work on its worst sections and the remaining sections
will be financed under the project (Map 21331). The latter total about
176.5 km and will have a base cost of about Y 290.0 million ($55.5 million).
Feasibility studies and preliminary engineering for these sections were pre-
pared by JPTPDI and have been reviewed by the Bank. Detailed engineering and
bid documents were prepared by JPTPDI with assistance from MOC's Second High-
way Survey and Design Institute, the Jiangsu Provincial Scientific and
Research Institute, and the Second Railway Design Institute (at Chengdu).
CHELBI, a Chinese/US consulting firm, carried out the review of final plans
and bid documents. Bidding and contract awards for the entire works is com-
pleted.
3.14      Rehabilitation of the Grand Canal At Danyang Section.  The Grand
Canal is a mojor waterway connecting the southern part of Jiangsu province and
the Shanghai Municipality with the north. This canal provides a ma3nr trans-
port artery to the industrial cities in southern Jiangsu and access to the
Yangtze River system, and also connects a vast network of lesser canals and
rivers (para. 2.11). The section of the Grand Canal north of the Yangtze
Rivt: having recently been upgraded (para. 2.13), MOC and Jiangsu province
carried out a prefeasibility study for rehabilitating the southern section of
the canal. This study proposed a Class IV standard (500 t), which was
approved by SPC. The preliminary cost estimate for this upgrading is
Y 450.0 million aid the works were proposed for implementation during the 8th
and 9th FYPs. The section of the canal south of the Yangtze River that would
be rehabilitated is 211 km long within the province. In spite of its lower
standard and poor condition, this section managed to carry a throughput of
78.0 million tons in 1985. Due to the present poor condition of the canal,
heavy congestion occurs in many sections, mainly around large cities and dur-
ing the low water level season. The objective of the rehabilitation program
is to upgrade the southern canal to a Class IV standard for 500 DWT barges;
this will be done through dredging, construction of slope protection, and
rectification of the channel alignment at sharp bends. Low road bridges over
the canal also will be replaced to meet the appropriate standards for clear-
ance.
3.15      The 17-km Danyang section is a major element of the southern canal
rehabilitation program, and it is included in this project for Bank financing
(See Map 21331). Although dredginb works have been performed in it several
times since 1958, this section is subject to heavy siltation from intensive
bank erosion. At present, this section is practically closed for navigation
at low flow stages and can only accommodate barges of less than 30 tons at
high flow stages. As a result, the largest of the existing three locks con-
necting the Grand Canal with the Yangtze River cannot be used. This causes
considerable congestion at the other locks.



- 20 -
3.16      The design of this section is similar to the channel improvements
being constructed at Changzhou and Wuxi with the province's own resources.
The proposed rehabilitation work would deepen and widen the canal bed and pave
flattened shapes to eliminate erosion. A new road bridge spanning the widened
canal also would be included. Feasibility and preliminary engineering studies
were prepared by JPTPDI and reviewed by the Bank. Detailed engineering has
been completed; civil works are under implementation.
3.17      Nantong Shiplock (see Map 21331).  The existing Nantong lock is
located on the southern end of the Tongyang canal and flows into the Yangtze
River; the northern section of the canal leads into the northern section of
the Grand Canal. At that location a low capacity shiplock provides major
access between the Yangtze River and Jiangsu's northern portion of the inland
waterway system. The present capacity of the lock is about 10 million
tons/yr, a level already exceeded by current traffic demand. In order to
serve this excess demand, a through-lock method has been practiced in which
the lock is kept open during periods when the water level in the Yangtze and
in the canals is about equal. This is a very unsafe practice, as the currents
caused by water remaining in the chamber can cause accidents. There were 31
accidents recorded in 1985.
3.18      Since the area around the present lock is completely built up, a new
lock would be constructed at a site about 10 km to the west. The new facil-
ity, which is included in the project, would provide a lock 16 m x 220 m and a
4 km approach canal to connect with the existing canal network. The lock
would accommodate barges of 1,000 DWT capacity and provide a throughput of
17 million tons/year. The site has ample area to permit expansion of the lock
if needed in the future. The Bank has reviewed the feasibility study and
preliminary design for the lock, and JTPDI soon will complete detailed engi-
neering and bid documents. JPCD intends to retain a foreign consultant to
review the final plans and documents, and the terms of reference for this work
have been approved by the Bank.
3.19      Jiuweigang Bridge.  This bridge provides the only over-land access
to Nantong from the north and west of the province. Nantong is a maJor indus-
trial city and a major port with extensive foreign trade. The preseDt bridge
crosses a flood canal at Jiuweigang over an existing sluice gate. In the
north the bridge connects with the road to Hainan county; in the west and
southwest it connects to Jiangdu, Yangzhou, and Nanjing (See Map 21331). At
present the road is narrow because of limitations in the sluice gate structure
which the road passes over at a place immediately adjacent to the gates them-
selves. The sluice gate structure was built around the '960s; since then it
has deteriorated to the point that soon the road may have to be closed, possi-
bly without warning. To prevent this from happening, a new approach to
Nantong from the west is being considered.
3.20      A feasibility study of options for providing dependable highway
access to Nantong from the west recommended a new bridge crossing a few hun-
dred meters north of the sluice gates. The proposed bridge would be 260 m
long and the proposed approach road would be about 3.0 km long--both are
included in the project. Traffic on the existing bridge reached 3,150 vpd in
1987 with 62 percent trucks; it is projected to grow to 10,000 vpd by the year



- 21 -
2000. Given this volume of traffic and the plans to upgrade the entire
Yangzhou-Nantong road to Class I standards, a four-lane Class I standard
bridge has been proposed. The Bank has reviewed the feasibility study for
this bridge, and JPTPDI has completed the detailed engineering and bid docu-
ments. Final plans and bid documents for the bridge and approach roads were
reviewed by the joint venture consultant who reviewed plans for the Nanjing-
Shanghai road (para. 3.13), and the contract was awarded after international
competitive bidding (para. 3.44).
3.21      Supervision of Construction.  Under the present system of construc-
tion by force account, there is little or no independent supervision of con-
struction activities. In addition, since contracting for civil works is a new
procedure in Jiangsu province, local staff have no experience in supervising
construction by contract. Therefore, to ensure that project works are carried
out in full compliance with the specifications and quality control require-
ments, and to provide a much needed element of training, a program of indepen-
dent supervision has been established under the project. JPCD will be respon-
sible for all supervision and will receive assistance in this from experi-
enced foreign consultants. The supervision will take two forms:
(a) a joint team of local and foreign engineers has been established to
supervise the works to be executed by ICB and LCB contracts; and
(b) JPCD staff will supervise the works to be executed by force account
after participating in training workshops by foreign engineers.
Local expertise from the institutes in the sector will be used as much as
possible; foreign consulting assistance only will be sought in areas where
local expertise is unavailable. A maximum of about 26 man-years of fcreign
assistance will be needed in total. Terms of reference for the consulting
services are given in Annex 2 and were agreed at negotiations.
3.22      Evaluation of Existing Road Pavements and Preparation of a Strength-
ening and Maintenance Maniagement Program. Recent increases in road traffic
have created problems pertaining to the structural soundness of existing road
pavements. Most roads were designed for much lower volumes of traffic and
smaller axle loads and are showing signs of distress. The road pavements need
immediate strengthening before they are damaged beyond repair and require
complete reconstruction. JPCD proposes to use part of the Bank loan to carry
out an evaluatieon of the existing road pavements in order to determine their
bearing capacity and residual life in relation to present and e'timated future
traffic. A five-year program of strengthening and paved road maintenance
would be prepared to identify the manpower resources, materials, equipment,
and funds needed to implement the program. The project would provide exper-
tise and equipment to use in training JPCD staff in the methodology of pave-
ment evaluation. Terms of reference for the road pavement evaluation and .
strengthening and maintenance management program are shown in Annex 3 and were
agreed at negotiations.
3.23      Road Planning.  The basic data required for the planning, develop-
ment, design, construction and maintenance of the road system are not avail-
able in an accessible format in Jiangsu province. Under the project, a com-



- 22 -
puterized road data bank would be set up which would include road and pavement
inventory and traffic volumes. In developing the data bank, JPCD would
receive expert help and computer hardware and software. The work would be
coordinated by MOC's Highway Planning and Design Institute--the entity charged
with overall responsibility for standardizing the road data bank format.
Terms of reference for starting up the data collection and developing the road
data bank are shown in Annex 3 and were agreed at negotiations.
3.24      Equipment.  In addition to training aids and equipment for the road
data bank, the project also will finance some basic road maintenance equip-
ment, computer equipment for design purposes, and equipment for the central
soils and materials laboratory. Proper maintenance of the roads now being
upgraded is essential to protect the large investments involved. At present,
only a minimum of the equipment needed for maintenance is available. The
additional items needed to provide a basic equipment fleet would be identified
during preparation of the maintenance management program (para. 3.22) and
financed under the project. JPCD recently purchased some equipment for com-
puter-aided design (CAD) to improve its capabilities for civil works design.
Additional related equipment and software is needed to complete the CAD
installation, and this is included in the project. JPCD intends to upgrade
its central soils and materials laboratory to provide special testing of con-
struction materials and methods not available in field laboratories. The
equipment needed to complete upgrading of the laboratory will be financed
under the project. Detailed lists of CAD and laborate-y equipment were agreed
at negotiations.
3.25      Staff Training.  In addition to training for staff who supervise
construction and evaluate road pavements, a training program is proposed in
order to modernize the skills of technical staff in the transport sector. The
program has two major objectives:
(a)  to improve the proficiency of engineers, economists, and other staff
by sending selected personnel abroad to attend relevant interna-
tional conferences and academic and practical training courses; and
(b) to strengthen the capacity of JPCD highway institutes and technical
schools by:
(i) purchasing laboratory, computer, and photogrammetry equipment;
training aids; and essential technical books and publications;
and
(ii) inviting foreign academic experts for short visits to help up
grade curricula.
3.26      Under the program, about 40 officials from the JPCD would be trained
abroad. This training would cover transportation planning, soils and mate
rials engineering, transport economics, financial management and accounting,
highway maintenance and equipment management, construction management and
supervision including quality control, new construction material technology,
and technical interpretation. It is expected that, on their return, the
trainees would participate in developing and managing the Jiangsu system and



- 23 -
in transferring updated technology to other staff. During negotiations,
agreement was reached on the scope and schedule for the training program, and
an assurance was obtained from Jiangsu that training under the project will be
carried out in accordance with a training program agreed by the Bank Group.
3.27      Assistance to the Construction Units.  There is a need to improve
the quality and capability of city and county construction units (para. 2.31)
in the short run and to begin converting these units into independent, self-
sustaining enterprises that can operate in an environment of competitive bid-
ding in the longer run. The project would provide assistance for introductory
seminar-workshops for the units and a study to develop a longer-term plan of
action.
3.28      The seminars-workshops would:  (a) provide immediate, direct assis-
tance to the construction units; (b) introduce the principles of independent
contracting and competitive bidding; (c) identify methods for improving
organization and management of the units; and (d) cover procedures for pre-
qualification, estimating unit prices, equipment and staff requirements, bid
preparation, work organization and cost and quality control during construc-
tion. Approximately four workshops would be conducted by a team of three to
four experts in civil works contracting. Terms of reference defining the
scope and content of the workshops were agreed at negotiations.
3.29      The study for the development of independent construction units
would help to establish a longer term plan of action for JPCD to achieve its
objectives of:
(a)  introducing competitive bidding for all civil works;
(b)  establishing a system for independent supervision and administration
of construction contracts;
(c)  reorganizing and consolidating the existing construction units into
legally and financially independent enterprises;
(d)  initiating training programs to improve the management and effi-
ciency of construction enterprises and the quality of their work;
(e)  revising and upgrading JPCD's present contracting practices in areas
such as pre-qualification, bidding procedures, contract award, and
administration;
(f)  reviewing the supply and quality of main construction materials and
recommending improvements; and
(g)  reviewing the availability of construction credit and other finan-
cial assistance needed by the enterprises and recommending needed
changes.
The study would be carried out over about three months by three or four
experts in the field. Terms of reference for the study would be finalized
around August or September 1991, and consultants would be selected by April



- 24 -
1992. In order to provide for speedy implementation of the study, the consul-
tant's report should be submitted to the Bank no later than September 30,
1992. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the study (and the
Provincial Transport Corridor Study (para. 3.31)1 would be carried out in
accordance with terms of reference and timing agreed with the Bank Group.
3.30      Consulting Services.  About 224 staff-months of foreign consulting
expertise is expected to be needed under the project. Local expertise avail-
able in the institutes will be used as much as possible, and foreign help will
be sought only in those areas of advanced technology and practice where local
expertise is lacking. Supervision of construction work on the Nanjing-
Shanghai road, the Nantong shiplock, and the Jiuweigang bridge will be pro-
vided by teams of JPCD staff and foreign consultants. About 160 staff-months
of foreign consulting expertise will be needed to provide for the joint super-
vision teams, to help set up and implement the organizations and procedures
for quality control, and to train JPCD staff on the job. Another 5 staff-
months of expertise will be needed to conduct workshops and training for JPCD
staff supervising the upgrading work on the provincial road rehabilitation
program. This is to initiate independent supervision of work and represents a
significant departure from traditional procedures where.-v construction units
self-supervise and are responsible for quality control of their own works. An
additional 26 staff-months of expertise will be used for preparation of the
road data bank and the road pavement strengthening and maintenance programs,
in-house training for use of CAD and central laboratory equipment, and review
of project designs and bidding documents. A further 30 staff-months will be
used to provide workshops and design a long range plan for the constructioi,
inidustry and 3 staff-months will be required for the corridor study.
3.31      Provincial Transport Corridor Study.  Planning for major short-term
developments in the trunk network of southern Jiangsu (para. 2.34) must neces-
sarily take a long-term perspective, and over the longer term it must be
anticipated that expansion of one or more additional transport corridors may
be economically justified. Having advance knowledge of the likely location
and timing of any such development could greatly improve short-term decisions
concerning route alignment, network configuration and design standards for
more immediate investments in important trunk networks, as this information
would help to harmonize short-term options with the preferred longer-term
development. Consequently a small, preliminary study will be undertaken to:
(a) evaluate, from both an economic and engineering perspective, alter-
native locations for a possible extension or addition of provincial
transport corridors;
(b)  identify and assess a broad range of technical options and their
costs; and
(c) estimate the approximate order of magnitude of benefits for each of
the alternatives, determine their optimal timing, and estimate the
economic losses from either deferring the investment beyond the
optimal year or implementing it prior thereto.



- 25 -
3.32      Review of DesiRn.  Preliminary and detailed engineering for each
component in the project was completed by design institutes at the national or
provincial levels. These institutes are well qualified to carry out the engi-
neering and design of works to the scale required for this project. However,
since this is the first time that procurement under ICB and LCB procedures
were introduced in the province, engineering drawing and bidding documents had
to be prepared and presented in greater detail and to higher standards than
was normal in the past. In order to comply with these requirements, JPCD
retained joint-venture and foreign consulting services to review the design
and prepare bidding documents for works implemented under ICB and LCB.
D. Cost Estimates
3.33      In total, the project is estimated to cost about Y 1,720.2 million,
or $312.8 million, including land acquisition and physical anl price contin-
gencies.   The foreign exchange cost is estimated to be $136.3 million, or
about 44 percent of the total cost, as shown below. Base costs are estimated
in January 1991 prices. Physical contingencies are calculated at 10 percent
of the base cost and are applied to all components. Price escalation factors
have been calculated for both foreign and local costs, using international
annual inflation factor of 9.0 percent in 1991, 1.1 percent in 1992, and
2.95 percent thereafter. The price escalation factors for the Yuan are
10.0 percent in 1991, 8 percent in 1992, and 5 percent thereafter. Except for
civil work contracts, none of the cost estimates include taxes and duties
since all materials, equipment, and services to be used in the project would
be exempt from duties and taxes.
3.34      The costs of civil works are based on work quantities calculated
from detailed designs and are costed at unit prices. For works already con-
tracted, actual contract prices are used. The unit prices were computed on
the basis of MOC's standard manuals for labor and equipment productivity, the
related annually-updated costs, and the current costs of materials. The unit
prices were checked against those of recent major road works financed under
other highway projects.
3.35      The base cost per kilometer for the Class II Nanjing-Shanghai road
improvements is about $0.32 million excluding contingencies and land acquisi-
tion costs. The base cost for upgrading the provincial roads is also about
$0.32 million per kilometer. These costs are acceptable considering the
extent of work required and the difficulties of constructing under traffic and
within well developed areas.
3.36      The cost of equipment is based on prices quoted by manufacturers
outside China.  The cost of consulting services is based on recent contracts
for similar work under previous highway projects.



- 26 _
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
As of January 1, 1991
et Exchange Rate
81 u V 5.22
Local Forl In Total      Local  Foresin Total   ForeIsn
---  (Y ml IIton)-       ---(S eti IIon)--- -   cost (ts)
Civil Work.
Ro.i?Network
Rehabilitation                  454.2  802.6   757.0         87.0   56.0  145.0        40
Nanjing-Shanghai Road             180.8  169.4   289.7         26.0   80.5   65.5        56
Drnyang Canal Rehabilitation       as.0   26.2    68.2          7.8    4.6   12.1        40
Nantong Ship Lock                  16.4   24.8    42.7          8.5    4.7    6.2        67
Jiuelgang Bridge                   11.6   14.8    20.1          2.8    2.7    6.0        64
Subtotal                        652.7  526.0 1.178.7       125.1  100.7  ,225.8       f
Supervision of construction
Supervision of civil works         11.1    6.1    19.2          2.1    1.6    8.7
Training for supervision
engineers                         0.4    1.1       1.6        0.1    0.2    0.8
Subtotal                        11.6    9.2    20.7          2.2    1.8    4.0        45
Eautp nt for
Road mina-t nance                   5.0   46.0    60.0          1.0    6.6    9.6
Central laboratory                  1.6    8.0       4.6        0.8    0.6    0.9
Computer aided design               -       1.6      1.6        -       0.8    0.8
Subtotal                         6.6   49.5    56.0          1.8    9.5   10.8        s6
Aid to construction units             0.4    1.6       1.9        0.1    0.8    0.4        76
Technical assistance and
Equipment and expertise
for road data bank                0.4    4.5       4.9        0.1    0.9    1.0
Staff training                      0.4    8.8       t.7        0.1    0.6    0.7
Provincial transport
Corridor study                    0.4    0.7       1.1        0.1    0.1    0.2
Design review                       1.1    1.1       2.2        0.2    0.2    0.4
Subtotal                         2.8    9.6    11.9          0.5    1.6    2.8        78
Base cost                      678.4  595.6  1.269.2       129.2  114.1  248.8        47
Physical contingencies (1OX)         68.6   61.9   110.4         11.2    9.9   21.1
Price contingencies                 118.0  104.6   222.6         18.6   12.2   25.6
Subtotal                       649.9  752.8  1f02.2        154.0  186.2  290.2        47
Land acquisition cost               116.0    -       116.0       22.6    -      22.6
Total Prolect cost             967.9  762.8  1.720.2       176.6  1Uj.2  il2.!        44
Note: The project Is exempt from Import taxes and duties and all figures are rounded.
E.  Financing
3.37        The Bank loan of $100.0 million and an IDA credit of SDR 38.5 mil-
lion ($53.6 million equivalent) would finance about 49 percent of the total



- 27 _
project cost. At negotiations, an assurance was obtained that the proceeds of
the credit and loan will be made available to Jiangsu Province under arrange-
ments satisfactory to the Bank Group. The provincial government would provide
about $159.2 million to meet the remaining costs of the project. Proposed on-
lending terms between the Ministry of Finance and Jiangsu Province are: 20
years, including 5 years of grace, at 5.925 percent interest per annum with
0.75 percent per annum commitment fee on outstanding balance. Jiangsu Provin-
cial Government will bear the foreign exchange risks. The details of project
financing are shown below:
FINANCING PLAN
($ million)
Provincial         Bank/
Component                            Government            IDA           Total
Road Network Rehabilitation                 72.5              72.5          145.0
Nanjing-Shanghai Road                       27.8              27.7           55.5
Danyang Canal Rehabilitation                 6.1               6.0           12.1
Nantong Shiplock                             4.1               4.1            8.2
Jiuwiegang Bridge                            2.5               2.5            5.0
Construction Supervision                     -                 4.0             4.0
Equipment                                                     10.8           10.8
Development of Construction Units            -                 0.4             0.4
Technical Assistance and Training            -                 2.3            2.3
Contingencies                               23.6              23.3           46.9
Land Acquisition                            22.6               -             22.6
Total                                159.2             153.6           312.8
F. Implementation
3.38      JPCD will have overall responsibility for implementing all compo-.
nents of the project. This represents a departure from traditional procedures
in which full responsibility was assigned to the city and/or county in which
the work was located. Under the project, JPCD will have direct responsibil-
ity, through an assigned Project Engineer, for all contractual arrangements
for the retention of cotsultants, for !CB procedures and for the purchase of
equipment. Contractual arrangements for work to be done by force account and
via LCB will be handled by the cities involved but with prior review and
approval of all activities by JPCD. Supervision of all civil works, regard-
less of procurement methods, will be the responsibility of JPCD as described
in para. 3.21. Detailed arrangements for project implementation were dis-
cussed and agreed at negotiations.
3.39      The detailed design and related documents required for the first
phase of the provincial roads rehabilitation program were completed in 1989;
all necessary land has already been acquir,d. Construction works were started
in late 1989 and are expected to be completed by the end of 1994. Preparation
and construction for the second and third phases would follow at about annual



- 28 -
intervals so that all work on the program would be completed by the end of
1994. While construction on some segments of the first phase program com-
menced in late 1989, progress to date has been limited due to delays in secur-
ing project funding. The works completed to date (about Y 50 million) would
be eligible for retroactive financing. All necessary preparation for full
scale launching of the first phase have been completed.
3.40      Upgrading the NanMing-Shanghai road is being carried out under seven
contracts using ICB and LCB by prequalified contractors. Detailed engineering
and bid documents and prequalification of contractors were completed by April
1989, and bidding and contract awards for the entire works was completed by
October 1991 in full compliance with the Bank's conditions on procurement.
Construction would be completed by the end of 1992.
3.41      Dredging work for rehabilitating the 17-km Danyang section of the
Grand Canal commenced in early 1990 with slope paving to follow as the earth
work is completed. All construction on this component is scheduled to be
completed by December 1991. The construction of the Jiuweigang Bridge com-
menced in November 1990 and is scheduled for completion in December 1992. The
construction of the Nantong shiplock is scheduled to start in October 1991 and
be completed in two years. Road pavement evaluation will start in mid-1991
and the preparation of programs for road strengthening and maintenance should
all be completed by the end of 1992. The consultants to assist in supervising
construction were mobilized in November 1989; initial efforts were focused on
training workshops for JPCD staff. Foreign experts needed to assist the con-
struction industry will be selected by April 1992. The project will be com-
pleted by December 31, 1995, and the loan/credit closing date is June 30,
1996.
3.42      An implementation schedule for the proposed project (Annex 4) was
agreed at negotiations.
G. Procurement
3.43      Not only is this the Bank's first transport project in Jiangsu pro-
vince, it is the first attempt to use competitive bidding and contracting for
works to convert the civil works construction units into independent entities.
Assistance to initiate this conversion is provided under the project
(paras. 3.28 and 3.29) but complete conversion will take some ime. In order
to compare contracting work with the traditional force account work, a combi-
nation of old and new procurement methods will be used under this project.
3.44      Because of the nature of work and city boundaries (para. 3.13), the
176.5 km of the Nanjing-Shanghai road under the project were divided into
seven contracts (Map 21331). The two contracts for the Suzhou section of the
Nanjing-Shanghai highway (80 km, $9.5 million and $18.4 million), and the
contract for the Jiuweigang Bridge ($5.0 million) have been awarded after
international competitive bidding by prequalified ,irms in accordance with
Bank guidelines. The contract for the Nantong Lock ($8.2 million) will be
awarded after international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guide-
lines by August 1991. Local competitive bidding by prequalified coptractors
has been used for the three scattered contracts on the Zhenjiang section



- 29 -
PROCUREMENT METHOD
ICB           LCB         Other          Total
--------- ($ million) ---------
Civil Works                      88.4          61.3          119.7         269.4
(43.7)       (30.5)         (58.6)        (132.8)
Equipment                        10.6           -              2.3          12.9
(10.6)         -             (2.3)         (12.9)
Training                                        -              0.8           0.8
(0.8)         (0.8)
Consulting Services                             -              7.1            7.1
(7.1)         (7.1)
Land Acquisition                  -             -             22.6          22.6
Total                       99.0          61.3         152.5          312.8
(54.3)       (30.5)         (68.8)        (153.6)
Notes Figures in parentheses represent the amounts financed by the Bank/IDA.
All figures include estimated physical and price contingencies and are
rounded.
(total]ing 60 km, $2.5 million, 2.8 million and 6.7 million), the contract for
the Changzhou section (12 km, $3.4 million), and the contract for the Wuxi
Section (24 km including 0.7 km of railway underpass and its approach road,
$10.6 million for road and $1.6 million for railway underpass and its approach
road), since the cost to foreign bidders of preparing ICB bids would have been
excessive compared to their chances of success, and consequently they would
have not been interested in bidding on them. However, prequalification for
local bidding was open to foreign contractors, but none applied. As required
by law, the railroad underpass on the Wuxi section will be constructed by the
railway construction unit under force account.
3.45      Construction work for the first phase of the provincial network
rehabilitation program is not considered suitable for ICB because of the
numerous, widely scattered works involved. Therefore, the work will be car-
ried out by LCB or force account but with some new arrangements for supervi-
sion. In the first phase of the program, force account work will involve
twelve sections on five different roads totalling about 165 km; the base cost
of this work is estimated at $49.0 million. These sections are located either
in comparatively remote and undeveloped areas or within or immediately adja-
cent to heavily built-up cities or towns they will be assigned to appropriate
construction units in order to avoid the many coordination problems associated
with the remote location or with heavy urban traffic, building removal, and
maintenance of utility services.
3.46      The second and third phases of the program will include road sec-
tions appropriate for ICB and LCB procurement; both will be encouraged in the



- 30 -
Bank's continuing dialogue with JPCD. Because of the special nature of the
work, however, the excavation of the Danyang Canal is being done by manual
labor on a force account basis during the dry season.  Slope paving also will
be done by force account as sections of the completed excavation become avail-
able. The total base cost for these works is $12.1 million. The construction
units in the province are fully capable of carrying out the force account work
described above with the independent supervision provided by JPCD (para.
3.21). Nevertheless, the staff of the construction units would benefit ftom
extensive training in new quality control methods.
3.47      ICB would be used to procure equipment for road pavement evaluation,
road maintenance, and the central laboratory, and computer hardware and soft
ware for the road data bank and computer aided design ($12.8 million).   How-
ever, items estimated to cost less than $200,000 per contract, up to an aggre-
gate amount not to exceed $1.2 million for all contracts, may be procured by
international shopping on the basis of a comparison of price quotations solic-
ited from at least three suppliers eligible under the Bank's Guidelines, and
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank. JPCD would be responsi-
ble for procurement of all equipment.
3.48      Under the ICB contracts for goods, qualifying domestic suppliers and
manufacturers would be eligible for a margin of preference in the comparison
of bids of 15 percent, or the prevailing customs duties, whichever is lower.
Qualifying domestic contractors would be eligible for a 7.5 percent margin of
preference in the comparison of civil works bids under ICB. Since procurement
by competitive bidding in the highway subsector is still relatively new in
China, all contracts for civil works and equipment estimated to cost more than
$500,000 would be subject to prior review and approval by the Bank Group.
3.49      All consultants for the services described in para. 3.30 would be
selected under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank Group and in
accordance with Bank Group Guidelines for the use of consultants.
H. Disbursements
3.50      Disbursements of the Loan would be used to finance the followingt
(a) 50 percent of the total cost of civil works procured by ICB, LCB,
and force account;
(b) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment,
or 100 percent of local expenditures (ex-factory) for locally manu-
factured equipment and 75 percent of local expenditures for other
items procured locally; and
(c) 100 percent of the costs of consulting services and training of
staff.
3.51      To facilitate disbursement, a Special Account would be opened with
an initial deposit of $11 million, which is the estimated average expenditures
for a four-month period. The account would be opened in US dollars in a bank
acceptable to the Bank Group. Applications for replenishment of the Special



- 31 -
Account would be submitted monthly or whenever the Special Account were drawn
down to 50 percent of its initial deposit, whichever comes first. Table 3.2
provides a schedule of estimated disbursements and shows the regional dis-
bursement profile for transport projects. Disbursements under tlte project are
estimated to follow closely the rate shown in the regional profile. Although
competitive bidding methods are new in Jiangsu, delays are expected to be
minimized by early, adequate, and frequent Bank Group supervision throughout
the project.
3.52      Disbursements would be made against priced contracts for civil works
and against priced bills of quantities for force account work. Interim pay-
ments for civil works completed and costed at unit rates in the contracts and
bills of quantities would be certified by a joint JPCD/Consultant team or by
JPCD supervisory staff. All payments would be certified by JPCD. Disburse-
ments for training overseas would be made against the actual costs of travel,
subsistence, and tuition or training fees. Disbursements against statements
of expenditure would be needed for the training component, civil works carried
out by force account, ard for contracts for works, goods or services costing
less than $200,000. Documents supporting the expenditure statements should
not be submitted to the Bank Group but instead retained by the JPCD and made
available for review by Bank Group supervision missions. Retroactive finan-
cing of up to SDR 11.0 million ($15.3 million equivalent) would be applied to
expenditures for consultant services and contract works made after Novem-
ber 15, 1988.
I. Auditing, Reporting, and Monitoring
3.53      A State Auditing Administration (SAA) has been established to make
detailed audits of the government agency accounts. Assurances were obtained
from Jiangsu Province during negotiations that the accounts of project-related
expenditures would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank
Group and that audit reports would be sent to the Bank Group for review within
six months of the close of each fiscal year. The Bank Group currently accepts
SAA audits for this purpose.
3.54      Progress reports on the project would be submitted quarterly to the
Bank Group by JPCD, based on the project monitoring indices shown in Annex 5.
A Project Completion Report would be prepared and submitted to the Bank Group
not later than six months after the loan closing date.
J. Environmental Effects
3.55      The project would have a positive environmental impact.  The highway
construction and rehabilitation envisaged is generally in the flatter area of
the province, so little erosion is foreseen. Nevertheless, JPCD routinely
protects the slopes of the higher embankments and cuttings with stone pitching
where there is any risk of significant erosion. The proposed highway work
would encourage separation of motorized and nonmotorized traffic. As a
result, the motorized traffic stream should move more uniformly, reducing
vehicle emissions, pollution, and accidents. Moreover, the project would
discourage the current and dangerous practice in China of planting rows of
trees on the shoulders of roads.  Instead, it would encourage tree planting at



- 32 -
the foot of the embankment which should help to reduce the impact of vehicle
pollution and may even reduce some vehicle noise pollution.
3.56      The two waterway components in this project would have no negative
impact on the existing ecology of waterways. The widening of the Danyang
section of the Grand Canal rehabilitation project is expected to actually help
improve water quality by increasing the volume of water discharged from the
Yangtze River into the enlarged cross section of the canal. Attention given
to the broader questions of water quality in the preparation of this project
have encouraged preparation of proposals for a comprehensive study of water
quality problems in the Grand Canal.
3.57      Land for construction projects is acquired under the "Regulations on
the Requisition of Land or State Constructlon" promulgated by the State Coun-
cil on May 14, 1982, and as further clarified by the 'Elucidation of the Regu-
lations on the Requisition of Land for State Construction" issued by the State
Planning Commission, the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Fish-
ery, and the Ministry of Urban and Rural Construction and Environmental Pro-
tection on June 9, 1983. These regulations spell out the procedures for
acquiring land and the measures to be taken during construction to protect the
environment. Compensation for cultivated land is based on the average annual
output for three years before the land is acqu'red, multiplied by the State
price, the above-quota price, or a negotiated price for products which have no
fixed price. The settlement allowance per capita is two to three times the
average annual output value per mu of land; it is based on the average area of
cultivated land occupied by each farmer. The total allowance for cultivated
land compensation and resettlement costs is stipulated not to exceed twenty
times the annual output value of the acquired'land. Surplus agricultural
laborers are absorbed in other agricultural production units or employed else-
where in factories, etc. The regulations appear fair and equitable and are
strictly enforced, with penalties set for any deviations.
3.58      Detailed land acquisition schedule, environmental and resettlement
plans were prepared by JPCD and submitted for review by the Bank and found
satisfactory. At negotiations an assurance was obtained that resettlement
will be carried out in accordance with these plans.
3.59      The local governments of Nanjing, Zhenjiang, Changzhou, Wuxi, and
Suzhou would be fully responsible for land acquisition and the resettlement of
families affected by the project. Resettlement would be done near original
villages outside the right of way of the proposed project. The removal and
resettlement of households, farmers, workers, etc. would be phased with the
construction schedule. To minimize interruptions to farm production and asso-
ciated economic losses, the land needed for civil works would be acquired and
taken over prior to the start of actual construction on the site in accordance
with the work schedule.



- 33 -
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
4.1       The economic analysis for the proposed project focuses on the civil
work components, which account for about 93 percent of project base cost.
These components include:
(a) the road rehabilitation program for southern Jiangsu;
(b) upgrading of 176.5 km of the Nanjing-Shanghai road;
(c)  rehabilitation of the Grand Canal at Danyang; and
(d) construction of the Nantong shiplock and an adjacent bridge at
Jiuweigang.
The economic analysis was done separately for each of these components, as
reported below. The benefits of the technical assistance components have not
been quantitatively assessed, but are expected to far exceed costs (para.
4.4).
4.2       All input and output elements for evaluating the costs and benefits
of the new highway were obtained by using January 1991 financial costs and'
applying conversion factors to reflect their economic costs (Table 4.1).
These conversion factors have taken into account a shadow exchange rate, which
is higher than the official rate.
A. Main Benefits and Beneficiaries
4.3       The major quantifiable benefits of the project will result from the
provision of better and more economical transportation in areas where an
existing or potential transport demand has been identified. Project roads and
inland waterways will serve densely populated and highly developed areas which
include both large-scale and cottage industry and intensive agricultural
activities. Most of the motorized traffic on roads and canals is made up of
commercial vehicles, which account for as much as 70-80 percent of total traf-
fic. Benefits from the project will accrue, in the first instance, to road
and canal users mainly in the form of vehicle/vessel operating cost (VOC) and
time savings (including in certain cases some significant savings in distance
through new routings), and to the provincial government as teduced maintenance
cost. Many of these users are own-account carriers for the producer enter-
prises and thus will directly capture the benefits. In the case of public
carrier freight services, there is increasing competition so that savings
would be passed through to the shippers. In the case of road passenger ser-
vices, the role of markets is so far limited and prices are controlled, so
that financial savings in the short run are likely to be retained by the bus
companies; over the longer run, however, future price increases may be held
down, allowing passengers to benefit from time savings and greater riding
comfort associated with smoother riding surfaces (although these latter bene-
fits are not quantified).



- 34 -
4.4       The project also is intended to be used as a vehicle to initiate a
better planned road and waterways maintenance program for the JPCD, to
strengthen public works procurement procedures, and to upgrade the management
of thie construction entities (paras. 3.22-3.30). Substantial (but unquanti-
fied) benefixs will accrue to both infrastructure users and the Government.
Users will benefit from infrastructure that is better designed and maintained,
and thus less costly to operate on; the Government will benefit from the more
cost-effective use of its funds, including redvctions in future capital expen-
diture due to longer life of existing facilities.
4.5       The project will benefit other local traffic, the population in the
area of influence of the roads and canals, and through traffic, especially
along the Nanjing-Shanghai corridor, which serves long-distance traffic trav-
eling between Shanghai and points south and the north of China.
B. Rehabilitation of the Southern Jiangsu Road Network
4.6       The road rehabilitation program financed under the project will help
strengthen and improve major provincial roads in southern Jiangsu. The pro-
gram will provide substantial benefits to road users on many heavily-traf-
ficked primary and regional routes. Bank involvement will concentrate on
high-priority roads, especially those that serve as feeder systems to the
major corridors (paras. 3.9 and 3.10). Under this project, the Bank will be
participating in JPCD's five-year (1989-94) road rehabilitation and improve-
ment program by supporting the rehabilitation of about 450 km or 41 percent of
planned expenditures for rehabilitation and major upgrading (excluding main-
tenance) in three phases. Loan-supported expenditures are expected to total
Y 833 million ($159.5 million equivalent) including physical contingencies.
4.7       The first phase of the project was discussed and agreed upon at
appraisal between JPCD and the Bank (Annex VI). It comprises five road sec-
tions (totaling 162 km) and one 260-meter bridge with an aggregate program
cost of Y 253.0 million. As shown in Table 4.2, the estimated overall Econo-
mic Rate of Return (ERR) is 42 percent; the ERR of individual components
ranges from 21 percent to 63 percent. The sensitivity analysis shows that
with a uniform increase in costs and a 20 percent reduction in benefits, the
overall ERR would fall to 31 percent with individual components ranging from
14 percent to 49 percent.
4.8       The program of the later two phases will subsequently be defined
following the same procedures (guidelines are detailed in Annex 1) and submit-
ted for Bank staff evaluation by October/November of the vear before the pro-
gram is to start (July 1-June 30). Discrete sections of roads and clusters of
bridges or individual bridges would be subject to an indepenxdent economic
analysis. The Net Present Value and Economic Rate of Return %RRI would be
calculated for individual subcomponents, each of which constitutes a signifi-
cant investment.
C. Upgrading of the Nanjing-Shanghai Road
4.9       The Existing Naniing-Shanghai Corridor.  The Nanjing-Shanghai corri-
dor is one of China's most important transportation corridors. It links



- 35 -
Nanjing, the capital of Jiangsu Province with 1.4 million inhabitants, with
Shanghai, the largest coastal port and industrial city of China containing
about 13 million inhabitants. The area between these two cities served by the
Nanjing-Shanghai corridor comprises four cities with some 4.5 million inhabit-
ants and a diversified economy based on agriculture (grains and sericulture)
and industry (including automobile assembly and spare parts manufacturing).
Economic growth in the 1980s was about 16 percent per annum. While the growth
potential for the next decade would continue to be high, limitations in trans-
port capacity are already constraining economic activities and, unless allevi-
ated, could become a critical barrier to future growth.
4.10      The corridor is now served by a network of low quality highways.
The existing 350 km road from Nanjing to Anting (at the border of Shanghai) is
sinuous and detours through a large number of counties and villages along the
corridor. The pavement width varies from six to eight meters of Class III
standard road, except for about 100 km of roads. On this section, works are
underway to upgrade the road to a Class II standard with nine meters pavement
width. Due to heavy traffic (including extensive nonmotorized traffic), poor
geometric standards, and route alignment through congested areas, the average
travel speed has been reduced to about 35 kph.
4.11      This corridor is also served by the Beijing-Shanghai railway main-
line and by the Yangtze River and the Grand Canal. However, rapid traffic
growth is expected to soon absorb the limited remaining capacity of the
double-track railway. Moreover, since the comparative advantage of the rail-
way lies in bulk freig't and long-distance traffic, the railway administration
substantially increased freight tariffs for distances under 200 km and
although they are still lower than for road transport, they have gradually
eliminated the bulk of the short-haul railway traffic in the province. As a
result, traffic has been diverted from the railway to inland waterways and
roads. The inland waterway is (at least potentially) the least costly of the
three transport modes, but even if the existing substandard infrastructure is
improved and larger, more modern vessels employed, the slow speed of water
transport will confine its use to low-value bulk commodities. Shippers of
higher-value commodities and passengers are prepared to pay far higher prices
for the speed and greater flexibility of road transport; hence normally water-
ways do not compete with highways.
4.12      Given the rapid growth of traffic and increasingly severe congestion
in the corridor, much attention has been given in recent years to the possi-
bility of constructing a major expressway in the Nanjing-Shanghai corridor. A
feasibility study for a proposed expressway was completed in 1988, financed by
the Japanese International Cooperation Agency (JICA), but no decisions were
taken in view of the State Council's curtailment of major capital investments
and other priorities in the transport sector. An eastern-most section of the
expressway in the Shanghai border might be included in the Eighth Five-Year
Plan (8EYP, 1991-95), while the remaining sections could be proposed for con-
struction during the Ninth Five Year Plan (1996-2000). Given that the engi-
neering design and construction would take seven to eight years before the
first section of the road could be opened to traffic, more immediate measures
are needed for the interim.



- 36 -
4.13      The Proposed U.igrading of the Corridor Road.  The rehabilitation and
upgrading of the existing highway is one such measure. As noted in para.
3.13, work is alreao-y under way on a few seriously deteriorated sections (Map
21331), and this project will help finance the remaining sections (for pur-
poses of economic analysis the entire road is divided into five sections and
the Bank-financed portion into three sections). New alignment is being pro-
vided in certain sections where required to alleviate congestion, bypass
towns, or shorten distances. In other sections the existing alignment will be
retained but the road will be widened, including wider shoulders to provide
for separation of nonmotorized traffic. This will permit higher speeds and
higher throughput capacity. The entire road will have a new pavement and will
be less sinuous, shortening the present 350-km distance from Nanjing to
Shanighai by about 72 km.
4.14      The following economic analysis is based on the extremely conserva-
tive assumption of a ten-year economic life for the upgraded road (1993-2002),
with all traffic thereafter being diverted to the proposed expressway. In
reality the road would still have an important economic role in serving local
traffic thereafter, but that is ignored here for the sake of simplicity.
4.15      Traffic on the Corridor Roads  Existing and Forecast.  According to
the feasibility report prepared by JPCD, results from 14 origin-destination
(0-D) survey points on five road sections in 1986 show through traffic vary-
ing from about 3,300 vpd on low-traffic stretches to about 6,000 vpd on high-
traffic stretches. Including local traffic the volumes range from 4,000 to
8,000 vpd. The motorized traffic composition is about 80 percent trucks and
20 percent passenger vehicles. Because of the large pent-up transport demand,
the historical record shows extraordinarily high growth averaging over 20 per-
cent per annum in the early 1980s when there was a relaxation of vehicle
import controls. However, growth rates are not expected to continue at such
high levels into the 1990s. Assuming a more conservative growth rate of 6-
14 percent per annum (depending on different types of vehicles) the forecast
traffic in the year 2002 would be about 16,000 vpd and 26,000 vpd on low- and
high-traffic stretches, respectively (Table 4.3).
4.16      Traffic on the upgraded road during the interim years prior to open-
ing of the expressway would consist, in the case of those sections constructed
on the existing alignment, of all the present traffic plus "normal" traffic
growth and "generated" traffic. Generated traffic represents traffic stimu-
lated by the reduction in transport costs and travel time. In the case of
those sections built on new alignment, it is assumed that 100 percent of
through traffic would divert to the new alignment, but that only 25 percen.t of
local traffic would divert; traffic on these sections too would be enhanced by
both normal growth and generated traffic.
4.17      Based on these assumptions, initial traffic on the upgraded road in
1993 is estimated to be about 5,000 to 10,800 vpd on low- and high-traffic
sections, respectively (Table 4.4). When expressed in equivalent passenger
car units (PCU), these estimates become 13,000-31,000 vpd (Table 4.5) reflect-
ing the high ratio of heavy vehicles.



- 37 -
4.18      Economic Returns.  An economic analysis has been performed based on
the above traffic projections and the unit vehicle operating costs for the
differing conditions shown in Tables 4.3 and 4.4. The analysis is summarized
in Table 4.6 for the three sections to be financed by the Bank Group: (i)
Zhenjiang-Changzhou (72 km at a cost of Y 134.0 million, including land acqui-
sition); (ii) Wuxi-Suzhou (52 km at Y 130.0 million); and (iii) Suzhou-Anting
(52 km at Y 147.0 million).
4.19      Benefits are derived from:
(a)  savings in operating costs of the vehicles driving on the upgraded
road sections, whether on the existing alignment or new alignment
(in the latter case net of the additional distances to/from the new
alignment); comprising 70 percent of total benefits;
(b)  savings in vehicle operating costs for those vehicles remaining on
the old unimproved road which will nonetheless benefit from reduced
congestion levels, comprising about 20 percent of the total bene-
fits;
(c)  benefits attributable to generated traffic and equated (on a unit
basis) to one-half of the voc savings of "normal" traffic, compris-
ing about 10 percent of total benefits; and
(d)  reduced accident levels; the related benefit was estimated based on
average avoided costs of vehicle and goods damage and of the net
present value of the .oduction that would have been lost were
fatalities not avoided.
4.20      The investment (each and every part) is strongly justified economi-
cally, having an estimated overall Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of 64 percent
and a Net Present Value (NPV) of Y 1,560 million at a 12 percent discount
rate. The results for each section, including their sensitivity to variations
in costs and benefits, are shown in Table 4.6.
D. Rehabilitation of the Grand Canal at Danyang
4.21      Background.  The Grand Canal passes through the city of Danyang.
The canal section considered for improvement (also known as the Lingkou Chan-
nel)   starts 270 meters south of Danyang People's Bridge, and ends 600 meters
west of Lucheng Bridge, some 22 km south of Jianbi Locks at the Yangtze River.
The total length of the section considered for improvement is 17 km. The area
is under the administrative jurisdiction of the City of Zhenjiang located
about 6 km west of Jianbi Lock. The present population in the Zhenjiang-
Danyang corridor is about 2.5 million.
4.22      The Danyang section offers particularly poor navigation conditions
(para. 3.15) and is the most restrictive of the entire Grand Canal within the
borders of Jiangsu Province.. The importance of this segment is emphasized by
the fact that it provides immediate access to the Jianbi Lock, which is the
largest navigation lock in southern Jiangsu Province. Unfortunately, due to
the poor navigation condition of the Danyang section, Jianbi lock has not been



- 38 -
fully utilized since it opened in 1981, while other locks in the system are
forced to accommodate traffic which would more economically move via Jianbi
and therefore are highly congested. The bottleneck at Danyang has become
worse since 1985 and explains much of the reduction in traffic at Jianbi lock,
from 5.8 million tons in 1986 to 5.1 million tons in 1987.
4.23      Navigation Locks and Canal System.  Major exits from the southern
canal network to the Yangtze River are provided by three navigation locks ard
one flood gate (Map 21331). From west to east these includes
(a) the Jianbi Lock (230m x 20m x 4m), located at the northern end of
the southern portion of the Grand Canal.
(b) the Weichun Gate, located in Weichun County on the northern end of
the Desheng Canal. The southern end of the canal joins with the
Grand Canal at Xinja County in Changzhou. Vessel passage is possi-
ble when tidal levels on the Yangtze River and in the Deshang Canal
are approximately equal. This occurs twice a day for about three
hours each time.
(c) the Jianayin Lock (93m x 12m x 2.5m for the old chamber, and 98m x
12m x 2.5m for the new chamber). The second chamber was completed
and started operating at the end of 1988. The lock is located on
the Xichen approach canal, which joins with the Grand Canal at Wuxi
City; and
(d) the Zhangiiagang Lock (140m x 13m x 2.5m), located on the approach
canal that leads into a canal system in Wuxi and the northern Suzhou
area.
4.24      The capacity of channels and locks and the configuration of fleets
are closely related. The inland water channels in southern Jiangsu can accom-
modate only up to 500-ton tow boats, and tow boats operating in this area vary
from 60 tons to 500 tons. Assuming prudent operating practices, the design
capacity of the locks has been estimated as followst
Design
Lock                                        Capacity
(per Annum)
Jianbi                                   26,372,000 tons
Jiangyin (old)                            8,736,000 tons
Jiangyin (new)                            9,068,000 tons
Zhangjiagang                             11,818,000 tons
Notes Detailed lock capacity input-output data is
available in the project file.



- 39 -
4.25      Current Traffic Patterns.  JPCD conducted an O-D survey for water
borne traffic in 1987. The survey revealed that 84 percent of the traffic
moving through the Jiangyin lock was to and from the area upstream of the
Yangtze River west of Zhenjiang and the area south of Wuxi (including Suzhou
and Shanghai). The movements upstream of the Yangtze River would be most
conveniently served by the Jianbi lock, whereas the movements toward the area
south of Wuxi would be more conveniently served by the Zhangjiagang loK and
canal system south of Wuxi. However, during the six-month dry season the
Danyang section of the Grand Canal becomes a constraint to large tows, and
consequently Jiangyin lock becomes congested by the large amount of traffic
diverted from Jianbi lock. Lock throughput data were collected for each lock
in 1987. This information shows that Jianbi lock was far underutilized, han-
dling only 20 percent of its lock capacity. Jiangyin lock, on the other hand,
was overly congested, with about 100 percent more than the designed capacity
of the original chamber:
ACTUAL LOCK TRAFFIC (1987)
Lock/Gate                            Freight traffic ('000 ton)
Jianbi                                       5,051
Weichun                                      4,000 (approximate)
Jiangyin                                    16,984
Zhangjiagang                                 7,038
4.26      At least three factors enabled the original Jiangyin lock to operate
way above its design capacity. First was the hazardous extension of the
period of open-pass operations. This highly productive mode of operation is
safe only during the two periods of the day during which tidal variations
cause water levels in the Yangtze River to approximately equal those of the
canal--extending the period of open-pass operation allows several addi-
tional millions of tons of freight to pass through, but the strong currents
generated more risk of accidents. Second was the uneconomic queuing of ves-
sels awaiting passage, since waiting times may exceed two weeks during the
high traffic season. This practice does serve to maximize the throughput of
the lock. The third factor involves the present fleet mix of large numbers of
motor boats and very small tows which made it easy for the lock master to fill
any space in the lock chamber after major tows were accommodated. However,
the fleet configuration is increasingly adopting larger tow sizes for the sake
of efficiency, and factors which allowed the lock to operate beyond its tech-
nical design capacity will be diminished. Extended open-pass operations
beyond completely safe hours will be more risky, and any accidents involving
large tows will be more costly. The opening of the second chamber at Jiangyin
has essentially doubled design capacity there; this provides temporary relief
of extreme operation conditions there, but by the early 1990s traffic again is
expected to exceed the designed capacity of the (expanded) facility.



- 40 -
4.27      Projected Traffic.  The opening of the Danyang section will provide
not only a sharp increase in available capacity, but also offer the shortest
waterway distances serving the hinterland west of Zhenjiang to Wuxi, Suzhou
and Shanghai. Traffic here can be expected to revert to the Danyang route as
soon as it is opened, thus doubling traffic from 5 million tons in 1987 to
10 million tons 'n 1993 after the opening year of operations. Thereafter,
traffic is expected to grow at about 3 percent per annum.
4.28      Benefit-Cost Analysis.  The economic analysis comprises two steps:
(i) identification of alternative solutions to meet the projected transport
demand and selection of the most cost-effective solution; and (ii) comparison
of the most cost-effective solution against the alternative of doing nothing.
In this case it is readily evident that the most cost-effective solution in to
rehabilitate the Danyang section: it provides a more direct routing for the
great majority of traf4f. now using the congested facilities at Jiangyin lock
and Weichun gate for only a small marginal expenditure to improve the existing
channel to the existing underutilized lock at Jianbi, which constitutes a very
large but already sunk investment. The next best alternative involves con-
struction of new locks and improving channels elsewhere, e.g., at Weichun.
This would require both greater capital expenditure and a more indirect rout-
ing with higher operating costs for the majority of the traffic.
4.29      Rehabilitation of the Danyang section was then compared against the
"do nothing" option. Doing nothing to improve the network would result in
continued diversion of traffic to Jiangyin, and, as the capacity of the new
chamber at Jiangyin was fully absorbed by traffic growth, congestion would
once again build up at Jiangyin and Weichun gates and intensify the pressures
to extend risky open-pass operations at those locations. As pressures in
those two corridors worsened, traffic would divert further to Zhangjiagang
lock (although wind and water conditions there will be restrictive factors)
and, finally, would spill over to the much more expensive highway mode.
4.30      Simple queuing modules have been employed to simulate this chain of
events in order to quantify the order of magnitude of benefits involved. The
benefits consist ofs
(a) reduced travel distances for waterborne traffic currently using the
Jiangyin and other alternate routings;
(b) reduced vessel delay times at alternate locks and gates;
(c) reduced number of accidents caused by the need to extend the unsafe
open-pass operation practice at the Jiangyin lock and Weichun gate;
and
(d) elimination of the need to transport via the higher cost highways,
cargo that would otherwise have gone by inland waterways.
4.31      The estimated cost for the Danyang section rehabilitation is
Y 63.2 million. The annual channel maintenance cost is estimated at approxi-
mately 5 percent of total rehabilitation costs. The cost and benefit stream
over time and the resulting economic indicators are summarized in Table 4.7.



- 41 -
The investment is strongly justified, having an estimated ERR of 19 percent
and an NPV of Y 83.5 mii.ion at a 12 percent discount rate. Even if costs
were to increase by 20 percent and benefits to decrease by 20 percent, the EU
would still be satisfactory at 15 percent.
E. Construction of the Nantong Shiplock and Jiuweigang Bridge
Nantong Shiplock
4.32      Background.  The existing Nantong shiplock (160m x 12m x 3.3m) is a
major gateway facilitating traffic flow between the Yangtze River and the
inland waterways network of the northern Jiangsu Province. The lock serves
Tongyang and Tonglu canals, two of the major waterway trunk lines of northern
Jiangsu which link with numerous secondary canals to form a dense and economi-
cally important inland water network.
4.33      The existing lock, built in 1958, originally had an annual design
capacity of 5 million tons. With rapid traffic growth, the lock was modified
in 1981 to allow open-pass operation. Lock traffic in 1986 reached 10 million
tons, of which the open-pass operation (about two hours each day) safely
facilitates about 3.4 million tons, or 34 percent of total lock traffic.
However, when congestion becomes more severe, the lock master tends to extend
the open-pass operation hours thereby incurring higher risks of accidents.
4.34      Despite the unsafe extension of open-pass operations, congestion
continues to be a serious problem. The average fleet delay was 2.5 days in
1988, with maximum delays reaching five days. The ability to divert traffic
to other entry/exist points on the Yangtze River, such as using flood control
gates at Jiaogang River, is limited since these points are also congested.
Diversion to other modes of transport is not a viable option. There is no
railway serving this part of the province and road transport of bulk cargo
would be substantially more costly. Moreever, results from the origin-desti-
nation survey conducted at the existing Nantong lock show that the highway
network in this area does not yet provide an alternative for most of the
freight movements, as it is less developed than its corresponding waterway
network.
4.35      Traffic.  Nantong ship lock and its transshipment facilities around
the lock area play a significant role as a waterborne traffic distribution
center. The following traffic data collected in 1985 suggests that the water-
way accommodates over 85 percent of total freight traffic (in ton-km) handled
in the Nantong area.



- 42 -
TRAFFIC AT NANTONG CITY (1985)
Freight Traffic
million tons            million ton-km
Vaterway                       19.3                       1,944.4
Highway                        10.7                         301.6
Total                          30.0                      2,246.0
Of the total 30.0 million tons of freight traffic handled at Nantong city,
9.0 million tons (30 percent of the total traffic, or 47 percent of waterborne
traffic) used Nantong shiplock.
4.36      Ninety-four percent of traffic at the lock in 1986 was north-bound,
coming from southern Jiangsu, Zhejiang, and Jiangxi provinces as well as
Shanghai municipality, across the Yangtze River to Tongyang and Tonglu canals
via Nantong lock. This traffic was predominantly low-value bulk commodities;
the two most important commodities were construction materials (45 percent)
and coal (22 percent). Such traffic went as far as Yancheng City, about
200 km from Nantong city. The much smaller south-bound traffic includes cot-
ton and textile products (20 percent), grain (14 percent), other agricultural
products (11 percent), bricks (9 percent), chemical fertilizer and other mis-
cellaneous products. The composition and origin-destination of traffic con-
firm the need to expand the capacitv of Nantong lock, as much of it is bulk
cargo coming from or headed to areas which at present are accessible primarily
by waterway.
4.37      The Proposed Lock Capacity ExDansion.  Normally the cheapest way to
expand lock capacity would be to build another chamber parallel to the exist-
ing lock and have both share the same approach canal. However, this is not
possible at Nantong, because the vicinity of the existing lock is densely
built up with factories. Nantong port and its transshipment area, and the city
itself. Based on a careful comparison of several alternatives in the vicinity
of Nantong, JPCD proposed a new lock (220m x 16m x 3.3m) at a location about
10 km west of the existing lock and adjacent to the existing Jiuweigang flood
control lock. Considering the rapid growth of Nantong City and the future
development plan for northern Jiangsu province, the major criterion for
selecting the location was the availability of sufficient water area to enable
extensive fleet operations and transshipment.
4.38      Fleet Configuration and Lock Capacity.  The annual capacity of the
proposed lock under prudent operating practices is estimated to be about
18.0 million tons. Assuming the same waterborne traffic growth rates as for
southern Jiangsu province, i.e., 13 percent, up to 1990, 3 percent during
1991-2000, and 1 percent in the post-2000 period, the two locks would have
sufficient capacity to accommodate traffic at least up to 2010:



- 43 -
LOCK CAPACITY AND TRAFFIC FORECAST (MILLION TONS)
Traffic at Nantong            Traffic Passing Jiaogang River
Flood Control Gate
1986                   10.2                    4.0          (maximum capacity for
open-pass operation)
1992                   17.6                     -
2000                   22.5                     _
2010                   23.0                    1.6
2020                   23.0                    3.9
By 2010, congestion at the lc:ks is likely to develop, and a portion of traf-
fic would again detour to Jiaogang flood control gates to avoid delay at the
locks. By 2020, the system would all be congested and expansion of lock
capacity would be needed.
4.39      Benefit-Cost Analysis.  An analysis similar to the one done for the
Danyang canal improvement was performed for the Nantong lock, with similar
measures of benefits. The results are shown in Table 4.8. The proposed
investment of Y 42.7 million is well justified economically, with an estimated
ERR of 20 percent and a NPV of Y 30 million with a 12 percent discount rate.
Jiuweitang Bridge
4.40      The Jiuweigang bridge is the only means of land transport for reach-
ing Nantong City from the western part of the province. The existing bridge
is not designed for heavy traffic and is now structurally damageds there is a
risk that it could become unusable in the near future (para. 3.19).  This risk
is unacceptable to the Nantong government as it would cut off land access from
the west and create severe economic and social disruption. Consequently, a
new bridge is planned as part of the new Nantong shiplock. After the new
bridge is opened for traffic, the old bridge will be used exclusively for
nonmotorized traffic.
4.41      No formal analysis of the 'do nothing' alternative was performed
since the expected value of losses in the event of closing the old bridge
would clearly exceed the cost of the new bridge. The economic analysis hence
was confined to the search for the most cost-effective solution for the new
bridge. The solution selected was to incorporate the bridge within the new
Nantong shiplock at an extra cost of Y 26.1 million.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.1       During negotiations, agreements with the Government were reached on
the followings



- 44 -
(a) terms of reference for consulting services to supervise construction
(para. 3.21);
(b) terms of reference for evaluating existing road pavements and pre-
paring strengthening and maintenance management program (para.
3.22);
(c) terms of reference for preparing a road data bank (para. 3.23);
(d) the list of CAD and central laboratory equipment to be financed
under the project (para. 3.24);
(e) the scope of an implementation schedule for the training program
(para. 3.26);
(f) terms of reference for consulting services to conduct workshops to
assist the construction industry (para. 3.28);
(g) JPCD's arrangements for implementing the project (para. 3.38); and
(h) the implementation schedule for the project (para. 3.42).
5.2       During negotiations the following assurances were obtained:
(a) from the Borrower:
(i) that the proceeds of the credit and loan will be made available
to Jiangsu Province under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank
Group (para. 3.37).
(b) from Jiangsu Province:
(i) that: (a) it will select the roads to be rehabilitated under
the provincial road upgrading program in accordance with crite-
ria and procedures agreed with the Bank Group; and (b) it will
provide to the Bank for concurrence the list of roads for the
second and third phases by October 31, 1991 and October 31,
1992, respectively (para. 3.10);
(ii) that the training under the Project will be carried out in
accordance with a training program agreed by the Bank Group
(para. 3.26);
(iii) the construction industry study and provincial transport corri-
dor study will be carried out in accordance with Terms of Ref-
erence and timing agreed with the Bank Group (para. 3.29);
(iv) that it will provide audits of Project accounts by independent
auditors within six months of the end of each fiscal year
(para. 3.53); and



- 45 -
(v) that it will carry out the resettlement under the Project in
accordance with a plan agreed with the Bank Group (para. 3.58).
(c) The State Council's approval of the Loan Agreement and the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement will be a condition of effectiveness.
5.3       Subject to the foregoing, the proposed project is suitable for a
Bank loan of $100.0 million for a term of 20 years, including a grace period
of five years, at the standard variable interest rate and for an IDA Credit of
SDR 38.5 million ($53.6 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms with 35
years maturity. The Borrower will be the People's Republic of China.



CHINA
JIANOSU PROVINCIAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
Freight Traffic Intensities in Selected Countries
Tons orl-                           Average
Country *r n         oginated la        Ton-km /a         distanc          Estimated GNP    Tons/81,000        tku/
Country               (millIon ki)           (illions)         (billions)           km)             (S billion)       of N            or
China (1987)                     9.6              8,660            1,526              176                  320           27.1         4.77
USSR (1987)                    22.4              88,B81            8,889              260                2,376           14.1         8.61
USA (1967)                       9.4              5,261            8,7C2              704                4,486            1.1         0.88
India (1967/86)                 8.8                 661              885             606                   241            2.8         1.40
Brazil (1987)                    8.6                847              866 Lb           419                  815            2.7         1.18
/a Includes rail, highway, internal watemry, pipeline, and air freight only.
/b 1986
Sources:   China:  Statistical Yeabook of China, 1988, p. 448.  ONP from The World Bank Atlas 1988, p. 8.
USSR:  Nrodnoo Khoznactvo SSSR v. 198? a.  (The USSR National Econoy In 1987), pp. 806-807.  N  from Handbook of
Economic Statistics 1988, p. 81. Teuck traffic estimates from Vladimir Kontorovich and Holland Hunter, Transort
Performnc  in 1987, p.  .
USA:  Transuortation 1 n mric, 1989, p. 8.   M  from Tho World Bank Atlas 1988, p. 9.
India:  World fRnk estimae  based on Government of India, Economic Survey, 1988/89 and Peresective Plannina for Transport
Develogment, 1986.  W  estimate from The World Rank Atlas 1988, p. 7.
Brazil:  World Rank Appraisal Report, HNiowavs lManaument and Rehebilitation Resor, 1989. GW  from The World Rank Atlas
198, p. .
'-
0
~



CHINA
JIANOSU PROVINCIAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
Road and Rai lwy Network Denaity In Selocted Countries
Rail             Rail densit-v            Road            Road density
Population         Area         longth         (km/           (km         longth          (ka/        km/'0020
Country         Year      (miIon)       ('OOo kn2)    (*000 km)    (,000 POP)       000 kw2)    (0ooo km)      '000 pop)   '000 kmn)
China           19i7           1,081          9,000            68          0.06           5.O           962           0.9         102.8
USSR            1987             262         22,408           148          0.52           8 6         1,01D           6.7          71.9
USA             1987             244          9,400           218          0.87          22.6         6,242          25.6        684.0
India           1967             797          8,267            62          0.06          18.9         1,800           2.8         547.6
Brazi l         1987             145          8,600            80          0.21           8.6         1,S00          10.8         176.5
Sources:  China: Statisetical Yearbook of China, 1968, pp. 8, 42-429.
USSR: USSR state statistical Cormission, Narodnoe Khozyaletyo SSSR v. 1967 a.  fhl USSR Notional Economy in 1987), pp.
812, 827, and 871.
USA: Transeortation In America, 7th Edition. (Westport, Conn.: Eno Foundation for Transportation, Inc., May 1989), p.
4. Hlohway Stvtseticn 1666, US Department of Transportation, Federal Highway Adminletration, p. 116.
India: stes' Road Projec, No P-4812-DI, October 8, 1988, p. 1; and Government of India, Ministry of Finance, Economic
B Surv   n1966/88, p. S-1.
Brazil: World Dank Appraleal Report, Hishw. vManaaa_ent and Rehabilitation Resort, 1989; and Braztiian Railroads
Sttsetiecs, 1969.
.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*



CHINA
JIANGSU PROVINCIAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
China- Freiaht Traffic
(billion ton-km)
Domestic          Pipe-           Civil                           Ocean
Roll          Road      waterway /a           lines       aviation            Total       Shipping
1962                             60.2             1.4            11.8            -             0.002            73.4              2.8
Mdal split (U)                 82.0             2.0            16.0            -            -                100.0               -
1977                            466.9            26.1           102.1           38.7           0.078           622.9            174.1
Modal split (U)                73.4             4.0            18.4            8.2          -                100.0               -
1979                            569.9            74.6           139.8            47.6          0.123           821.4            317.1
1980                            671.7            76.4           152.1           49.1           0.141           849.4            353.2
.981                            671.2            78.0           160.7           49.9           0.170           860.0            364.3 8
1982                            612.0            94.9           170.8            60.1          0.198           928.0            376.9    L-
1988                            684.7           108.4           181.1           65.4           0.229         1,007.7            397.7     OD
1984                            724.8           163.8           196.1            67.2          0.311         1,132.0            437.4
1986                            812.8           169.8           237.1            80.3          0.416         1,279.7            S32.9
198B                            878.6           211.8           270.0           61.2           0.481         1,419.9            594.8
1987                            947.1           268.0           288.9           82.6           0.850         1,686.2            657.8
1988                            987.8           822.0           810.4           86.0           0.730         1,686.0            89S.6
1989                          1,089.4           837.5           849.8           82.9           0.690         1,790.2            7M8.9
Nodal split (U)                68.1            18.9            19.5             8.6          -               100.0                -
Growth rat. X D.&.
19t2-77                           8.4            12.1             9.0           -             15.7               8.9             18.0
1988/84                           9.0            41.7             8.3            7.1          85.8              12.3             10.0
19S4/8t                          12.1            10.2            20.9            5.4          83.4              13.0             21.8
1986/86                           7.9            25.1            18.9             1.6         15.9              11.0             11.8
1968/07                           8.1            25.8             7.0            2.1          35.1              10.2             10.6
1987/88                           4.3            21.0             7.6            4.0          12.8               7.7              6.9
1988/89                           5.2             4.8            12.7            (3.2)        (6.6)              6.2             10.4 4
1980-89                           8.9            17.9             9.7             2.8         19.3               8.6              9.0
ID'
/a Excludes ocean-going transport.
w
Source: Statistical Yearbook of Ch;na -1980, p. 533.



- 49 -
Table 1.4
CHINA
JIANGSU PROVINCIAL TR6,NSPORT PROJECT
China: Passenger Traffic
(billion passenger-km)
Civil
Rail       Road      Waterway    aviation         Total
1952                       20.1          2.3          2.5        0.0            24.8
Modal split (Z)          80.9          9.1          9.9        0.1           100.0
1977                      102.3         44.8          9.7        1.8           158.7
Modal split (Z)          64.5         28.2          6.1        1.2           100.0
1979                      121.6         60.3         11.4        3.4           196.8
1980                      138.3         73.0         12.9        3.9           228.1
1981                      147.3         83.9         13.8        5.0           250.0
1982                      157.5         96.4         14.5        5.9           274.3
1983                      177.7        110.6         15.4        5.8           309.5
1984                      204.6        133.7         15.4        8.3           362.1
1985                      241.6        172.3         17.9      11.6            443.7
1986                      258.7        198.2.        18.2      14.6            489.7
1987                      284.3        219.(         19.6      18.7            541.6
1988                      326.0       252.8          20.4      21.4            620.7
1989                      303.7        266.2         18.8      18.6            607.5
Modal split (Z)         50.0         43.8          3.1       3.1            100.0
Growth rate 2 p.a.
1952-77                     6.7         12.7          5.7      18.9             7.7
1983/84                    15.2         20.9          0.0      41.6            17.0
1984185                    18.1         29.0         16.1      40.1            22.5
1985/86                     7.1         14.9          1.9      25.1            10.4
1986187                     9.9         10.5          7.6      27.8            10.6
1987/88                    14.7         15.4          4.1      14.7            14.6
1988/89                    (6.8)         5.3         (7.7)    (12.9)           (2.1)
1980-89                     9.1         15.5          4.3      18.8            11.5
Sources Statistical Yearbook of China- 1990, p. 531.



-50 -
Table 1.5
CHINA
JIANGSU PROVINCIAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
Chinat Transport Investment vs. Economic Output
(Y billion)
GNP              Transport
Transport             (current           investment
Year                         investment               prices)          as 2 of GNP
1966-70  3FYP                    15.0 /a                935.0                  1.6
1971-75  4FYP                    31.8 Lj              1,323.0                  2.4
1976-80  5FYP                    30.2 la              1,758.0                  1.7
1981-85  6FYP                    41.9                 3,130.5                  1.3
1986-89  7FYP                    67.5                 5,077.0                  1.3
(4 yrs)
1980                              5.9                   447.0                  1.3
1981                              3.6                   477.3                  0.8
1982                              5.2                   519.3                  1.0
1983                              7.2                   580.9                  1.2
1984                             10.0                   696.2                  1.4
1985                             15.9                   856.8                  1.9
1986                             16.7                   969.6                  1.7
1987                             17.4                 1,130.1                  1.5
1988                             19.0                 1,398.4                  1.4
1989                             14.4                 1,578.9                  0.9
1980-89 average                                                                1.3
/a Investment of FYPs includes Post and Telecommunications (about 4 percent
of total).
Sourcet Statistical Yearbook of China--1990, p. 33, 171.



Ch;ne: ?n,..m_nt ;n haTpanmarh SocP  ({I eudina Pa and Tal-ee_m;ieat;on-
lot FVP   2md FVP             8rd F'P   4th FYP   6t PIP       _________________P___7i  I
1968-7   1966-2   1986-6    19670   1971-75   1976-60          1981      1no        la        194       I98       1966      1987       1566      1989
Trwnapowt:
Rbil1y          8.916    10.416      3.895    11.2E0    17.806     4.047      1.446     2.667      4.221     S.8S2       7.7       8.S       8.7       10.2       5.4
-nv       -         -         -         -      ~  -          0.g79      0.W7      0.722     1.196       2.8       2.7       8.8        4.2       4.8
VateV,my     -         -         -         -         -         -          1.296      1.S4S     1.987     2.629       8.7        .7      38.9        8.2       8.6
Aviation        -          -         -         -         -         -          0.070     0.14S      0.24e     0.268       2.1       1.a       1.4        1.8       1.0
Pipeline        -          -         -         -         -         -          0.018     0.017      0.006     0.010       0.1       0.6       0.1        0.1      0.1
Subtotal      -         -         -         *         -         -          S.62?      5.281     7.18U     9.9E0      15.9      16.7       17.4       19.0     14.4
Pst & Tl  -om.    -                              -         -         -          0.420     0.490     0.619      0.069       1.2       1.8       1.6        1.8      2.9
Totl          9.01S    16.=89     5.S?6    16.001    31.759    S0.245      4.047      5.721     7.804    10.846      17.1      1U.0       19.0       20.8     16.7
Total Capital
inve;amt       88.847   12D.609    42.189    97.603   176.896   254.217      44.291    6E.568    S9.41S    74.815      107.4     117.6     184.8      152.6    t15.2
Traneporb as 1 af
total invws_nt LB15.8      18.6       12.71     16.41     18.01     12.96       8.2#      9.4%     12.13      13.41       14.811    14.29     18.06      12.51    9.85
I Lweemnt of PYPa, beforo 9LOW  include. Pot and T.lecemnicatio.m  (about 45 of toal).
Sou:re   Statitical Yfeabook of Clulna-1990. Pp. 167. 167 and 171.



- 52 -
Table 2.1
CHINA
JIANMSU PROVINCIAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
Jianou: Economic Data. 1988
(current prices)
Gross output of agrlculture
and 1ndustrv (GOVAIL)                 _P  nite .OVAI
Population     Agricul  ure       Industry               Y           Time the
(millIon)           (Y billion)                                   prov. avg.
National               1,096.14          686.6B          1,622.46            2,198           -
Provincial               64.86            49.80            215.88            4,120           1.87 La
Southern Jianpsu          20.17           14.64            184.86            7,412           1.80
Nanjing  kb                4.88            2.66             28.14            6,287           1.28
Zhejiang                  2.54             1.90             11.77            6,882           1.81
Changzhou                  8.17            2.60             20.07            7,120           1.78
Wuxi                       4.07            2.80             88.86            9,744           2.87
Suzhou                     5.61            4.77             48.00            8,670           2.10
Northern Jianaou          44.21           85.16             80.64            2,617           0.64
Yanez1ou                   9.06            6.81             24.88            8,486           0.84
Nantong                    7.62            6.00             19.08            8,295           0.80
Lianyungang                8.18            8.10              4.75            2,469           0.60
Yancheng                   7.60            8.46             10.88            2,241           0.64
Xuzhou                     7.44            5.88             11.26            2,288           0.54
Hulying                    9.40            7.B8             10.76            1,928           0.47
La Times the country's average;
Lb Nan)ing administrates also two counties and one district which are located at the north of the
Yangtze River.
Source: Statistical Yearbook of Chins, 1989; Statistical Yearbook of Jiangsu Province, 19o9.



_ 53 -
Table 2.2
CHINA
JIANOSU PROVINCIAL TRAtSPUT PROJECT
Jianacu: -Density of- Transport Notwork by Runion and Md
(1069)
Land area          I        Hihwawe                       Inland wat rwav
(k2)            *length          Density              lenth    Dnsity
(kin)      (km/'000 km2)            (km)  (km/'000 km2)
National             9.60 o11         1,014,800              106              109,000            11.4
Provincial             100,420           24,609              245              28,658            285.6
Southern Jiangsu        27,672            7,600              280                7,075           2d8.0
Nanjing               6,616             2,698              a9"                  659           101.1
Zhenjiang             8,848             1,266              68S                 689            166.8
Changzhou             4,875             1,216              278               1,251            286.9
W;uxi                 4,650             1,186              256                1,666           856.1
Suzhou                8,468             1,616              179               2,870            886.1
Northern Jianaou        72,648           16,809              282               16,578           228.5
yingzhou             12,481             8,128              261               6,151           414.4
Nantong               6,001             2,209              276               8,518            439.1
Hulying               19,646            4,002              205               2,264            118.8
Yancheng             14,983             2,616              166               4,142            276.4
Xuzhou                11,268            2,964              206                  658            47.5
Llanyungeng           6,327             1,698              208                 958            160.6
La  Nanjing administrates also two counties *nd one district which are Iocatd at the north of the
Yangtze River.
Source:  JPCD, and Statistical Yearbook of China, 1990.



5 54 -
Table 2.f
mmASU  PROVINCI   TRANSWR  PROJCT
Jiancsu   prov _4".jdJj ework
Jlo_s  Prfine)o   o  Iir
3 Of total
Claeiflc.tbon                           Stadard.                       Lengh (km)          network
By $0hplael obndard
Cl"o I                          _Aphaltic or oment concrete                231                0.9
Clam U Ititminous pentration mocadem                                     2,5"                10.8
Clan III                      Bitumlnous-coted mcadam                    2,606               11.0
Class IV                       it1minoue-lim  treat"mt or
Gravel aurtfe                             14,860              60.5
Ucimaifled                     Iproved earth-surfae  road                4,26?               17.S
Provincale  total                                                      2410
Tr odinkoroed o                         6,934
of which:
National road                        2,065
Provincial roed                      4,679
Country, villg* and
epeclae-urpos  road                  17,675
%ogmnhu lenlloea                     ?00   (200 km/,000 kW)
Northern Jlangou                      16,609   (232 km/1,000 k)
Provineial total                        24 C0
Sources JPCD.



- 55 -
Table 2.4
JIANOSU PROVINCIAL TRANSPORT PRnJcT
Jianasut Provincial Inland Waterway Network
-(19,19)
Bv Claesiticatls /a                          IggonaMft)           X .1 tof el netwgrk
Class It                                              0                   0.0
Class II:                                            94                   0.4
Class III:                                          404                   1.7
Close IV:                                           428                   1.6
Clos Vs                                            8an                    1.6
Class VI:                                         2,824                  11.9
Noontlssiteid:                                   19,628                  82.5
of which:
Navigable for motor ships: b                  14,7W8                  62.5
Navigable for small non-motor boats            4,785                  20.0
Provincial total:                                28.68                  100. 0
Ov MH or waterway (Class II to V only La)
Section                                        Death (a)        Maxiu *hIk size          LenAth Iki)
North Orand Canal (Linjiaba-Yangshou)           8.0                  500                   404
South Orand Canal (Jianbl-Y*zhibn)            1.8-8.0                100                   212
Welgang Canal (Suzhou-Shanghai)                 2.0                  100                   161
Shen-Zhang Canal (ZhanuJi1ag*ng-Shanghai)     1.6-2.0                100                   164
Shen-Hu Canal (Huzbou-Shangh 1)                 2.5                  200                   167
Yen-Zhao Canal (Yancheng-Zhsobal)             2.0-2.4                100                   182
Hulhe River (Hongrz-Lindong Shiplock)           8.0                  500                  l8
Yangtze River (Nanjing-Shanghai)                7.0               10000                   892
a Excluding the Ysngtz* River;
fib For 8.0 ton, 12 horsepower motorized barge, 1.0 i draft;
c Including a Class VI section of the South Grand Canal (187 km).
Source: JPCD



- 55 -
Tab1* 2.4
CHINA
JIANGSU PROVINCIAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
Jlanaeu: -Provincial Inland Wfterwww _N_etok
(1989)
BY Clnn ification: La                        .snt-h(s)            S of total network
Cleso I:                                              0                   0.0
Clase II:                                            94                   0.4
Class II:                                           404                   1.7
C I.. IV                                            428                   1.6
Class V:                                            88C                   1.6
Class VIs                                         2,624                  11.9
Nonelx saf led:                                  19,628                  62.5
of which:
Navigable for motor *hips .                   14,766                  6256
Navigable for email non-motor boats            4,785                  20.0
Provineial tot1al:                              2p.68                   100.0
BY Malor waterways (Class  I to V only L5)
Section                                        DeDth (a)        Ma (int) si,a            Lenoth (kn.
North Orand Canal (LUnjiaba-Yangzhou)           8.0                 6So                    404
South Grand Canal (Jianb-Yezhibe)             1.8-8.0                100                   212
Weigang Canal (Suzhou-Shanghal)                 2.0                  100                   101
Shon-Zhang Canal (Zhani agang-Shnnghni)       1.6-2.0                100                   164
Shen-Hu Canal (Huzhou-Shanghai)                 2.5                  200                   167
Yan-Zhao Canal (Ynncheng-Zhaobal)             2.0-2.4                100                   182
Nuihe River (llongze-Lindong Shiplock)          8.0                  500                   68"
Yangtz. Rivr (Nanjing-Shanghal)                7.0               10,000                   892
F Excluding the Yangtze River;
Z   For 8.0 ton, 12 hors poer motorized barge, 1.0 a draft;
c Including a Class VI section of the South Grand Canal (18? km).
Source: JPCD



- 57 -
Table 2.6
CHINA
JtUNOS PROVINCIAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
Jlnasu: Provincial Vehicle Fleet
(1980-89)
Pess ensr         Light lk      teavy IC     Special
Year          Cars /a       Buses     Trucks       Trueks       vehicles     Subtotal   Tractors Id
1980          8,726         6,884        672       51,747         4,876       78,766            n.m.
1981          9,885         9,486        754       54,890         4,609       79,072            n.a.
1982         11,080         9,951      1,416       69,026         4,871       85,792            n.-.
1988         11,580        10,829      2,688       60,286         4,950       89,727            n.s.
1984         16,148        11,864      6,059       69,704         6,796      109,671            n.s.
1986         28,265        18,566     10,954       82,688         8,644      141,977         117,694
1986         40,601        14,974     16,171       98,097         7,887      171,780         208,286
1987         61,043        16,621     21,669      101,818         8,879      198,320         279,688
1988         61,010        16,688     82,450      114,240         9,762      284,086         279,697
1989         69,882        17,878     42,000      118,914         9,600      267,419         296,951
Annual growth
rate ()
80-86          28.6          10.2       80.6           9.8          8.7          14.0            n.a
85-89          25.2           8.4       89.9           9.6         10.2          16.0        26.1 /e
i  Includes automobiles, Jeeps and u5ni buses.
b Less than 8.6 tons capacity.
c Over 8.6 tons capacity.
lHnd tractors, and others used mainly for road transport (average capacity 1.0 ton).
/- Rate between 85689.
Source: JPCD



- 58 -
Table 2.7
JIAINIO PROVINCIAL TRANSPORTPROJECT
Jiannsu:  Estima te   HNlhwaf Ef.Iltun nar   pt         r User's Contribution
51986-89, elII on ofcurr nt Yu*
196         1916         1967        1i9s            169
A. HigLxoy~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
A. Hisb.Ohpnd lturs
Constructlon      reconutruction    "7.6         100.6        160.6        192.6         260.0
Road rehabilltation                 126.6        171.8        171.6        199.8         200.0
Road ma ntenance                    108.2        164.0        210.0        286.5         262.0
Overhed & administration            86.7          47.8         87.1         51.6         6C.0
Total                              849.2                                   671.2  C00  079.2  770.0
S. Sources of Funds
a. Road maintenance fe
TotiR  collected *89.6                         498.2        686.7        740.0         790.0
of which allocated to:
1.  Jiongsu Province             81.l1         428.6        445.6        614.2         U1L_
2.  Public security (2X)              -            -         10.7         14.6          16.0
8. MOF (enorgy/transport
fundc, 155)                   68.4          74.7         S0.5        111.0         119.0
b.  Other Drovincial resources /a      14.1         18.2         68.1         10.0          80.0
c.  MOC allocation assistance           4.0         U .          67.4         P.O L.A
Total                               849.2        468.2        586.0        679.2         770.0
La Including tolls since 196.
Source: JPCD.



- 59 -
Tblo 2.0
CHINA
JIANGSU PROVINCIAL IRANSPORT PROJECT
itonsnu!  Feel Prices
(yu.n per  ter)
Before Mrch 20L 104      After March 20. 1984    Current (S.t. 100    Int' l
La     Negoti-                  Negoti-                                 price I
Planned  gtol /b Market  Plann*4  ated  Market   Planned        Market
Gasol in.
(70 oct) A    0.68       0.70    -        0.68    0.70   0.60      0.70        1.15
Index        100        182              100     182    161       182         217         0.70
as.o  Ine
(60 oct)      0.56       0.78    -        0.56    0.78   0.68      0.77        1.80
Index        100        180              100     180    157       186         282         0.70
Dieel  /d        0.86      0.68    -        0.44    0.66   0.86      0.50        1.40
Index        100        166              122     168    280       189         869         0.60
Inflation Lo
Index        -------  100---            ------129-----           ----196--
L Planned allocation prices.
jiNegotiated above quota.
Li Prices of gasoline include an aggregate of 48 percent central government fuel taxes.
4dPrices of diosel Include a 18 percent eontral govornment fuel taxes.
- Consumer price index at end-of-year 1908 1967 and September 19900 respectively.
July 1990 mrket prices before Gulf crisis (CIF Hong Kong).
Source: JPCO.



- 59 -
Tablo 2.6
CHIM
JIAMNSU PROVINCSIAL RANSPORT PROJECt
Jlons ou: Fuel Prels
(yuan per l ier)
Oefore March 20. 1964     After March 20  1984    Current (Sot. logo    Into$
Planned  ated lb  Market  Planned  ated Market   Planned        Market
aso  ino
(70 oct) LS   0.65       0.70    -        0.58    0.70   0.60      0.70        1.16
Index        100        182              100     182    1S5       182         217         0.70
Gas*olin
(S0 oct)      0.58       0.7n    -        0.56    0.78   0.S      0.77        1.80
Index        100        180              100     180    167       180         282         0.70
Jiesel /d        0.88      0.6      -       0.44    0.68   0.6      0.60        1.40
Index        100       18               122    18    2a8        180        8a"          0.68
Inflotion Le
Index                      _        ----100^---  -----129--      ----
j   Planned allocation prices.
Nogotiated above quota.
c Prices of gasoline include an aggr8ete of 48 percent central  .vermnent fuel taxes.
Prices of diesel include a 18 percent central government fuel taxes.
:   Consumer price index at end-of-year 1908  1967 and September 1900, repectively.
if July 1990 mrket prices before Qulf crisis (CIF Hong Kong).
Source: JPCD.



- 61 -
Table 3.2
CHINA
JIANGSU PROVINCIAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Estimated cumu-        Disbursement profile
Bank fiscal year                        lative disbursements    of Regional highway
and semester              Annual      $ million           I         projects (Z)
1992
December 31, 1991             26.3 /a      26.3            17                   6
June 30, 1992                 15.0         41.3            27                   24
1993
December 31, 1992             23.3          64.6            42                  44
June 30, 1993                 20.0         84.6             55                  62
1994
December 31, 1993             15.5         100.1            65                  73
June 30, 1994                 15.5          115.6           75                  79
1995
December 31, 1994             11.5          127.1           83                  88
June 30, 1995                 11.5         138.6            90                  93
1996
December 31, 1995             15.0         153.6           100                  100
/a  Including payment into special account $11.0 million and $15.3 million in
retroactive financing.
Note: Physical works commenced under retroactive financing in July 1989.
Project Completion Date = December 31, 1995
Loan/Credit Closing Date = June 30, 1996



- 62 -
Table 4.1
CHINA
JIANGSU PROVINCIAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
Economic Cost Conversion Factors, 1990
Financial cost          Conversion         Economic
composition (2) /a         factors           cost (2)
Construction
Labor
Skilled                         3.9                   3.0 /c              11.7
Unskilled                        9.0                  0.7 Jb               6.3
Equipment                         11.6                  1.3 Ic              15.1
Materials                         32.9                  1.0 /c              32.9
Cement                             7.7                  3.5 /b              27.0
Steel                              4.1                  2.2 lb               9.0
Timber                             4.0                  0.9 /b               3.6
Bitumen                            1.4                  1.0 Ic               1.4
Fuel                               5.0                  1.0 lb               5.0
Overheads                         20.4                  1.0 jJ              20.4
Total                        100.0                                      132.4
Vehicle Operation (based
on 4-ton truck, hilly
terrain)
Labor                              7.7                  2.0 /c              15.4
Equipment depreciation            13.7                  1.3 /c              17.8
Fuel                              39.5                  1.1 lb              43.5
Tires                              7.9                  1.2 Ic               9.5
Maintenance                       25.6                  2.1 Id              53.8
Overheads                          5.6                  1.0 Jc               5.6
Total                        100.0                                      145.5
/a Excluding miscellanea.
/b According to Peter Dittus, "Economic Prices for Project Evaluation in
China," June 1988 (Report No. 7365-CHA), updated in July 12, 1990.
/c Own estimates.
Id Based on 1/2 skilled labor and 1/2 spare parts.
le Shadow exchange rate of Y 5.5/$1.0 is used.



CHINA
JIANGSU PROVINCIAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
ERR for Southern Road Network Rehabilitation for Selectod Phase I Components
InvestOmnt
coat           Actual               Forecast traffic NWd)
Lenoth                                  (at Jan. 1991         traffic              1998                    2002      ERR
Road section                   (hk)          Standard                price:  Y r/n       (1987 vpd)        (opening year)    (after 10 years)    X
Changzhou-
Tiannang                       71.0           Class II                    106.0             8,800               5,400                18,200        42
Cbangshu-
Sushou                         88.6           Clss It with                 89.0             4,100               7,100                14,000       8e
eparate lanes
for slow moving
traffic                                                                                                      L
Ptagang-
WanojiangjIng                  14.6           Class II                     80.0             2,580               4.500                 8,900         29
Xiaebe-Hwang                   80.0           Clas  II                     81.0             2,700               4,700                 9,800        49
Hk ai-Caoqiao                  18.0           Clas  U1 with                28.0             8,960               8,900                18,600        82
separate lanes
for slow moving
traffic
Pitagvng
Bridge                     200 a +            Clas  I                      22.0             8,060               6,800                10,600        21
8 km
approach
road
Totel 1st year
rehabilitation program                                                    258.0                                                                    42
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 64 -
Table 4.3
CHINA
JIAN6SU PROVINCIAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
A. Traffic on the Nanjing-Shanghai Roads without the Rehabilitation Prograo
Expected  Traffic         vOCs it
Characteristics      Nanjing-   Zhenjiang- Changzhou-  Muxi-    Suzhou-                growth  Rates      on existing roads
of existinq Rd.      Zhenjiang  Changzhou      Wuxi      Suzhou    Anting
1986-     2003-     Flat      Hilly
(completed)            (completed)                               2002       2012    poor rd. poor rd.
Rd length (375 km)           87          92         46         60       100
width: pavement,e           6.5           6          6         6          6
lanes                  2           2          2         2         2
Terrain                 rollinq        flat       flat      flat       flat
1996 av speed.kph            35          35         35        35         3S
1986 vpd:
Trucks: Small               674         526        521       924        957                 6          4     430.6    465.0
Nedium              963       1,139      2,122     1.892      1.583                 8          6     600.9    706.3
Large               471         253        373       446        649                10          6     959.8    997.4
Tr.trailer          484       1,091      1,804     1,016     2,053                 10          9    1160.0   1403.0
Buses:  Small               324         414        516        452       684                 14        10     634.6    669.0  12
Medium              414         349        174       271        163                12          8     900.3    997.7  /2
Total                     3.230       3,760      5,511     5,000      6,089
1993 vpd:
Trucks: Small             1.014         790        784      1,389     1,439
Medium            1.479       1,951      3.638     3,242     2.714
Large               917         492        727       969      1,264
Tr.trailer          943       2,106      3,515     1.979      4,001
Buses:  Seall               910       1,036      1,292      14131     1,711
Medium              915         771        394       599       361
Total                     6,078       7,146     10,339     9,208    11,490
2002 vpd5
Trucks: SNail             1.713       1,335      1,324     2,347      2,432
ledium            2,957       3,901      7,271     6,480     51425
Large             2,162       1,161      1,714     2,049      2,980
Tr.trailer        2,223       4.965      9,289     4,666     9.433
Buses:  Small             2,634       3,369      4,201     3,678      5,565
ledium            2,539       2,137      1,064     1,658      1,001
Total                    14,229      16,868     23.064    20,979    26,836
Notess 1. Not adjust with conversion factors.
2. VOCs of buses 129. and 40 pasenger seats for sall and medium buses
rmpKtivPly) include tim  value of pas.mnQers at Y 0.3/passunger-hour



- 65 -
CHINA                                                                table 4.4
JIANGSU PROVINCIAL TRANSPORT PROJECT                                                Page 1 of 2
B. Projected Traffic on the Upgraded Nanjing-Shanghai Road.and
on Existing Road with Project
li) Traffic diverted to & generated on new road
VOCs It
Characteristics       Nanjing-   Zhenjiang- Changzhou-   luxi-    Suzhou-                                        on new roads
of proposed Rd.       Zheniiang  Changzhou       huxi      Suzhou    Anting                       Expected
Traff.6en    Flat      Hilly
(completed)            Icompleted)                                         Rates (13  good rd.  good rd.
Rd length (278.7km)         55.6        60.9        26.4       59.3      74.7
distance saved(km)          31.2        21.2        17.6        1.7      25.3
width: pavement,u               9          9           9          9         9
lanes                   2           2           2         2          2
Gradients                 3-51        2-31        2-3X        2-3%      2-3I
Terrain                 rolling        flat        flat        flat      flat
p                Desiqn Speed, kph              70          70         70         70         70
Expected diversion
fr existing rd.(%)             70         S5          90         85        70
1993 vpds
Diverted traffic
Trucks: Small                 710        672         705      1,191     1.008                                    249.0    268.9
Medium             1,035       1,659      3,274      2,755      1.900                                   403.7    469.3
Large                642         41q         654       739        805                                   547.0    634.5
Tr.trailer           660       1,790      3,164      1,682      2.800                                   739.5    894.8
Busesl  SNall                 567        880       1.163        961     1,198                                    351.0    370.9 /2
Nediua               641         655         345       508        253                                   549.4    614.0 /2
Total                      4.255       6,074       9,305     7.a27      8,043
193 vpd:
6enerated traffic
Trucks: Stall                 142        134         141        236       202                            20
Nedium               104         166         327       276        190                            10
Large                 64          42          65        74         81I                           10
Tr.trailer           132         356        633        336        560                            20
Eusess  Stall                 113        176         233        192       240                            20
Medium               129         131          69       102         51                            20
Total                         693      1,007       1,469      1,216     1.330
Totallon new road)         4,938       7,081      10,774      9,043     9.373



- 66 -
Table 4.4
Ii) Traffic diverted to & oenerated on new road IContd ....)
Page 2 of 2
Nanjing-   IhenPiang- Changthou-   Wuxi-    Suzhou-
Zhenjiang  Changzhou      Wuxi       Suzhou    Anting
kcompleted)            Icompleted)
2002 vod: Diverted traffic
Trucks: Small               1,199      1,135       1,192      1,995      1,702
Medium             2.070       3,315      6,544      5,508      3,797
Large              1,514         987       1,543     1,742      2,086
TrAtrailer         1,556       4,221      7,460      3,966      6,603
Buses:  Small               1O644      2,863       3,781      3,126      3,996
Medium             1,777       1,816         958     1.410        700
Total                       9,960     14,338      21,478    17,747    18,785
2002 vpd: Generated traffic
Trucks: Seall                 240        227         238        399        340
Medium               207         332         654       551        380
Large                151          99         154        174       209
Tr.trailer           311         844       1,492       793      1,321
Buses:  Small                 369         573        756        625        779
Medium               355         363         192       282        140
Total                       1,634      2,437       3,487      2,824      3,169
Total(an new road)         11,593     16,775      24,964    20,572    21,954
(ii) Traffic left on existing road
1993 vpd:
Trucks: Small                 304         119          78       208        432
Medium               44          293         364       486        814
Large                275          74          73        130       379
Tr.trailer           283         316         352       297      1,200
Buses:  Small                 243         155        129        170        513
tedium               275         116          38        90        109
Total                       1,824       1,072      1,034      1,381      3,447
2002 vpd:
Trucks: Small                 514         200        132        352.       730
ledIum               887         595         727       972      1,627
Large                649         174         171       307        894
TrAtrailer           667         745         829       700      2,830
BUses:  Small                 790         505        420        552      1,670
Medium               762         321         106       249        300
Total                       4,269      2,530       2,396      3,132      8,051
Notes:  1. Not adjust with conversion factors.
2. VOCs of buses 128, and 40 passenger seats for small and mmdiu buses
respectively) include time value of passengers at Y 0.31passenger-hour



- 67 -
Table 4.5
CHINA                                                               -
JIANGSU PROVINCIAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
Traffic on the Rehabilitated Nanjing-Shanghai Highway
in Passenger Car Equivalent Unit (PCUs)
Nanjing-  Zhenjiang- Changzhou-Wuxi      Suzhou
thenjiang  Changzhou  Nui      Suzhou   Anting
1993 vpd:
Truckss Seall    (2)            1,704      1,612     1,693    2,034   2,418
Medium  42.5)           2,847      4,561     9,003     7,57    5,224
Large    (3)            2,119      1,381     2.159     2,438   2,920
Tr.trailer(4)           3.168      9,592    15,187     8,074  13,442
Buses:  Saall    (2)            1,361      2,113     2,790     2,307   2,675
Nedius  (2.5)           1,922      1,965     1.036     1,525      758
Total                       13,120    20,224    31,868    24,756  27,637
2002 vpds
Trucks: Stall    (2)            2,879      2,724    2,860      4,788   4,086
Nedium  (2.5)           5,692      9,117    17,997    15147   10,442
Large    (3)            4,995      3,257     5,091     5,746    6,064
Tr.trailer(4)           7,470     20,259    35,909    19,039   31,696
Dtust Small    (2)              4,424      6,872     9,074     7,503    9,349
Nediue  (2.5)           5,331      5,449     2,9873    4,229    2,101
Total                      30,791     47,678    73,704    56,454  64,559
Nto.; Figures in parentheses are car equivalent factors of
vehicles soving on flat terrain.



-6Ss -                                                   Table 4. 6
,P ,        .........                       ........                    ..    ......             ...I
. ----                                             SW,,I;> 
I.-0 _3  ................   ..  ...................                      ..        ..............  ;.8. .-
wi    .|               .....................            .......                        ........
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g=.aw    Os 5w 
|s@*,@l KgX e...                 ........  ..    .=........ ....  ..
-A, l, _,  @......                           ..                ....        **..          ... ,....,.. ..              . 
=-sl_d~~~~~~~~....... 0                                                      ....                                 C.
8    ....................    ..    .......                                        ..    .......    .               " 
M:     4                                                         ...........sSlEC 
~~~~~~~~..........                                                 ............ _w 
at'                    ..   .   .  .   .  .      ..E 5  ..  .      ...    ..     I.       .     .. .................................       0
o-             I  ..  .. -. -.                                                       f             _    _A,
22 eU   _-         .......                         ---------
'e u  tl      '* Z *'                 E                   *@@ .| e..........  ...........  .......    C   U    pa
< ~ ~     ~    ~     U  4-                          4u                              up  U



69 -
Tabte 4.7
C sNA
JIMGSU PROVINCIAL TRMISPORT PROJECT
............... ....................................
Economic Analysis of the Rehabilitation of the Grand Canal at Oanyang
.. ...................................................................
(Million Yuan)
Cost of project:          68.9 Naint. costs as X of invest   5.00X
D1st. IWWI rerouting:  82.6 km Dist. highway rerouti-g:     100 km
Zhangjiagang available as rerouting alternative?             No
New lock constructior at Veichan?                            No
Costs              Rerouting Savings
--- -------------------- -------------------------   llet
Year  Capital   Naint.  Total    INl   High!ay   Total Benefits
1991    40.00            40.00                              (40.00)
19m    28.90             28.90                              (28.90)
1993             3.45     3.45    8.63    0.00    8.63        5.18
1994             3.45     3.45     9.29    0.00    9.29    5.84
1995             3.45    3.45      9.98     0.00    9.98    6.53
1996             3.45    3.45    10.68    0.00    10.68       7.23
1997             3.45    3.45    11.41      0.00    11.41     7.96
1998             3.45    3.45    12.16    0.00    12.16    8.71
1999             3.45     3.45    12.93    0.00    12.93    9.48
2000             3.45    3.45    13.73      0.00    13.73    10.28
2001             3.45     3.45    14.56    10.48   25.04    21.59
2002             3.45     3.45    14.80    14.85    29.65    26.20
2003             3.45    3.45    15.04    19.26   34.30   30.85
2004             3.45     3.45    15.29   23.71    39.00   35.55
2005             3.45    3.45    15.54   28.20   43.74    40.29
2006             3.45    3.45    15.79   32.73   48.52   45.07
2007             3.45    3.45    16.05   37.30   53.35   49.90
2008             3.45    3.45    16.31    41.91    58.22    54.77
2009             3.45    3.45    16.56   46.57   63.13   59.68
2010             3.45    3.45    16.83   51.26   68.09   64.64
2011             3.45    3.45    17.09   56.00   73.09   69.64
2012             3.45    3.45    17.36   60.78   78.14   74.69
2013             3.45    3.45    17.62   65.61    83.23   79.78
2014             3.45     3.45    17.89   70.47   88.36    84.91
2015             3.45    3.45    18.17   75.38   93.55    90.10
2016             3.45     3.45    18.44   80.34   98.78   95.33
2017             3.45     3.45    18.72   85.79   104.51   101.06
2018             3.45    3.45    19.00    92.20   111.20   107.75
Internal Rate of Return      19.60X
Net Present Value  (8S)    204.04
(102)    132.27
(121)     83.53



- 70 -
Tabte 4.8
CHINA
JIANGSU PROVINCIAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
Econrade Analysis of the Constructian of the Hew Nantong Shiplock
............... ................................__.._. ...............................
(Nitlion Yuan)
Cost of proJect:          52.94         Waint. costs as X of lnvestment:    2.00X
Dist. 1 W  rerouting:    174.5 Ib       Dist. highway rerouting:           100 km
costs                           Project Savings                      Net Beneits
.. .__ .......... ............. ...... __................... ._........ ... .... ........ ................ .
Tow delay  --Rerouting Savings--  Reduced           Vithout  With
Yeer  Capital  Naint.  Total at Nantg. IW 1) IW 2) Highway Accidents Total   Highway Highway
192   26.47              26.47                                                     (26.47)  (26.47)
1993    26.47            26.47                                                      (26.47)  (26.47)
1994              1.06     1.06    5.05    2.86   0.00  23.21        1.00  36.12   35.06    11.85
199               1.06     1.06    5.05   2.86   0.00  29.69    5.00  42.60   41.54    11.85
1996              1.06     1.06    5.05    2.86   0.00  36.37    5.00  49.28   48.22    11.85
1997              1.06     1.06    5.05   2.86    0.00  43.27    5.00  56.18    55.12    11.85
199               1.06     1.06    5.05   2.86   0.00  50.38    5.00   63.29   62.23    11.85
1999              1.06     1.06    5.05    2.86   0.00  57.71        5.00   70.62   69.56    11.85
2000              1.06     1.06    5.05    2.86   0.00  65.28    5.00  78.19   77.13    11.85
2001              1.06     1.06    5.05   2.86   0.00  73.08    5.00  85.99   84.93    11.85
2002              1.06    1.06    5.05    2.86   0.00  81.13         5.00  94.04   92.98    11.85
2003              1.06     1.06    5.05    2.86   0.00  83.51        5.00  96.42   95.36    11.85
2004              1.06     1.06    5.05    2.86   0.00  85.91        5.00  98.82   97.76    11.85
2005              1.06     1.06    5.05    2.86   0.00  88.33        5.00  101.24   100.18    11.85
2006              1.06     1.06    5.05    2.86   0.00   90.78       5.00  103.69   102.63    11.85
2007              1.06     1.06    5.05    2.86   0.00  93.24        5.00  106.15   105.09    11.85
2008              1.06     1.06    S.05    2.86   0.00  95.73    5.00  108.64   107.58    11.85
20a9              1.06     1.06    5.05    2.86   0.00  98.24        5.00  111.15   110.09    11.85
2010              1.06     1.06    5.05   2.86   0.00  100.78        5.00  113.69   112.63    11.85
2011              1.06     1.06    5.05   2.86   0.00  103.33    5.00  116.24   115.18   11.85
2012              1.06     1.06    5.05    2.86   0.00  105.91       5.00  118.82   117.76    11.85
2013              1.06     1.06    5.05   2.86   0.00  108.51        5.00  121.42   120.36    11.85
2014              1.06     1.06    5.05    2.86   0.00  111.14       5.00  124.05   122.99    11.85
2015              1.06     1.06    5.05    2.86   0.00  113.79    5.00  126.70   125.64    11.85
2016              1.06     1.06    5.05    2.86   0.00  116.46       5.00  129.37   128.31    11.85
2017              1.06     1.06    5.05    2.86   0.00  119.16    5.00  132.07   131.01    11.85
2018              1.06     1.06    5.05    2.86    0.00  121.88    5.00  134.79   133.73    11.85
2019              1.06     1.06    5.05   2.86   0.00  124.63        5.00  137.54   136.48    11.85
Internal Rate of Return :  64.77X  20.16X
Net Present Value CM)    704.09   62.62
t10X)    541.09   43.78
(12%)   422.92   29.85



-71-                                ANNEX 1
Page 1
CHINA
JIANGSU PROVINCIAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
Economic Evaluation and Procurement Guidelines for Preparing
the Second and Third Phases of the JPCD Road Network Rehabilitation P.ogram
A. General
1.        The identification of potential road and bridge works for inclusion
in the JPCD road network rehabilitation program would be concentrated in the
southern part of .Tiangsu Province with particular emphasis on access roads to
the Nanjing-Shanghai, Nanjing-Hangzhou, and Yanjiang corridors. Normally,
complete road links between major towns and cities are identified in the
rehabilitation program, and priority segments are selected within that link
for the annual works program. For potential Bank-supported subprojects, a
summary data sheet would be prepared (Attachment 1).
B. Types of Projects Subject to Economic Evaluation
2.        The following types of work will be subject to economic evaluation,
the detail of which will depend on the type of work, the level of investment,
and the complexity of variables:
(a) upgrading of unpaved roads and construction of new roads;
(b)  urban bypasses;
(c)  reconstruction and pavement overlays; and
(d) bridge construction and modernization.
C. Analytical Approach of Economic Evaluation
3.        For general guidance on the methodology for economic evaluation, the
State Planning Commission document entitled "Method and Parameters of Con-
struction Project Economic Evaluation" (Beijing, 1987) is useful. However,
prices for inputs and outputs should reflect current economic opportunity
costs, which may differ from the prices and conversion factors given in that
publication (see para. 10).
4.        Upgrading of unpaved roads and new road construction.  An assessment
of alternative road routes and/or classes of road is required to support the
investment decision. The benefits of these road works reflect reduced trans
port costs and time savings for normal, generated, and diverted traffic. Net
maintenance costs must be accounted for, depending upon the level of traffic
and the type of surface; since these may be either positive or negative, a
careful assessment of maintenance costs is required for such works. For road
sections which serve primarily developmental purposes, a producer surplus
approach in terms of generated development may be applied as an alternative to
the user cost savings approach.



- 71 -                              ANNEX 1
Page 1
CHINA
JIANGSU PROVINCIAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
Economic Evaluation and Procurement Guidelines for Preparing
the Second and Third Phases of the JPCD Road Network Rehabilitation Program
A. General
1.        The identification of potential road and bridge works for inclusion
in the JPCD road network rehabilitation program would be concentrated in the
southern part of Jiangsu Province with particular emphasis on access roads to
the Nanjing-Shanghai, Nanjing-Hangzhou, and Yanjiang corridors. Rormally,
complete road links between major towns and cities are identified in the
rehabilitation program, and priority segments are selected within that link
for the annual works program. For potential Bank-supported subprojects, a
summary data sheet would be prepared (Attachment 1).
B. Types of Projects Subject to Economic Evaluation
2.        The following types of work will be subject to economic evaluation,
the detail of which will depend on the type of work, the level of investment,
and the complexity of variables:
(a) upgrading of unpaved roads and construction of new roads;
(b) urban bypasses;
(c) reconstruction and pavement overlays; and
(d) bridge construction and modernization.
C. Analytical Approach of Economic Evaluation
3.        For general guidance on the methodology for economic evaluation, the
State Planning Commission document entitled "Method and Parameters of Con-
struction Project Economic Evaluation" (Beijing, 1987) is useful. However,
prices for inputs and outputs should reflect current economic opportunity
costs, which may differ from the prices and conversion factors given in that
publication (see para. 10).
4.        Upgrading of unpaved roads and new road construction.  An assessment
of alternative road routes and/or classes of road is required to support the
investment decision. The benefits of these road works reflect reduced trans
port costs and time savings for normal, generated, and diverted traffic. Net
maintenance costs must be accounted for, depending upon the level of traffic
and the type of surface; since these may be either positive or negative, a
careful assessment of maintenance costs is required for such works. For road
sections which serve primarily developmental purposes, a producer surplus
approach in terms of generated development may be applied as an alternative to
the user cost savings approach.



-73-                               ANNEX 1
Page 3
minimum-income required to own a car. No time values are applied for leisure
trips.
11.       Investment Costs.  Investment costs cover civil works, preinvestment
studies, and supervision, net of taxes and duties. A residual value at the
end of the life of the investment will be taken into account, depending on the
type of investment.
12.       Shadow Prices.  JPCD is to convert financial unit costs to economic
unit costs; the shadow exchange rate should be applied and fuel prices
adjusted to a level equivalent to the opportunity cost of exporting refined
products. For the opportunity cost of capital, a minimum of 10 percent per
annum should be used. For guidance on the estimation of economic shadow
prices in China, see (i) Adrian Wood, "Economic Evaluation of Investment Pro-
jects: Possibilities and Problems of Applying Western Methods in China,"
World Bank Staff Working Paper Number 631 (1984); and (ii) Peter Dittus, "Eco-
nomic Prices for Project Evaluation in China," World Bank China Department
Discussion Paper (July 1988).
13.       Feasibility Indices, Sensitivity and Risk Analysis.  For each road
work, JPCD is to prepare an estimate of the first-year benefiticost ratio, net
present value, and the internal rate of return. To test the sensitivity of
the evaluation, critical variables are to be adjusted in accordance with pos-
sible alternative scenarios when uncertainty is significant.
14.       In planning each year's program, only those project proposals with
positive net present values (NPV) when evaluated at a discount rate of 10 per-
cent or higher will be included in the program. When the financial resources
avail able for the year are inadequate to fund all proposals with a positive
NPV, all proposals will be ranked in the order of their ratio of NPV to
investment cost. Projects for implementation in the current year will be
chosen from among those with the highest NPV/cost ratios and other proposals
will be deferred for future consideration.
15.       Sections of road to be included in the program will have to be
grouped into packages suitable for ICB and LCB. Only very high priority sec-
tions which are not suitable for ICB and LCB will be included for implementa-
tion by force account.



- 74 -                            ANNEX I
Page 4
(Attachment)
Summary Data Sheet for Candidate Subprojects
1.     Basic Data
Roads
Section:
Lengtht
Cross-section present:
Cross-section proposeds
Pavement type proposed:
Design class:
2.     Traffic (AADT)
Light    Heavy
Car    Bus    Truck    Truck    Total
Base Year:
Year of completions
Growth/year:
3.     Bridges and Special Works
4.     Cost Estimate and Tentative
Budget Allocation per Year
5.     Vehicle Operating Costs Per                      Light    Heavy
Vehicle/km in Opening Year        Car    Bus    Truck    Truck
Without Project
With Project
6.     Economic Data
First Year Benefits/Cost:
Internal Rate of Return:
Net Present Value:
7.     Tender and Construction
Procurement Type Proposed:
Tentative Tender Date:
Number of Contracts:
(a) Length
(b) Estimated Cost
Completion Time:
8.     Status of Design and Tender Documents
9.     Technical Description
10.    Economic Description



- 75 -                              ANZ  1
Page 5
(Attachment)
11.    Alternatives Considered
12.    Date of Feasibility Study



- 76 -                             ANNEX 2
Page 1
CHINA
JIANGSU PROVINCIAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
Jiangsu Provincial Communications Department
Terms of Reference for Consultant Services for Constru ion Supervision
I. INTRODUCTION
1.        The Jiangsu Provincial Communicatilns Department (JPCD) plans to
carry out a transport project which will incI.e upgrading part of the
Nanjing-Shanghai highway to Class II standards, construction of a new shiplock
at Nantong and the adjacent Jtuweigang bridge. This part of the project is
divided into nine civil works contracts. JPCD will retain the services of
qualified and experienced engineers to form part of a joint consultants/JPCD
supervision team to supervise the works. According to preliminary estimates,
something in the order of about 160 man-months of consultant services will be
required.
II. OBJECTIVES
2.        The purpose of the services is to ensure:
(a)  that all civil, mechanical and electrical works are carried out in
full compliance with specifications; and
(b) that JPCD engineers on the joint supervision team receive on-the-job
training in civil works supervision.
III. DEFINITIONS
3.        In these Terms of Reference the following words shall have the mean-
ings hereby assigned to them:
(a)  Contractor:          The construction firm(s) which the JPCD will
contract with for the road, shiplock and bridge
construction.
(b) Contract:             Contract to be agreed between the parties men-
tioned under (a) above.
(c)  Works:               The works to be executed in accordance with the
Contract.
(d)  Engineer:            The engineer appointed by JPCD.



- 77 -                               ANNEX 2
Page 2
(e)  Resident Engineer:  The engineer appointed by the Engineer in
(d) above.
(f)  Employer:            The JPCD.
(g)  Team:               The joint team formed by the JPCD and the con-
sultant to supervise the works.
(h)  Consultant:          The firm retained by the Employer to provide
engineers for the Team.
IV. SCOPE OF WORK
4.        The Team is to supervise the Works and to approve the materials and
workmanship of the Works. The Team will have no authority to relieve the
Contractor of any of his duties or obligations under the Contract nor to order
any work involving delays or any extra payment by the Employer without the
consent of the Employer.
General Duties
(a) to decide on the Contractor's application for subletting parts of
the Works, after prior consultation with the Employer;
(b) to explain and/or adjust ambiguities andlor discrepancies of Con-
tract Documents and to provide assistance to the Employer in the
settlement of disputes with the Contractors
(c) to approve the Contractor's working drawings and if necessary to
issue further drawings and/or to give instructions to the Contrac-
tor;
(d) to provide data for the setting out of the Works;
(e) to approve or to reject the Contractor's superintendence, key per-
sonnel and/or construction program, materials and/or sources of
materials;
(f) to control and appraise the progress of the Works, to order if
required the suspension of the Works, and/or to determine the amount
of extension of the period for completion of the Works after prior
consulta'ion and agreement with the Employer;
(g) to issue variation orders, to evaluate variations, to fix rates for
unpriced Works, to order day-works and/or to decide on alternatives,
provided that such measures will not increase the total contract
price by more than 5 percent;
(h) to prepare and issue certificates of payment to the Contractor and
to certify the completion of the Works or parts thereof;



- 78 -                              ANNEX 2
Page 3
(i) to inspect the Works during and/or after the Maintenance Period and
to issue the Maintenance Certificate;
(j) to inspect the performance of the Works with regard to workmanship
and compliance with the Specifications and to order, sup3rvise or
perform tests on materials and/or Works before covering up and to
approve or disapprove the Contractor's plant and equipment;
(k) to order if required the uncovering of completed Works and/or the
removal and substitution of improper materials and/or Workst
(1) to check systematically the progress of the Works and to order the
initiation of certain Works which are part of the Contract;
(m)  to examine and attend the measurement of any work which is about to
be covered up or put out of view before permanent work is placed
thereon and/or to examine and attend the measurement of the
completed Works;
(n) to check the Contractor's accounts, invoices, claims and other
statements with respect to arithmetical errors and compliance with
the Contract and if required, to make corrections thereof;
(o) to supervise the Contractor in all matters concerning safety and
care of Works and if required to request from the Contractor the
necessary lights, guards, fencing, and watching; and
(p) to carry out such duties under the terms of the Contract as may from
time to time be delegated in writing by the Engineer.
5.        The Team shall prepare and implement all the administrative systems
and procedures needed to ensure the effective supervision of the Works in
accordance with the scope of work outlined above and generally accepted inter-
national standards.
Training
6.        The consultant shall provide on-the-job training for the engineers
assigned by the Employer to the joint supervisory teams. The training should
cover specifically:
(a)  the organization and administration of the supervision of bridge and
road Contracts;
(b) quality control and testing to ensure compliance with specifica-
tions; and
(c) preparation of systems and procedures for recording progress, qual-
ity control testing, costs, variations or extra works, etc.



- 79 -                              ANNEX 2
Page 4
Staffing
7.        The consultant shall provide the requisite number of supervisory
staff to the joint supervision team who will be resident on the project and
who will be responsible for the overall supervision of the Contractor's opera-
tions. Additional personnel such as inspectors, surveyors, and soil techni-
cians shall either be provided by the Employer or be hired locally by the
consultant. The number of experienced and qualified staff for the work
involved shall be sufficient to meet the requirements of the project. The
consultant's staff should be graduate engineers or the equivalent with a least
12 years of practical site experience on major road works in the following
fields: supervision and administration of major road contracts, structural
engineering including foundations, pavement design and construction including
earthworks, drainage, soils and materials engineering, etc. In addition to
the field staff, the consultant shall provide a suitably qualified engineer to
serve as a counterpart and assistant to the JPCD Project Engineer in Nanjing.
The counterpart would advise and assist the Project Engineer on overall proj-
ect organization, management and control.
8.        The consultant shall purchase all equipment, office materials,
instruments and similar appurtenance he feels is required over and above that
furnished by the Contractor. The Contractor shall furnish the Team with vehi-
cles complete with maintenance, cost of operation and operators. A field
laboratory with the required equipment to carry out field materials testing
shall be furnished by the Contractor. The operations and maintenance cost of
all equipment except vehicles shall be the responsibility of the consultant.
Control of the Work
9.        The Team shall establish all PIs and Benchmarks on the ground.
10.       The Teams shall supervise the initial engineering stake-out to
establish line and grade, setting stakes for alignment and structures, and
check and verify subsequent stake-out control by field survey parties supplied
by the Contractor to ensure satisfactory control of the work.
11.       They shall submit for review and approval by the Employer necessary
changes, improvements on the drawings, specifications and other work in rea-
sonable time to permit compliance with the design and construction schedule.
12.       They shall, however, make minor changes in grade or alignment as
needed to balance quanti4ies, changes in size and type of culverts, etc.
Material Inspection and Control
13.       The Team shall carry out all test sampling in the field and perform
such tests as can be made in the Field Laboratory provided by the Contractor
to maintain quality control. Other inspection and testing of materials and
finished articles to be incorporated in the work may be made by the Team or by
a competent and acceptable independent inspection agency subject to the
authorization and approval of the Employer and of no cost to the Team. The
Team shall notify the Contractor of any defects in his work and if necessary,



- 80 -                              ANNEX 2
Page 5
stop operations concerned with the defective work until the defects are cor-
rected.
Measurement and Payment
14.       The Team shall make field measurements of quantities of materials
incorporated in the project and maintain up-to-date books containing such
computations or other information concerning the use of construction materi-
als, properly segregated into sections of construction.
15.       Periodic reports shall be prepared and transmitted to the Employer
showing quantities incorporated in the work at the end of each pay period, and
also showing monies earned by and due the contractor.
16.       The Team shall maintain up-to-date records of the remaining quanti-
ties to be incorporated in the work, the cost estimates relating thereto bro-
ken down into foreign and local currency components.
Claims and Arbitration
17.       The Team shall review claims which the contractor may present for
additional compensation and/or additional time allowances and recommend appro-
priate action; perform change orders as necessary during the progress of the
work to cover possible changes within the general scope of the construction
contract. The Team will evaluate the Contractor's requirement for payment and
will certify the request or cause to have it changed so that it can be certi-
fied.
18.       The Team shall give his decisions on all claims and accounts, all
questions, disputes, and differences which under the terms of the Contract are
left for his settlement and decisions and shall aid and assist the Employer in
dealing with all other claims and accounts, disputes and differences relating
to the works.
19.       The Team shall assist and advise the Employer with regard to any
matter or thing which may be the subject of arbitration, inquiry or litigation
and, if and when required by the Employer, he shall attend and give supporting
evidence and otherwise assist the Employer before any court or in any arbitra-
tion or at any inquiry dealing with any matters arising from or in connection
with the execution of the works.
20.       The supporting evidence should contain sufficient information to
reveal the nature of the Contractor's complaint, circumstances pertaining
thereto, and the substance of any commitments made by either party in this
regard. Thorough coverage of the Contractor's operations relative to the work
in question should be maintained in the Daily Project Diary. Comments cover-
ing equipment and/or materials which may be involved, progress maintained,
should be included.
21.       In the event of any arbitration or litigation if the consultant is
called upon to assist before a Board of Arbitration proceedings or before a
court of law he shall receive separate remuneration for his assistance in the
trial and finalization of the case.



- 81 -                              ANNEX 2
Page 6
V. RECORDS AND REPORTS
22.       The Team shall maintain records of deviations from or changes in the
contract plans, and provide one marked-up master set of dr4wings in such man-
ner that the original plans can be corrected by others to correspond with the
"As Built' conditions.
23.       The Team shall provide all required services for certifications of
the project in acccrdance with the World Bank Loan Agreement and subsequent
letters of implementation. He shall:
(a) prepare andlor assist the Employer in preparing periodic progress
and financial status reports, and prepare a final report on the
project;
(b) provide certification where required by the Employer for interim and
final payments;
(c) provide the Employer with such technical and engineering consulta-
tion required in its day-to-day activities pertaining to the proj-
ect, as may be requested;
(d) keep records of all work done in the engineering and construction
phases of the work and make an activity and progress report for each
month of operation;
(e) prepare estimated progress schedule report prior to beginning the
engineering work for the engineering phase; and
(f) keep records of all payments approved and report such in the regular
monthly report. The regular monthly report will be completed at the
end of each calendar month and will contain three sections:
(i) description of activities (with photographs)
(ii) progress chart
(iii) expenditure record.
24.       These three sections will be correlated with the estimated activity
and progress schedules. The report will be s'gned by the head of the Team and
fifteent copies submitted to the Employer. Two copies will be forwarded to the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World Bank).



- 82 -                               ANNEX 3
Page 1
CHINA
JIANGSU PROVINCIAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Jiangsu Highway Data Bank Preparation, Pavement
Evaluation and Strengthening Program and Maintenance Management Study
I. INTRODUCTION
1.        The total length of the highway network in Jiangsu Province is
24,600 km, of which about 22,500 km or over 90 percent are all-weather roads
with a bituminous or gravel surface. In recent years the Jiangsu Provincial
Communications Department (JPCD) has faced increasing problems and costs in
maintaining its road network due both to substandard and aging pavements and
to the growing volumes of heavy vehicle traffic.
2.        Therefore, the JPCD proposes to evaluate the condition of about
2,100 km of paved roads in southern Jiangsu Province in order to prepare a
strengthening program and to review the organizational and operational aspects
of its paved road maintenance with a view to bringing them up to date.
Accordingly, to preserve the asset value represented by the existing highway
network and to provide for the efficient and safe movement of traffic, the
JPCD has decided to carry out the following study.
3.        It is expected that about 12 man-months of foreign expertise would
be required for the study and the training aspect involved in carrying out
this work.
II. OBJECTIVES
4.        The study aims at (a) establishing a provincial road data base com-
patible with national guidelines, comprising an inventory of permanent fea-
tures and current conditions of existing paved roads; (b) beginning regular
monitoring of the current condition of paved roads; (c) identifying pavement
overlay and strengthening needs and resource requirements for about 500 km of
paved roads; and (d) pilot implementation of a maintenance planning and man-
agement system, compatible with national guidelines, to enable a systematic
approach to maintenance programming.
III. SCOPE OF STUDY
A. General
5.        The study team shall perform all field investigations, engineering
studies, cost estimates, economic and financial analyses, and systems design,
as required to obtain the objectives given in the preceding Section II.



- 83-                               ANNEX 3
Page 2
B. Scope of Work
6.        The project will consist of five parts of what will ultimately be an
integrated road management system. The parts wil:. be carried out concur-
rently:
Part It Development and pilot implementation of a basic provincial road
data base, compatible with both the proposed national road data bank and
provincial needs, and comprising an inventory of permanent features,
road conditions, and traffic characteristics. The system should com-
prise basic items initially, provide for regular updating, and permit
future expansion.
Part II:  Selection and pilot implementation of a paved road management
model to serve as a tool for preparing maintenance programs. The model
should analyze the provincial road data base; identify maintenance needs
in accordance with specified intervention criteria; rank the needs by
economic return; permit interactive refinement of the resultant work
program to satisfy budget and other considerations; and be consistent
with national .OC recommendations.
Part III: Review and implement a pavement evaluation method for obtain-
ing data needed for the preparation of detailed road improvement and
strengthening programs. The method should utilize physical measures of
navement strength, condition and traffic that are compatible both with
the new MOC deflection-based rehabilitation design method and also with
the national road data bank and the provincial road management system.
Part IV: Make preliminary evaluations of a 5-year policy and program
for the 2,100 km of paved roads selected, the impact of current and
future traffic loading levels, the need for capacity improvements,
requirements for maintenance equipment, workshops and parts, and insti-
tutional issues.
Part V:  Carry out the training of local engineers in all aspects of the
above work.
7.        To this end, the study team shalls
(a) Prepare a current inventory of the 2,100 km of paved roads compris-
ings
(i) A road features inventory, including identification of road
class, route number, province, maintenance district, main-
tenance section, and section length; construction history and
construction details (types and widths of pavement and shoul-
der, gradient, curvature, drainage, terrain); traffic history;
regional freezing index and aver%ge precipitation.
(ii)   A traffic inventory for the network, including traffic counts
by vehicle type at selected points on the network, and load
data for heavy vehicles (as the data become available from (b)
below or other sources).



- 84 -                              ANNEX 3
Page 3
(iii)   A road condition survey, based on a simple, rapid inspection
method (such as drive-over, or sampling) to assess the approxi-
mate levels of pavement roughness (see Attachment A), pavement
distress, and shoulder and drainage conditions.
(iv)   An inventory and condition survey of road maintenance equip-
ment, workshops and parts stores.
(b)  Review and implement the method of pavemen: evaluation, based on the
research work of the MOC's Highway Scientific Research Institute,
for the identification and design of road improvement and strengtl-
ening works; and conduct an evaluation of a designated sample of
paved roads including the following:
(i)   Select and implement a physical method of measuring road
roughness in standard units of the international roughness
index (IRI), and conduct roughness measurements on the sam-
ple roads.
(ii)   Assess pavement strength and construction characteristics on
the sample roads through standard surface deflection and
other tests as required for the design and evaluation of
rehabilitation.
(iii)   Select and implement improved methods for traffic counting
by vehicle class and sample weighing of heavy vehicle axles,
and conduct surveys at selected stations representing the
sample roads.
(iv)   Consider modifying (ii) above to be undertaken in two stages
for roads unlikely to be scheduled for treatment within the
first two-year period, namely an immediate preliminary
assessment derived from a small sample of measurements fol-
lowed by a detailed assessment conducted shortly before the
scheduled time of treatment.
(c) Establish a provincial road data base for the storage of, and
access to, data collected under (a), and (b) above; and provide
guidelines for the collection, capture, audit and reporting of all
items, in accordance with national recommendations.
(d) Review national recommendations and implement on a pilot scale, a
system for the management of road maintenance and improvement,
including regular monitoring of the network, updating of the data
base, and preparation of work programs. Evaluate the staffing and
costs of implementing the system and expanding the scope to
bridges and unpaved and local roads.
(e)   Prepare a list of immediate and long-term (5 years) needs for
maintenance equipment, workshops and parts stores with estimated
costs. The cost of the immediate needs should not exceed
$4.0 million.



-85 -                              MANNEX 3
Page 4
(f)   Prepare an indicative medium-term policy and program for the paved
network, based on an analysis 1/ of data collected under items
(a) and (b) above, and recommendingt
(i)   a strategy for the allocation of budget resources to new
construction improvement and maintenance work;
(ii)   appropriate intervention criteria for identifying improve-
ment and maintenance works;
(iv)   a five-year program for improvement and strengthening works;
(v)   estimated expenditures for the five-year period; and
(vi)   the estimated impact of the program on the network in terms
of physical condition and economic benefits.
(g)   Provide advice to JPCD on the implications from:
(i)   an evaluation of the axle load survey results, the impact of
deterioration on the network and possible control measures
for vehicle loading;
(ii)   an evaluation of the need for bus parking bays, traffic
turning bays, climbing or overtaking lanes, and accelera-
tion/deceleration lanes, including estimates of costs; and
(iii)   an evaluation of the present maintenance organization at the
provincial level, recommending organizational changes or
improvements.
8.        Throughout the program outlined above the study team shall prepare
lists of specialized equipment, including computer hardware and software,
required for the work together with specifications and bid documents and shall
assist the JPCD in the evaluation of bids or quotations and award of con-
tracts.
C. Follow-up to the Study
9.        When the study has been completed the JPCD will continually update
the detailed road inventory and expand its scope to include local roads using
its personnel who have been trained through their work during the study.
10.       Since the detailed condition inventory will form a substantial part
of the activity to prepare engineering designs for pavement improvement works,
the JPTD must proceed with the inventory of the network at such a rate that
the established improvement may be implemented without interruption due to a
lack of designs.
I/    Consideration should be given to the possibility of using an available
road policy evaluation model, se'ch as HDM III, RTIM2, etc., for the
analysis.



-86 -                               ANNEX 3
Page 5
11.       The JPCD may require additional services frem foreign experts during
the follow-up phase of the study in order to implement the new system and/or
to expedite the detailed pavement condition inventory over the whole road
network of the province.
STAFF REQUIRED AND REPORTS TO BE SUBMITTED
A. Staff
12.       The study will be completed in about 15 months with a total of about
120 man-months, including about 12 man-months of foreign expertise to train
local engineers in the field of pavement evaluation and management systems,
data base management and engineering, and data processing. Additional man-
months from foreign technicians or engineers might be considered for using
automated equipment to assess road conditions, adapting foreign computer pro-
grams to computers available in China, and training Chinese counterpart staff.
B. Reports
13.       The Study Team will be required to submit the following reports in
Chinese (Mandarin) and English:
(a) inception report after 2 months of start-up;
(b) progress report monthly;
(c) interim report after 8 months;
(d) draft final report after 14 months; and
(e) final report after 15 months.
V. FACILITIES AND SERVICES TO BE PROVIDED BY THE JPCD
14.       The JPCD will assign a certain number of its personnel to work on
the Study Team on a full-time basis. Details regarding the number and quali-
fications of persons for such assignments will be determined on the basis of
the scope of work described in Sec-ion III.
15.       The JPCD and the foreign experts will work out and agree on a list
of the facilities needed, and the specialized equipment needed will be
provided by the foreign experts under their contract with the JPCD on the
bab..s of such a list presented in the consultants' proposal.



-87 -                             ANNEX 4
Page 1
CHINA
JIANGSU PROVINCIAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
Implementation
Start         Complete
Part A - Road Network Rehabilitation
- Appoint supervision staff                               02/01/89       06/31/89
- Appoint construction units                              04/01/89       12/31/91
- Construction                                            07/01/89       12/31/94
Part B - Nanjing-Shanghai Road Rehabilitation
- Prequalification of contractors including
Bank review                                           10/01/88       02/10/89
- Bid period                                              05/20/89       12105/89
- Receive and open bids, evaluation and receipt
by Bank of copy of Evaluation Report and
Government recommendations                            07/11/89       04/07/90
- Appoint supervision staff                               10/30/89       02/26/90
- Select consultants for organization of
supervision of works and award contracts              04/01/89       11/29/89
- Construction of Nanjing-Shanghai Road                   11/01/89       12/31/92
Part C - Grand Canal Rehabilitation qt Danyang
- Appoint supervision staff                               11/01/89       01/31/90
- Appoint construction units                              10/01/89       01/01/90
- Construction--above water level                         02/05/90       07/15/90
- Construction--below water level                         09/01/90       12/31/91
Part D - Construction of Nantong Shiplock
- Prequalification of contractors including
Bank review                                           06/01/90       01/17/91
- Bid period                                              04/01/91       05/31/91
- Receive and open bids, evaluation and receipt
by Bank of copy of Evaluation Report and
Government recommendations                            06/01/91       07/31/91
- Appoint supervision staff                               10/01/90       12/31/90
- Construction                                            10/01191       09/30/93



- 88 -                             ANNEX 4
Page 2
ImPlementation
Start       Complete
Part E - Constructio.a of Jiuweigang Bridge
- Prequalification of contractors including
Bank review                                           06/23/89       09/01/89
- Bid period                                              04120/90       0611//90
- Receive and open bids, evaluation and receipt
by Bank cf copy of Evaluation Report and
Government recommendations                            06/15/90       08/10/90
- Appoint supervision staff                               10/01/89       01/31/90
- Construction                                            11/10/.0n      12/09/92
Part F - Provision of Specialized Equipment for
Pavement Evaluation, Road Data Banks, and
Maintenance Management Program
- Prepare, with consultant assistance, equipment
lists, specifications and bid documents for
Bank review                                           06/01/91       08/31/91
- Invite bids                                             10/01/91       12/31/91
- Evaluate bids                                           02/01/92       04/01192
- Review by Bank of evaluation report and
recommendations for award                             04/15/92       05/15/92
- Award contracts                                         05/15/92       06/01/92
- Delivery of equipment                                   01/01/93       06/30193
Part G - Provision of Equipment for Central Laboratory
and Computer Aided Design
- Prepare equipment lists, specifications, and
bid documents for Bank review                         08/01/91       11/01/91
- Invite bids                                             12/01/91       02/01/92
- Evaluate bids                                           02/01/92       04/15/92
- Review by Bank of evaluation report and
recommendations for award                             04/15/92       05/15/92
- Award contracts                                         05/15/92       06/15/92
- Delivery of equipment                                   12/15/92       06/15193



- 89 -                              ANNEX 4
Page 3
Implementation
Start       Complete
Part H - Consulting Services
- Assistance in supervision and training for
construction supervision (joint teams)                10/31/89       07/31/93
- Assistance in pavement evaluation and preparation
of a pavement strengthening and betterment
program including equipment procurement                07/01/91       11/30/92
- Assistance in setting up a road data bank
including equipment procurement                        07/01/91       11/30/92
- Assistance in training JPCD staff via studies,
seminars, and workshops                                08/01/91       10/01j92
- Assistance in preparing future plan of action
for development of independent construction
units                                                  08/01/91       12/31/91
Part I - Staff Training
- Selection of trainees                                    07/01/91       11/31/92
- Placement of trainees                                    10/01/91       09/30/94



- 90 -                                        ANNEX 5
Pae. 1
CHINA
JIANGSU PROVI;.:IAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
Pro3ect Monitorin. Indices
Actual as   Reason for   Action
Esti-              X of       difference   to be
Project component                                 mated   Actual   estimated    (if any)    taken
Road Network Rehabilitation (lot Phase Pro ras)
Select construction un Is
Earthwork. completed (mn)
Paving completed (km)
Culverts (number)
Bridges (number)
Construction work completed
Maintenance certfic-te issued
Completion certificates issued
Final cost
Nyn-I qgg.Sansll!I Road Rehabilitation
Contract awards
Earthworks completed (in)
Paving completed (km)
Culverts (number)
Bridges (number)
Construction work completed
Maintenance certificate issued
Completion certificates Issued
Final cost
Supervision of Construction (man-months)
Consultant Services
Supervi sion of Construction
Consultants selected
Consultants start work
Supervision organization, procedures
and systems agreed by JPCD and Bank
Supervision staff appointed
Office and laboratory buildings
constructed
Laboratory equipment In place
Supervision of construction In progress
Grand Canal Rehabi!itation at Danyana
Select construction units
Dredgin,g (kinf)
Slope paving (km)
Bridges clearance upgrade (number)
Construction completed



- 91 -                                        ANNEX 6
Page 2
Actual as   Reason for   Action
Esti-              X of       difference   to be
Project component                                 mated   Actual   estimated    (if any)    taken
Construction of Nantong Shiplock
and Jiuweigana Bridge
Contracts awarded
Foundation
Substructure
Superstructure
Mechanical equipment
Completion certificate issued
Final cost
Pavement Evaluation_ StrMnthening and
Road Data Bank and Maintenance Manasement
Program
Consultants selected
Consultants start work
Preparation of system
Collection of data
Software preparation
Identify hardware and equipment
Preparation of specification and
bid document for hardware and
equipment
Invite bids
Evaluate bids
Award contracts
Dolivery
Central Laborstor Equipment and
Computer Aided Design
Finalize equipment fist
Prepare specifications and bid documents
Invite bids
Evaluate bids
Award contract
Delivery
Development of Construction Industry
Consu tants selected
Consultants start work
Preparation of seminar and workshops
Carry out seminar and workshops
P-epare study and report on future
plan of action
Carry out the plan of action
Staff Tralninj
Select trainees
Placement of trainees



- 92 -                              ANNEX 6
Page 1
CHINA
JIANGSU PROVINCIAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
Roads Selected for First Phase Program of
Provincial Road Network Rehabilitation
1.   Changzhou-Tianwat;g Road (71 km) Estimated Cost Y 105.0 million
Existing Conditions: 6 to 10 m bituminous pavement on 12 n subgrade.
Proposed Upgrading:  12 m bituminous or cement concrete pavement on
15 m subgrade, bridges widened to 15 m.
2.   Changshu-Suzhou Road (33.5 km) Estimated Cost Y 39.0 million
Existing Conditions:  9 m cement concrete pavement on 12 m subgrade
(pavement completed in June 1988).
Proposed Upgrading:   (a) widen subgrade to 13 m with 4.5 m shoulders
each side of which 4 m would be paved.
(b) retaining walls each Fi.de to reduce property
acquisition.
(c) existing 9 m and 12 m fide bridges to be
widened to 18 m.
3.   Pingwang-Wangliangjing Road (14.5 km) Estimated Cost Y 30.0 million
Existing Conditions: Substandard road in poor condition.
Proposed upgrading:   9 m cement concrete pavement with 3 m shoulders
each side of which 2 m would be paved.
4.   Xiaohe-Hwangtu Road (30 km) Estimated Cost Y 31.0 million
Existing Conditions:  12 m subgrade with 9 m sand and gravel surface.
Is missing link ir. road providing bypass of
Changzhou for traffic between Zhen3iang and
Jiangyin.
Proposed Upgrading:   Replace surfacing with 9 m bituminous pavement and
widen bridges to 12 m.



- 93 -                          ANNEX 6
Page 2
5.   Hutai-Caoqiao Road (13 km) Estimated Cost Y 26.0 million
Existing Conditions:  9 m poor bituminous pavement on 12 m subgrade.
Proposed Upgrading:   (a) widen subgrade to 17 m, new 9 m surface with
4 m shoulders each side of which 3-1/2 m will be
paved.
(b) all small and medium bridges would be widened
to match width of upgraded road.
6.   Pingwang Bridge (260 m plus 3 km Approach Road) Estimated Cost
Y 22.0 million)
Existing Conditions: Built in 1959 now has minimum load capacity.
Proposed Upgrading:   Construct new bridge 18 m wide--14 m for vehicle
way and 2 m for walkway each side.



- 94 -                              ANNEX 7
CHINA
JIANGSU PROVINCIAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.    General Reports
A.1   CHINA:  Long-Term Development Issues and Options, World Bank,
September 1985
A.2   Statistical Yearbook of China, 1990, State Statistical Bureau,
PRC.
A.3   Statistical Yearbook of Jiangsu Province, 1989
B.    General Reports and Studies on the Sector or Subsector
B.l   CHINA:  Long-Term Development Issues and Options, Annex 6:  The
Transport Sector, World Bank, September 1985
B.2   Transport Sector Paper, December 10, 1984, AEPTR
B.3   Basic Data on the Chinese Highway Subsector - Answers to Questions
(Chinese with English translation)
C.    General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
C.1   Nanjing-Shanghai Road Upgrading Project.  Feasibility Study
Report, Jiangsu Provincial Commanications Department, June 1988.
C.2   Feasibility Reports for Souther, Jiangsu Road Network
Rehabilitation Pregram, Jiangsu Piovincial Communications
Department, June 1988 and January 1989.
C.3   Feasibility Report for the Grand Canal Rehabilitation at Danyang,
Jiangsu Provincial Communications Department, February 1988.
C.4   Feasibility Report for the Construction of New Nantong Shiplock,
Jiangsu Provincial Communications Department, January 1988.
C.5   Feasibility Report for the Construction of New Jiuweigang Bridge,
Jiangsu Provincial Communications Department, August 1988.



It                 ))                                                                                                       121 , Iil                                                       ;
A*.>  lOV                  CHII' ctllPROPOSED PROJECT.
4)                      * @    X   %\    A    GSI  ROV  CE     RAI       O         ROJ  C                                          NANJING-SHANGHAi HIGHWAY REHABILITATION (CLASS 11 IJADO)
r   )v   -  ,9       '1t                          PROJECT COMPONENTS                                                                      Ew- AIignti  (RhbilnWion) I
-.                                                                                                                                                                             -     Com~pbbtod SecCion (by Govonmnt7pi)
j             ,) \ /_ , 1\ 3 PROVINCIAL ROAD NETWORK REHAbiUTATION
R  J ,      \2\1                                                                                                             ....... Rood Reh,bil=io
X,~~~~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~ .. dt                               G            Cono R1Wlon    oonk PrOj
ANHUI                                                                                                                                                                               S h ridp  (JiLwok  ond Ping)
1 7                       7bA                             s-                     =\h  -Dh
Cam~~~~~~~~, t~~~~~~~~ a  ma no& ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~          ~         ~          ~         ~         ~         ~         ~        ~        ~        Cd .
R 0 / g Y-ng2ho                                                                                                                                       u ,/7 - \ \  9__>  \  ( Riw-s and Aro
4 >.,-~~=s,, j ZHEJIANG                                                                      C'm1i90  ,fs, x!
'>~~~~~~~~C    |                                       =                                                                                      i/t           j..R8(                      PHlPPN



IBRD 2
\    ) llr~~~~ lis                                    ,195      ,.                 k.,i                                                                                lb
'    \ 5'            \          SHANDONG                           /         ,                                                                                    CHINA
/0%. )\y A.N.\ \                                                  * >JIANGSU PROVINCE TRANSPOPT PROJECT
" (-r'  t  <.i           '\                                                /  /    '-                                                           PROVINCIAL TRANSPORT NETWORK AND FUTURE PLAN
,.i                                                                                                                              F w  fOR DEVELOPMENT OF TRANSPORT CORRIDORS
*  <>4%    WY  i7>  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5  C ~~~~ROAM&RZd
K\                                                                                                                   - ',i glo=re  . At        n y ROO&
Double Tras
1 ANK,                                                                                                                                                                                    E_w
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Si.g . _._    _$ 
[IIE NAis N'                                                                                                                                            E--Wd Cor idoARHa C
Grod Cana
Rise e-d Canals
4,   rCIse Posts
Ceeny (Xito)  udre
V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Pretss_r Resedoisa
Proisse Rouedanis
AN H UI
Yellow            Sea
3    LT '. 5.5       XONO,5 U5 TS 55.555  ChinN 55055.       \                                    ,05\J.'5/
5,.5 -~os5.s// 55,55    .                                                                  ,'/5555/55 ZouM        H EJsIAsNG
CHINA ,   i_:_,'\(   O   AFSINLS           '                             '                                                         ?                             2SHANGHAI
cmsssoANHUI                              sif ZH JA G                                              itr
PORT.%.K..'M Ci---S-  iH JIiN



