CREDIT NUMBER 2226 CHA
LOAN NUMBER 3316 CHA
Project Agreement
(Jiangsu Provincial Transport Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
JIANGSU PROVINCE
Dated      jLvle,     O      , 1991


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2226 CHA
LOAN NUMBER 3316 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated         )LXi-    10           , 1991, among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association),
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank)
and JIANGSU PROVINCE (Jiangsu).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the People's Republic of China (the Borrower) and
the Association, the Association has agreed to lend to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-
eight million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 38,500,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that Jiangsu
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement;
(B) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the
Borrower and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one
hundred million dollars ($100,000,000), on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that
Jiangsu agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are
set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS Jiangsu, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
and the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agree-
ment;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in
the General Conditions (as so defined) and in the Loan Agreement
and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective
meanings therein set forth.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Jiangsu declares its commitment to the
objective of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out
the Project, through JPCD, under the general supervision of MOC,
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial, engineering and highway prac-
tices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provision of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Association and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, Jiangsu shall carry out the Project in accordance
with the Implementation Program set forth in the Schedule to this
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. Jiangsu shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the
General Conditions applicable to the Development Credit Agreement
and in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the
General Conditions applicable to the Loan Agreement (relating  to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Jiangsu shall, at the request of the Asso-
ciation or the Bank, exchange views with the Association or the
Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance
of its obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Credit and the Loan.
(b) Jiangsu shall promptly inform the Association and the
Bank of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere
with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the pur-
poses of the Credit and the Loan, or the performance by Jiangsu of
its obligations under this Agreement.


﻿- 3 -
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Jiangsu shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices its operations and financial con-
dition in respect of the activities related to the Project.
(b) Jiangsu shall:
(i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a)
above, for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association and the Bank;
(ii) furnish to the Association and the Bank as soon as
available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year a certified
copy of the report of such audit by said auditors
of such scope and in such detail as the Association
and the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association and the Bank such other
information concerning said records, accounts and
the audit thereof, as the Association and the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which both the Development Credit Agreement and
the Loan Agreement become effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association, the Bank and Jiangsu thereunder shall terminate on
the earlier of the following dates:
(i) the date on which both the Development Credit
Agreement and the Loan Agreement shall have termi-
nated; or


﻿-4-
(ii) the date twenty years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agree-
ment or both of said Agreements terminate in accordance with their
respective terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii)
of this Section, the Association or the Bank or both, as the case
may be, shall promptly notify Jiangsu of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions applicable to the
Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request recuired or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development
Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-5-
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For Jiangsu:
Jiangsu Provincial Communications Department
170 Zhong Hua Road
Nanjing 210001,
People's Republic of China
Telex:
342 267
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Jiangsu or by Jiangsu on behalf of the
Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agree-
ment, may be taken or executed by the Governor or Vice Governor of
Jiangsu or such other person or persons as the Governor shall
designate in writing, and the Governor shall furnish to the Asso-
ciation and the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. As long as the Bank has not given notice to the
contrary to Jiangsu and so long as the Development Credit Agree-
ment shall not have terminated prior to the termination of the
Loan Agreement:
(a) the obligations of Jiangsu to consult with, and to
furnish information, documents, plans, reports, records and state-
ments to, the Bank shall be satisfied ta the extent performance in
respect of such obligations is rendered to the Association;


﻿-6-
(b) the obligations of the Bank to consult with, and to
furnish information to Jiangsu shall be satisfied to the extent
such obligations are fulfilled by the Association; and
(c) all actions taken (including the giving of approvals or
the granting of waivers) by the Association pursuant to the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement shall be deemed to be taken pursuant to
both the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement, and
in the name and on behalf of both the Association and the Bank.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By VAkcsp&
Regional Vice President
Asia
JIANGSU PROVINCE
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 7 -
SCHEDULE
Implementation Program
1.   Jiangsu shall: (a) select the roads to be rehabilitated under
Part A (ii) of the Project in accordance with criteria and
procedures, agreed with the Association and the Bank; and
(b) by October 31, 1991 and October 31, 1992, provide to the
Association and the Bank for concurrence a list of roads so
selected to be constructed under the second and third phases of
the program, respectively.
2.   Jiangsu shall carry out each of the studies under Parts F and
H of the Project in accordance with terms of reference and timing
agreed with the Association and the Bank.
3.   Jiangsu shall carry out the staff training under Part I of
the Project in accordance with a program agreed with the Associa-
tion and the Bank.
4.   Jiangsu shall carry out the resettlement under the Project in
accordance with a plan agreed with the Association and the Bank.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPM ENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the
International Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


