FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Not For Public Use
Report No.p-1650-.NI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO NIGERIA
FOR A
NUCLEUS ESTATE/SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM PROJECT
IN THE
MID-WESTERN STATE
June 5, 1975
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00          =         Naira (N) 0.66
Nl.00                     US$1.52
Ni million                US$1652 million
Since April 1, 1974 the Naira has floated independent
of the U.S. dollar. Twice weekly, the Central Bank
sets buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar
and E sterling. The Naira has appreciated steadily
vis-a-vis the U.S. dollar, and by July 1, 1974 the
average quotation was Ni = US$1.622 or 6.7 percent
above the previous central rate of Ni = US$1.52.
The latter has been used for currency conversions
throughout this report.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO NIGERIA FOR A
NUCLEUS ESTATE/SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM PROJECT IN THE MID-WESTERN STATE
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Nigeria for the equivalent of US$29.5 million to help finance a
nucleus estate/smallholder oil palm project in the Mid-Western State of
Nigeria. The loan would have a term of 20 years including a five-year grace
period with interest of 8 1/2 percent per annum. The loan would be onlent
by the Borrower to the State Government under a subsidiary loan agreement
acceptable to the Bank; the terms are expected to be the same as for the
Bank loan, with the possible exception of the grace period. The State
Government would onlend part of the proceeds of the Bank loan to the
Mid-Western State Oil Palm Company (OPC) for a term of 20 years including
a nine-year grace period with an interest rate of not less than the Bank's
lending rate. Credit to smallholders would be channeled through cooperatives
and would be for a term of 13 years including a seven-year grace period,
at an interest rate of 9-1/2 percent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Current Economic Position and Prospects of
Nigeria" (416-UNI) dated August 5, 1974 was distributed to the Executive
Directors. Country data sheet, are attached as Annex I.
3.        As documented in the Economic Report, economic progress in Nigeria
since 1970 has been rapid and sustained. During the period from 1970/1 to
1974/5, GDP at constant prices rose at an average annual rate of 8.2 percent,
with growth averaging well over 15 percent per annum in the mining, public
utilities, construction and transport sectors. Capital formation as a
proportion of the rapidly rising GDP rose from less than 15 percent in 1970/1
to about 20 percent by 1973/4. External reserves rose from $264 million at
the end of 1970 to about $5,700 million at the end of 1974. Implementation
of the public sector investment program under the Second Development Plan
(1970/1 - 1973/4) also increased substantially, and at the end of 1973/4 about
70 percent of the revised capital expenditure program of $5.3 billion had been
disbursed.  In 1974, the Government extended the Second Plan by a year to allow
for the completion of some of the remaining programs.
4.        The already rapid momentum of growth will now be accelerated further
within the framework of the Third National Development Plan, by far the most
ambitious development planning effort in Nigeria to date. The Plan will cover
the period from April 1975 through March 1980. Economic growth, in real terms,



- 2 -
is projected to be of the order of 9 percent per annum, with per capita income
increasing to twice the current level of $250 by the mid 1980s. Although
absorptive capacity is expected to remain a major determinant of the actual
size and efficiency of the investment program, development will be unhampered
by the usual constraints of savings and foreign exchange. The Plan projects
substantial accumulation of external reserves during the Plan period, the
exact magnitude depending primarily on the economic conditions prevailing in
the world oil industry. The Plan also notes that the surplus of investible
funds will decline steadily over the Plan period as the economy rapidly
expands its absorptive capacity.
5.        The core of the Third Plan is the public sector investment program.
Total allocations amount to $53 billion, but the effective program is
projected by the Government to be only $32 billion because of the substantial
slippages expected. Public investment is projected to represent about two-
thirds of total investment expenditures in the economy over the five-year
period. The Plan's development strategy, as reflected in the public invest-
ment program, may be summarized as follows:
(a)  Accelerated agricultural and rural development is the most
important aspect of the Government's long-term development
strategy. Public sector investment in agriculture under
the Third Plan is aimed primarily at providing the infrast-
ructure and incentives necessary for private, particularly,
smallholder, development. Planned direct public investment
in the sector, amounting to almost $4 billion, includes the
development of several major river basins for large-scale
as well as smallholder farming; an accelerated food crop
development program aimed at adopting and disseminating
modern farming techniques to smallholder farmers; programs
to improve input distribution and marketing of food and
export crops; and the several agricultural development
projects with which the Bank is associated. While the
allocation is considerably smaller, in financial terms, than the
allocations for capital-intensive sectors such as transport
and industry, it is nevertheless a very ambitious program in
the context of the low-technology and smallholder-orientated
nature of Nigerian agriculture and represents a seven-fold
increase over the previous Plan's allocation for the sector.
In addition, the Plan includes substantial programs in rural
electrification, feeder road construction, water supply and
other social infrastructure, which represent the Government's
major efforts to promote rural development. Recognizing
that "about 70 percent of the Nigerian population live in
the rural areas and have benefited relatively little from
the rapid economic growth of the past few years," and that
"improvement in the welfare of the average Nigerian will
require a substantial increase in rural incomes", the Plan
also states that: "in the allocation of scarce resources in
the course of plan implementation, pcricrity will be given to



-3-
those programs and projects directly benefiting the rural
population, particularly projects to increase the income of
smallholder farmers and to improve the economic and social
infrastructure in the rural areas."
(b) Increased supply of public social services at heavily subsidized
costs is viewed as the major means of distributing the immediate
benefits of the oil boom to the bulk of the population. The
core of this program is the Universal Primary Education Scheme
aimed at achieving 100 percent enrollment for primary-age
children by 1980. Other significant programs include a massive
low-cost housing program for the major urban centers, and
health, water and electric supply programs for rural areas.
Financial allocations totalled $4 billion for education,
$3 billion for housing, $2 billion for water and sewerage
and $1 billion for health.
(c) Planned investment in transport, which receives the largest
single allocation ($12 billion), power and communication
($2 billion each) reflect to a large extent the Government's
strategy to create "in the relatively short time that the
economy will enjoy a surplus of investible resources the
economic and social infrastructure necessary for self-
sustaining growth in the longer run when resource scarcity
may recur". In these sectors, "investment leading to what
may appear to be excess capacity will nevertheless be
undertaken in the expectation that demand would catch up much
earlier than historical trend indicates".
(d)  In industry, which receives a total allocation of $9 billion,
the objective is to diversify the petroleum industry into
downstream operations such as liquified natural gas, oil
refineries for export as well as domestic consumption,
fertilizers and other petrochemical industries, and to
establish basic industries, such as iron and steel, cement,
pulp and paper. Most of these large-scale projects will be
implemented by foreign "technical partners,' with Government
retaining majority equity ownership. The State Governments'
industrial projects are mainly in the agro-allied and building
materials industries.
6.        The financial arrangements for the Third Plan involve a substantial
and very important change in the Federal/State revenue-sharing system. Speci-
fically, "as from the 1st of April 1975 all portions of Customs and Excise
duties formerly payable to State Governments on the basis of derivation would
be payable to the Distributable Pool Account; the percentage of petroleum
royalties payable to State Governments on the basis of derivation would be
reduced from 45 percent to 40 percent and the Federal Government will sur-
render its entire share of both on-shore and off-shore royalties into the
Distributable Pool Account. Allocations to State Governments from the Dis-
tributable Pool Account will be on the formula to 50 percent on the basis of
population and 50 percent on the basis of equity." As a result of these changes,



- 4 -
the States' share of Federal revenues will increase by about 50 percent, and
these revenues will be distributed more evenly among the twelve States. These
changes should therefore ensure that, during the Third Plan period, the States
will be able to generate sufficient budgetary surpluses to finance at least
two-thirds of their investment programs, thus correcting the anomalous situa-
tion during the Second Plan whereby State investment programs were being
postponed because of financial constraints while the Federal Government was
accumulating large surplus resources. Another significant government decision
in this connection is that revenue sharing will henceforth be considered an
integral part of economic planning and not, as hitherto, a constitutional issue;
specifically, revenue will in future be allocated among the various Governments
of the Federation according to their needs and ability to finance their approved
development programs.
7.        The Plan, recognizing that managerial capacity will remain the major
constraint to growth, includes several proposals to streamline project imple-
mentation, including procurement procedures to facilitate the production and
import of essential raw materials and capital goods, and to provide extensive
training for high-level manpower. Limitations on the use of expatriates for
high priority investment projects will also be relaxed. A more far-reaching
effort in this general direction has been the so-called Udoji Commission.
In recognition of the much more important role that the public sector will
have to assume during the Third Plan than hitherto, a public service review
commission was appointed two years ago to examine the federal and state civil
services, statutory corporations, the police, judiciary, universities and
schools. Its report, published in December 1974, recommended widespread re-
organization, including introduction of the principle of promotion by merit
rather than seniority, management training schemes, a unified salary structure
and salary increases averaging about 60 percent. Unfortunately, most atten-
tion has so far been concentrated on the new salary scales for the civil
service; employees in the private sector have also demanded and received, to
a large extent, similar wage increases, thereby negating to some extent the
intended change in salary differentials between the private and public sector.
At the moment, the immediate result of the Udoji Commission's report has been
intensified inflationary pressures in the urban centers and increased dispari-
ties in rural-urban incomes. For the longer-run, however, the Udoji Report
represents an important step towards the reorganization of the public sector
for its substantially expanded role under the Third Plan, and the Government
is currently reviewing the broader aspects of its recommendations in this
regard.
8.        While a radical transformation of the national economy is the
long-term objective of the Government's economic policies, its immediate pre-
occupation relates to the intensified inflationary pressure caused by the
recent increase in prices of imported goods and services and the sharp rise
in domestic wages and salaries. A major part of the 1975/6 Federal Budget,
announced on April 1, 1975, has therefore been directed towards measures aimed
at reducing the pace of domestic inflation. These included substantial reduc-
tion of import duties on building materials, raw materials and essential



- 5 -
consumer goods; abolition of excise duties on light industrial products
produced locally: and other tax reliefs for domestic companies. Foreign
exchange restrictions have also been further liberalized. Reflecting the
improved liquidity position of the economy, the Government has also lowered
the interest rate on Treasury Bills ahd the minimum and maximum lending
rates of commercial banks. Producer prices for the major agricultural products
have been further increased by 10 to 50 percent. Since the marketing board
system was re-organized in 1972/3, producer prices for the major cash crops
such as cocoa, palm oil and kernel, groundnut and cotton have enjoyed substan-
tial increases ranging from 150 percent to well over 200 percent. With respect
to the country's balance of payments prospects, the Budget appears to be less
sanguine than the Third Plan, probably because oil production has decreased
steadily since October 1974 from about 2.3 million barrels per day to less
than 1.9 million b/d in recent months. Nevertheless, the surplus of foreign
exchange inflows over outflows during 1975/6 is projected to be about $$2.4
billion, which should increase the country's external reserves to about $8
billion, representing about two years import values by early 1976.
External Assistance
9.        There has been no fundamental change in the nature of Nigeria's
long-term development problems over the last two years. However, the sub-
stantial increase in resources has enlarged Nigeria's options and potential
for development. In this context, Bank project assistance has a valuable
role, not as a means of transferring financial resources, but as a vehicle
for technical assistance to prepare and execute investment programs commen-
surate with the country's potential. In fact, assistance to help accelerate
investment in the more intractable areas such as agriculture and rural develop-
ment and to increase executive and managerial capacity in the infrastructure
sectors is the more urgent as the country's resources increase. The Federal
Government's attitude towards external capital is that it should complement,
not compete with domestic resources, and this applies to official development
assistance as well as private investment. It, therefore, attaches particular
importance to projects and programs which act as catalysts to investment efforts
in the high priority areas, and which increase indigenous capability to con-
trol, manage and promote the growth of the economy efficiently in the future.
The Bank has become the major source of this type of assistance.
10.       As of December 31, 1972, total external public and publicly guar-
anteed debt amounted to an estimated $1,035 million. Debt service inI 1974
is estimated at less than 1 percent of gross exports. Although the Bank Group's
share of total external public debt (including undisbursed) at the end of 1972
was about 45 percent, this was mainly a reflection of Nigeria's low level of
external debt ($15 per capita in 1972) than of substantial lending by the Bank
($7.50 per capita, including undisbursed at the end of 1974).



- 6 -
11.       During the past year, Nigeria has become a donor as well as a recipient
of external aid. In 1974, it increased its subscription to the African Develop-
ment Bank and announced that it will no longer seek to borrow from that insti-
tution; donated $800,000 to the Consultative Group for International Agricultural
Research, thus becoming the first developing country to become a donor; contri-
buted $120 million to the IMF Oil Facility, purchased $240 million of World
Bank bonds and increased its holdings of two-year Central Bank bonds by $30
million. The Government has indicated its intention of using some of its
foreign exchange surplus to assist other developing countries, particularly in
Africa. It has already made direct grants to several African countries suffer-
ing from the effects of the recent drought.   During the Third Plan period,
Nigeria intends to intensify its aid efforts to African countries in the field
of technical assistance, scholarship awards, supply of skilled personnel and
relief assistance in cases of national disaster such as earthquakes, droughts
and floods.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA
12.       Bank/IDA lending to Nigeria to April 30, 1975, amounted to $708.6
million (net of cancellations). In addition, a loan for a third agriculture
project ($21.0 million for the Gombe Agricultural Development Project) is
expected to be signed shortly. Of the total lending, $395 million was com-
mitted during the Second National Development Plan period (1970-1975). The
principal amount of loans and credits disbursed at April 30, 1975, was about
$398.7 million (including IDA exchange adjustments). leaving an undisbursed
balance of effective loans and credits of about $273.4 million. Transport
and power together account for $408 million or about 48 percent of total
commitments, and agriculture, education, industry and the post-war rehabili-
tation loan account for the remaining 42 percent. Gross disbursements in
FY1974 were about $40 million and during the current fiscal year, are ex-
pected to be $53 million. Disbursements are expected to increase substantially
over the next few years due the rapid drawdown against the remaining highway,
port and power loans. Thereafter, the rate of disbursement will reflect the
relatively slow disbursing nature of agriculture and education projects which
will then be the main components of our portfolio. The execution of projects
has generally been satisfactory. Annex II contains a summary statement of
Bank loans and IFC investments and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
13.       Bank activities since 1970 have generally been aimed at assisting
Nigeria in the following three broad areas: (a) reconstruction and reha-
bilitation of the economy after the civil war; (b) institution-building in
the public sector; and (c) extensive economic, sector and project preparation
work. A basic economic mission and agriculture, education and transportation
sector missions have visited Nigeria during this period, and extensive assist-
ance has been provided to the State Governments in identifying and preparing
projects designed to raise the production and incomes of small farmers.



-7-
14.       The agricultural sector is the main focus of the Bank's current
activities in Nigeria. The proposed project supports the Federal Goverlnment's
development objectives of investing oil revenues to promote rural development
for the benefit of the bulk of the population. These objectives are reflected
in the Third National Development Plan under which direct investment in
agriculture, though still relatively small, represents a seven-fold increase
over the previous Plan's allocation. Bank lending over the next two or three
years is likely to be restricted to a limited number of projects where the
Bank's presence will contribute to the efficiency of investment in high
priority sectors, particularly projects that will benefit the rural and urban
poor.
15.       Negotlations for loann foz an irrigation project in Kano State and
for smallholder rubber development in Mid-Western State have recently been
concluded.  Preparation work on two rural development projects in the Beneu
Plateau and Kwara States, similar to the three Northern Projects approved
in December 1974, is underway. A project for the development of small-scale
industries has been appraised and preparation work for two water supply
projects have been undertaken. However, the Federal and State Governments
involved have not yet decided if they will seek Bank financing for the water
supply projects. No further lending is presently envisaged for highways,
power or education, which were important areas of Bank Group involvement in
the past; however, the Bank will continue to provide technical assistance
in these sectors through the supervision of ongoing projects.
16.       Early in 1973, the Bank agreed on a 50/50 cost-sharing formula for
agricultural projects, and the three oil palm projects under consideration
today are the last of the projects covered by that arrangement. In the light
of Nigeria's dramatically improved financial situation, discussions have been
initiated with the Federal Government with a view to reducing the extent of
Bank participation in cost sharing on future projects, and in particular to
eliminating Bank financing of local expenditures.
PART III - AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT IN NIGERIA
17.       Agriculture, including livestock, fisheries and forestry is by
far the most important source of output and employment: in 1971/72 it
contributed about $4 billion or 46 percent of the country's gross domestic
product and about 70 percent of the labor force is estimated to be employed
in this sector.
18.       Nigerian agriculture is primarily domestic market oriented.    Nearly
90 percent of her production - comprising all staple food crops and animal
products, most palm oil and cotton, and a substantial part of groundnuts -
is consumed within the country. Nigeria is nearly self-sufficient in foods.
In 1971-72, total imports of food and beverages - of which meat, milk and
sugar are the main items - were of the order of $145 million or less than
5 percent of estimated total food consumption. Exports of agricultural



products in 1971-72 were valuedi at '$2,;5 m,ilion.  Until the mid-sixties  they
were the dom,nant element in Nigeria', export trade, but have since beer. over-
taken by crude oil.  Even so, they are scLi 1 ' a zigni-ficant source of foreign
exchange and accourat for the bulk uf t.e non-oil exports.
19.       Nigeria can be divided into three major agricultural and ecolog-
ical zones; a southern wet forest zone comprising the Western, Mid-Western,
East-Central, South-Eastern and Rivers States, characterized by high rain-
fall and a tropical climate and growing aainly perennial tree crops, namely
cocoa, rubber and oil palm; a central dry forest zone known as the middle belt
embracing the whcle of Kwara State, Benue Plateau, the southern parts of
North-Western, North-Central and Worth-Eastern States which 's underpopulated
and tsetse infested, but has a high potential for annual food crops and live-
stock; and a northern zone which, being free from tsetse has a high population
density and a fairly intensive and developed systen of agriculture.   This area
covers about 50 percent of the country, and in. ad6ition to supporting most of
Nigeria's cattle population, also produces most of her cereals, beans, ground-
nuts and cotton.
20.       Land holdings are typically small.  Tne average farmed area per
holding for the country as; a whole is estimated to be leGs than three
acres. In some of the more densely populated areas of the south, the
average is less than one acre. There are few farm families with more than
25 acres of cultivated area.  Farmers follow for the most oart traditional
techniques of which bush f'alloving and mixed cropping are characteristic
features. The practice of bush ftallowing is essentially a device to main-
tain soil fertility. Mixed cropping permits farmers to get more output
per acre with smaller risks of crop failure.   However5 since improved seed,
fertilizers and other elements of modern technology are used on a very
limited scale, average yields are still Low.   Small holdings and poor produc-
tivity explain the relatively low level of income in the agr!cultural sector.
There are also considerable disparities in the distribution of land and
incomes both between and within regions.
21.       While reliable data are lacking, it is believed that agricultural
production since the early sixties has been growing only slightly faster
than population. Agriculture has certainly been growing much slower than
other sectors, and as a result, its share in-GDP has been declining. The
relative sluggishness of agriculture is largely attributable to the exist-
ing low level of agricultuiral tech-nology. The disruption of production in
the eastern states during the civil war was an aggravating factor. Since
then, the recovery has been hampered by short-term factors such as drought
in parts of the north in 1972-73 and 1973-74, but, more particularly, by
a number of underlying long-term influences. Some of the most important
factors among these are the rising age-profile of tree crops, technical and
other constraints to accelerated food crop production, e.g., the lack of
improved crop varieties and adequate credit facilities to finance the pur-
chase of modern farm inputs. Imports of food, though still small, have



-9
risen from around $70 million in 1965-66 to $145 million in 1972. The slow
growth of production has also affected exports. Cocoa and rubber exports
have remained stagnant in recent years. Palm oil exports have dwindled to
negligible amounts and palm kernel exports are stagnating at well below
pre-war levels. Groundnut exports in 1972 were some 80 percent below the
1965 level and were even lower in 1973 because of the drought in the north.
In addition the availability of groundnuts for export has been affected by
substitution of groundnut for palm oil in domestic consumption and the rela-
tively better price offered to farmers by private traders. Cotton, once
a major export, is now fully utilized by the local textile industry and local
supply cannot meet demand.
22.       A vigorous effort to step-up the growth of agricultural and live-
stock production is essential for viable development of the economy. The
demand for agricultural products is growing rapidly. On a rough estimate,
the resources generated by the oil sector would be adequate to sustain a
growth rate of over 9 percent per annum in real terms over the next decade.
This will generate a 6 percent average annual increase in domestic demand
for farm products. Unless the rate of agricultural growth is accelerated,
the economy faces the prospect of large and increasing food imports. More
importantly, continued slow growth of agricultural production implies a
slow improvement in the living conditions of the mass of the population with
the attendant risks of further aggravation of rural-urban disparities.
23.       Nigeria has vast unexploited potential for increasing agricultural
production. The productivity of practically all segments of agriculture -
food, export crops, and livestock - are far below levels attainable with
modern farming methods. In addition there are extensive areas of good agri-
cultural and grazing land which, if developed along scientific lines, could
greatly increase production. While improved varieties and techniques adapted
to local conditions are not available for all crops and regions, much can be
done on the basis of existing knowledge. Significant improvements in pro-
ductivity of many of the major export and cereal crops have been demonstrated
to be technically and economically feasible. The main constraints are organi-
zational and institutional: until recently Government efforts to help the
farmers to learn and apply the known techniques for raising production have
not been on a scale commensurate with needs and possibilities. Extension
services in many states are poorly staffed, credit and marketing institutions
are few, planning is weak and the expertise needed to implement successfully
major agricultural and other rural development projects is in short supply.
There are also complex social and institutional problems to be overcome before
the land potential, including the resources of the middle belt, can be effec-
tively exploited, and the livestock industry organized along modern lines.
24.       The Federal and State Governments are conscious of the need for
greater attention to agriculture and of the impediments to be overcome before
significant progress can be achieved. Several major new programs initiated
within the last year or two bear witness to a heightened Government concern



- 10 -
for and interest in agricultural development. These include the creation of
the Nigerian Agricultural Bank, the launching of an accelerated food produc-
tion program, larger and better organized projects for replanting/planting of
tree crops and integrated agricultural development projects in different
parts of the country. At the request of the Government, the Bank has actively
assisted in the preparation of many of these projects. The Bank economic
mission in 1973 made an overall survey of the potential and prospects for
food production. Agriculture and rural development generally are of crucial
importance to Nigeria's long-term growth, and the Bank plans to continue
assisting Nigeria in preparing and implementing projects in this area.
25.       Oil palm grows throughout southern Nigeria but the center of palm
oil production is the three eastern states. Approximately 90 percent of pro-
duction is from semi-wild palm groves operated by smallholders. These groves
cover about 2.5 million ha and produce around 2.5 tons of fresh fruit bunches
(ffb) per ha which yield about 200 to 225 kg of palm oil and around 135 kg of
kernels. Total Nigerian production is estimated at about 550,000 to11s of oil
and 300,000 tons of kernels. Exports of palm oil, which were valued at N22
million in 1966, are now being displaced by domestic demand. Palm oil is
widely used in direct domestic consumption by millions of Nigerians with
annual per capita consumption estimated to be around 8 kg. Demand projections
indicate that domestic consumption could reach 825,000 tons by 1985 and thus
require production of an additional 275,000 tons per annum by that time if
Nigeria is to avoid importing palm oil. About 125,000 ha of new plantings of
high yielding oil palms would be needed to meet the projected shortfall. The
three oil palm projects in Western, Mid-Western, and East-Central States pre-
sently before you would produce about 100,000 tons of palm oil when at full
maturity in 1990.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
26.       A Report entitled "Appraisal of Nucleus Estate/Smallholder Oil
Palm Project - Mid-Western State, Nigeria" dated March     , 1975 (No. 497a-UNI)
is being distributed separately. A loan and project summary is attached as
Annex III.
27.       The proposed project was identified by a Bank mission in November,
1972 and was subsequently prepared by a Bank mission in March, 1973. The
project was appraised in November/December, 1973. Negotiations were conducted
in Washington in October 1974. The Nigerian delegation was led by Mr. T.
P. Enodien, Principal Assistant Secretary, Federal Ministry of Finance. The
delay in submitting the project for your consideration is largely due to the
delay in the approval of the draft loan documents bv the Federal and State
Government.
Project Description
28.       There are two project areas, namely:



- 11 -
(i) The Sapele area which consists of: (a) the site for an oil
palm estate of 2,800 ha at Mosogar; (b) a zone suitable for
smallholder oil palm planting lying north of the Ethiope
River; and (c) the existing OPC Estate at Ajagbodudu.
(ii) The Agbor area which consists of (a) the site for an oil
palm estate of 2,800 ha northwest of Nsukwa and (b) a zone
suitable for smallholder oil palm planting lying west and
southwest of the estate.
29.       The proposed loan would assist Nigeria's Mid-Western State Govern-
ment to finance the new planting/replanting of about 8,000 ha of estates and
8,000 ha of smallholdings as Phase I of a program ultimately scheduled to
plant about 24,000 ha of oil palm during the period 1975 through 1986 of
which 16,000 ha would be smallholdings.
30.       The project would be carried out over a nine-year period (1975 through
1983) and would involve:
Smallholders
(a) creating an oil palm division and two regional units within
the Ministry of Agriculture's Tree Crop Unit (TCU) which
was established under the Second Cocoa Project (Loan 1045)
to manage the State's tree crop smallholder planting programs;
(b) new planting/replanting about 8,000 ha of oil palm smallholdings;
(c) improving about 299 km of earth roads to facilitate all-weather
collection of fresh fruit bunches (ffb) from smallholders;
(d) operating a grant/credit scheme for smallholders;
(e) training staff and farmers at selected institutions and
through in-service courses;
Estates
(f) new planting/replanting about 8,000 ha of nucleus estates
operated by the Oil Palm Company (OPC) a limited liability
company registered in April, 1972 with its shares owned
by the State Government or Government nominees;
(g) the construction of two palm oil mills by OPC to process
the total production from the estates and the smallholders;
(h) establishing a fruit collection system to be operated by
OPC for estate and smallholder production;



- 12
Evaluation and Research
(i)  establishing under the Federal Department of Agriculture
a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (MEU) responsible for
supervising Federal Government's agricultural development
programs.
(j) initiating field studies of small scale ffb processing for
wild palm grove production.
Project Execution
31.       A summary showing the expected scheduling of project planting is
as follows:
1976   1977   1978    1979   1980   1981   1982     Total
---- (in hectares) --------------------…--
Estates         800    1200   1600   2000    640    800     800     7840
Smallholders    800    1200   1600   2000   2400      -       -     8000
1600   2400   3200   4000    3040    800    800    15840
Smallholders
32.       The smallholder new planting/replanting program would be imaplemented
by the Oil Palm Division of the Tree Crop Unit (TCU). The Oil Palm Division
would have two regional units located at Sapele and Agbor which would be
responsible for appraising credit applications and upervising the technical
and financial services involved in the field establishment and post maturity
stages. TCU would have a high degree of financial and administrative autonomy
and would report to the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (M4ANR).
A Steering Committee chaired by the Permanent Secretary of MANR and comprising
representatives of relevant government agencies would be responsible for
determining TCU policy and approving development operations, programs and
budgets.
33.       TCU and its Oil Palm Division would be staffed with personnel either
seconded from MANR or recruited elsewhere in Nigeria. However international
recruitment may be necessary for certain senior managerial posts in the absence
of suitably qualified Nigerian staff.
34.       Producer prices for palm oil destined for the export market have
been maintained well below world prices since the Second World War, and
Marketing Board surpluses generated in this way have been used in other sectors
of the economy. Consequently, until the very recent disappearance of palm
oil surplus to domestic needs there has been very little incentive for farmers
to plant even high yielding improved oil palms, and the industry has stagnated.
In the early 1960s an oil palm rehabilitation scheme was introduced in the
Eastern Region (now East-Central, Rivers, and South-Eastern States) ander



- 1 3 -
which the problem of incentives was overcome by providing smallholders with
grants consisting of cash payments, planting material and other farm inputs
for new planting/replanting oil palm. Under the project grants in kind as well
as credits in cash would be provided to farmers. Although oil palm prices are
now much higher, the Federal Government believes it is necessary to continue to
provide producers with such special incentive as grants in order to induce them
to participate in planting/replanting, eSpecially as oil palms take nearly four
years to come into bearing and produce revenue.
35.       The smallholder grant/credit sc:heme would be restricted to a minimum
of 1 ha per farmer (the smallest unit that is considered practical to administer
under the project) and a maximum of 10 ha per farmer, which is the maximum
that an extented family could cultivate without hiring labor. Of the total
grant/credit package offered by the project, almost two-thirds would be given
as grant and the balance as loan; the grant/credit would cover over 80 percent
of estimated total establishment costs, the remainder being provided by
smallholders in the form of labor and hand tools.
36.       The total costs of clearing, planting and maintaining oil palms
until they come into production four years later are estimated in constant
1974 terms at about N 330/ha. TCU would distribute:
(a) as a grant in kind: palm seedlings, cover crop seed, wire
netting, fertilizer and chemicals to a value of about
N 170 ha; and
(b) as credit, in cash: N 100/ha to meet labor costs. The
credit would bear interest of 9-1/2 percent per annum,
have a term of 13 years with 7 years of grace during which
interest would be capitalized.
The smallholder would contribute the balance of about N 60/ha in the form
of his family labor and hand tools.
37.       Participating smallholders would be required to be members of a
registered cooperative society. The Federal Government with the assistance
of FAO is instituting a major program for the development of farmers' co-
operatives. In view of this there should be no problem in finding sufficient
numbers of farmers prepared to participate who are members of registered
cooperatives. The cooperative societies would be used as the media for
channelling credit to and recovering credit repayments from farmers. Addi-
tionally the societies would (a) guarantee loans made to their members and
(b) represent smallholders' interests on various project committees including
the TCU Steering Committee, the Planting Authorization Committee and the
Price Policy Committee.
38.       TCU staff would appraise applicants for technical suitability and
would assess their creditworthiness after consultation with the cooperative
society concerned. All applications would be reviewed and approved by a



- 14 -
Planting Authorization Committee (PAC) comprising TCU's General Manager as
Chairman, the Controller of Field Operations, the Controller of Finance and
a representative of the cooperative societies.
39.       Each successftul applicant would complete and sign a tripartite
sub-loan agreement in a form and with terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank, setting out the amount, terms, conditions and schedule of loan
repayments and including an undertaking by the smallholder to sell his fresh
fruit bunches (ffb) to a central processing mill. Monthly credit repayment
would be calculated on the basis of a fixed amount per ha and would be by
deductions from the proceeds of each farmer's sales to the mill.
Estates
40.       The estate component of the project would be carried out by the OPC
and comprises the establislhment of two new estates of 2,800 ha each at Nsukwa
and Mosogar over the four years 1976-79 and the replanting of 2,240 ha on the
existing OPC Estate at Ajagbodudu. Linking a nucleus estate with smallholder
development offers advantages in the spheres of employment, extension, and
processing. All smallholdings would be within a maximum 25 km range from the
palm oil mills which would process their proudction. The employment opportunities
on the nucleus estates would provide a regular source of income for members of
the surrounding smallholder community. The technical experience gained by
members of the smallholder community worKing in the estates -- under well
supervised conditions -- should, through the process of diffusion, serve as
a valuable extension factor in the smallholder planting component of the proj-
ect.  To attain the high level of efficiency possible in a large central mill,
a continuous and adequate supply of ffb is needed. With regular supplies from
a nucleus estate, the risk of large variations in mill throughput due to fluc-
tuations in output from smallholdings would be considerably reduced.
41.       At full maturity in 1990 annual smallholder production of ffb would
be about 80,000 metric tons and production from Ajagbodudu, Mosogar and
Nsukwa estates is expected to be about 107,000 metric tones. Until 1981,
production from OPC estate at Ajagbodudu and other project plantings would be
processed at the existing mill in that area. Since the capacity of this mill
cannot be expanded, and its life is limited, two new mills would be constructed
to process production from 1982 onwards and would be located at the Mosogar
and Nsukwa areas respectively. It would be a condition of loan disbursement
for investment in the mills and fruit collection system that confirmation had
been received from TCU and the Tree Crop section of MEU that OPC's mill develop-
ment proposals satisfy project requirements. OPC would be responsible for the
establishment and operation of the oil mills and the fruit collection system.
42.       Under the Federal Department of Agriculture (FDA) which is a depart-
ment of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (FMANR),
a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (MEU) would be established to strengthen the
Ministry's capability of monitoring and evaluating the extensive agricultural
development programs that are being planned and financed by the Federal Govern-
ment. The MEU would be primarily concerned with: (a) the financial and



- 15 -
technical monitoring of on-going projects; (b) evaluating their financial,
economic, and socio-economic impact; and (c) providing assistance in the
planning and preparation of future development program. The main tree crop
projects involve cocoa, oil palm, and rubber and Benin City in the Mid-Western
State would be a suitable base for staff concerned with monitoring these
projects. Within one year of the commencement of the project, a team of
specialists would be recruited to form the Tree Crop Section of the Monitoring
and Evaluation Unit.
Evaluation and Research
43.       Continuous evaluation of the economic and socio-economic impact of
the tree crop projects would be carried out by MEU in conjunction with insti-
tutions such as the Nigerian Institute for Social and Economic Research (NISER).
In addition to measuring the financial/economic benefits accruing to partici-
pating farmers and oil palm companies, assessments would be made also of such
factors as changes in employment levels, business activity, consumption
patterns, and participation in education as well as other economic and socio-
economic indicators of community well-being.
44.       As wild palm groves will continue to be a major source of Nigeria's
palm oil for many years, and currently primitive and inefficient methods are
employed, there is an urgent need to examine ways of improving the extrac-
tion of oil and kernels from this source. Field studies of small-scale
processing systems geared to meet the requirements of wild grove production
would be initiated under the project. These studies would be implemented
by the existing Nigerian Institute for Oil Palm Research (NIFOR)/UNDP team.
Additional equipment would be provided to NIFOR under the proposed loan to
enable it to undertake the training functions allotted to it under the
project.
Project Costs
45.       Project costs over the nine-year development period (1975-1983) are
estimated at US$58.8 million of which the foreign exchange component would
be US$21.7 million. Details of project costs are given in Annex III. Project
costs include physical contingencies of 12 percent of the cost of civil
works for the oil mills and 5 percent of all other costs. Price contingencies
allow for: compounded increase in the cost of (a) civil works, buildings,
and houses, of 18 percent in 1974, 15 percent in 1975, and 12 percent annually
thereafter; (b) vehicles, office and mill equipment and non-labor farm inputs
of 14 percent in 1974, 11 percent in 1975 and 7-1/2 percent annually there-
after; and (c) other items -- labor, salaries, operating costs and consultancy
services and training -- of 7 percent annually. Contingencies amount to
US$24.6 million equivalent to 72 percent of base costs or 42 percent of total
project costs. It is recommended that the Bank finance 50 percent of total
project costs which would be equivalent the entire foreign exchange costs
(US$21.7 million) and about US$7.8 million of local costs (see following
paragraph). The loan would be for a period of 20 years, including a five-
year grace period for repayment of principal. From the Bank loan, US$24.9
million would be onlent to the State Government and the conclusion of a
subsidiary loan agreement for this purpose on terms and conditions acceptable



- 16 -
to the the Bank would be a condition of loan effectiveness. The balance
(US$4.6 million)would be used by the Federal Government to fund the Tree Crop
Section of MEU and the NIFOR Field Studies and equipment. The remaining
project costs would be financedl by the Federal Government (US$4.6 million),
the Nigerian Agricultural Bank (NAB) (US$7.7 million), the State Government
(US$15.9 million), and smallhoLders (US$1.1 million).   A summary of the
proposed financing plan including contingencies for the project is as follows:
Summary of Financing Plan
Tot:al  IBRD   FMG     NAB    State    Farmer
-------- US$ million               ----------
Field Establishment of SmallhoLders      6.5    4.0                   1.4       1.1
TCU                                      5.9    2.4                   3.5
OPC Program                             37.2   18.5           7.7    11.0
Monitoring and Evaluation                8.4    4.2    4.2
NIFOR Field Studies                      0.8    0.4    0.4
Total                              58.8   29.5   4.6     7.7    15.9       1.1
100%    50%    8%     13%     27%        2%
46.       The proposed financing of some local currency expenditures under this
loan derives from the understanding reached with the Nigerian Government in 1973
that under the circumstances then prevailing, it would be appropriate for the
Bank to finance up to 50 percent of the cost of agricultural projects. However,
as explained in paragraph 16 above, new cost-sharing arrangements adapted to
Nigeria's new economic and financial circumstances are now under discussion
with the Nigerian Government and future loans are not expected to incorporate
provision for local expenditure financing.
47.       NAB has already lent US$7.7 million to OPC at 5 percent to initiate
the latter's estate development program. The Mid-Western State Government
would onlend part of the Bank loan (US$18.5 million) and its own contribution
(US$11.0 million) to OPC at an interest rate not less than that paid by the
Borrower, for a period of 20 years including nine years grace for payment of
principal. The State Government would use the remainder of the Bank loan
(US$6.4 million) and its own contribution (US$4.9 million) to finance TCU
(US$5.9 million) and the program of grant (US$3.4 million) and credits (US$2.0
million) to smallholders. Credits made to smallholders would be channeled
through the cooperatives which in consideration for their guaranteeing small-
holders' loans would receive a 2 percent interest spread. Sub-loans to coopera-
tives would be for a term of 13 years including a seven-year grace period at an
interest rate of 7-1/2%percent. Credit to smallholders would be for a term of
13 years including a seven-year grace period at an interest rate of 9-1/2 percent.
Retroactive financing of US$100,000 is proposed to cover the cost of the estab-
lishment of nurseries and appointment of key personnel with effect from November
1, 1974.



- 17 -
Markets
48.       Historical trends and the projected growth of supply and demand for
palm oil in Nigeria indicate that by 1985, and without the introduction of an
oil palm development program, there would be a shortfall of around 275,000
tons of palm oil required for domestic consumption. The proposed project is
aimed at reducing this shortfall and project produced palm oil should find a
ready market within Nigeria.
49.       The Mid-Western State Marketing Board is authorized, under current
legislation, to purchase all palm oil and kernels offered for sale. As the
Marketing Board functioned in the past as much as a taxation mechanism as a
price stabilization agency, it has jealously guarded its rights to purchase
palm oil surplus to domestic needs. In particular it has tended to treat
the production of oil palm estates as being in the latter category. In recent
years, however, it has permitted estates to sell oil on the domestic market
although it would appear to retain the power to purchase their oil. Given
this situation an assurance was obtained during negotiations that OPC would
be permitted to sell its palm oil freely on the domestic market in order to
ensure that OPC and the Smallholders would receive the full market value of
their production.
Procurement
50.       Vehicles, fertilizers, insecticides, polybags, tools, and wire
netting valued at about US$4.3 million would be procured through international
competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank guidelines except for
individual contracts of less than US$25,000. The oil mills - civil works
and equipment - valued at about US$8.4 million would be procured through a
single responsibility contract through ICB in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Contracts for buildings, office equipment, and some road improvements such
as bridges valued at about US$1.7 million are not suitable for international
competitive bidding because of their size and location. Contracts for buildings
and bridges would by procured through competitive bidding advertised locally
and in accordance with local procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank.
Contracts under US$25,000 and for office equipment would be procured after
inviting quotations from at least three suppliers. A major part of project
costs would be for smallholder labor, salaries, training and the operating
expenses of TCU, valued at about US$5.5 million, and for estate labor, land
acquisition, salaries and operating expenses of OPC's project estates valued
at about US$7.8 million, none of which would be suitable for any form of
competitive bidding. Road construction valued at US$0.2 million would be
done by force account. For the Tree Crop Section of MEU only contracts for
building and equipment valued at US$0.3 million are suitable for competitive
bidding advertised locally and in accordance with local procedures which are
acceptable to the Bank since the remaining costs valued at US$5.3 million
are for salaries, operating expenses and consultancy services, none of which
is suitable for competitive bidding. Similarly, equipment for the small
scale processing trials is not suitable for competitive bidding since different
types of processing machinery must be tested and this equipment valued at



- 18 -
US$0.5 million and equipment for NIFOR's training center valued at US$0.1
million would be procured through negotiated contracts. The services of
expatriate staff and consultants would be obtained on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank. Domestically manufactured goods would be allowed a
15% preference or the applicable import duties whichever is lower when
comparing bids with those of foreign manufacturers and a 7.5% preference
for domestic civil works contractors would apply.
Disbursement
51.       The proceeds of the Bank loan (US$29.5 million) would be disbursed
over nine years (1975-1983) to cover 50 percent of total project costs and
would be expended against the following categories:
(a) 75 percent of the grant/credit system totalling US$2.4 million;
(b)  40 percent of TCU's costs, totalling US$1.6 million;
(c) 50 percent of the costs of OPC's estate development totalling
US$5.4 million;
(d) 50 percent of OPC's investment in the oil palm mills and
fruit collection system totalling US$4.6 million;
(e) 50 percent of the cost of the Tree Crop Section of MEU,
totalling US$2.8 million;
(f) 50 percent of the costs of the field studies for small-
scale processing, and equipment needed at NIFOR training
center, totalling US$0.3 million; and at
(g)  an unallocated amount of US$12.4 million to cover physical
and price contingencies.
Disbursement of the Bank loan would be against import documentation, contracts
and certified records of expencliture.
Economic Rate of Return and Benefits
52.       The economic rate of return from investment in the project is
estimated at 18.2 percent for the smallholder component and 17.3 percent for
the estate component of the project.
53.       The project's principal direct benefit would be the incremental
increase in palm oil and kernel production estimated at 38,400 tons and 8,700
tons respectively, annually at maturity in 1990 and thereafter. The gross
return (in constant 1974 terms) from 2 ha would start at N 70.0 in the first
year of production (Year 4), rising to N 298.0 during the farmer's loan repay-
ment period *Years 7 - 12) and thereafter would average about N 370.0 in maturity.
These returns compare favorably with those obtainable from alternative tree or



- 19 -
or food crops, even where improved management and planting material are used.
After establishment a 2-ha planting would require between 50 and 70 mandays
a year for maintenance and harvesting, and gross returns per manday would rise
rapidly from N 1.3 in the year of first production (Year 4) to an average of
N 4.5 during Years 7-12 of loan repayment and N 6.2 thereafter. At full
maturity the estates would provide full employment for 900 workers; based
on an average holding of 2 ha, 4,000 farmers would benefit and, assuming an
average family size of 6 - 7, some 32,000 people in all would benefit from
the project. The project would generate some 12,900 man years of employment
during the development period. Some of the more important secondary benefits
that would accrue from the project are: (a) it would demonstrate the feasi-
bility of a well-supervised agricultural credit scheme; (b) it would form
and strengthen an agricultural extension service which would be able to handle
further phases of the oil palm program or use its experience for diversifica-
tion in other crops; (c) the cooperatives would be strengthened, both organiza-
tionally through their participation in the project as well as financially
through the interest spread; (d) the institutional framework established
under the project should ultimately facilitate the provision of credit not
only for oil palm planting but also for other crops grown by participating
farmers and their neighbors; (e) the improvement of roads under the project
would benefit both farmers and the farming community in general and induce
such secondary effects as a greater volume of public transportation, easier
access for farm products to markets, greater availability of goods and services
to the project area and a possible lowering of transport costs.
Risks
54.       Any agricultural project dealing mainly with smallholders, the
success of which would depend largely on adequate rainfall as well as the
timely control of a number of husbandry operations, involves risks. However,
it is believed that the project would minimize such risks, given the provision
of competent management and intensive field supervision. No serious ecological
risks are envisaged though the possibility would be closely monitored and the
necessary corrective actions taken.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS
55.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federal Republic of Nigeria
and the Bank and the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Mid-
Western State of Nigeria, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 6 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement, and the text of a Resolu-
tion approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
56.       Conditions of effectiveness of the loan would be that:



- 20 -
(a) OPC had taken possession under a 99-year lease of all lands
acquired by the State for conveyance to OPC to enable it to
develop the project estates;
(b) subsidiary loan agreements acceptable to the Bank had been
singed between FMG and the State Government, and the State
Government and OPC; and
(c) the State Government had established and funded a project
account.
and are reflected in Section 7.01 of Article VII of the Loan Agreement.
57.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Article
of Agreement of the Bank.
PARr VI - RECOMMENDATION
58.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 3 pages
COUNTRY DATA - NIGERIA
ARUA                                             POPULATION                                 ONNSI'f
923,760   kmi                                      69.52  rflioo <mid-1972)
215     Fer km2of arable land
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Reference Countries
Niiteri a               Psk ist-    Ghma        bxicof
rV01970                IM          IN           lf
ONP PER CAPITA US$ (ATLAS BASIS) e                                           130 /a          130 I.       300 /a:     750 L
DE]MOGRAPHIC
Crude birth rats (per thousand)                          53-57              50       L      51 b         47          45 bS  a
Crude death rate (per thousand)                                             25 /c           16 c d       1    a.e    9  Ie
Inrent sortality rate (par thouand live births)                             25.            ..i
Life eapeotaeoy at birth (years)                            37              60 /L           b9           b7 /        61a
Oroes reproductioo rate /2                                 ..              3.3             3.7/b        3.2
Populattee growth rate                                     2.2             2-5/i           3.2/4        2.6/i       3.1
Population growth rate - urban                              11 /h.,        25/            63   5  27                3.5
Age sruclure (percent)
018-                                                     b3              45              45 I1 4S/     7          b6 /
15-6                                                      55              53
65 nd over                                                 2/i             2         T3
Age depe-dency ratio /i.                                   0.8 7iW         0.9 0j 0.9                   l.o 10.
Econonjo depannency ratio /6                               0.8 77          1.3             1.6          1.6         2.0
Urban Popelation an perceot of total                        16 /i.n         23 /ij          28 /k        32 a        60 /n
Family planning   t Noe of a..eptors numalative (thoe.)                                                  11
No. of userr (% of earried women)                         ..              .              2 ,
EMPLODtBNT
Total labor f.ro- (thon-sodo)                           18,300 In       22,500 La       18,000 /v     3,500 h,   13,000
Percentage employed in agriculture                        71 7s 67                        56 7i        55          4 60
Pereo-tage onemployed                                    *-              *-                2                        L ..  b
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
percent of natj .. inmore rceivoed by higheet 5%                                                                     36 /c.r
Percent of notional loner reeeived by bighest 20%          ..              ..              ..           ..           6b
Peroent of national income reneived by lowest 20%          ..
Percent of national incoe received by lowest b0%          ..
MSTRIBUTION OF LAND OdRSHIP                                                                                               gr
S owned by top lOS of ownora
% olied by amalleat 10% of ownere
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
Fbpulation per physinion                                52,000 Is       20,530 /t        3,800 /t    12,950 /t    1,66O
Populatioo per nureing person                            6 ,LO -b        6 220 7         7,650   t I  1,070 /j    1,570
Popllation Per hospital bed                              17660 7         1,650           1,660 :        760         930
Per napita calorie supply as S of reqoiremants /           103 /            97              99           92         llo
Par capita protein sopply, total (grams per d1y 66 /                        60              59           66          65
Of which, animal  d pulmse                                17 /5           16              6lb         10 5        26
Death rate 1-6 years /7                                                                                              11 lb . d  1.  2
EWCATION
AdJuated /8 Primary school enrollment ratio                 37              36              66 /4!,      89         106
AdJusted 7R senoodary school enrollment ratio                3               6              16 Lat        5          23
Tears of sehooliog provided, first and second level        6lb              1               10 l,a       15          12
Vocational enrollment as S of eec. school enrollment         5               8               1           23          26
Adult literacy rats %                                                                                                8b. 6 L.
80USINO
Average No. of persona per room (urban)                    3.0   C         ..              ..           ..          2.2 aso
Percent of Occupied units without piped water                                                                        61 7E,aJ
Accens to electricity (as % of total population)            60 /ao.ad                                    17          59   L
Percent Of tural pepulatimo connected to eleotricity                                                     1759a
CONSUMPTIONL
Radi    reivers per lOOO population                          b              27 /a           lb/           5 L       301 /a
Passenger care per 1000 population                         0.7               2  a            2   j        b          28
Electric power consumption (kwh p.c.)                       11              37  a          136 /a,      368 /       662   a
Newsprint consuMptior p.c. kg per year                     0.1             0.3            103           0.6 /        .6
Notes, Figures refer either to the latest periode or to           account of eovironntel *eaiP reture, body weights, nd
the latest years. Latest periods refer in principle to            distribution by age and see of national populations.
the years 1956-60 or 1966-70; the latest years in prin-       A   Protein standards (requirements) for all eoutries as estab-
ciple to 1960 and 1970.                                           lished by USDA Econorio Renearob Servio provide for a minin
/   The Per Capita GSP eastimate is 5t mrket prices for           allowance of 60 grama of total protein per day, *na 20 gram of
yrers other than 160,ocalculated by the -ane conversion        nimal and pulee protein, of which 10 grams should be aisal
technique as the 1972 World Bank Atlas.                       protein. Thewe stadards are soewhbt losw   than those of 75
/2 Average number of daughters per woman of reproductive          grams of total protein end 23 grams of anieal protein as an
age,                                                          average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
a   Population growth rates are for the decade. ending in         Survey.
1960 and 1970.                                            /7 Sose studiesa have suggested that crude death rates of children
A   Ratio of population under 15 ad 65 end over to popul-          ag&s 1 through 4 may bs ueed as a first approximation index of
tim of ages 15-66 for age dependency ratio and to labor       ealnc,trition.
force of ages 15-64 for economic dependency ratio.         IS Pereentage enrolled of corresponding population of school age
£   FAO reference stadards repreaent pbysiological re-             as defined for each sountry.
quirerents for normal activity ad health, taking
a    1972;    b  1952-53;  /L   1965-70 UN estieate;   Ld  Including Bangladesh;   /e  Registered only;   If  1973;
1960-72;   /h 1953-63;    a   Definition not available;   a,  Estimate;   /k Over 5,000 inhabitants, also a fea areas
having urban characteristics but fewer than 5,000 population ;  a   Towns with a population of 5,000 and over;   /m  Local-
ities of 2,500 or more;   L   1963;   Lo Including overage students;    /P FAO entimate;    /5  1969;   4r  Hoteholda;
/a   1962;   A   Number on the regiater, not all working in the country;       I Includes ex-North Cameroon;  La 1971;
1966-68;       /x One through five;    IL  1966;   La  Six through ten;   /5   Up to matriculate (10th grade);   /5b 1964-66;
6i 1%-       /d   Percentage of urban dwellings;   /..  Data refer to howing units;    l     1968-69;  La   Data relate to
electricity generated, include station we and transaission losses;    /&h FPgure does not include iroorta by land;
/ai  15 years and over;   /aj Inside only.
Mexico has bran selected as an objective country because its per capita incose, in the early 1970's, is about twice
Nigeriaa projected per capita incomn, in the rid-1960's at 1971 pricea. Also, Mexico's present level of development
is a realistic target for Nigeria through the remainder of this century.
R3 Hey 2, 1975



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 3
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1973/74                                     ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant 1962/63 Drices)
US $ Mln.       7%                        196566-1973114         1972/73       1973/7
GNP at Market Prices         12607           100.0                           6.3                 7-3          9.5
Gross Domestic Investment     2654            21.1                           9.9                -6.0          8.9
Gross National Saving         2753            21.8                           -7.8               29.5         25.7
Current Account Balance        -99            -0.7
Exports of Goods, NFS         3502            27.8                          13.2                 4.4          8.5
Imports of Goods, NFS         2481            19.7                          12.4                -4.o         18.8
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1970/71                                                        Y
Value Added                          Labor Force                    V. A. Per Worker
US $ Mln.      %                      Mln.        %                     US $         %
Agriculture                  3303          L8                     16.8        70                    197           69
Industry                     1690          25                      3.1       13 75i5                            190
Services                     1895          27                      4.1        17                    462         161
Unallocated                                        .          .
Total/Average           68888       100.0                    24.O      100.0                  287         100.O
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                            Central Government
(Naira Mln.)         % of GDP                 ( Naira Mln.)        % of GDP
1972/733      T972/797o971-1972/23             1972/73      I     3~1970/7  -1972/73
Current Receipts    2/                 1512.5         19.7          18.4               1067.3        13.9       12.4
Current Expenditured                   1112.9         14.5          1.4                 663.2         8.6         8.1
Current Surplus                         399.6                           5.2-3b
Capital Expenditures                    552.7           7.2          5.3                259.2         3.4         2.3
External Assistance (net)                  29            .                                 29
1/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to the sector of their normal occupation.
2/ Includes capital expenditures for defense.



AUNE I
page 3 of 3
September
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                    1969         1970       1971        1972        A2 721973          1974
(Million Naiamoutstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                    667.7       984.2      1046.5      1208.5      151.2.7  1353.6    2287.3
Bank Credit to Public Sector             523.0       710.6       573.0       593.7       509.4    723.0     747.6
Bank Credit to Private Sector             327.1      478.1       592.9       757         853.6     717.7    893.1
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Mone-' as % of ODP         19.6        18.3        15.0       17.1         18.5
General Price Index (1970 - 10Oo)          87.8      100.0       116.1       119.3       126.5    124.61/   140.
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                           .       13.8        16.1         2.8         6.0        .
Bank credit to Public Sector                  .       35.9       -19.4         0.1         2.7        .       3.4
Bank credit to Private Sector                 .       46.2        24.0        27.6        12.8        .      24.4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                               MERCHANDISE MEPORTS (AVERAGE 1971-7))
1970     1971     1972    1973                                      US sHn mi
(Millions US $)        Pe.       Crude oil                        1975.1    80.3
Exports of Goods, NFS         1335     1991     2327    3355      Cocoa products                   191.8     7.8
Imports of Goods, NFS        1311     1858     1947    2219       Gmundnut products                 81.7     3.3
Resource Gap (deficit                                             Palm products                     40.6     1.6
-m  --m   TM        ~Tin                               28.7     1.2
Interest Payments (net)        -16      - 1      ...     ...      All other commodities            142.1     5.8
Workers' Remittances             -        -        -       -           Total
Other Factor Payments (net)    447      598      725    471
Net Transfers                   63        3      -23     -53    EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31. 1972
Balance on Current Account    -37      -h6       3      -Tff
US $ Mln
Direct Foreign Investment      251      338      337    140
Net MLT Borrowing                                                 Public Debt, incl. guaranteed           1038.0
Disbursements                49       65      117     123      Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Amortization                 35       37       32      43      Total outstanding & Disbursed
Subtotal                     14              -83     -M
Capital Grants                   -        -       -       -     DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1973'
Other Capital (net)                      15      15       -
Other items n.e.i             %7c       2ke     _121    -598
Increase in Reserves (+)        85      178    - 52      3        Public Debt, incl. guaranteed           2.1
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Nh-                                              Total outstanding & Disbursed
terials
Imports                       31       13       14      1
of whicht Petroleum           -        -        -       -     IBRD/IDA Iering. (March 31. 1975)     (Mln US$
Exports                      714     1334     1788    2800                                     TR       mA
of which: Petroleum         714     1334     1788    2800       Outstanding & Disbursed        303.4   31.0
Undisbursed                   2z.76     4.1
RATF OF AYCHANGE                                                  Outstanding inel. Undisbursed 581.0   W351
Through Dec. 19, 1971  Sinee Dec. 20,19731 Since Avrl la7
US N 1.00 - NO-71      US$ l.O    NO.66   Floating Gentral ratel 
N 1.00---VS $1.40     N 1.00   U US $1.52 US$ 1.00 - No.62  N 1.00 - ns 11.02
Notet All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
v Money and quasi money are taken as period ending March 1970, March 1971 to March 1974 to match
with GDP which are presented in fiscal year ending March 31.
/ Index of Consumer Prices.
/ Average January - September.
i Ratio of Debt Service to Fxports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BAE GROUP O?FTIONS IN NIGEIA
A. STATDEMNT OF BANK GROUP OPGATIONS IN NIGERIA
(As at April 30, 1975)1/
US million
Loan or Credit                                                         Aount   (less cancellatio J)
Number          Year      Borrower              Purpose             FM17-DMAU        ndisbursed
Nine loans and one credit fully disbursed                              281.5    15.5
72            1965      Nigeria              Education                     20.0         3.8
427            1965      Nigeria              Roads                  ils.5                2.5
6914           1970      Nigeria               Transport             25.0                3.6
705            1970      Industrial Dev. Bk.  Dev. Fin. Co.          10.0                 3.8
764            1971      Nigeria               Cocoa Dev.            7.2                  3.2
81            1972      Nigeria              Education II          17.3                16.9
838            1972      Nigeria              Roads V                26.3               17.7
817            1972      NEPA                  Power                76.0                43.e
922            1973      NPA                  Ports II              55.0                 54z.1
929            1973      Nigeria              Education III          54.0               54.o
1015*           1974      Nigeria               Cocoa II              20.0                20.G
1091*           1975      Nigeria               Livestock             21.0                21.0
1092*           1975      Nigeria               Agric. Dev. Funtua    29.0                29.0
Total of which                             636.8    35.5       273.L
has been repaid                         56.9      .2
Total now outstanding                      579.9
Amount sold of whicn       16.5
has been repaid        13.8              2.7
Total now held by
Bank and IDA*                          577.2    35.3
Total undisbursed                          269.3     4.1       273.1
1/ In addition to the above loans and credits, two loans (1099-UNI for $19.0 million for
Agricultural Development (Gusau) and 1103-UNI for $17.5 million for Rice Development)
were signed on April 4 and 25, 1975, respectively.
* Not yet effective
** Prior to exchange rate adjustments
B. STATDENT OF IFC INVESTMINTS
(As at April 30, 1975)
court n USSillion
Year                                               Type of Business                uity  Total
1964, 1967, 1970    Ar-ewa Textiles Ltd.                Textile Mfg.            0.9     0.7      1.6
1964          Niger-iar, Industrial Development
Bank, Ltd.                           Dev. Fin. Co.                   l.h      i.4
1973          Funtua Cottonseed Crushing Ltd.     Veg. Oil Crushing       1.6              1.6
1974          Lafiagi Sugar Estates               Sugar                           0.1      0.1
1973          Nigerian Aluninum Extrus.on- Ltd.   Aluminum Processing     1.0     0.3      1.3
Total Gross Commitments                                      3.5     2.5      6.0
Less cancellation                                       0.3              0.3
Less sold or repaid                                      1.1    0.3       1.4
Total commitments now held by IFC                            2.1     2.3      4.h
Undisbursed                                                   .5      .1       .6



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
C.   Projects in Execution
Credit 72-UNI, Education Project: US$20.0 million
Credit of March 1, 1965; Revised Closing Date: June 30, 1976
Loan 814-UNI, Second Education Project: US$17.3 million
Loan of April 18, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1975
Losan 929-UNI, Third Education Project: US$54.0 million
Loano f August 16, 1973; Closing Date:  December 31, 1978
The three education projects together provide for construction,
aquipping, and rehabilitation of schools and for teacher training in all the
12 states of the Federation. There has been substantial improvement in the
implementation of these projects during the past six months due to the establish-
mient of effective project units at the Federal and State levels. The first
educatiorn project (72-UNI) had a late start in implementation, particularly
in the three eastern states which were affected by the civil strife between
1967 and 1970. Execution of project schools in these areas is progressing
satisfactorily now. The implementation of the second education project (814-
UNI) is about 12 months behind schedule. Design of buildings and preparation
for procurement of furniture and equipment are progressing satisfactorily.
The third education project (929-UNI) became effective on January 14, 1975.
Satisfactory progress has been made in the establishment and staffing of
various project units. It is expected that some change in project content
mu.ght be suggested by the Borrower in the light of the recently declared
policy for implementation of universal primary education in the country and
the substantial increase in costs of construction and imported equipment.
Loan 427-UNI, Western Road Project: US$14.5 million
Loan of September 26, 1965; Revised Closing Date: March 31, 1975
Loan 694-UNI, Transport Rehabilitation: US$25.0 million
Loan of June 26, 1970; Revised Closing Date: March 31, 1975
Loan 838-UNI, Fifth Highway Project: US$26.3 million
Loan of June 16, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1977
There has been a saving of $2.5 million in Loan 427-UNI, out of
which procurement of road machinery and conduct of a photogrammatic survey
would be financed and the balance is likely to be cancelled. Construction
work and procurement under the Transport Rehabilitation Loan (694-UNI) have
proceeded satisfactorily except for procurement of some railway equipment
which has been affected by administrative delays as well as delays in delivery
schedule and to congestion in the port of Lagos. However, deliveries are
now proceeding satisfactorily and the loan is expected to be fully disbursed.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of h
Loan 705-UNI, Nigerian Industrial Development Bank: US$10.0 million
Loan of August 28, 1970; Revised Closing Date: October 31, 1975
While the loan has been fully committed, NIDB has requested can-
cellation of the undisbursed balance and $3.7 million has been cancelled,
leaving about $110,000 in the loan account to reimburse one outstanding
commitment against a letter of credit.
Loan 764-UNI, Western Cocoa Project: US$7.2 million
Loa-n of June 23, 1971; Closing Date: March 31, 1977
Loan 1045-UNI, Second Cocoa Project: US$20 million
Loan of October 11, 1974; Closing Date:  September 30, 1981
Thie first cocoa project (764-UNI) is on schedule and 35,000 acres
of high-yielding cocoa has been planted. Preparation is well in hand for
the planting cf the remaining 8,500 acres under the first project, as well
as 21,500 acres under the second project (1045-UNI) during the 1975 season.
While various actions toward effectiveness of the second cocoa loan have
been taken, there has been an unexpected delay in the execution of the sub-
sidiary loan agreement between the Federal Government and the states due to
procedural problems. It is expected that this loan will become effective
within a few weeks.
Loan 847-UNI, Fourth Power Project: US$76.0 million
Loan of June 30, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Progress on the project is satisfactory. The first Kainji extension
is expected to be commissioned in September. With the completion of power
development studies, the Borrower is likely to request re-definition of the
rural electrification component of the project.
Loan 922-UNNI, Second Lagos Ports Project: US$55 million
Loan of august 1, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
This loan became effective on October 29, 1973 and implementation
of the project is proceeding satisfactorily. The contract for civil works
has been awarded and construction is expected to begin in May 1975.
Loa-n 1091-UNI, Livestock Development Project:  US$21.0 million
Loan cs ha_:ch 20, 1975; Closing Date: July 1, 1981
Satiafactory progress is being made for appointment of Project
Manager and   iiyr officials for project management and the loan is expected
to beco- effec:i;-e by June 20, 1975.
Lo.;- 1092-0Iv, Funtua Agricultural Development Project:  US$29.0 million
Loan o' MIarch 20Q i975  Closing Date July 1, 1982
S~3-nlor project staff have been appointed and the project is opera-
tional. Ti'l-.1oan is 2xpected tu become effective by June 20, 1975.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of h
Loan 1099-UNI. Gusau Agricultural DeveloPment Project: US$19,0
million Loan of April 4, 1975; Closing Date: July 1, 1982
Senior project staff have been appointed and the project
is operational. The loan is expected to become effective on August 4,
1975.
Loan 1103-UNI, Rice Development Project: US$17.5 Million Loan
of April 25, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Satisfactory progress is being made for appointment of
Project Manager and other senior staff, The loan is expected to
become effective on August 26, 1975.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
NIGERIA
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Federal Republic of Nigeria
Amount:             US$29.5 million
Terms:              Payable over 20 years, including 5 years of grace
at an interest rate of 8-1/2 percent per annum.
Relending Terms:    Federal Government would onlend to the Mid-Western State
Government on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
Project Description
The project would be carried out over a nine-year investment period
1975 through 1983 and would involve: establishing an Oil Palm Division of
the Tree Crop Unit created at Benin under the second Cocoa loan to implement
the replanting program; new planting/replanting of 8,000 ha of smallholder
oil palm and 8,000 ha of nucleus oil palm estates; improving about 299 km of
earth roads to facilitate all-weather collection of ffb from smallholders;
operating a grant/credit scheme for smallholders; training staff and farmers
at selected institutions and through in-service courses; the construction and
operation of two palm oil mills by Oil Palm Company (OPC) to process the total
production from the estates and smallholders; establishing a fruit collection
system to be operated by OPC for estate and smallholder production; establish-
ing under the Federal Department of Agriculture a Monitoring and Evaluation
Unit (MEU) with a Tree Crop Section at Benin; initiating field studies of
small-scale processing for wild palm grove production.
Summary of Project Costs
Local       Foreign     Total
-------- US$ million  -------
Smallholder Program                  5,873.8      2,110.9   7,984.7
OPC Program                         11,692.3      8,282.2  19,974.5
Monitoring and Evaluation Division   3,766.1      1,818.1   5,584.2
Field Studies and NIFOR Equipment      154.5        413.5     568.0
Physical Contingencies (5.6%)        1,197.6        701.9   1,899.5
Price Contingencies (63%)           14,394.8      8,386.0  22,780.8
Total                             37,079.1     21,712.6  58,791.7



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
IBRD    FMG    NAB   State    Farmer   Total
…-------------- US$ million   -------------
Smallholder Program
Field Establishment         2.4                 0.9      0.7       4.0
TCU                         1.6                 2.4                4.0
OPC Program                10.0          7.0    3.0               20.0
Monitoring and Evaluation   2.8    2.8                             5.6
NIFOR Field Studies         0.3    0.3                             0.6
Unallocated                12.4    1.5   0.7    9.6      0.4      24.6
29 .5   4.6    7.7   15.9      1.1     58.8
50%     8%    13%    27%       2%      100%
Disbursement Schedule of Bankc Loan
Annual            Cumulative
--…US$ million 
FY75/76                 2.7                2.7
FY77                    1.9                4.7
FY78                    2.0                6.8
FY79                    2.5                9.3
FY80                    4.0                13.3
FY81                    6.1                19.4
FY82                    5.1               24.5
FY83                    3.3               27.8
FY84                    1.7               29.5
Procurement
Procurement of all items where orders or contracts had a value of
more than US$25,000 through international competitive bidding (ICB), domes-
tically manufactured goods being allowed a 15 percent preference and domestic
civil works contractors a 7-1/2 percent preference in bid evaluation. Contracts
under US$25,000 and contracts for civil works and office equipment not large
enough to attract foreign bidders to be awarded under locally advertised
bidding. A large part of project costs would be for labor, salaries, train-
ing and operating expenses and therefore not suitable for ICB. Remainder of
project cost would be for contingencies.
Provision has been made under the project for the engagement of
Consultants for 6 man-months to assist in the establishment of mechanized
accounts and design of oil palm mills.
In addition, provision has also been made under the project for
the services of consultants for 58 man-months to assist in the establishment
of a Monitoring' and Evaluation Unit, the Tree Crop Section of which would
deal mainly with cocoa, oil palm and rubber.



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
Rate of Return
The economic rate of return from investment in the project is
estimated at 18.2 percent for the smallholder component and 17.3 percent for
the estate component. The economic rate of return for the whole project is
17.7 percent.
Appraisal Report
Report No. 497a-UNI dated March 28, 1975.



IBRD 10964F
5030                                                    600' 
N I G E R I A                                          PROJECT AREA BOUNDARY                                          'ta-
M'   IWSSTPROJECT ESTATES                   r                           Ood.,fl,
PALMET         TA P O EC                         F_ :EXISTING ESTATE                                                      -         Ch. D
6030  OIL   P                                                      PROPOSED MILL SITES                                             G ER
OIL  PALM   PROJECT                       00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ EXISTING MILL                                              4
®i)  PROPOSED REGIONAL UNITS                                    .             -
PROJECT ROADS, PAVED                                             E, C'Eg.  -.
PROJECT ROADS, EARTH              5                         ''I c    '-lR
EXISTING MAIN ROADS                                   arr      ,
To Iguoso                          EXISTING SECONDARY ROADS                             |   uW
+  @   STATE  CAPITAL                                          rhe b-<nden-s show a on zZis T n o p do no-
%   t  FOREST RESERVES                             AKUMAZ/        B aldnk andin pffiosso
BENIN CIT  Y     0 Obeson                 RIVERS                       29oREsr
j/     R ESERVE  ssele-Uku
/   \           >\    Ado  f  °~~~0   Uvbe     Abudu
/ .' \ Ugone                                  Umunde 5     lbodo
;4PELE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P 0'P' '-1R.>
eno(Q  ~~~~~~~~1A~~~~~~-)9 I  -                                                                                                    600'-EER6  buu-Uk
-         A, J TaAE ,.
ro ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~~     g      A     r    k lkok                      /     r 114Hi- UK
KILOMETERS                            AA
.5,0O30                                                 6°000'                                              >   6°30  DECEMBER 1974



