CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1183 UNI
Loan Agreement
(Mid-Western State Oil Palm Project)
BETWEEN
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED DECEMBER 31, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1183 UNI
Loan Agreement
(Mid-Western State Oil Palm Project)
BETWEEN
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED DECEMBER 31, 1975


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 31, 1975, between the FEDERAL
REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making
the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Project will be carried out partly by the Borrower and partly
by the Mid-Western State of Nigeria (hereinafter called the State) and the Oil Palm
Company Limited, a company existing under the laws of the Borrower (hereinafter
called OPC) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to the State the proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter
provided;
(C)   The Nigerian Agricultural Development Bank, Limited, a company
existing under the laws of the Borrower, (hereinafter called NAB) has made a loan
to OPC in an amount equal to Naira 5,342,629 to finance a portion of the cost
of the Project; and
(D) The Bank is willing to make the Loan available upon the terms and
conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date herewith
between the Bank and the State;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein, subject. however, to the following modifications thereof (said General
Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so
modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):


﻿4
(a)   the words ". the Project Agreement." are added after the words "Loan
Agreement" in Sections 6.06. 10.01 and 10.03:
(b)   the following sub-paragraph is added to Section 2.01:
"the term Project Agreement shall have the meaning set forth in the
Loan Agreement.": and
(c)   Article IX is deleted.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and the
State of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement;
(b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the State pursuant to Section 3.01(c) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)   "NAB Loan" means the the loan made by NAB to OPC under the
NAB Loan Agreement;
(d)   "NAB Loan Agreement" means the agreement between Oil Palm
Company Limited, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Finance Inc., of Mid-Western
State of Nigeria and the Nigerian Agricultural Bank Limited, of June 27, 1974;
(e)   "TCU" means Tree Crop Unit to be established by the State pursuant
to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement (Second Cocoa Project) (Loan No. 1045
UNI). as expanded and modifled for the purposes of the Project;
(f)   "OPC" means the Oil Palm Company Limited, a company existing
under the laws of the Borrower;
(g)   "State Loan" means the loan made by the State to OPC pursuant
to Section 2.01(b) of the Project Agreement;
(h)   "State Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement to be entered into
between the State and OPC pursuant to Section 2.01(b) of the Project Agreement
and such term includes all schedules to State Loan Agreement;


﻿5
(i)   "Sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to be made by
TCU;
(j)   "cooperative society" means a cooperative society registered under
Co-operative Societies Ordinance, Chapter 39, Laws of Nigeria, 1948.
(k)   "Sub-Loan Agreement" means the agreement referred to in paragraph
6 of Schedule 3 to the Project Agreement;
(1)   "MEU" means the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit to be established
pursuant to Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
(m)   "Price Policy Committee" means the Committee to be constituted
pursuant to Section 2.15 of the Project Agreement;
(n)   "Steering Committee" means the committee to be established by the
State pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement (Second Cocoa Project)
(Loan No. 1045 UNI);
(0)   "N" means Naira, the currency of the Borrower, and
(p)   "Memorandum" and "Articles of Association", respectively, mean the
Memorandum of Association of the Oil Palm Company, Limited and the Articles
of Association of the Oil Palm Company, Limited, as of the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twenty-nine million five hundred thousand dollars
($29,500.000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, contracts for the
purchase of goods or for the carrying out of works or services (other than


﻿6
consultants' services) for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred
to in Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1984 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of eight and one-half
per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
January I and Jily 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal of the Loan in
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.09. The Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Finance is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts H and I of the Project
through its Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resourees with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
agricultural practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations
under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall exercise every right and recourse
available to it to cause the State to perform, in accordance with the provisions
of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the obligations


﻿7
therein set forth, shall take, or cause to be taken, all action including the provision
of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
the State to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(c)   The Borrower shall relend an amount in various currencies equivalent
to fourteen million dollars ($14,000,000) out of the proceeds of the Loan or such
other amount as shall be allocated to Categories I through III under Schedule 1
to this Agreement, to the State under a subsidiary loan agreement to be ent.-red
into between the Borrower and the State, inder terms and conditions which shall
have been approved by the Bank.
(d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of Part
H of the Project, the Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain a monitoring
and evaluation unit with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and shall
keep the said unit adequately staffed at all times.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: (i) not later than 12 months from the
Effective Date or such other date as shall be agreed by the Bank, to form the
nucleus of the Tree Crop Section of MEU, employ a team of specialists, and (ii)
from time to time, for the carrying out of Part H of the Project, employ consultants,
as needed, such consultants and specialists to be acceptable to the Bank and
employed upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall ensure that OPC can freely sell, on the
domestic market, the palm oil produced under the Project.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause the Tree Crop Section of MEU to:
(a)   maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and financial condition;
and
(b)   (i)         have its accounts and financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements)


﻿8
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Borrower and the
Bank;
(ii)        furnish to the Borrower and the Bank as soon as possible,
but in any case not later than four months after the end
of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)       furnish  to the Borrower and     the Bank   such other
information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of the said Tree Crop Section and the audit
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the mutual intention of the Borrower and the Bank
that no other external debt shall enjoy any priority over the Loan or the Bonds
by way of a lien on governmental assets.
(b)   To that end the Borrower (i) represents that at the date of this
Agreement no lien exists on any governmental assets as security for any external
debt except as otherwise disclosed in writing by the Borrower to the Bank, and
(ii) undertakes that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any such lien
shall be created on any assets of the Borrower or of any agency of the Borrower
(including assets of the Central Bank of Nigeria, or of any other institution
performing the functions of a central bank of the Borrower) as security for any
external debt, such lien will ipso facto equally and ratably, secure the payment
of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan and the Bonds
and that in the creation of any such lien express provision will be made to that
effect; and (iii) further undertakes that the Borrower will, within the limits of
its constitutional powers, make the foregoing undertaking effective with respect
to liens on assets of any of the Borrower's political subdivisions or of any agency
of any such political subdivisions, and to the extent that the Borrower is unable
within the limits of its constitutional powers to make such undertaking effective,


﻿9
the Borrower will give to the Bank an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank.
The Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of the creation of any such lien.
(c)   The foregoing representation and undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security
for payment of the purchase price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in
the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
(d)   As used in this Section, the term "governmental assets" means assets
of the Borrower or of any of its political subdivisions or of any agency of the
Borrower or of any such political subdivision, including the Central Bank of Nigeria
or any institution performing the functions of a central bank for the Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
*           Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Bank shall cooperate fully to assure
that the purposes of the Loan will be accomplished. To that end, the Borrower
and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement, the
performance by the State of its obligations under the Project Agreement, the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the State Loan Agreement, the performance by
NAB and OPC of their respective obligations under the NAB Loan Agreement,
the performance by OPC of its obligations under the State Loan Agreement, the
administration, operations and financial condition of the NAB and OPC and, in
respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsiblt
for carrying out any part of the Project, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Loan; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Loan. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.


﻿10
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the administration, operations and financial condition, of NAB and OPC and, in
respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Bank shall promptly inform each other of any
condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan, the maintenance of the service thereof, the
performance by either of them of its obligations under the Loan Agreement, the
performance by the State of its obligations under the Project Agreement, the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the State Loan Agreement, the performance by
NAB of its obligations under the NAB Loan Agreement or the performance by
OPC of its obligations under the NAB Loan Agreement and the State Loan
Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Bank to visit any part of the territories of the
Borrower for purposes related to the Loan.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   The State shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under
the Project Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the State Loan
Agreement.
(b)   The Memorandum and Articles of Association shall have been amended
in such a way as to materially and adversely affect the ability of OPC to carry
out the covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in the NAB Loan Agreement
or State Loan Agreement.
(c)   OPC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the NAB
Loan Agreement or State Loan Agreement.
(d)   The outstanding principal of NAB Loan shall have been declared, or
become, due and payable in advance of the agreed maturity thereof in accordance
with the terms of the NAB Loan Agreement.


﻿*                                11
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Scction 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified:
Any of the events specified in Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur
and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Bank to the Borrower, the State or OPC, as the case may be.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c)
of the General Conditions:
(a)   The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
the State have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action.
(b)   The execution and delivery of the State Loan Agreement on behalf
of the State and OPC, respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary corporate and governmental action.
(c)   The execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and the State, respectively, have been duly authorized or
ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
(d)   OPC has taken possession, under a 99-year lease, of all lands acquired
by the State for conveyance to OPC to enable it to carry out Part C of the Project.
(e)   The State has established, with adequate funds, the TCU Account
referred to in Section 2.11 of the Project Agreement.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, the State, and is legally binding upon
the State in accordance with its terms.


﻿12
(b)   That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and the State,
respectively, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the State in accordance
with its terms.
(c)   That the State Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the State and OPC, respectively,
and is legally binding upon the State and OPC in accordance with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date April 29, 1976, is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Federal Commissioner for Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Permanent Secretary
Federal Ministry of Finance
P.M.B. 12591
Mosaic House
Tinubu Square
Lagos, Nigeria
Cable address:
PERMFIN
Lagos
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿13
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
By /s / Edward Olusola Sanu
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s / E. Peter Wright
Acting Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿14
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
I.   Grants and Credits              2,400,000         75%
to Smallholders
II.   TCU:
Project admin-                 1,600,000          40%
istration and
services, build-
ings and roads
(excluding roads
under Part B(i)
of the Project),
equipment, staff
salaries, operat-
ing expenses and
training
III.  OPC:
(a)   Development of           5,400,000          50%
estates and
related in-
frastructure
and operating
expenses
(b)   Investment in            4,600,000          50%
palm oil mills
and fruit
collection


﻿15
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
IV.  Tree Crop Section              2,800,000          50%
of MEU, buildings
and equipment,
staff salaries,
operating expenses
and consultancy
services
V.    Field studies for               300,000           50%
small scale pro-
cessing, equipment
needed for NIFOR
training center
V.   Unallocated                   12,400,000
TOTAL        29,500,000
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall be disbursed on account
of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods
or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any such taxes
included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly adjust the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such item.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures (a) prior to the date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals may be made on account of expenditures incurred after
November 1, 1974 in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$100,000; and (b) under Category III(b) of the table set forth in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement unless the TCU and Tree Crop Section of MEU shall confirm to
the Bank that the designs and specifications for the development of palm oil mills
under the Project substantially meet the over-all production needs of the Project.


﻿16
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or the disbursement
percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the Bank has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall proceeds of the Loan which are
then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully
meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
5.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procurement of any
item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as in the Bank's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is to be carried out in the Sapele and Agbor areas. The Project
consists of:
Part A:
The planting by smallholders of about 4,000 ha of oil palm in the Sapele
area and about 4,000 ha in the Agbor area.
Part B:
(i)        The upgrading and rehabilitation of about 76 km of paved roads,
including wherever necessary, the filling of pot holes, clearing
of ditches, reshaping shoulders and resurfacing.
(ii)       The improvement of about 300 km of earth roads.
Part C:
Development of new estates of about 2800 ha each at Nsukwa and Mosogar,
the construction of infrastructure and housing and the planting of oil palm
on such estates and the replanting of about 2,240 ha of the OPC Estate
in Ajagbodudu area.
Part D:
The establishment and operation of a system for the collection of all fresh
fruit bunches produced for delivery to the mills under the Project.
Part E:
The construction, equipping and operation of a palm oil mill each in the
Sapele area (with a capacity of 30 tons per hour) between the Ajagbodudu
and Mosogar estates and Agbor area (with a capacity of 20 tons per hour)
near Nsukwa Estate, to process all the produce under the Project.
Part F:
The provision of grants and credit to smallholders.


﻿18
Part G:
Training of staff and smallholders.
Pqrt H:
Establishment and operation of a monitoring and evaluation unit under the
Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources of the Borrower with a Tree
Crop Section at Benin to inter alia (i) carry out the financial and technical
monitoring of ongoing projects and the evaluation of the financial, economic
and social impact thereof; (ii) assist in the planning and preparation of future
tree-crop development programs; and (iii) report its findings to the Borrower,
the State and other relevant agencies.
Part I.
(a)   The carrying out of studies by the Nigerian Institute for Oil Palm
Research (hereinafter called NIFOR) and UNDP team of small-scale
processing systems for wild oil palm production.
(b)   The provision of equipment for NIFOR to meet its own training
obligations under the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                                (expressed in dollars)*
July 1, 1980                                            525,000
January 1, 1981                                         545,000
July 1, 1981                                            570,000
January 1, 1982                                         590,000
July 1, 1982                                            615,000
January 1, 1983                                         640,000
July 1. 1983                                            665,000
January 1, 1984                                         690,000
July 1, 1984                                            720.000
January 1, 1985                                         750.000
July 1, 1985                                            780.000
January 1, 1986                                         810,000
July 1, 1986                                            840.000
January 1, 1987                                         875,000
July 1, 1987                                            910,000
January 1, 1988                                         945,000
July 1, 1988                                            985,000
January 1, 1989                                       1.025.000
July 1, 1989                                          1,065,000
January 1, 1990                                       1.110,000
July 1, 1990                                          1.155.000
January 1, 1991                                       1.200,000
July 1, 1991                                          1.245,000
January 1, 1992                                       1.295,000
July 1, 1992                                          1,350,000
January 1, 1993                                       1,400,000
July 1, 1993                                          1,460,000
January 1, 1994                                       1,515,000
July 1, 1994                                          1,575,000
January 1, 1995                                       1,650.000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see General Condit ions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column
represent dollar equivalents dtennmined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿20
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                 Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                 1-1/4%
More than three years but
not more than six
years before maturity                           2-1/2%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                4-1/2%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                           6-3/4%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen
years before maturity                           7-1/2%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                                 8-1/2%


