LOAN NUMBER 2031 AR
DOCUMNTS
Loan Agreement
(Oil and Gas Credit Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCO NACIONAL DE DESARROLLO
Dated                           1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2031 AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated 6   t     1\  -, 1981, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and BANCO NACIONAL DE DESARROLLO (hereinafter called the
Borrower), a development bank established and operating under the
laws of the Guarantor.
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were f-.lly set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified,
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to an Investment
Enterprise for an Investment Project, and "free-limit sub-loan"
means a sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as a free-limit
sub-loan pursuant to the provisirns of Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement.
(b) "Investment" means an investment, other than a sub-loan,
made or proposed to be made by the Borrower out of the proceeds of
the Loan in an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project.
(c) "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise controlled
by Argentinian nationals to which the Borrower proposes to make or
has made a sub-loan or in which it proposes to make or has made an
investment.
(d) "Investment Project" means a specific project consisting
of oil or gas exploration, or primary production or secondary
recovery of oil or gas, or related permanent transport systems, or


﻿-2-
related gas treatment plants, to be carried out by an Investment
Enterprise, by itself or together with other enterprises, utiliz-
ing the proceeds of a sub-loan or investment.
(e) "Peso" means the currency of the Guarantor.
(f) "Foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Guarantor.
(g)  "Statutes" means the statutes of the Borrower dated
August 31, 1977, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
(h) "Statement of Policy" means the statement of policy for
financing exploration, exploitation and transport of oil and gas
operations approved on May 21, 1981 by the Board of Directors, of
the Borrower.
(i) "Subsidiary" means any company of which a major4ty
of the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest
is owned or effectively controlled by the Borrower or by any one
or more subsidiaries of the Borrower or by the Borrower and one
or more of its subsidiaries.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
one hundred million dollars ($100,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account for amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, for amounts to be paid) by the Borrower on account of:
(i) withdrawals made by an Investment Enterprise under a sub-loan
to meet the following percentages of the reasonable cost of goods
required for the Investment Project in respect of which the
withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested: (A) 100% of the
foreign currency cost of directly imported goods, (B) 60% of the
cost in pesos of imported goods purchased in Argentina, (C) 45% of
the cost in pesos of locally produced goods, and (D) 100% of the
foreign currency cost and 45% of the cost in pesos of services;
(ii) 90% of the reasonable cost of consultants' services; and
(iii) 100% of the reasonable foreign currency cost of training the
Borrower's staff; provided, however, that (A) no withdrawal shall
be made in respect of a sub-loan or investment unless (I) the


﻿-3
sub-loan or investment shall( have been approved by the Bank or
(II) the amount of such sub-loan or investment together.with any
other sub-loans and investments made for the same Investment
Project shall not exceed the equivalent of twenty million dollars
($20,000,000) or (III) the sub-loan shall be a free-limit sub-loan
for which the Bank shall have authorized withdrawals from the Loan
Account; and (B) the aggregate amount withdrawn from the Loan
Account to finance Investment Projects shall not exceed ninety-
nine million dollars equivalent ($99,000,000) or such other sum as
the Bank and the Borrower shall determine.
(b) A free-limit sub-loan shall be a sub-loan for an
Investment Project: (i) other than the first three sub-loans made
under the Project; and (ii) in an amount to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan which shall not exceed the sum of $6,000,000
equivalent when added to any other outstanding amounts financed
or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the
foregoing amount being subject to change from time to time as
determined by the Bank after prior consultation with the Borrower.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made on account of: (i) expendi-
tures before the date of this Agreement; or (ii) expenditures by
an Investment Enterprise in respect of an Investment Project if
its projected economic rate of return, calculated by methods
satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower, is less than 12%; or
(iii) expenditures by an Investment Enterprise in respect of a
sub-loan subject to the Bank's approval or in respect of an
investment if such expenditures shall have been made more than one
hundred and eighty days prior to the date on which the Bank shall
have received in respect of such sub-loan or investment the
application and information required by Section 2.03 (a) of this
Agreement or, in respect of a free-limit sub-loan, more than one
hundred and eighty days prior to the date on which the Bank shall
have received in respect of such free-limit sub-loan the request
and information required by Section 2.03 (b) of this Agreement,
except that (A) withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding
the equivalent of $5,000,000 may be made on account of payments
made after April 1, 1981 by any Investment Enterprise in respect
of an Investment Project, and (B) withdrawals not exceeding
$200,000 equivalent may be made on account of payments made by the
Borrower in respect of Part B of the Project before the date of
this Agreement.


﻿-4-
Section 2.03. (a) When presenting a sub-loan (other than a
free-limit sub-loan) or an investment to the Bank for approval,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form
satisfactory to the Bank, together with: (i) a description of the
Investment Enterprise, an appraisal of the Investment Project, a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the calculation of the financial and eco-
nomic rates of return of the Investment Project, and evidence that
firm commitments in respect of the financing for the Investment
Project, other than the sub-loan or investment, have been ob-
tained; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of the sub-loan
or investment, including the schedule of amortization of the
sub-loan or of repayment to the Bank of the amount of the Loan to
be used for the investment; and (iii) such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit
sub-loan shall contain: (i) a summary description of the Invest-
ment Enterprise and the Investment Project, including a descrip-
tion of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the financial plan and the economic and
financial rates of return; and (ii) the terms and conditions of
the sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization therefor.
(c) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, applications
made pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section
shall be presented to the Bank on or before December 31, 1983.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1985
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of nine and three-fifths per cent (9-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.


﻿-5-
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement as such Schedule shall
be amended from time to time by the Bank to the extent required
to: (i) conform in relevant part substantially to the aggregate
of the- amortization schedules applicable to sub-loans and the
schedules of repayment to the Bank in respect of investments,
which have been approved or authorized for withdrawals from the
Loan Account under Section 2.02 of this Agreement; and (ii) take
into account any cancellation pursuant to Article VI of the
General Conditions.
(b) Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree,
the amortization schedule applicable to each sub-loan and the
schedule of repayment to the Bank in respect of each investment
shall provide for: (i) a period of grace not exceeding 3 years in
the case of sub-loans and not exceeding five years in the case of
investments and shall not extend beyond 15 years from the date of
this Agreement; and (ii) approximately equal semi-annual, or more
frequent, aggregate payments of principal and interest or approx-
imately equal semi-annual, or more frequent, payments of prin-
cipal.
(c) The Borrower shall transmit to the Bank, for its prior
approval, any substantial changes proposed to be made by the
Borrower in respect of the repayment provisions of any sub-loan.
(d) If a sub-loan or any part thereof shall be repaid
to the Borrower in advance of maturity or if a sub-loan or an
investment or any part thereof shall be sold, transferred,
assigned or otherwise disposed of for value by the Borrower, the
Borrower shall promptly notify the Bank, and (i) shall use the
proceeds of such repayment or disposal to finance projects similar
to the Investment Projects, or (ii) repay to the Bank on the next
following interest payment date, together with the premiums
specified in Schedule 1 to this Agreement or in any amendment
thereof under Section 2.08 (a) of this Agreement, the amount
withdrawn from the Loan Account in respect of such sub-loan or
inv,stment or part thereof and not theretofore repaid to the
Bank.


﻿-6-
(e) Any amount so repaid by the Borrower shall be applied
by the Bank as follows: (i) in the case of a sub-loan, to the
maturity or maturities of the Loan in amounts corresponding
to the outstanding amounts of the maturity or maturities of
the sub-loan so repaid or disposed of; and (ii) in the case of
an investment, pro rata to the maturity or maturities of the
Loan, reflecting amounts to be repaid on account of such invest-
ment.
(f) Paragraph (b) of Section 3.04 of the General Conditions
shall not apply to any repayment made under paragraph (a) of
this Section.
ARTICLE III
The Project;
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 3.01. (a) The purpose of the Project is to assist
the Borrower in financing such oil and gas productive activities
in Argentina as will contribute to the economic development of the
country. The Project consists of two parts:
Part A:   financing of specific projects consisting of oil or gas
exploration or primary production or secondary recovery or related
permanent transport systems or related gas treatment plants
through loans to and investments in private enterprises in Argen-
tina, in furtherance of the corporate purposes of the Borrower;
and
Part B:   strengthening of the Borrower's capacity to identify,
appraise and supervise oil and gas projects.
(b) The Borrower shall carry out the Project and conduct
its operations and affairs in accordance with sound financial
standards and practices, with qualified management and personnel,
including competent staff experienced in oil and gas operations,
and in accordance with the Statutes and Statement of Policy.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying
out of Parts A and B of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience, and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿Section 3.03. Sub-loans shall be denominated in dollars and
bear an interest rate of not less than 13.5% per annum on their
outstanding principal amount, such rate to be reviewed from time
to time at the request of either party taking into account inter
alia international market conditions for fixed rate long-term
funds and similar alternative sources of funds for the Borrower,
and such rate to be revised, if required by such review, by
agreement between the Bank and the Borrower.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, any sub-loan or investment will be
made on terms whereby the Borrower shall obtain, by written
contract with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate
legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank
and the Borrower, including, in the case of any sub-loan and to
the extent that it shall be appropriate in the case of any invest-
ment, the right of the Borrower to: (i) require the Investment
Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound tech-
nical, financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate
records; (ii) require that the Investment Enterprise (A) maintains
a separate account in respect of the Investment Project; (B)
causes such account to be audited each year, a report by indepen-
dent auditors acceptable to the Borrower; and (C) furnishes to the
Borrower, not later than six months after the end of each year, a
report of such audit by said auditor'; (ii) require that: (1) the
goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be purchased at a reasonable price, and in the case of
contracts for goods and services costing more than $1,000,000
equivalent, after at least 3 price quotations have been obtained,
account being taken also of other relevant factors such as time of
delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods, requirements
of equipment standardization in accordance with sound industry
practices and availability of maintenance facilities and spare
parts therefor, and, in the case of services, of their quality and
the competence of the parties rendering them; and (2) such goods
and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the
Investment Project; (iv) inspect, by itself or jointly with
representatives of the Bank if the Bank shall so request, such
goods and the sites, works, plants and construction included in
the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant
records and documents; (v) require that: (1) the Investment
Enterprise shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers
such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall
be consistent with sound business practice; and (2) without any


﻿-8-
limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or
installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a
currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or
repair such goods; (vi) obtain all such information as the Bank or
the Borrower shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing
and to the administration, operations and financial condition of
the Investment Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from
the Investment Project; and (vii) suspend or terminate the right
of the Investment Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the
Loan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform its
obligations under its contract with the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation too
each Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the
interests of the Bank and the Borrower; (ii)-comply with its
obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes
of the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank
at regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Project, the Investment Enterprises, the Investment
Projects, the Sub-loans and Investments and, where appropriate,
the benefits to be derived from the foregoing.
(b) Within six months following the last withdrawal from
the Loan Account, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation
of the Investment Projects, their costs and the benefits derived
and to be derived from them, the performance by the Borrower and
the Bank of their respective obligations under this Agreement and
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall duly perform its obligations
in agreements under which funds have been lent or otherwise put at
the disposal of the Borrower by the Guarantor or its agencies or
others for relending, investment or management.
Section 3.07. If the Borrower establishes or acquires any
subsidiary, the Borrower shall cause such subsidiary to observe
and perform the obligations of the Borrower hereunder to the
extent to which such obligations shall or can be applicable
thereto, as though such obligations were binding upon such sub-
sidiary.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain procedures and
records adequate to monitor and record the progress of the Project
(including separate accounts in respect of the Project) and of
each Investment Project (including its cost and the benefits
to be derived from it) and to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained sound accounting practices the operations and
financial condition of the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts,
including the accounts referred to in Section 4.01 of this Agree-
ment, and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not
later than four months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date of
this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets-as security for
any debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if any lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower or any subsidiary as security for any debt,
such lien will equally and ratably secure the payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on the Loan and that
in the creation of any such lien express provision will be made to
that effect at no cost to the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory
lien shall be created on any assets of the Borrower or of any
subsidiary as security for any debt, the Borrower shall grant, at
no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank
to secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on the Loan; provided, however, that the foregoing
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien


﻿- 10 -
created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as
security for the payment of the purchase price of such property.;
or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall: (i) conduct its "operations and affairs in
such manner as shall be necessary to maintain, at all times, its
debt/equity ratio within the limit referred to in Section 4.06 of
this Agreement; and (ii) if such ratio shall, for reasons beyond
the Borrower's control, be exceeded, promptly take all such
reasonable action as shall be necessary or advisable to bring
such ratio within such limit.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall not make any repayment
in advance of maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of
the Borrower which, in the judgment of the Bank, would materially
affect the Borrower's ability to meet its financial obligations.
Section 4.06. Except as shall be otherwise agreed between
the Bank and the Borrower, the Borrower shall not incur or permit
any financial subsidiary to incur any debt if, after the intirring
of such debt, the consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its
financial subsidiaries then incurred and outstanding would be
greater than ten times the consolidated capital and surplus of the
Borrower and all such subsidiaries. For the purposes of this
Section:
(a) "financial subsidiary" means any subsidiary which,
i, the judgment of the Bank, is engaged in promotional, financial
or technical activities similar or complementary to the oper-
ations of the Borrowir;
(b) "debt" means any debt incurred by the Borrower or
any financial subsidiary, except debt or guarantee of debt by the
Borrower, regarding which the Borrower has the right promptly to
obtain from the Guarantor an amount equal to such amount as the
Borrower may be required to pay under such debt or guarantee;
(c) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement (including the Loan Agreement) on the date
and to the extent the amount of the loan is drawn down and out-
standing pursuant to such loan contract or agreement; and (ii)
under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement providing


﻿- 11 -
for such guarantee has been entered into but only to the extent
that the guaranteed debt is outstanding;
(d) whenever in connection with this Section it shall
be necessary to value in terms of pesos debt payable in foreign
currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing lawful
rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the time
of such valuation, obtainable by the Borrower for the purposes
of servicing such debt;
(e) "consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its financial
subsidaries" means the total amount of debt of the Borrower and
its financial subsidiaries, excluding any debt owed by the Bor-
rower to any such subsidiary or by any such subsidiary to the
Borrower or to any other such subsidiary; and
(f) "consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower
and its financial subsidiaries" means the aggregate of the un-
impaired paid-up capital, surplus and free reserves of the Bor-
rower and its financial subsidiaries after excluding therefrom
such amounts as shall represent: (i) equity interests of the
Borrower in any such subsidiary or of any such subsidiary in the
Borrower or any other such subsidiary; or (ii) adequate provi-
sions, determined in accordance with sound practices, for probable
losses on the outstanding amount of all loans and investments
made, or guarantees given, by the Borrower.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall take such steps as shall be
necessary to protect itself against risk of loss resulting from
ch,7ges in the rates of exchange between the currencies (including
pesos) used in its lending and borrowing operations.'
Section 4.08. The Bank and the Borrower shall from time
to time, at the request of either party, exchange views through
their representatives with regard to the administration, oper-
ations and financial condition of the Borrower and its -subsi-
diaries, and the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the
administration, operations and financial condition of the Borrower
and its subsidiaries in respect of the financing of oil and gas
operations.


﻿12-
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's represen-
tatives to inspect the records referred to in Section 4.01 of this
Agreement and any relevant documents related to operations of the
Borrower which could affect its financial condition.
ARTICLE V
Remeetes of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) any part of the principal amount of any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall,
in accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in
advance of maturity as provided in the relative contractual
instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable;
(b) a change shall have been made in the Statutes which
would materially and adversely affect the operations or the
financial condition of the Borrower;
(c) a change shall have been made in the Statement of
Policy without the Bank's consent;
(d) a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution
or liquidation of the Borrower; and
(e) a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or acquired or taken over by the Borrower, if such creation,
acquisition or taking over would adversely affect the conduct
of the Borrower's business or the Borrower's financial condition
or the efficiency of the Borrower's management and personnel
or the carrying out of the Project.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph
(b) or paragraph (c) or paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 shall
occur; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (e) of Section 5.01
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) that the staff and the Consultants referred to in
Sections 3.01 (b) and 3.02, respectively, of this Agreement
have been employed; and
(b) that the Bank has been furnished with an audit report,
satisfactory to the Bank, of the accounts and financial statements
of the Borrower for 1980, and that the auditors referred to in
Section 4.02 (i) have been contracted.
Section 6.02. The date            /Jx94 is hereby specified
for purposes of Section 12.  of the eneral Conditons.
ARTICLE VII
Addresses
Section 7.01. The following addresses aIre specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-14-
For the Borrower:
Banco Nacional de Desarrollo
25 de Mayo, 145
Buenos Aires
Argentina
Cable address:                        Telex:
BANADE                               1566-2441
Baires
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By 15§O                               & &
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
BANCO NACIONAL DE DESARROLLO
By                                 *&,oL
Authorized Representative


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule*
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)**
On each January 1 and July 1
beginning January 1, 1985
through   January 1, 1996                    4,165,000
on July 1, 1996                              4,205,000
*    The Amortization Schedule is subject to amendment pursuant
to the provisions of Section 2.08 of the Loan Agreement.
** To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable
in a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿-16-
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions or to Section 2.03 (d) of the Loan
Agreement:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years                              1.90%
before maturity
More than three years but                              3.85%
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                                7.05%
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but                             8.30%
not more than thirteen years
before maturity
More than thirteen years                               9.60%
before maturity


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions
of the Genaral Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for
the words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(2) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount
of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) by
the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 2.03 of the
Loan Agreement no applications or requests permitted under
paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of such Section shall have
been received by the Bank in respect of any portion of
the Loan, or having been so received, shall have been denied,
or (c) after the Closing Date an amount of the Loan shall
remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (d) the Bank
shall have received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to
Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank
may by notice to the Borrower terminate the right of the
Borrower to submit such applications or requests or to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the case may be, with
respect to such amount or portion of the Loan. Upon the
giving of such notice such amount or porticn of the Loan
shall be cancelled."


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this %2       day of       , 1981.
ERETARY


