Docmmt of
The World Bank
FOR OPVaCAL USE ONLY
MICROFICUE COPY
MiCROFICU                   Reprt No. 10231
Report Nlo. 10231PXAN Type: (POR)
TWEDDLE, El X31707 / T9 073/ OEDD3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PANAMA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(LOAN 2222-PAN)
DECEMBER 24, 1991
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officiai duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C 20433
U.S A
OffKce of Dwectr7wGeneral
Opeations Evaluation
December 24, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOPS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Panama
Second Water Supply and Sewerage Project
(Loan 2222-PAN)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Panama - Second Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Loan
2222-PAN)" prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office with
Part II contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by
the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PANAMA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(Loan 2222-PAN)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface........................................                                ±
Evaluation Sum-ary. ...............................................    ii
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ....... .........          I
1.   Project Identity ........................................... . . .        1
2. Project Background                       .........  1
3.   Project Objectives and Description                ..... .                 2
4.  Project Design and Organization                  ......   4
5. Project Implementation                       ......   4
6.   Project Results ............................................ . . .        7
7.   Project Sustainability . ........ . . . .                                 9
8. Bank Performance                          ......  10
9.   Borrower Performance ....................................... . . .       11
10.  Project Relationship .     .    . . .....................................    11
11.  Contractor and Consulting Services                . . . . .              11
12. Project Data and Information                   ......   12
PART II:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWERS' PERSPECTIVE.          ...........,   13
PART III:  STATISTICAL DATA .......... .    17
Table 1 - Related Bank Loans                         . . .    18
Table 2 - Project Timetable .................................    19
Table 3 - Estimated and Actual Schedule of Disbursements    ..           .    20
Table 4 - Project Implementation ...................................          21
Table 5A - Project Costs                 ... ........... .    23
Table SB - Project Financing .......................................    24
Table 6 - Monitoring Indicators ..................................    25
Table 7 - Status of Covenants                      . .             .          26
Table 8A - Use of Bank Resources: Mission Data               .     .          29
Table 8B - Use of Bank Resources: Staff Weeks                  .     .        31
Annex 1 - IDAAN's Income Statements                     ..                    32
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PANAMA
SECOND WAT'ER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(LOAN 2222-PAN)
PREFACE
This is the Project Ccmpletion Report (PCR) for the Second Water
Supply and Sewerage Project in Panama, for which Loan 2222-PAN in the amount
of US$ 21.6 million was approved on December 16, 1982. Due to Panama's
failure to service its debt to the Bank. disbursements on this, and all other
loans to Panama, were suspended on November 1987 (and have remained suspended
since). The loan was closed on June 30, 1989, after US$ 11.029,148.40 was
disbursed and an undisbursed amount of US$ 10,570,851.60 was canceled.
The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure and Energy Sector
operations Division of the Latin America and Caribbean Country Department II
(Preface, Evaluation Summary and Parts I and III). The Borrower prepared Part
II and its comments have been considered in this final version.
This PCR is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the
Loan and Guarantee Agreements, internal Bank Memoranda, information available
from the Project Files, and interviews with representatives of the Borrower
and Bank staff involved in the project.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAkNAMA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(LOAN 2222-PAN)
EvALUATION SUMMARY
Achievement of Obiectives
1.        The primary objectives of the project, to ameliorate health
problems and to improve living conditions for 260.000 beneficiaries in several
urban centers in Panama. through the improvement and expansion of water
supply, sewerage and storm draining services, were only partially attained.
As the loan was canceled when the project was half way through its execution,
the physical objectives fell short by about 50% of the appraisal estimates.
The second project objective to improve IDAAN's (National Water and Sewerage
Institute) maintenance and operating efficiency practices, and strengthen its
financial, commercial and administrative functions was not achieved. The
utility's performance and quality of services deteriorated markedly towards
the end of the project implementation period. To a large degree, the general
deterioration in the utility's operation was linked to the economic conditions
and political developments then taking place.
Implementation and Results
2.        Until cancellation of the Bank loan, implementation of the project
was hampered adversely by lack of funds, both from internal generation and
from committed Government contributions. The internal cash generation was
zero, versus an expected 3.5% over net assets. Government contributed only
one tenth of the funds originally committed to the project (para. 5.02). In
addition, the slow processing of approvals by the government agencies in
Panama that are assigned supeLvisory responsibilities in contractual matters
delayed contract awards up to one year.
3.        By the end of 1987, when the project was originally expected to be
mostly completed, only about half of the project components had been executed
(para. 6.01). The sewerage components were only partly completed. In Panama
City four of seven sewerage distribution networks were finished, and only one
out of six collectors. In Santiago and Colon the networks were completed, but
in La Chorrera progress was null. Sewerage in-house connections for the
project areas were not built as expected as the available financing was not
instrumented. The drainage works were not initiated. On the other hand, the



- iii -
water component, which includes a main crosBing the Panama Canal, has been
almost finished (para. 6.01). In the area of water metering the anticipated
results were not attained, as source meters were not installed and most of the
house meters were installed in low water consumption areas (para. 5.03.b).
4.        During implementation the overall performance of the utility
deteriorated due to poor management and to a stagnated economy. Unaccounted-
for-water increased from 37% to 42%. Quality of service worsened, with
frequent water rationing, even though the total amount of water produced
increased by 26%. The rate level and structure was not changed as required.
Accounts receivable increased from 3 to 4.6 months (para. 5.03 and 6.02). The
accounts receivable situation worsened in 1987 due to a civil disobedience
campaign calling customers to refuse paying for public services.
5.        On November 30, 1987. disbursements on all Bank loans to Panama
were suspended due to failure to pay debt service. As a result of the
prolonged suspension, the closing date of the loan was not extended beyond
June 30. 1989, and USS 10.6 million were canceled from the loan, even though
the physical targets had not been achieved.
Sustainabilitv
6.        The project achieved only partially its physical objectives and was
not successful in meeting its institutional objectives. Sustainability of the
project is unlikely. First, some project facilities have not been constructed
SB to fully perform the services required, e.g. in-house connections for
sewerage were not built. Second, maintenance activities have been
insufficiently funded and staffed, and they require a better organization.
While new capacity was added to the system, this accomplishment is of limited
value without improved management in the commercial, operational and
maintenance areas. Third, IDAAN has not been provided the financial base and
structure that would ensure adequate self-financing. At the current levels of
unaccounted-for-water (UFW), rates and collection delays, increasing amount of
Government subsidies would be required to make the existing agency's services
financially viable.
7.        Recently, IDAAN has made some important changes which may lead to
improved prospects. After loan closing, the utility shifted its priorities,
and would seem now to be recognizing the importance of controlling water
losses. The Optimization Department (o.D.) - sponsored by the project- has
been finally set up profitting from the project T.A.. Among O.D.'s tasks a
network inventory and user register is under way. Also a five year USS 45
million investment program, has been designed. This program might provide an
opportunrity to address in a rational sequence the Government objectives in the
sector, but the Bank has not yet addressed it. As a priority, attention
should be given to existing facilities and operations, improving efficiency
and providing maintenance. Expansion of the system should be de-emphasized
until these other issues are under control. In this context, a follow-up
operation with significant up front policy conditionality and focussed on UFW



- iv -
control, and emphasizing operational improvements, may deserve to be
considered, once conditions in Panama allow resumption of Bank lending.
Findings and Lessons Learned
8.   The following lessons may be learned from this project:
(a) Unacceptable hiah revenue losses from UFW. IDAAN's management was
unable to produce any positive impact on UFW which through their
increasa jeopardized the financial viability of the entity and of the
project.
(b) Rehabilitation and improved operation and maintenance must come
before new expansions: In this project, available funds were devoted to
new investments while maintenance activities were left unattended. The
result was the deterioration of existing service levels. In retrospect,
the Bank should have evaluated the performance of existing facilities,
and addressed first the operational and commercial inefficiencies in the
design. By having the operational improvement studies available for
appraisal. and using them for final project design and during
negotiations, a better project outcome may have resulted.
(c) Covenant Enforcement: Focusing only on the project (and, admittedly,
important country considerations were also at play at the time) the Bank
should have been either more forceful in the enforcement of covenants or
taken an explicit decision to waive them or modify them, in particular
the cash generation requirement. Had the first path been chosen,
further Bank's operational management consideration should have been
given to suspension of disbursements when IDAAN's operation performance
failed to achieve the agreed targets.
(d) Contract's Approval Procedures: The bureaucratic procedures outside
IDAAN's control delayed contract approval and should be reviewed on a
country wide basis. At present they are too slow, and stand in the way
of the efficient implementation of all investment projects. IDAAN's
current degree of autonomy regarding contract approval and use of its
revenues should be increased.
(e) Senior Management: Appropriate qualifications and continuity of
senior management, which should not be political appointees, are
required to improve the performance of the utility and the chances of
success of coming projects.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PANAMA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(LOAN 2222-PAN)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.        Proiect Identity
Project Name: Second Water Supply and Sewerage
Loan No.: 2222-PA
RVP Unit: Latin America and the Caribbean
Country: Panama
Sector: Water and Sanitation
2.        Proiect Background
2.01      In 1981 the Government of Panama requested Bank financial
assistance to support efforts to make the water and sanitation sector more
efficient. At the time, the sector goals until the end of the decade were to:
(a) maintain existing urban water supply assets in good repair and expand
services to the future urban population to reach a 95 percent service coverage
level; (b) expand urban sewerage systems to reach a 90 percent service level
in Panama's 15 largest urban centers; (c) provide adequate and safe water
supply services through public systems to 85 percent of Panama's rural
population; and (d) provide safe sewerage disposal facilities through
individual means of disposal (septic tanks, latrines) to 90 percent of the
rural population.
2.02      The project subject of this PCR was designed in the context of the
Government's desire to maintain the relatively high standard of social
services, including water supply and sewerage, and improving and extending
these services in Panama City, Colon and in other major urban centers. The
project was a follow up to the first Bank-financed project for Water Supply to
Panama (Loan 1280-PAN, completed by August 1982), the physical objectives of
which were largely achieved. The major PCR findings were considered in the
project design mainly through the objective of improving IDAAN's operating and
financial performance (which fell short of expectation in the previous loan),
and through the use of consultants for the design (para. 4.01).
2.03        At the time of loan signature, the agency in charge of executing
the main components of the project, IDAAN (National Institute of Water and
Sewerage), was an autonomous tax-exempt public entity which had wide
administrative, but limited financial, autonomy. Later, during project
execution, the agency lost its autonomy regarding contrast approvalr started
paying import duties for its inputs, and also could not freely employ its
revenues, which were desposited to a government account. The agency is
governed by an eight-member Board of Directors chaired by the Minister of
Health. Its investment program requires the approval of MIPPE (Ministry of
Planning and Economic Policy). Tariffs and charges to consumers are proposed



-2-
by IDAAN, but are subject to approval by the Government.   In addition to
IDAAN, the Ministry of Public Works (MOP) was in charge of executing a small
storm drainage component.
2.04      During the period of the project, Panama confronted an increasingly
serious economic situation which has yet to improve. Real per capita output
fell during the 1980s as a result of the political crisis. The principal
growth sources since 1970 -- the public sector and the internationally-
oriented service sector -- eroded. The public sector was under a severe
financial constraint: it had to service, under conditions of acute scarcity of
commercial credit, an external debt of 73 percent of GDP, which was larger in
relative terms than those of Argentina, Brazil or Mexico. The service sector
relied on Panama's role as an international financial center and as a provider
of commercial services linked to its geographic location. While this latter
role has potential for expanding, the first one will depend on Panama's
ability to regain the confidence of the international community, and this will
largely depend on the consolidation of the political process and the
implementation of needed adjustment measures.
3.        Prolect Obiectives and DescriRtion
3.01      The main objectives of the project were to ameliorate health
problems and to improve living conditions in several urban centers in Panama,
through the improvement and expansion of water supply, sewerage and storm
draining services. It was expected that about 412 of the expected 260,000
direct beneficiaries of the project would belong to the lowest income
population in the project areas. A parallel objective was to improve IDAAN's
maintenance and operating efficiency, and strengthetn its financial, commercial
and administrative functions, through equipment, water metering, training and
technical assistance.
3.02      The estimated cost of the project was US$ 46.3 million, including
front-end fee and interest during construction, with a foreign exchange
component of US$ 28.3 million. Financing was planned as follows: World Bank,
US$ 21.6 million, IDAAN, US$ 14.1 million, and the Government, US$ 10.6
million. The main project components, as described in the Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR), are the following:
A.   Expansion and Improvement of Sewerage Services (IDAAN)
(a) In Panama City: construction of sewer networks in seven
neighborhoods (about 32 km total length); six sewage
collectors (about 15 km total pipe length); and
rehabilitation of a sewage pumping station.
(b) In Santiago: construction of about 40 km of sewer
laterals and collectors; 3 sewage pumping stations; and 2
oxidation ponds.
(c) In La Chorrera: construction of about 60 km of sewer
laterals and collectors.



- 3 -
(d) In Colon: rehabilitation of four sewage pumping stations
and replacement of about 6 km of sewer pipe.
(e) Provision for credit to finance in-house sanitary
installations for low-income households in the project
areas.
B.   Expansion and Improvement of Water Supplv Services (IDAAN)
(a) In Panama City: construction of a 5 km transmission main
between Los Andes No. 2 and La Pulida and implementation
of a rehabilitation and operations improvement program.
(b) In Arrailan District: construction of a 8.6 million
gallons/day treated-water pumping station at the
Miraflores Water Treatment plant and water transmission
mains between the Hiraflores Pumping Station and Cocoli
(including crossing of the Panama Canal) and Arraijan and
Vista Alegre (about 9 km total length).
(c) In Colon: implementation of a rehabilitation and
operations improvement program, including the replacement
of repair of about 200 valves and about 100 hydrants.
C.   Water Metering Program (IDAAN) - Purchase and installation of
20,000 house water meters in Colon and Panama City; 60 macro
water meters throughout the country; and equipment for meter
repair shop.
D.   Purchase of Equipment (IDAAN) - Purchase of sewer maintenance
and radio communication equipment and vehicles.
E.   Technical Assistance and Training (IDAMN) - Provision for
assistance and training concentrating on maintenance and
operation; system rehabilitation; tariff structure review;
metering; and commercial and administrative systems and
procedures.
F.   Consultants' Services (IDAAN) - Provision of services for the
supervision of construction and the preparation of a sewerage
master plan for Colon.
G.   Colon Storm Drainage Component (MOP) - Rehabilitation of two
pumping stations; repair or replacement of storm drains;
purchase of maintenance equipment; consultants' services for
the preparation of final designs and supervision of
construction; provision of technical assistance for the
organization of a storm drainage system operation unit in
Colon and training of engineers and operators in maintenance
techniques. This was the sole component to be executed by MOP.



- 4-
4.        Prolect Design and Organization
4.01      Project design was satisfactory in all engineering aspects.  The
experience with Loan 1280-PAN was ery valuable in this respect as IDAAN's
previous reluctance to employ cor-   ints for the design was removed.  This
assured that the required inform .    was available for appraisal, and
adequate detailed engineering work was performed. This prevented the project
scope from changing during project implementation as had happened under the
former water supply loan.
4.02      Organization for the implementation of IDAAN's project components
involved three parties: the coordination unit (IDAAN), the contractors, and
the supervision consultants. This organization proved in general to be
adequate, due to the high qualifications of the supervision firms that sought
to ensure the quality of the works (par. 11.01).
5.        Proiect Implementation
5.01      The SAR expected that the project would be completed within five
years, by December 1988. By then, however, only half of the IDAAN's physical
component targets had been attained (para. 6.01), and the MOP managed project
component had almost made no progress (para. 6.01.G). Completion was affected
by political disruption within the country, lack of counterpart funds and poor
and unstable management.
5.02      The major problem during project implementation was the lack of
counterpart funds.   On the one hand, the utility did not generate sufficient
cash to fund its operations and investment needs. Cash generation was
expected to be 3.52 on net fixed assets but, according to supervision
missions, it was zero on average during implementation and even negative in
1985 and 1986. On the other hand, Government equity contributions to IDAAN,
originally expected to be US$ 10.6 million, only reached US$ 1.1 million or
102 of what was programmed during 1983-87 (Part III, Table 5.B). Lack of
funds interfered with the timely implementation of the works, caused work
inter' x tions, affected payments to suppliers, and finally resulted in the
failure to complete the project.
5.03      Lack of internal funds was to a large degree originated by poor
company management in a context of also poor country economic performance.
Particularly, during the last two years of project implementation, the newly
appointed management failed to establish the right direction for the agency
because it focused unduly on political matters, underestimated technical
advice and failed to set priorities on the basis of economic criteria. The
consequences were increased costs, dilapidated facilities and curtailed
revenues. Some examples follow:
(a) Water Losses: During project implementation unaccounted-for-water,
instead of decreasing, actually increased from 37% in 1981 to 422 in
1984-88. On an average project year, UFW amounted to 29.7 109 gallons at
an estimated cost of US$ 8.6 million yearly, or 202 of total project
cost. The cause of these losses, whether commercial or technical, was
and is still not known well. Basically, two main actions oriented to
diminish water losses failed: First, metering. The ratio of metering



- 5 -
actually decreased from 402 in 1981 to 22.4Z in 1984-88, and remained
far behind the 70Z envisaged at Appraisal. Lack of maintenance of
existing meters and a slow pace for installing new ones explain the
decline.   Second, maintenance.  The Panama city water network which was
mainly constructed in 1914 is old and, thus, requires extensive
supplemental maintenance and rehabilitation. Maintenance was poor and
insufficient, due to lack of fu.nds. The technical assistance
consultants recommended an integral progras to deal with losses,
including installation of valves, micrometers and source water meters,
provision of rehabilitation and maintenance, and updating the users'
register. These actions were not carried out (para. 11.02). High
revenue losses due to UFW jeopardized the financial viability of the
ucility and the project.
UFW and MeterInA
1983    1986(aoal) 1986(actual)
For non-accounted water        36        25      45
(2 of water produced)
1981    1985(aoal) 1985(actual)
Metering coverage (2)          40 (*)    70      24
(*) many not functioning.
(b) Inappropriate Tariff Managetm.at. Rates required both changes in
their level and structure.  Al-hough specific changes were recommended
in the technical assistance studies, they were never implemented and the
associated covenant was not complied. Except for an initial increase by
302 in April 1982 (condition of Appraisal), the agency did not alter the
rate level over the project, arguing politicul reasons. On the other
hand, the tariff structure had the same undesirable features in 1987 as
in 1980, namely: (a) rates for low income consumers were only slightly
below those for the more affluent consumers; (b) the uniform volume
charges for water did not discourage excess consumption; and (c) there
was no separate charge for sewerage, which is provided mostly to higher
income areas. In addition, rates were based on fixed consumption
estimates, which were low if compared to the actual average consumption.
As existing meters were not repaired or maintained, more users were
shifted, for billing purposes, to the relatively low flat rate which
lowered revenues.  Furthermore, when meters were available for
installation, they were not inctalled in high consumption areas where
they would be most effective.
(c) Poor Collection Performance Accounts receivable collection delays
remained at about 4.6 months during the project. IDAAN's Commercial
Department failed to take measures to accelerate payments (e.g. cutting
service 60 days after payments were due) apparently due to lack of
personnel. Few incentives were provided for residential users to pay.
In addition, attempts to collect overdue accounts from government and
autonomous entities (about US$ 7 ~illion or 392 of total accounts in
December 1985) were unsuccessful. Technical Assistance to expedite
billing was included in the project as well as an implementation related



-6-
loan coverant (due by December 1983). However, an action plan for these
improvements were delivered four years later than agreed and only
partially implemented. Collection performance worsened in 1987 when
unemployment was widespread and the population was involved in a civil
disobedience campaign not paying for public services.
5.04      Proiect Costs:  The estimated cost of the Second Water Supply and
Sewerage Project was about US$ 46.3 million. It was to be executed during the
years 1983-1988. The final actual cost of the project, in the years 1984-
1989, was about US$ 25.5 million. However, only about half of the civil
works in physical terms were concluded while others remained incomplete. The
cost of the completed civil works was, on average, one third more than the
appraisal estimate. This escalation was anticipated in the price
contingencies which were estimated to be 31%. Phasing out the start up of
project components (from 1983 to 1984-86) was the main cause of the cost
overruns.  A noticeable exception to the prie- increases was the cost of the
house meters. Meters were purchased at a unit cost of US$ 20 as compared to
the appraisal estimate of US$ 65 each. An intense price competition of
suppliers during the project mainly explains that difference, as well as
overestimation of meter costs during appraisal. Estimated and actual costs
are shown in tables 5.A, Part III.
5.05      Procurement:  No irregularities were recorded on procurement.  All
procedures followed the Bank guidelines.
5.06      Contract Approval Procedures:  Approvals from several agencies
outside IDAAN were required before contracts could be signed. This delayed
the contracting process in a significant way. Delays varied from eight to
twelve months, while the Financial Commission, the Central Government Cabinet
and the Auditor General reviewed and authorized each contract.
5.07      Disbursements:  The pace of disbursements was considerably slower
than the appraisal estimate. In 1986, the third year of project execution,
disbursements were only one third of what had been expected at appraisal. It
took five years to disburse less than half of the total loan amount. Table 3,
part III indicates the estimated and actual schedule of disbursements. The
final allocation of credit funds to project categories was uneven with 85% of
the training and technical assistance being utilized, and no disbursements for
the low income household credit and the drainage equipment.
Final Allocations by Category
Actual as a 2
of Appraisal Estimate
Sewerage civil works       37.0
Water supply civil works   72.3
Metering and equipment     92.0
Drainage pipes and equip.   0.0
Training and Technical Ass.    85.5
Credit for Low Income Popul.    0.0
Front end fee             100.0
Un-allocated                0.0



-7-
6.        Proiect Result.
6.01      Physical Results:  Overall, the pr-oject achieved about half of its
physical objectives. Accomplishments, for each component, were as follows:
(A) Sewerage: In Panama city, four out of seven networks and only one
out of six collectors were completed. The pumping station was not
rehabilitated. In Santiago city the component was finished as
programmed. In Colon city the network was finished, but the pumping
station was not constructed. No works were done in La Chorrera. The
credit to low-income households to finance sewerage installations was
not instrumented due to its potential for political manipulation, the
low repAyment capacity of benleficiaries, and the deteriorated economic
situation.
(B) Water: This component has been almost finished. The crossing of the
Panama canal and the Miraflores water treatment plant are more than 90S
complete and, according to IDAAN officials, are expected to be in
service in mid-1991. The transmission main Los Andes-La Pulida, the
rehabilitation program and the sub-component in the Arraijan district
were completed. No works were done in Colon.
(C) Metering: 20,000 house meters were purchased according to appraisal
estimates, but no action was taken on procurement of the macro meters
and the meter shop equipment.
(D) Vehicles and EquiDment: About 70Z of the needs estimated at
appraisal were procured, as the local financing counterpart was not
available for the balance. Equipment and vehicles have been
satisfactorily used.
(E-F) Technical assistance and training: completed as expected.
(G) Storm Drainage: little progress was made in this component, under
the responsibility of the MOP partly due to frequent changes in the
project manager assigned. Only technical assistance services were
provided, accounting for 2% of the component's costs.
6.02      Managerial and Financial Results:  IDAAN's performance during
project execution was, in general, very poor. Unaccounted-for-water was not
reduced but increased sharply instead (para.5.03.a). The numbers of employees
still remained high, 24% above the appraisal estimates. Rates (both level and
structure) did not meet the appraisal expectations. Accounts receivable
increased from 3 to 4.6 months on average. Also, the financial performance
during project execution was unsatisfactory. The Borrower could not comply
with the covenanted internal cash generation ratio. A comparative summary of
IDAAN's average selected indicators for 1984-88 shows that all key indicators,
except for water connections, deteriorated.



IDAAN's Managerial and Financial Indicators
Average
Indicator                    Appraisal    1984-88   Deviation
Estimate     Actual         (2)
Working ratio (X)/a              65.2         80.0        +22.7
Water produced
(Million TUG)/b                  57.4         70.3        +22.0
Water sold
(Million TUG)                    42.1         40.2        -4.5
Unaccounted-for-water (2)        26.6         42.3        +59.0
Metering coverage (x)            70.0          22.4       -68.0
Overdue water charges (monthe)    3            4.6        +53.0
Personnel/1,000 connections       9            11.2       +24.0
Average water tariff (US$/TUG)    1.11          1.05      -5.5
Connections water (000)          195.3       200.8        +3.0
Notes: (a) expenses/revenue ratio; (b)TUG- Thousand US Gallon.
Source: IDAAN 's Progress Reports, Financial statements and SAR.
Detailed information is presented in Part III, Table 6 and in Annex 1.
6.03        Results on the Quality of Service:  The available agency funds were
devoted to investments while maintenance activities were unattended. This, in
combination with poor management, led to a deterioration of operations and
finances, affecting the level of service. Starting in 1987, water rationing
spread to most urban areas throughout the country and continues at the time of
this PCR. During 1987-1990 many Panama City areas received water, on average,
only 11 hours per day.



-9-
Hours without Water.
Daily average. 1987-1990
Panama City Areas:                      Inland:
Juan Diaz         10       Bocas del Toro   0     Veraguas  3
Pedregal          16       Cocle           7      P. Oeste  6
Tocumen          18        Colon         12
Alcalde Diaz      10       Chiriqui       3
Metro Central      8       P. Este-Darien   5
Arraijan          18       Herrera         2
San Miguelito    12        Los Santos     3
Source; IDAAN
6.04      Urban Poverty Impact : The poverty impact was favorable.
According to IDAAN about 83,000 inhabitants, or 782 of the low income
population estimated at appraisal, will benefit from the project, assuming
that the water component will be finished by mid-1991.
6.05      Economic Re-evaluation:  The economic rate of return for the water
component, which accounts for 20% of total project costs, was estimated at
appraisal to be 14.6Z. At the time of this report, however, the water
component is still not functioning, and the lack of agency information,
regarding operational costs and improvements in the quality of service, makes
it impossible to re-estimate the costs and benefits. Based on the qualitative
information available, the actual rate of return may well be negative.
7.        Prolect Sustainabilitv
7.01      The project achieved only partially its physical objectives and was
not successful in meeting its institutional objectives. Sustainability of the
project is unlikely. First, some project facilities have not been constructed
as to fully perform the services required, e.g. in-house connections for
sewerage were not built. Second, maintenance activities have been
insufficiently funded and staffed, and they require a better organization.
While new capacity was added to the system, this accomplishment is of limited
value without improved management in the commercial, operational and
maintenance areas. Third, the utility has not been provided the financial
base and structure that would ensure adequate self-financing. At the current
levels of UFW, rates and collection delays, increasing amount of Government
subsidies would be required to make the existing agency's services financially
viable.
7.02      Recently, IDAAN has made some important changes which may lead to
improved prospects. After loan closing, the utility shifted its priorities,
and would seem now to be recognizing the importance of controlling water
losses. The Optimization Department -sponsored by the project- has been
finally set up. Among its tasks a network inventory and user register is
under way. Also a five year US$ 45 million investment program, which requires
Bank assessment has been designed. This might provide an opportunity to
address in a rational sequence the Government objectives in the sector. As a
priority, attention should be given to existing facilities and operations,
improving efficiency and providing maintenance. Expansion of the system
should be de-emphasized until these other issues are under control.



- 10 -
8.        Bank Performance
8.01      During project preparation, the Bank made two assumptions that
proved to be optimistic. First, that IDAAN would succeed in undertaking
effective cost control, inter alia increasing the number of metered house
connections as projected and reducing unaccounted-for-water to a 25% level by
1986. Second, that recommended changes in tariffs: a 12% tariff raise by 1985
and the introduction of sewerage charges were attainable. In fact, those
assumptions did not materialize. On the costs side, efficiency issuee were
not addressed by the agency. On the revenues, the Government exhibited, from
the beginning, unwillingness to authorize further rate increases. Since
preparation, the Bank failed to foresee and elaborate these concerns -mainly
efficiency- and address them up-front, possibly due to the adequate previous
agency performance and the success of the former project.   Instead, the Bank
focussed on discussions whether the cash/asset ratio or the rate of return
were the suitable monitoring indicator; or if equity was better than debt for
channelling the Government contribution.
8.02      During project execution, the Bank played a useful role inducing
the restructuring of the project and revising the investment plan to overcome
the shortage of funds. As financial and operational deterioration arose, the
Bank requested an action plan for operational improvement and urged the
Government and IDAAN to increase tariffs and to correct their structure.
Also, the Bank frequently brought the problem of accounts receivables to the
attention of IDAAN. However, the Borrower failed to present viable plans or
undertake the required actions. Bank supetvision was generally adequate and
sufficiently frequent: an average of 2 visits to the country were done yearly.
Teams comprised engineers and financial specialists. A total of 59.4 staff
weeks were devoted to supervision.   The project was rated as having moderate
problems until October 1987 when it was categorized as a "major problem
project".
8.03      Project results demonstrate that the twofold government objectives
of maintaining existing facilities and expanding the system through an
ambitious investment program became unattainable during project execution.
Should the project have been interrupted before the Bank halted across-the-
board disbursements to Panama? In retrospect, and from a project standpoint,
yes; this might have been the desired action to impress upon the authorities
the magnitude of the non-compliance and to focus the Government attention on
the issues faced by the utility. According to interviews, Bank staff had
recommended suspending disbursements in early 1987, but changes in management
due to the Bank reorganization delayed the decision. In addition the main
concern of management became the deteriorated country situation, and the issue
of debt service to the Bank. In November 1987 disbursements were suspended on
all loans when Panama stopped servicing its debt.



- 11 
9.        Borrower Performance
9.01      IDAAN's performance in implementing the project mainly depended
upon two factors, the critical economic situation (paras. 5.04 and 5.03.c) and
its management's commitment. The latter was one of the main weaknesses of the
project. The management was politized and not committed to principles of
sound administration. This resulted in a poor operational and financial
performance of the utility (para. 5.03) afecting in turn the final project
results. With respect to supervision of works, IDAAN's performance was
satisfactory. Also, the fact that the project manager stayed in his post for
5 and a half years, until he had disagreements with the (political) Board of
Directors, was positive.
9.02      The borrower's performance with respect to the obligations set
forth in the Credit Agreement was poor. Key covenants were not met including:
internal cash generation (Sec 5.05.a); implementation of tariff restructuring
(Sec 5.08 c); reducing overdue accounts for water charges (Sec 5.09);
adjustment of tariff level (Sec 5.05.b). The final status of the covenants is
presented in Table 7, Part III.
10.       Project Relationships
10.01     The Bank's relationship with the Government and IDAAN was good.
11.       Contractor and Consulting Services
11.01     There was one major problem with the civil works.  It affected the
Miraflores pumping station and transmission main construction crossing the
Panama Canal, which accounted for 25% of the executed project components. The
contractor selected (lowest bid) proved to be not competent for the complex
tasks involved. As he subcontracted the majority of works, coordination
problems and frictions among the parties involved were common, causing delays.
Other problems faced included: (a) schedule was not met, work progress was
slow and unpredictable. Although the Panama city contract was the first to be
awarded, works were among the last group to be completed; (b) subcontractors
received delayed and inadequate payments due to a poor management. For
instance, a firm subcontracted for design and supervision claimed losses and
expenses for US$ 0.9 million on a US$ 1.9 million contract, arguing costs of
delayed main contractor payments, disruption, and effects of the devaluation
of the dollar vis a vis other major currencies; (c) recommendations repeatedly
suggested by the supervision consultants were partially implemented. In
retrospect, the role played by the supervision firms counterbalanced and
prevented the contractor failures to become bigger.
11.02     Consultants were brought in the areas of construction supervision,
operation and maintenance, rehabilitation of water systems (Panama and Colon
cities), metering, tariff restructuring and commercial services. They were
well qualified and their reports were sound. They left in place, among
others, procedures for undertaking a water balance, a user register design,
and the location for valves. However, their recommendations made only an
impact on the intermediate counterpart staff, but not in higher management
which was in charge of taking the final decisions. Better consultants'



- 12 -
communications skills might have not been enough to get the reports read by
the higher management.
12.       Prolect Data and Information
12.01     Information and reports were in general adequate and in time,
during the project execution. Agency officials in the planning department
were very cooperative and provided the required information for the
preparation of this completion report, surmounting problems of records
availability.



- 13 -
PROJECT CDMPLETION REPORT
PNAMA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWEtAGE PROJECT (LOAN 2222-PANL
PART I1. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE l
I.    INTRODUCTION
We should like to start by saying that most of the high-level IDAAN staff
have changed and that the project files are not complete. Thus, we are
unable to present as detailed and objective report as we would have liked.
II.   GENERAL COMMENTS
In general we are in agreement with the observatiors made under Part I of
'the report prepared by the IBRD. We are especially in agreement with the
last sentence of item 11.01; in fact, Bank staff tried, including by
bringing Brazilian experts to give conferences to interest the Management
with poor results.
However, we would like to point out that Loan 2222-PAN covered various
aspects, as follows:
a.  Consultants          2-1  Administrative
2-2 Operational-Technical
2-3 Supervision Techniques
b.  Execution of Works  b-i  Water
b-2 Sewers
b-3 Sewage water Pumping Stations
b-4 Pluvial Sewers (MPW)
c.  Equipment            c-1  Valves
c-2 Meters
c-3 Vehicles
c-4 Macro-meters
c-5 Sewer clean-up
d.  Other Programs       d-I  Financing of sanitary facilities
d-2 Staff training
e. Institutional Strengthening
The following is a translation prepared by the Bank of the comments
furnished by the Executive Director of IDAAN through a letter dated June 7, 1991.
Where appropriate, some of the suggested changes or comments have already been
reflected in Part I of the PCR.



- 14 -
At the time of loan signing, IDAAN was in an apparently good situation to
execute the works within the project timetable and even earlier. Most of
the plans were already designed and many had been recently reviewed to
update them.
Foreign consultants had been contracted for the designs for the Miraflores
pumping station (Cruce Bajo el Canal), and the Santiago and La Chorrera
sewers; these designs had been financed by the IDB's Pre-Investment Fund
and were also ready.
With respect to operational technical assistance (operation and
maintenance), IDAAN had already contracted foreign consultants with whom
it had had good experience and, in fact, very early on it had
recommendations on macro-meters which were accepted by the Bank. However,
things began to take a turn for the worst and rapidly deteriorated.
Certain facts that took place have been mentioned although not in
chronological order and, as stated in the introduction, we may not be
aware of some others.
There were many changes in the Executive Directors: one Director
negotiated and prepared project financing; another one signed it; another
executed it (badly), and there was still another one at the closing of the
project.
IDAAN's situation vis-a-vis the Central Government changed (unfavorably)
vary rapidly.   For example,  at the time of project negotiation and
determination of loan amount, IDAAN was exempt from taxes; this changed
and IDAAN had to pay taxes (approximately 35%) for imported goods. When
the loan was negotiated the highest authority to sign contracts for any
amount was IDAAN's Board of Directors, later practically all contracts
(after approval by the Board of Directors), had to go before the Finance
Commission, the Cabinet Council, and approved by the Comptroller General.
This clearance process delayed contracts (even procurement for chloride)
for up to one year.
At the internal level, the Ministry of Planning and the office of the
Comptroller General became more and more involved in IDAAN's programs and
management, hindering its work and making it more inefficient. Funds had
to be placed in a "common fund."
The Central Government, the Military, and the Executive Directorate itself
became more and more political, not taking into account the technical
opinions, including those of consultants, so that final decisions were
more and more whimsical and even absurd.
Because of this; IDAAN's revenues diminished and Central Government
contributions became almost non-existent.   With this in mind,  !e can
rapidly review the project components:
a)    Consultants - a-l Administrative:  It had a good beginning, but when
the consultants had to implement their recommendations they faced a
demoralized staff and even lack of support from the management. At



- 15 -
present we are re-analyzing the reports and trying to implement
those recommendations that are still valid.
a-2 Operational-Tachnical: If this important component had had the
required managerial support it would have had produced batter
results. This was intentionally limited to the technical staff in
the health sector -- to think of the La Chorrera sewer seems
somewhat utopic; this was certainly not what was planned at the time
of loan negotiation and signing.
b-3 Sewage Water Pumping Stations:  These stations at Colon and
Panama City were not repaired mainly because of the bureaucratic
standstill in the bid procedures, although the financing was
available and supervision of installation had already been
contracted with the maintenance consultants.   At present these
stations are being rehabilitated with assistance from the IDB.
b-4 Pluvial sewers were under the responsibility of the MOW. There
were many changes in project leaders. The MOW was also suffering
the same maladies as IDAAN and, consequently, there was little
progress.
b)    Equipment - c-i Valves.  The valves for Colon and Panama City were
acquired, however, when the present Administration took over it was
found that all the valves were practically thrown away and none had
been installed.  The present administration, in spite of constant
criticism from users, has began the installation of such valves.
c-2 Meters. The micro-meters were acquired and installed, however,
it seems that consistent with a poor tradition at IDAAN, the meters
have turned out to be of poor quality. This is a subject that has
been mentioned many times before and it is not worth mentioning it
again.
c-3 Vehicles. These were acquired and used.
c-4 Micro-meters. These were acquired, but as in the case of the
valves, they had not been installed. The present administration is
gradually installing them.
c-5 Sewer Cleaning Equipment. Acquired.
c)    Other Programs - d-l Financing for sanitary facilities.   This
program, which was to be implemented in the Old Panama City sector,
was in fact initiated through promotion, census, design of minimum
system, budgets, etc. However, it was soon obvious that politics
(which was to be expected) would play a major role on the matter as
well as funds mismanagement, transfer of funds for other purposes,
etc., which precluded the advance of the program without any
practical results.



- 16 -
d-2 Staff Training. Some training of maintenance staff took place
in Panama and abroad.   With respect to other funds for training
abroad, these were also not used because it was thought that
favoritism would play a role in choosing training candidates, thus,
this program, as others, was not executed.
d)    Institutional Strengthening.  This area covers personnel, revenue
collection, metering, etc., and, in general, it underwent serious
deterioration during the period of the project.
Irn conclusion, we would like to state that the project was well conceived
and balanced, and its implementation was in accordance with the loan IDAAN
had signed with the Bank; however, there were many factors that could not
be predicted at loan signing that, unfortunately, brought havoc to a well-
structured project.
RE aCOMMENDATIONS
It .s probable unusual to make recommendations in this type of document,
however, the special circumstances of Loan 2222-PAN justify it.
These recommendations are important because IDAAN and the Bank might sign
another loan in the future and the lessons learned may be of value.
In the future IDAAN should not try to develop in-house all the designs of
a future project; complex works should be contracted (through public bid)
with foreign experts.
IDAAN needs to recuperate its autonomy.  The Executive Director should
meet the requirements of the position, i.e., be a well-known and
experienced civil or sanitary engineer; neither the Director that (badly)
administered the project during various years nor his successor met this
requirement. The Director should be appointed for a fixed term endorsed
by the Congress, as it used to be.
IDAAN's Board of Directors (where the Executive branch is heavily
represented) should be the highest authority that decides on all matters
concerning the institution.   This,  of course,  should be coordinated
(through the Executive Director and the Board) with the plans and programs
of the Central Government.



- 17 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PANAMA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(LOAN 2222-PAN)
PART III: STATISTICAL DATA



TABLE 1
- 18 -
PART III
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.   Related Bank Loans
Title                 Loan No.   Year of    Original
Approval    Amount      Disbursed   Comments
Water Supply and
Sewerage              1280-PAN      1976        12.00      12.00
Second Water
Supply and
Sewerage              2222-PAN      1982        21.60      11.03       Subject of
this PCR.
Source: IBRD Statement of Loans, September 1990.



- 19 -
TABLE 2
2.   Project Timetable
Item                      Date                            Date
Planned                         Actual
Identification              n.a.                            5/1981
Preparation                 n.a.                         6-12/1981
Appraisal Mission         3-4/1982                        3-4/1982
Loan/Credit
Negotiations                10/1982                  10/18-22/1982
Board Approval             12/1982                      12/16/1982
Loan/Credit
Signature                    2/1983                      2/17/1983
Loan/Credit
Effectiveness                 4/1983                     4/07/1983
Loan/Credit
Closing                  12/31/1988                      6/30/1989
Last Disbursement
Date                         -                           7/20/1988
Source: Bank Mission reports
n.a.: not available



- 20 -
TABLE 3
3. Estimated and Actual Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal     Appraisal           Actual        Actual as % of
Year         Estimate           Disbursements    Appraisal
(By June 30)                                        Estimate
1983            0.4                  -
1984            2.1                  0.4             19.0
1985            8.2                  1.0             12.2
1986           14.9                  4.8             32.2
1987           18.9                  9.6             50.8
1988           21.3                 10.6             49.8
1989 (*)       21.6                 10.7             49.5
Source: Bank mission reports and Disbursement Officer.
(*) By December 31. 1988.



- 21 -
TABLE 4
4.  Proiect ImnlemeA1tation
Indicators                       Appraisal                Actual /a.
Estimate
Category 1: Civil Works
A. Sewerage Services                   65,000 new              n.a.
connections
Panama City:
-sewer networks                     32 km                   19 km
-sewerage colectors                  6                       1
-rehabilitation of a
pumping station                      1                    no progress
Santiago City:
-sewer laterals and collectors       40 km                  40 km
-pumping stations                     2                      2
-oxidation ponds                      2                      2
La Chorrera:
-sewer laterals and collectors      60 km                  no progress
Colon:
-rehabilitation of pumping
station                             4                    no progress
-replacement of sewer pipe            6 km                   6 km
Financing for in-house
sanitary installations                credit line             not implemented
B. Water Services
Panama City:
-rehabilitation program             various
-transmission construction             5 km                   5 km
Arraijan District:
-construction of a treated-
water pumping station                 8.6 mgd             completed
-water transmission mains              9 km                  9 km
Colon:
-rehabilitation and operations
improvement program                                      no progress
C. Metering Program
Panama and Colon Cities:
-house water meters                    20.000                 20,000
Overall Country:



- 22 -
-source water meters                     60                     0
-equipment for meter repair shop        various             no progress
D. Equioment
-sewer maintenance equipment
and vehicles                           various            procured
E-F. Technical Assistance. Training
and Consultant Services              various             completed
G. Colon Storm Drainacqe Component
-rehabilitation of pumping stations          2                   0
-maintenance equip. acquisition            various          no progress
-consultants, final design and training  various            no progress
Source: IDAAN
(a) by February 1991.



TABLE 5A
- 23 -
5. Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate                 Actual
Component                       Local   Foreign  Total               Total 2/
I. IDAAN
Sewerage                                7.32    5.62    12.94              9.28
Water Supply                            1.86    5.38      7.24             6.92
Metering                                0.14    1.38      1.52             0.41
Equipment                               0.08    0.78      O.86             3.37
Consulting Services/Training            0.57    1.10      1.67             0.90
Construction Supervision                1.32      --      1.32             1.52
Base Cost                              11.29   14.26    25.55             22.40
Physical Contingencies                  1.18    1.37      2.55             0.0
Price Contingencies                     3.98    4.11      8.09             0.0
Total Project Cost - IDAAN             16.45   19.74    36.19             22.4
Interest During Construction            --      6.35      6.35             2.66
Front-end Fee on Bank Loan 2/           --                0.30             0.30
Total Financing Required-IDAAN         1O.4$   26.39    42.84             25.36
II. MOP
Storm Drainage/Pump. Station            0.86    0.96      1.82             0.0
Equipment                               0.01    0.15      0.16             0.0
Design/Supervision/Training
Technical Assistance                    0.29    0.16      0.45             0.07
Base Cost                               1.16    1.27      2.43             0.07
Physical Contingencies                  0.17    0.15      0.32             0.0
Price Contingencies                     0.18    0.18      0.36             0.0
Total Project Cost-MOP                  1.51    1.60      3.11             0.07
Interest During Construction             --     0.30      0.30             n.a
Front-end Fee on Bank Loan               --     0.02      0.02             0.02
Total Financing Required-MOP            1.51   1.92      3.43             0.09
III. TOTAL PROJECT
Base Cost                              12.45   15.53    27.98             22.47
Physical Contingencies                  1.35    1.52      2.87             0.0
Price Contingencies                     4.16    4.29      8.45             0.0
Total Proiect Cost                     17.96   21.34    39.30             22.47
Interest During Construction           --       6.65      6.65             2.66
Front-end Fee on Bank Loan             --       0.32      0.32             0.32
Total Financing Required               17.96   28.31    46.27             25.45
1/ 1 US$ = 1 Balboa; prices of June 1982
2/ Estimated. Last information available Dec. 1989, except for interests (Dec. '88).
n.a. = not available



- 24 -
TABLE 5B
B. Prolect Financing
Planned
Source/category                                (Loan/credit         Final
agreement)
_IBRD :                                    US$'M    %        USS'M    %
Cat. 1: Sewerage: Civil works and equip.            6.20   13.4       2.31   9.1
Cat. 2: Water Supply: Civil works and equip         6.50   14.0       4.71  18.5
Cat. 3: Meters and related equipment                2.60    5.6       2.40
Cat. 4a: Drainage: Parts and civil works            0.70
Cat. 4b: Drainage: Equipment and vehicles           0.50
Cat. 5a: Consultants' services (T.A.)               1.30
Cat. 5b: Cons. services: Drainage                   0.10
Cat. 6a,b: Training                                 0.12
Cat. 7: Low income group credit                     0.50
Cat. 8: Fee                                         0.32
Cat. 9: Unallocated                                 2.76
Subtotal                                            21.60
Domestic:
IDAAN                                               14.10
Central Government                                  10.60
Subtotal                                            24.70         11.54
TOTAL                                               46.30  100.0   25.45   100.0
Source: IDAAN and files.



TABLE 6
- 25 -
6. Monitoring Indicators a/
Indicator                               1984   1985    1986        1987    1988
Water Produced (109 gal)
Appraisal estimate                    55.9    56.5    56.7        58.3    59.6
Actual                                61.1    65.7    n.a.        77.5    76.9
Water Sold (109 gal)
Appraisal estimate                    39.1    40.7    42.5        43.7    44.7
Actual                                36.5    37.9    40.0        41.4    45.1
Unaccounted-for-water (Z)
Appraisal estimate                    30.0    28.0    25.0        25.0    25.0
Actual                                40.3    42.3    41.0        46.6    41.3
Watet Connections (000)
Appraisal estimate                   178.0   187.0   195.0       203.0   212.0
Actual                               175.5   188.2   201.6 b/  216.6   222.0
Meter Connections (Z)
Appraisal estimate                    65.0    70.0    70.0        70.0    70.0
Actual                                29.0    18.9    23.8        21.3    19.2
Employees per 1000 Connections
Appraisal estimate                    12.1    11.2    10.5         9.8      9.0
Actual                                12.0    11.8    11.2 bl   11.0    10.2
Average tariff per 1000 gal. sold (USS)
Appraisal estimate                     1.07    1.20    1.20        1.28    1.34
Actual                                 1.06    1.05    1.05 b/   1.05    n.a.
Accounts receivable tariffs
(months billings)
Appraisal estimate                        3        3        3          3       3
Actual                                  4.3      4.3      3.7       5.7      5.2
Source: IDAAN's Progress Reports and Staff Appraisal Report.
a/ All IDAAN Systems
bf By June 1986



TABLE 7
- 26 -
7. Status of Covenants
L.A. Section               Condition                           Status
3.01 (b)          Enter into a subsidiary loan        In compliance.
agreement with the Guarantor
for transfer of funds to
(disbursements) and from
(repayments) the Gurantor for
execution of Part G of the
Project (drainage system -
Colon).
3.02              Employ consultancy services
for:
(a) Rehabilitation, operation    In compliance
and maintenance of water
supply systems;
(b) Improvements to management   In compliance
systems;
(c) Tariffs study;                 In compliance.
(d) Colon Sewerage Master          Not in compliance.
Plan; and
(e) Supervision of                 In compliance.
construction;
(i) Miraflores pumping           In compliance.
station and Canal
crossing;
(ii) Colon Sewage pumping        In compliance.
stations and
(iii) Sewage pumping station    In compliance.
at Ave. Brazil.
3.04 (b)          Furnish to the Bank semi-           In compliance.
annual progress re-orts.
3.06 (a)          Deliver to the Bank a detailed   In compliance. However, the line of
plan for provisiorn of credit      credit was not implemented.
to low-income customers for        Para. 6.01.A
sanitary installations and
house connections.



- 27 -
3.07              Deliver to the Bank a plan for   In compliance.
training of the Borrower's
staff.
3.08              Employ a project manager.          In compliance.
5.02 (a)(b)       Have its accounts and              In compliance.
financial statements for each
fiscal year audited by
independent auditors.
5.04              Revalue its fixed assets, once   In compliance.
every calendar year.
5.05 (a)          Adjust its rates to produce,       Not in compliance.  Preliminary
for each year of its fiscal        estimate for 1986 about OZ.
year after Dec. 31, 1982,
funds from internal sources
equivalent to not less than
3.5Z off one-half the sum of
the current net value of its
fixed assets in service at the
beginning and at the end of
the fiscal year.
5.05 (b)          Review the adequacy of its         Not in compliance.
tariffs to meet the
requirements set forth in
Section 5.05 (a).
5.06              Avoid incurrence in any            In compliance.
additional debt unless
revenues for the 12
consecutive months preceding
such incurrence are at least
1.5 times the estimated
maximum debt service
requirements for any
succeeding 12 months.
5.07 (i)(ii)      Deliver to the Bank a plan of    In compliance.  However, the plan
actions for improving              was not implemented.
collection of valorization
charges.
5.08 (a)          Complete and furnish to the        Not in compliance.
Bank a sewerage connection
survey.
5.08 (b)          Furnish to the Bank a study        In compliance.
for tariff review.
5.08 (c)          Implement the recommendtions       Not in compliance.
for the tariff study.



- 28 -
5.09              Reduce and maintain accounts      Not in compliance. 4.6 months in
receivable from water sales at   average during project execution.
levels not exceeding 3 months
of drilling.



TABLE 8A
- 29 -
8.   Use of Bank Resources:  Mission Data
Stage of Project        Month/      No. of    Days in   Specialization
Cycle               Year        Persons   Field      Represented *    Comments
I. Through Appraisal  5/1981          1        4          FIN
6/1981         3        7         FIN/ENG/RA   Project brief updated
1        2         ENG           IDAAN took positive
steps for conditions of
Appraisal.
9/1981        1         4         FIN
12/1981        1        4
II. Appraisal
through Board
Approval
Negotiations           10/18-22/1982
Board Approval         12/16/1982
III. Board Approval
through loan
Effectiveness
Loan signing           2/17/1983
Loan Effectiveness    4/7/1983
IV. Supervision
Supervision Mission   3/1983          1        3          FIN



- 3n -
Supervision Mission   10/1983           2         7          FIN/ENG
1984                    n.a.
1984                    n.a.
Supervision Mission   5/1985            2         8          ENG
6          FIN           IDMN's Financial
position deteriorated
substantially. New
IDAAN's managing
director.
Supervision Mission   9/1985            2         5          ENG/FIN        Slow pace of project
execution due to
financial constraints.
Supervision Mission   3/1986            2         9          ENG/FIN        Disbursements might be
suspended unless actions
to strengthen financial
performance are taken.
Supervision Mission   7/1986            1         2          FIN
Supervision Mission   1/1987            2        10          ENG/FIN        Sustained efforts
required Partial
improvements on agreed
action plan.
Supervision Mission   9/1987            1         4          ENG            IDAAN was not meeting
key loan covenants.
* Note:  Specialization represented: ENG - engineer; FIN   financial analyst; RA   research
assistant.



TABLE 8B
- 31 -
B. Use of Bank Resources - Staff Weeks
1978  1979  1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990   Total
Preparation  10.2   3.1  16.7  16.4  11.7                     -                  -      -     -      58.1
Appraisal       -      -    0.4    -   23.7  16.5    -        -     -      -     -      -     -      40.6
Negotiatlons      -      -     -    3.7    _-                    -     -      -         -     -       3.7
Supervision    -       -     -      -     -    3.0   10.6   6.9  21.6  11.8  5.0   0.2   0.3    59.4
Other          2.1   0.2   0.5   0.5   2.6   5.8    0.2   0.2   0.9   0.1   -           -     -      13.1



ANNEX 1
- 32 -
PANAMA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT (LOAN 2222-PA)
IDAAN'S INCOME STATEMENTS
(in Million of Balboas)
Financial Data                               1984      1985    1986    1987        1988
REVENUES
Water                   App.                  41.9      43.6    45.5    49.4        53.2
Actual               37.9      39.8    41.3    42.5        45.9
Sewerage                App.                   0.0       5.2      5.5      6.4       6.9
Actual                0.0       0.0      0.0      0.C       0.0
Others                  App.                   2.5       2.4      2.8      2.7       2.8
Actual                2.6       2.5      2.4      2.4       2.1
TOTAL REVENUES
App.                 44.4      51.2    53.8    58.5        62.9
Actual               40.4      42.3    43.7    44.9        48.0
COSTS
Personnel               App.                   8.5       9.1      9.7    10.3       10.9
Actual                8.5      10.9    10.5    12.5         n.a.
Energy                  App.                   7.3       8.0      8.7      9.4      10.1
Actual                8.1       8.7    10.8       9.3       n.a.
Others                  App.                  14.5      15.7    16.8    18.0        19.4
Actual               15.4      14.9    12.7    16.1         n.a.
TOTAL COSTS             App.                  30.3      32.8    35.2    37.7        40.4
Actual               32.0      34.5    34.0    37.9        36.6
Oper. Inc.before deprec.
App.                 14.1      18.4    18.6    20.8        22.5
Actual                8.4       7.8      9.7      7.0      11.4
Depreciation            App.                  10.4      11.5    12.5    13.5        14.5
Actual                7.6       7.4      7.9      8.1       9.1
Operating Income        App.                   3.7       6.9      6.1      7.3       8.0
Actual                0.8      (0.4)     1.8    (1.1)       2.3
Fin. & Other Expenses
App.                  2.3       2.3      2.9      3.1       4.3
Actual                2.8       1.9      1.7      1.7       3.2
NET INCOME              App.                   1.4       4.6      3.2      4.2       3.8
Actual               (2.0)     (1.5)    0.1    (2.8)       (0.9)
Source: IDAAN's Income Statement Reports and SAR.



