                                       Document o f
                                    The World Bank

                            FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                                                                 52636
                               RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                                           ON A

                PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                              OF
   AVIAN INFLUENZA CONTROL AND HUMAN PANDEMIC PREPAREDNESS
                     AND RESPONSE PROJECT
                   IDA GRANT NUMBER H272 KOS


                             IN THE INITIAL AMOUNT OF
                                  SDR 2.0 MILLION
                            (US$3 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                           AND

                          A RESTRUCTUREDAMOUNT OF
                                 SDR 2.0 MILLION
                           (US$3 MILLION EQUIVALENT)


                                         TO THE

                                REPUBLIC OF KOSOVO

                                  DECEMBER 18,2009




T h i s document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance o f their official duties. I t s contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.
                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AH Lab   Animal Health Laboratory
AI       Avian Influenza
CF       Compensation Fund
FA0      Food and Agriculture Organization o f the United Nations
FVA      Food and Veterinary Agency
GPAI     Global Program for Avian Influenza Control and Human Pandemic
         Preparedness and Response
HPAI     Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza
ICU      Intensive Care Unit
IDA      International Development Association
IPH      Institute o f Public Health
MAFRD    Ministry o f Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Development
MEF      Ministry o f Economy and Finance
MOH      Ministry o f Health
MTR      Mid-term Review
PDO      Project Development Objective
PISG     Provisional Institutions o f Self-Government
SOP      Standard Operating Procedure
UNICEF   United Nations Children's Fund
WHO      World Health Organization




                    Vice President:     Philippe H. L e Houerou
                  Country Director:     Jane Armitage
                  Country Manager       Ranjit Nayak
                   Sector Manager:      Dina Umali-Deininger
                 Task Team Leader:      Ibrahim Hackaj
                                                          KOSOVO

    Avian Influenza Control and HumanPandemic Preparedness and Response Project


                                              TABLE OF CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                   Page
Data Sheet .......................................................................................................................... 1
ANNEX 1: Proposed Changes............................................................................................               3
ANNEX 2: Appraisal Summary Update .............................................................................                     7
ANNEX 3: Updated Critical Risk Framework ...................................................................                        8
ANNEX 4: Results Framework and Monitoring ....................................................                                      9
                                      DATA SHEET

               PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING OF
   AVIAN INFLUENZA CONTROL AND HUMAN PANDEMIC PREPAREDNESS
                     AND RESPONSE PROJECT
                   IDA GRANT NUMBER H272 KOS




                                                Environmental category: B

Borrower: Republic o f Kosovo.
Responsible agency: Office o f the Prime Minister




RVP approved -
Does the restructured project require any exceptions to Bank policies?       -Yes X No
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                 -Yes   No
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                 -Yes X NO


Revised project development objective/outcomes.

The original PDO:
The objective o the Project is to strengthen the Recipient's capacity to prevent the spread OJ
               f
                                                                                       f
Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza (HPAI) among poultry, to prevent the transmission o HPAI
@om birds to other animals and humans, and to prepare for a potential pandemic o HPAI f
transmissible between humans.

The revised PDO:
The Project Development Objective is to minimize the threat posed to humans by Highly
Pathogenic Avian Influenza (HPAI) infection and other zoonoses to prepare for, control,
and respond to influenza pandemics and other infectious disease emergencies in humans.

The expected outcomes o the revised Project are: (i) the development o a National
                       f                                               f
Integrated Preparedness Plan for control and response to outbreaks and pandemics
prepared in accordance with WHO recommendations; and (ii) a contained and
                     f
diminishing pattern o HPAI and other zoonotic viral threats and infections in humans.
1   Does the restructured project trigger any new safeguard policies? NO


                        Source                           Local             Foreign   Total

I   IDA Grant
    Total                                          I      1.93




                                                   2
                                        ANNEX 1:
                                     Proposed Changes


a. What are the proposed changes, as applicable, in the project`s development objectives,
   outcomes, design, andor scope?

The proposed changes are:

1. Align the Proiect`s Development Obiective (PDO) with the Global Program for
Avian Influenza Control and Human Pandemic Preparedness Response (GPAI) PDO.'
Based on the February 2009 Mid-term Review (MTR) and follow-up discussion related
to the recent A/HlNl pandemic, the Recipient has agreed that the PDO should be revised
to expand the scope o f planned interventions to other zoonotic diseases as a new target
outcome, while preserving the integrity o f the original Project design related to A I and
aligning it with the GPAI PDO. The revised PDO i s as follows:

    "to minimize the threat posed to humans by Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza
   (HPAI) infection and other zoonoses to prepare for, control, and respond to influenza
   pandemics and other infectious disease emergencies in humans. "

2.  Sumort the development o f a National Pandemic Plan to establish mechanisms for
management o f a pandemic situation.

3.   Cancel Compensation Funds (CF). It was agreed to redirect the CF (US$537,300
equivalent) within the same activity category, to finance the adjusted Project scope,
especially the activities for Human and Animal Health components and activities that
exceed cost estimations.

4.    Revise Project Activities: The MTR reviewed and appraised Project activities and
priorities. Discussions were held with key stakeholders after the WHO pandemic alert
was raised to level 6. The priority activities, as identified by the Recipient, to support the
revised PDO and be funded under the redirected funds, are as follows:

    (i) Public Awareness and Information component: The restructured Project will aim
        to address remaining knowledge gaps within the population on A/HlNl,
         influenza-like diseases, and other zoonoses.

    (ii) Animal Health component: The restructured Project will finance necessary
         wastewater treatment for the Animal Health Laboratory (AH Lab) currently under
         construction; the restructured Project will also finance equipment, consumables,
         and furniture to make the AH Lab fully functional and a sustainable solution
         responsive to Kosovo's current and forecasted laboratory diagnostic needs.

   (iii) Human Health component. The restructured Project will support pandemic
        response, including the recently declared Pandemic level 6 alert, which creates an


       `The Executive Directors endorsed the GPAI PDO on January 12,2006 (Report No. 34386).


                                               3
        urgent need to scale up hospital preparedness and health sector response capacity.
        Based on the Recipient's request, the Project would support additional measures
        to ensure adequate stocks o f lab reagents, disinfectants, and personal protective
        equipment are available. The National Pandemic Preparedness Plan, prepared by
        the Institute o f Public Health (IPH) in September 2008, should be revised
        according t o WHO recommendations. More time is needed to capitalize on
        completed and ongoing activities, in particular to raise preparedness in the regions
        related to the diagnosis, referrals, and management o f outbreaks and Pandemic.
        Some US$0.2 million i s earmarked for additional activities and for existing
        activities that exceed original costs estimates.

     (iv) Training and Technical Assistance. The Project would expand the scope o f
          training and technical assistance activities to broaden capacity building primarily
          for human health but also for animal health. In particular it will focus o n
          emergency management, triage, field epidemiology, clinical management,
          diagnosis laboratory o f important diseases, especially zoonoses.

5.    Revise outcomes. As summarized in Annex 4: Results Framework and Monitoring.


b. What are the other complementary changes, as applicable:

Institutional arrangements                                             -X-Yes      - o
                                                                                    N
If, yes, please explain:

The institutional arrangements will be revised to reflect the new L a w No. 03/L-016 on
Food, establishing the Food and Veterinary Agency (FVA) as an Executive Agency o f
the Government2, respectively o f the Prime Minister's Office, rather than the Ministry o f
Agriculture, Forestry, and Rural Development (MAFRD) as at Project negotiation.


Financing mechanisdConduit                                             -Yes        -X-No
If, yes, please explain:


outputs                                                                - X-Yes      - o
                                                                                     N
If, yes, please explain:

Due to broadening of the Project scope, outputs o f the Public Awareness and Information
component will include TV spots, radio messages and leaflets o n A/HlNl preventive
measures.




  The Assumption and Release Agreements, establishing the Republic of Kosovo as the legal Recipient o f
the Grant, have been signed on December 11,2009 and declared effective o n December 17,2009. A s a
result o f such assumption, the Republic o f Kosovo has replaced United Nations Interim Administration
Mission in Kosovo as the Recipient, and the Provisional Institutions o f Self-Government has been replaced
with the Government o f Kosovo.
                                                    4
    With regard to the Animal Health component, in particular the establishment o f a CF,
    although the Project original allocation will be redirected to other activities, a system
    with adequate legal and administrative provisions (Kosovo Assembly L a w No. 2004/2 1
    o n Veterinary and MAFRD `Administrative Instruction No. 2005/24 on Fighting AI) i s in
    place for rapid disbursement o f national financing for prompt compensation o f culled
    animals at market value.


    Project Costs and financing plan (include summary tables) -X-Yes       N
                                                                          - o
    If, yes, please explain:

    Changes in Project costs and financing plan reflect actual local and foreign expenditures
    as well as estimates for the remaining funds as per summary tables below. There has
    been an increase o f local expenditures in almost all the activities due to, among others,
    increased availability o f goods in the local market, additional expenditures for local
    consultants, and needs adjustment during Project implementation.



                                                    Local          Foreign          Total
    Public Awareness and Information                    191.8             49.0         240.8
    Animal Health                                       742.8            252.5         995.3
    Human Health                                        795.4            699.3       1,494.7
    Project Management                                  196.8             72.4         269.2
    T o t a l PROJECT C O S T S                       1,926.8          1,113.8       3,000.0



                                                    Local          Foreign          Total
    C i v i l works                                     393.0                          393.0
    Equipment, Materials and Supplies                  1095.2            695.6       1,790.8
    Technical Assistance                                388.0            193.1         581.1
.   Training                                              50.0           185.1         235.1



    Financial management                                         -Yes    -X-No
    If, please explain:
       yes,


    Disbursement arrangements                                    -Yes    -X-No
    If, yes, please explain:


    Procurement                                                  -Yes    -X-No
    If, please explain:
       yes,


                                                5
Closing date                                                     -X-Yes       N
                                                                             - o
If, yes, please explain:

The Recipients, through the M i n i s t e r o f Finance, requested an eight-month extension o f
the Project closing date, w h i c h would b e December 31,2010. T h e extension w o u l d a l l o w
the t i m e necessary t o disburse the full grant amount as per the restructured Project, and to
further contribute to capacity building and increase the overall Project impact.


Implementation schedule                                          -X-Yes      - o
                                                                              N
If, yes, please explain:

The implementation schedule will b e revised t o reflect the extended project closing date
to December 3 1,20 10.




                                                6
                                        ANNEX 2:
                              Appraisal Summary Update


Do the proposed changes result in significant change o f impact (from original Appraisal
Summary o f the PAD) in the following:

Economic and financial analysis                       -Yes      -X-No
If, yes, please explain:

Technical                                             -X-Yes     -No
If, please explain:
  yes,

With regard to the Animal Health component, in particular establishing an animal disease
information system, during Project implementation, additional support has been made
available to the FVA specifically to develop such a system. Since the magnitude and
resources required for this activity exceeds Project scope, and given the availability o f
support from other donors, the Project will not support this activity.

                 u a
Regarding the H m n Health component, current pandemic shows significant burden to
Intensive Care Units (ICUs) for life-saving procedures for pandemic flu patients.
Therefore, the Project has supported establishing ICUs for contagious patients, including
those with Influenza A \ H l N l .


Social                                                -Yes       -X-No
If, yes, please explain:


Environment                                           -Yes      -X-No
If, yes, please explain:


Exceptions to Bank Policy                             -Yes      -X-No
If, yes, please explain:




                                              7
                                  ANNEX 3:
                        Updated Critical Risk Framework




New R i s k s Identified During Implementation/RestructuringThat Might Jeopardize
         Achievement o f the Restructured Project DOs o r Outcome Targets:

      Risks                   Risk Rating      Risk Mitigation Measures
     Government does not           L         Government ensured that
     have enough funds to                    adequate financing resources are
     compensate for culling                  available, and there are
     o f animals.                            arrangements in place for prompt
                                             compensation o f culled animals.
                                             Kosovo has never had an
                                             outbreak o f AI. The Project has
                                             improved the surveillance
                                             system.
     The Project i s not able       S        Since the beginning o f Project
     to implement i t s                      implementation arrangements
     activities in North                     are in place to mitigate such risk,
     Mitrovica                               namely close coordination with
                                             intermediary partners such as
                                             UNICEF/WHO. In addition the
                                             Project relies on historical close
                                             cooperation o f veterinary
                                             institutions at the local level.
     Slow implementation           M         Although procurement capacity
     due to limited                          has improved during Project
     procurement capacity                    implementation, international
                                             TA i s in place to support the
                                             local expert. In addition the
                                             Bank will continue to prior
                                             review all procurement
                                             packages.
      H: High; S: Substantial; M: Moderate; and L: Low.




                                           8
x
0
0
Y


5
c
P)


g
cb


E
L
.y
 P)
E
3
        e
        1




    3
    o
    >




I
Y
d   I   TI
4
