Page  1
Avian Influenza Control and Human Pandemic Preparedness and Response Project 
IDA Grant Number H2720 XK 
 
Environmental Assessment (EA) for the construction of the new Animal Health Laboratory  
 
July, 2009 
 
The Government of Kosovo has received funding from the World Bank  for an Avian Influenza 
Control and Human Pandemic Preparedness and Response Project (Project), which aims to 
strengthen the country's capacity to prevent the spread of avian influenza among poultry, to 
prevent the transmission of avian influenza from birds to other animals and humans, and to 
prepare for a potential pandemic of Avian Influenza transmissible between humans.  
One of Projects Component focuses on Strengthening Disease Control Capacities, and Improving 
Surveillance, Diagnostic Capacities, and Applied Research. Under this component, and in the 
framework of internal institutional arrangements with a view to strengthen laboratory diagnostic 
capacity in the animal health sector, the Ministry of Agriculture Forestry and Rural Development 
and Kosovo Veterinary and Food Agency (KVFA) decided to construct a new Animal Health 
Laboratory (Virology and Bacteriology) which will be constructed within the new site of the 
KVFA. On the basis of the preliminary report prepared by the national consultant hired by the 
project, the World Bank has agreed, with the MAFRD and the KVFA to finance a new facility 
comprising a ground floor of 297 m
2
for laboratory space. 
The Project has been assigned World Bank environmental category B, since it involves moderate 
environmental impacts. The  EA is needed for the construction of the new building to ensure that 
the proposed investments implemented through the Project comply with existing environmental 
protection laws, regulations and standards in Kosovo as well
 as with the World Bank’s Operation 
Policies and Practices; and will not have a lasting adverse impact on humans and the natural 
environment. The EA report aims (i) to determine the environmental baseline condition at 
construction site to extent possible; (ii) assess the choice of the site and environmental impact of 
the construction; (iii) identify cost related mitigation measures and monitoring activities .
 
The EA has been carried on by a consultant hired by the Project, in accordance with Kosovo and 
World Bank’s environmental policies. A number of Kosovo laws, bylaws and regulations have 
been consulted in this EA report. (Law on Environmental Protection; Law on Environmental 
Impact Assessment; Law on chemicals; Administrative Instruction for
 
the limited values of the 
effluents that discharged on water bodies and on the system of public sewage and sanitation).  
 
The consultant has also consulted the World Bank policies and guidelines, such as World Bank 
Operational Policy 4.01: Environmental Assessment, World Bank Pollution and Abatement 
Handbook (1998) and Disclosure Handbook (December, 2002). 
 
The EA makes an overall Project assessment and its effects toward environment, during its 
preconstruction, construction and operation phases of the new AH Lab, while the Environmental 
Management Plan proposes remediation measures in order to reduce the negative impacts on the 
environment as well as the monitoring of these measures throughout out Project implementation.    
Environmental impacts during the preconstruction 
phase are mainly concentrated in the working 
area and might be a result of preparation works (like demolition of the existing buildings, and 
waste  removal). These activities might cause local air pollution, noise disturbance and small 
 
E2238 
V1 
Page  2
pollution of the soil and water. In this regard certain measures have been proposed in order to 
reduce this pollution, like the follow up of all procedures foreseen by The Law for Construction 
and the Law on Waste.  
 
During the construction phase
,
in addition to the effects /impacts foreseen above, other  issues of 
concern are linked with land degradation, creation of waste leftover from construction materials, 
local air pollution, leakages of polluted waters,  as well as with requirements toward safety at 
work. To avoid, when possible, and/or mitigate these effects a set of measures has been 
proposed, like fulfillment of all the normative foreseen for construction work, waste 
management, reduction of air pollution and noise. Excavated soil shall be deposited in a certain 
area, and/or used for any rehabilitation work nearby.    
 
The operation phase
is expected to generate the most significant impacts on the environment, 
such as the generation of hazardous and infectious waste, pollution of water discharged, the 
potential for air pollution and risk of transmission of infections. A number of mitigation 
measures are proposed to minimize the effect related to hazardous wastes, reagents and 
chemicals use and air pollution.  
 
Hazardous wastes produced during laboratory operation will be managed in accordance with 
legislation in force and best practices. Hazardous Waste must be collected in appropriate 
containers, constructed in that manner to enable flow of liquids waste and profusion of solid 
waste. Solid waste, depending on their type, will be placed separately in bags and dishes of 
different colour. Provided that in Kosovo there are no landfills for hazardous waste, their 
incineration is recommended as best option for their treatment.   
The use of reagents and chemicals for diagnostic research is considered as a potential for 
pollution of laboratory water. Hence, the waste waters of the laboratory will be collected, treated 
and monitored before it is discharged in municipality sewerage system.   
Knowing that close to the laboratory site there are some wells witch are going to be used for 
irrigation, and in order to be sure that this underground water is not going to be polluted, at least 
each year before beginning of irrigation season, this water should be analyzed. 
Air pollution is a critical issue to be mitigated and monitored. In this regard, there is the need for 
undertaking all measures that ensure compatibility with procedures and instructions related to 
similar type of works, i.e. Instructions from World Health Organization (WHO). The new 
laboratory will be equipped with all bio-safety facilities and have a ventilation system that fulfil  
standards of bio-safety. 
 
