Document of
The World Bank                   FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repoit No. P-2844-EGT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
EGYPTIAN ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
AND A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
FOR A
THIRD POWER PROJECT
June 9, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)    =    US$ 1.44
1 US Dollar ($)           =    LE 0.69
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
EEA            Egyptian Electricity Authority
EGPC           Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation
MEE            Ministry of Electricity and Energy
QPA            Qattara Hydropower and Renewable Energy
Resources
R^^EA          Rural Electrification Authority
DCA            Development Credit Agreement
GA             Guarantee Agreement
LA             Loan Agreement
GWh            Gigawatt-hour (1 million kWh)
HZ             Hertz
kv             Kilovolt
kWh            Kilowatt-hour (1,000 watt hours)
MMcf/d         Million cubic feet per day
MW             Megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
THIRD POWER PROJECT
LOAN AND CREDIT SUMMARY
Borrowers:           Credit
Arab Republic of Egypt
Loan
Egyptian Electricity Authority (EEA)
Guarantor:           Arab Republic of Egypt
Beneficiary:         Egyptian Electricity Authority (EEA)
Amount:              IDA Credit    US$120.0 million
IBRD Loan      US$  7.0 million
Total    US$127.0 million
Terms:               IDA Credit:  Standard
IBRD Loan:   20 years, including 5 years of grace, at 8.25
percent interest per annum.
Relending Terms:    The Government would onlend the proceeds of the IDA credit
to EEA for 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at 8.25
percent interest per annum.
Project
Description:       The objective of the project is to help meet the electri-
city load forecast through 1986. The project would
consist of three different components: (i) an extension
of the old Aswan hydropower station; (ii) the completion
of the Shoubrah El Kheima Thermal Power Station, north
of Cairo; and (iii) the rehabilitation and extension of
distribution facilities in urban, suburban and rural areas
outside Cairo and Alexandria. Specifically the project
would comprise: (i) four 67.5 MW Kaplan turbines, (ii) a
300 MW steam electric generating unit, and (iii) about
7,000 kms of 11-kv and 380/220 volts lines and 250 MW of
distribution transformer capacity. The Qattara Hydropower
and Renewable Energy Resources Project Authority would be
responsible for the construction of the hydropower com-
ponent, the Egyptian Electricity Authority for the thermal
power unit and the Rural Electrification Authority for the
regional electrification component. The project would
meet primarily industrial needs and also supply growing
urban and rural demands. Physical risks of the project
are those related to difficult underwater excavations for
the hydropower component. Also, there are certain risks
related to EEA's financial performance and the sizable
foreign exchange gap for the project. However, adequate
safeguards have been provided to minimize the above risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:
US$ million equivalent
Item                                       Local         Foreign       Total
Hydropower Station                                18.0         105.7         123.7
Thermal Power Station                             17.6         160.7         168.3
Distribution                                      15.3          48.5          63.8
Project Management and Engineering                 9.5          16.6          26.1
Base Cost                                         60.4         331.5        391.9
Physical Contingencies                             5.8          31.4          37.2
Price Contingencies                               21.7         125.0         146.7
TOTAL PROJECT COST 1/                             87.9         487.9        575.8
Financing Plan:
US$ million equivalent
Local        Foreign       Total
IBRD                                                     7.0          7.0
IDA                                       -           120.0        120.0
CIDA (Canada)                              -            25.0         25.0
Netherlands                               -              9.6          9.6
Japan                                     -             15.0         15.0
Export/Suppliers Credits                  -           303.6         303.6
Government                              87.9           109.7        197.6 2/
TOTAL                                   87.9          589.9         677.8
1/   Excluding import duties and taxes for which the implementing agency is
not liable, and interest during construction amounting to US$102.0
million.
2/   Includes interest during construction amounting to US$102.0 million.



- iii-
Estimated
Disbursements:     -                                     $ million
FY1981      1982     1983      1984
Bank Loan
Annual                                                                 7.0
Cumulative                                                             7.0
IDA Credit
Annual                                   14.0      31.0     49.0      26.0
Cumulative                               14.0     45.0      94.0    120.0
Economic Rate
of Return:              About 10 percent (see para. 67)
Staff Appraisal
Report:                 No. 2874-EGT, dated June 9, 1980
EMENA Projects Department






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDTION OF THE PRESIDENT OF IBRD AND IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE EGYPTIAN ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
AND ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A THIRD POWER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit of $120 million equivalent, on standard IDA terms, to the
Arab Republic of Egypt, and a proposed Bank loan of $7 million equivalent to
the Egyptian Electricity Authority (EEA) for a term of 20 years including 5
years grace, with interest at 8.25 percent per annum, to help finance part of
the foreign exchange cost of a third power project. The proceeds of the IDA
credit would be onlent to EEA on the same terms and conditions as the Bank
loan. The Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), the Government of
the Netherlands and the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) of Japan
will participate in the financing of the regional electrification component of
the project.  Suppliers'/export credits are expected to be secured for the
electro-mechanical equipment of the projects's hydro- and thermal power
components.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The latest economic mission visited Egypt during September-October
1979. Subsequent to that a report on "Recent Economic Development and
External Capital Requirements" (SecM 79-839) was distributed to the Execu-
tive Directors on November 28, 1979. The findings of this report are incor-
porated in the following. Country data sheets are attached.
The Open-Door Strategy
3.        Economic trends in Egypt have been strongly influenced by the "open-
door" strategy enunciated by President Sadat in October 1973 and approved in a
national referendum in May 1974. This strategy aims at accelerating economic
development through modernization and making Egypt's largely publicly-owned
and centrally-controlled economy more market-oriented. Specifically, the
strategy envisages (i) a gradual dismantling of government regulations, many
of which are to be replaced by the price mechanism; (ii) the decentralization
1/   Part I is identical to Part I of the recent President's Report for the
Cairo Gas Distribution Project, approved by the Executive Directors on
May 20, 1980.



of decision-making in state-owned enterprises; (iii) a more active role for
the private sector, including private foreign investors; and (iv) expanded
economic cooperation with other countries. Substantial inflows of external
assistance are considered essential to support the strategy.
4.        Iu implement the open-door strategy the Government has taken a
number of specific policy actions. Among the more important ones were the
gradual devaluation of the Egyptian pound, and the concurrent liberalization
of foreign exchange regulations. Starting in 1973 when the parallel market
rate was introduced, Egypt's currency has been effectively devalued by 44
percent from US$2.56 to US$1.43 per pound at present. Exchange restrictions
were eased, specific import allocations were replaced by general import quotas,
and more foreign exchange was made available to both the public and private
sector. A new investment law (1974, amended in 1977) offers attractive
incentives to foreign firms. Trade agreements, especially with the EEC, opened
new markets for export products; at the same time, bilateral trade with COMECON
countries was much reduced. A debt management unit was established in the
Central Bank, and became operative in mid-1978.
5.        A Five-Year Plan was adopted in 1978 and is currently under revision,
in accordance with the Government's desire to periodically reassess development
perspectives and respond to changing economic conditions and investment options.
In support of the overall plan, a number of sector and subsector programs are
currently under preparation with the assistance of the Bank and other donors.
These include a Water Master Plan, various industrial subsector studies, a
review of the transport sector, and an electrification program.
6.        In accordance with the objective of greater decentralization, the
autonomy of public enterprises has been somewhat strengthened, especially by
a new law issued in 1978 which grants greater flexibility to individual enter-
prises in (i) setting up organizational structures, (ii) introducing material
incentives, (iii) establishing productivity related wage scales, (iv) adjust-
ing the work force to production requirements by not having to hire additional
people, and (v) undertaking some investments from their own resources.
Provincial authority to undertake regional development programs has also been
expanded. Central bureau-cratic control remains strong, however, over most
investment decisions.
7.        A start has been made in rationalizing the price structure and
increasing price flexibility. The share of industrial output subject to
centralized price control has decreased, and prices for a number of controlled
products (including agricultural crops and some public service tariffs) were
substantially increased. Interest rates have been raised several times and now
stand at 10 to 12 percent for lending (to non-government sector) and 6 to 8.5
percent for term deposits. Private sector activity is being encouraged and
has been freed from many previous restrictions. Moreover, a growing number of
foreign investment contracts are being signed, especially in the important oil
and tourist sectors.
Impact of the "Open-Door" Strategy
8.        The open-door strategy and subsequent policy actions have yielded
impressive results. Above all, they have led to a rapid increase in Egypt's



-3-
foreign exchange earnings which rose from $1.4 billion in 1973 to $5.5 billion
in 1978. During this period, oil exports, workers' remittances,, tourism and
the Suez Canal emerged as major new sources of foreign exchange. This was
accompanied by a major shift of agricultural and industrial exports from
COMECON countries to the hard currency area. In addition, the Government
managed to attract large amounts of foreign assistance. Gross inflows of
medium- and long-term capital averaged $3.4 billion per annum during 1975-78,
compared with an average of only $0.6 billion during 1967-72. The bulk of
these aid flows came from Arab and western donors and were provided at highly
concessional terms.
9.        Increased exchange earnings and foreign aid inflows have resulted in
a consolidation of Egypt's external debt and have strengthened the country's
creditworthiness. Short-term credits owed by the Government to commercial banks
were reduced from $1.4 billion at the end of 1976 to $443 million at end-1978,
largely with the help of loans granted by the Gulf Organization for the
Development of Egypt (GODE). During the same period substantial arrears in
debt payments, which had built up in previous years, were cleared. These
changes have solved the pressing liquidity problems that threatened Egypt's
financial position in 1975 and 1976. Favorable terms on new borrowings have
also eased the burden on the country's medium- and long-term debt. Although
Egypt's total medium- and long-term public debt increased sharply during
recent years--from $2.1 billion at the end 1973 to an estimated $10.0 billion
at the end-1978--the debt service ratio declined from 33 percent to 24 percent,
during the same period. This reflects not only more favorable credit terms --
i.e., lower interest rates and longer maturities--but also the rapid increase
in foreign exchange earnings.
10.       The increased availability of foreign exchange from Egypt's own
exports of goods and services and from external assistance has allowed much
higher levels of imports. This in turn paved the way for a rapid increase of
investment, larger domestic consumption, and a better utilization of existing
production capacities. Imports of goods and services (excluding interest
payments) rose from about $2.0 billion in 1973 to an estimated $6.5 billion in
1978; imports of capital goods increased at an even faster rate. Increased
availability of foreign exchange to industrial producers and farmers enabled
them to import more raw materials, intermediate goods--including fertilizer
and pesticides--and spare parts, thus breaking crucial bottlenecks that had
constrained local production. Together with investments in new capacities and
a vigorous expansion of services such as trade, tourism and shipping, these
developments sharply accelerated the rate of economic growth.
11.       The Ministry of Planning estimates that GDP at constant prices rose
at an average rate of close to 9 percent per annum during 1974-78. Much of
the growth was concentrated in petroleum, construction, manufacturing, transport
and public utilities. Agricultural production, on the other hand, increased
very slowly (about 1 percent per annum). The growth rate of GNP was very high,
about 13 percent per annum, because of the massive growth in workers' remit-
tances from $189 million in 1974 to $1,760 million in 1978. The higher level
of economic activity together with large-scale labor migration to neighboring
oil exporting countries has absorbed much of the excess labor force that
existed in the early 1970s. In fact, serious labor shortages have begun to
emerge in a number of occupations, especially in the construction sector.



- 4 -
1.        $Since 1974 Egypt's investment rate (investment/GNP) increased from
about 18 percent to about 25 percent on average in the 1976-78 period. This
increase was made possible by the substantial contribution of foreign savings
including the massive growth in workers' remittances. National savings increased
from 2.3 percent of GNP in 1974 to more than 12 percent in 1978, reflecting the
rise in remittance income. The domestic savings rate, however, while showing
some growth since 1974, financed less than a quarter of investment in the 1974-
78 period. A major cause for this inadequate level of domestic savings was the
continuously low and sometimes even negative savings generated by the government
budget. During 1974-78 current budget surpluses averaged less than one percent
of GNP, and their contribution to the financing of public investment averaged
less than 10 percent.  This was the result of high defense and security expendi-
tures, large consumer subsidies and fast growing interest payments which, taken
together, claimed 79 percent of the government's tax revenues in 1978. At the
same time, savings generated by public enterprises remained constrained by
price regulations. The result has been a continuous shortage of domestic
funds, which in many instances has slowed down the implementation of investment
projects.
Recent Economic Developments
13.       Preliminary estimates indicate that GDP growth in 1979 was about 8.6
percent, close to the average achieved during 1975-78. The increase of agri-
cultural value added (2.6 percent) was significantly above the long-term
trend because of favourable climatic conditions and improved distribution of
inputs. Growth in industry and mining continued at 7.8 percent, close to the
1975-78 average. There was, however, a marked slowdown in the growth of the
petroleum sector, 20 percent in 1979 compared to 34 percent in 1978, reflecting
the lack of major discoveries in recent years and the approaching "peak" in
production from existing fields. Overall, the growth rate in the commodity
sectors realized in 1979 (6.9 percent) was close to the 1975-78 average (7.6
percent). Growth in the distributive and service sectors, about 12 percent
and 9 percent respectively, continued to be significantly higher than in the
commodity sectors.
14.        Egypt's foreign exchange earnings continued to grow rapidly in 1979.
Based on preliminary estimates, merchandise exports increased by about 38 per-
cent in value due to a major increase in petroleum revenue made possible by the
surge in world prices. Merchandise imports, on the other hand, increased by
only 11 percent in current value. With the continued growth in Suez Canal
earnings (17 percent) and officially recorded workers' remittances (11 percent),
the current account deficit declined by about 15 percent from its 1978 value
to about $1.5 billion. While the current account improved substantially, esti-
mated medium- and long-term capital inflow in 1979 ($2,410 million) was about 29
percent below its 1978 value ($3,373 million) reflecting the cessation of cash
inflows from GODE ($500 million in 1978), and a drastic decline in bilateral
disbursements from Arab sources (about $70 million in 1979 compared to about
$300 million in 1978). As a result, the overall balance (current account plus
net MLT capital flows) showed a small deficit ($18 million), and there was
some net short-term borrowing (about $150 million). Prospects for 1980 are
reasonably good, with petroleum revenue expected to exceed $2 billion and Suez



-5 -
Canal earnings increasing as a result of recent increases in the Canal's
capacity as well as higher tariffs. In addition net MLT capital flows are
projected to grow significantly. Growth in these sources of foreign exchange,
and continued growth in workers' remittances and tourism receipts, would
permit the resumption of rapid growth in imports of producer goods essential
for sustaining high rates of investment and GDP growth.
15.       Reforms in trade, exchange rate and incentive policies have contri-
buted significantly to the recent improvements in the balance of payments.
Continued care must be taken, however, that incentives remain appropriate and
are adapted to changing circumstances. The gap between interest rates on
foreign and domestic deposits will have to be closed to channel more workers'
remittances and tourism receipts into official channels and prevent the
re-emergence of a large dual foreign exchange market. Periodic adjustments in
the exchange rate may also become necessary if the unofficial "Rfree market"
rate were to start deviating substantially from the "unified" official rate.
In 1979 the free market premium fluctuated around 8 percent and significant
downward pressure on the exchange rate did not develop.
16.       The domestic fiscal situation remains an area of major concern.  The
overall budget deficit increased to reach about 22 percent of GNP in 1979.
Domestic financing of this deficit has gone up from 5.9 percent of GNP in 1977
to about 13.2 percent in 1979, increasing the pressure on money supply and
prices. While public revenue increased by 21 percent, current expenditure
alone increased by about 37 percent, principally because of a doubling of
subsidy payments linked to the exchange rate adjustment. Furthermore, in
spite of increasing revenue from petroleum and the Suez Canal, the public
enterprise sector still generated only half of the surplus that would be
required to finance its investment program.
17.       There are indications of a growing Government effort to contain
widening budgetary deficits. Already in 1979 two major agricultural input
prices (e.g., fertilizers and pesticides) and a wide range of other prices
(e.g., cement, gasoline, railway freights, etc.,) have been substantially
raised. The 1980 budget contains similar provisions and net domestic borrowing
is projected to decline. This is expected to be achieved through a variety of
measures: a new sales tax and elimination of tax loopholes, increases of 20
to 30 percent in consumer prices of mass consumption articles such as cloth,
cigarettes, soft drinks, sugar, petrol, kerosene, as well as limiting the
ration card system to the lowest income groups and eliminating subsidies
on flour for uses other than the production of traditional bread. The net
revenues derived from these measures will be complemented by a large increase
in revenue from the petroleum sector. The overall fiscal situation is,
therefore, likely to improve in 1980, unless massive increases in public
investment expenditures are allowed to outweigh the increase in revenues.
Development Potential and Constraints
18.       Egypt has considerable potential for further development.  The rea-
sons for this are, in brief: a large domestic market, a relatively skilled
and literate population, an agricultural resource base not yet fully developed,



- 6 -
varied raw materials (including oil and gas), and a key geographical location.
In addition, there are good prospects for continued growth of foreign exchange
earnings from tourism, workers' remittances and the Suez Canal which is under-
going a major expansion. While oil exports are likely to decline in volume
in the long-rur.--in the light of increasing domestic consumption and less
optimistic assumptions on new discoveries--the outlook for exports of new
industrial and agricultural products is promising.
19.       Future economic growth may come less easily, however, than during
the past years. The need to gradually substitute domestic for foreign savings
will become more pressing as foreign contributions decline in relation to GNP.
Capacities are now strained in a number of sectors, including infrastructure.
Investment in new capacities has been slowed down by administrative inefficiency,
inadequate fiscal resources and weakness in national coordination and sector
programming. Managerial effectiveness in public enterprises and financial
incentives for production are inadequate in many instances. Higher levels of
economic activity together with labor emigration have led to shortages in
critical professional and technical skills. Educational facilities in Egypt
still reflect a non-technical bias and their quality needs to be upgraded.
20.       Another key issue is population.  Already very large for Egypt's
limited living space--about 39 million in 1978 with an average density exceed-
ing 1,300 per square kilometer of agricultural land--the population was
growing at a rate of about 2.2 percent per annum in the mid-1970's, adding
almost one million people every year. This continues to create great pressures
on resources for consumption and investment and aggravates the employment
problem in the longer run. In the past years the Government has made a new
commitment to direct action on population matters. While it has already
initiated such action (e.g., an intensified home visiting program under the
second IDA financed population project), it will take time for measurable
results in fertility reduction to be achieved.
21.       A serious side-effect of the open-door strategy has been a growing
disparity in consumption levels. Currently the lower 40 percent of the rural
population receive about 25 percent of the rural incomes while in the urban
areas the proportion is about 21 percent. About 30 percent of the rural
and 22 percent of the urban population live in absolute poverty. Although
this pattern of inequality and incidence of absolute poverty is no worse
than in most economies at similar income levels, it is nevertheless a serious
problem, which could become more severe if no effective policy action is taken.
22.       To maintain the momentum of development, major efforts are required
to overcome present structural constraints. Specifically, action is needed
to (i) increase the efficiency of government administration through organiza-
tional and procedural modifications and selective changes in salary struc-
tures; (ii) strengthen the capacity for development programming and project
preparation/implementation; (iii) pursue a vigorous and balanced program to
upgrade the country's physical infrastructure; (iv) substantially expand the
program to curb population growth; (v) articulate urban and rural strategies
aimed at decentralizing urban agglomeration and economic opportunities; (vi)
further increase the use of prices as indicators of relative scarcities;



(vii) strengthen the management of public enterprises; (viii) improve pro-
fessional and technical education; (ix) increase domestic savings; and (x)
develop a coordinated export promotion policy. There is an ongoing dialogue
on all these issues between the Egyptian authorities and the Bank; they have
also been the focus of the discussion among the members of the Consultative
Group for Egypt.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
23.       Egypt's non-military medium- and long-term public debt outstanding
and disbursed as of July 31, 1979 was estimated at about $10.6 billion.
Bilat eral loans comprised about $6.5 billion or about 62 percent of the debt
outstanding while the shares of multilateral credit and suppliers' credit were
about 24 percent ($2.5 billion) and 8 percent ($0.8 billion) respectively, with
the remainder being held by financial institutions. Major creditors were the
GODE and USA, followed by Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, and the Federal Republic of
Germany. IBRD/IDA debt comprised about 4 percent of the total disbursed debt.
The estimated end-December 1979 total disbursed debt was about $11.0 billion.
Debt service on medium- and long-term debt was estimated at $1.4 billion in
1979 giving a debt service ratio of about 20 percent. No reliable estimates
of military debt are available.
24.       The Government's recent policy actions have initiated structural
adjustments called for by Egypt's economic situation and international environ-
ment. If progress towards overcoming present constraints is maintained and
the country's foreign exchange earning potential realized, the average deficit
on current account is estimated to be about $2.5 billion per annum for the
coming five years. The required capital inflows are large--but if they are
available on concessional terms, Egypt would have the debt servicing capacity
to borrow the amounts envisaged, including a limited amount on harder terms.
The burden of servicing medium- and long-term debt as a percentage of total
foreign exchange earnings is estimated to fluctuate around 20 percent during
1980-84, and to decline gradually thereafter.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT 1/
25.       The proposed development credit and loan would be the World Bank's
fiftieth and fifty-first lending operation in Egypt. It would bring Bank
and IDA commitments made since 1970 to $1,851.5 million. 2/ Annex II contains
a Summary of Bank loans and IDA credits as of March 31, 1980 and notes on
the execution of ongoing projects.
1/   Paragraphs 26 to 30 are identical to the recent President's Report
for the Cairo Gas Distribution Project, approved by the Executive
Directors on May 20, 1980.



- 8 -
26.       Egypt faces a host of basic structural problems:  pressure of
population on resources; inadequate economic infrastructure; a large but
inefficient public sector constrained by out of date equipment, overstaffing,
weak management and a network of controls over investment, production, distri-
bution and prices; significant balance of payments deficits and shortages of
domestic resources. The Bank's response has been tailored to address these
long-term developmental issues in a very broad fashion and in close coopera-
tion with other donors. Its strategy involves entry into the spectrum
of sectors in order to provide not only direct finance with its relatively
limited resources but, equally, to act as a catalyst for other agencies,
bilateral and multilateral, and as a spur for initiating discussion and,
hopefully, positive action on a coherent framework of policies and investment
proposals which can tackle the substantive issues. The approach also includes
delivery of technical assistance not only for adequate implementation of
specific investment programs but for developing the domestic institutional
capability to devise and implement future policies and investment programs.
The Bank's deliberately broad multisectoral intervention has been differen-
tiated by sectors and tailored to the pace at which the Egyptian authorities
can reasonably be expected to address these issues and implement the programs.
27.       Industry, which has received the largest portion of Bank resources
and significant attention over the past five years, illustrates the nature and
scope of the Bank's intervention. The Government looks to industry to create
productive employment, cater to basic consumer needs, generate an "export
surplus", and stimulate growth of the economy. However, this sector is beset
by a complex set of problems which stem largely from the rigidity of central-
ized control and lack of management autonomy, distorted pricing, and the lack
of incentives for better use of productive capacity. Efforts under Bank
financed projects have gone beyond the immediate objective of improving
capacity utilization (imports loans and credits Nos: Cr. 524, Ln. 1062 and
Ln. 1456) and increasing production capacity and supply of essential commodi-
ties in resource-based industries (cotton ginning, textiles, cement and
fertilizer projects). The more fundamental effort is directed at introducing
policy and structural improvements. Towards this end the Bank is assisting
the Government in reviewing the planning apparatus and strengthening sectoral
planning and project preparation and implementation capabilities with the
objective of formulating an industrial strategy and plan for the 1980's.  It
has also financed six subsector studies in textiles, building materials, pulp
and paper, food processing, metallurgy, and engineering industries, in order
to assist the Government in formulating a package of policy and investment
proposals, which would be embodied in future projects. Two subsectors,
textiles and steel, are planned for study in greater detail with a view to
developing specific recommendations concerning the major issues facing public
enterprises in Egypt, such as those relating to employment, wages, prices,
profit retention and the relationship between the public and private sectors.
To complement these efforts the Bank has also carried out a study on small-
scale industries which is laying the basis for joint Egyptian/Bank efforts in
this area. In addition, the Bank is assisting the Government in undertaking a
major study of the construction/contracting industry, which is one of the most
critical bottlenecks facing Egyptian industry today, as well as in initiating
studies to develop a brick master plan and cement distribution master plan.



-9-
28.       The above sketch illustrating the scope and breadth of the Bank's
intervention in one sector is representative of the multifaceted approach that
it has adopted in varying degrees in the other sectors of the Egyptian economy.
It is a role that is in harmony not only with the Egyptian Government's wishes
but is welcomed by the various bilateral and multilateral donors as an appro-
priate function for the Bank as the Chairman of the Consultative Group for
Egypt. Preparation of projects for future lending follows this strategy, and
the pipeline includes projects in education, power, gas exploration, rural
and urban development, transportation, rural water supply, agriculture (includ-
ing drainage), agro-industry, development finance and industry.
29.       Bank Group disbursements in 1978 represent 2.8 percent of Egypt's
medium- and long-term capital inflow. The Bank and IDA shares of total
external debt outstanding and disbursed were about 1.8 percent and 2.4 per-
cent, respectively, as of July 31, 1979. For the future, the Bank and IDA
shares of total external debt outstanding and disbursed (excluding military
debts) are estimated to reach about 5.0 and 3.5 percent respectively in 1981.
It is estimated that in 1981, debt service payments due to the Bank and IDA
will represent about 2.3 percent and 0.2 percent, respectively of service
payments due on Egypt's external debt.
30.       Total IFC participation and lending for projects in Egypt now total
about $37 million and include: a ceramics project (approved in 1976) a ready-
made garment project (1977); a project for an agricultural complex primarily
for sugar beet (May 1978); a poultry project (July 1978); and a fish farming
project (December 1979). IFC is discussing several other private sector and
joint venture projects.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR 1/
Introduction
31.       Egypt's energy outlook has continuously improved over the last
decade. With the commissioning of the Aswan High Dam, Egypt successfully
developed its largest hydroelectric resource. Increases in oil production
have made it first self-sufficient and, more recently, an exporter of oil. In
1978 petroleum exports accounted for 50 percent of its foreign trade receipts.
Gas finds have further strengthened the energy base and increased export
possibilities of oil. These positive developments notwithstanding, the medium
and long term outlook is not as clear. Much of Egypt's current economic
and industrial planning is predicated upon ample and continued availability
of low cost energy and a significant increase in oil exports. However, it is
not certain that this will necessarily come about. A fast growing domestic
demand for oil stimulated by prices well below the international level,
declining production from some of Egypt's existing major oil fields, the need
for increased efforts in exploration and in developing natural gas, are the
areas of concern.
I/   Paras. 31-34 and 37-38 are identical with paras. 31-34 and 39-40
of President's Report for Cairo Gas Distribution Project, dated April
30, 1980 and approved by the Executive Directors on May 20, 1980.



- 10 -
Resource Endowment
32.       The main sources of primary commercial energy in Egypt are hydro
power and petroleum. Coal deposits have been discovered in the western
desert and Siu,ai peninsula, and are estimated at around 100 million tons. A
feasibility study for a coal-fired power plant in Sinai is presently under
preparation. As in other developing economies, non-commercial fuels in the
form of crop residues and animal waste are in extensive use and are estimated
to represent about one quarter of the total commercial energy used.
33.         Hydro power for Egypt is an important source and in 1977 accounted
for 20 percent of primary commercial energy. By equipping the Aswan Dam with
turbine generators having a total capacity of 345 MW, the first step was
taken in 1960 to tap the hydro power potential of the river Nile. With the
completion of the Aswan High Dam in 1970, with an installed capacity of 2100
MW, 80 percent of the Nile's hydro power potential has been harnessed. The
remaining 60 meter drop between Aswan and Cairo represents a generating poten-
tial of 460 MW which, subject to the establishment of economic viability,
could be secured by electrifying three existing barrages and developing other
potential barrage sites not yet identified. The only other potential source
of hydro power is the Qattara project and mini-hydro schemes along water
canals connected to the Nile. The Qattara project which would utilize the
drop of 60 meters between the Mediterranean and the Qattara Depression in the
Western desert could produce about 640 MW during the first 12 years, and about
340 MW thereafter.
Oil and Gas
34.       Hydrocarbons are a major source of commercial energy in Egypt and on
account of limited hydro potential, are likely to be relied upon increasingly
for meeting Egypt's incremental demand for energy. Though the first oil well
in Egypt was drilled in 1886, oil exploration was not taken up on a systematic
basis until the turn of the century. Commercial production commenced in 1913,
but it was only after 1968 that oil production exceeded 10 million tons. The
current production level is around 500,000 barrels a day (25 million tons per
annum) of which about 25 percent represents the share of foreign partners, 45
percent is consumed domestically and the balance is exported. Recoverable
reserves are estimated at around 2.5 billion barrels (350 million tons). Asso-
ciated with the production of oil, 100 million cubic feet a day (MM cf/d) of
gas (one million tons of oil equivalent per annum) is estimated to have been
produced in 1979, which is being flared except for a small amount consumed
in the oil fields. Four non-associated gas fields at Abu Gharadig, Abu Madi,
Abu Qir and Amal are estimated to have recoverable reserves amounting to 3.3
trillion cubic feet. Of these, the first three gas fields have been developed
which, in 1979, produced about 110 MMcf/d of gas, equivalent to 1.1 million
tons of oil. When fully exploited these four gas fields would replace about
4 million tons of liquid hydrocarbons. Elf-Aquitaine has recently discovered
an off-shore gas field 55 kilometers north east of Alexandria. While further
drilling would be required to fully delineate this field, recoverable reserves
from the existing production data are estimated at 3.0 trillion cubic feet.
This gas field, when developed, would add significantly to gas supplies in



- 11 -
Egypt. Currently, the production potential of natural gas is greater than
demand. This situation is likely to reverse itself over the next few years,
however. In connection with Loan 1732-EGT, the Bank is financing a study to
address the questions of gas use optimization and the need to upgrade this
resource from a substitute for fuel oil to higher value uses.
35.      Egypt anticipates continued growth in petroleum production which is
projected to exceed 35 million tons by 1981 and reach about 47 million tons
by 1983, a production level it hopes to sustain thereafter. However, attain-
ment of the projected production rate is predicated upon new discoveries
which will not only double the current level of production but would also
compensate for the decline in production from active oil fields which have
already peaked. Failure to achieve the assumed discovery rates could result
in a significant shortfall. In any case, the lags which are inherent in the
development of an oil field will make it extremely difficult to achieve the
target originally stipulated for the 1978-82 Plan period.
36.      In the short term, the Government is planning to use part of its
associated and non-associated gas to help meet the power demand in the eighties.
By 1985, 60% of the natural gas would be used for power generation. In the
long term, the Government anticipates to meet a major part of the power demand
by constructing coal fired and nuclear plants. If these plants are constructed,
the nuclear fuel will most likely be imported rather than extracted from the
domestic uranium deposits but domestic coal will be the preferred fuel for
coal fired plants. Oil shale and solar energy are also contained in the
Government's long term energy development plans. The oil shale would probably
be used for power generation and extraction of synthetic oil.  The mix between
the two would most likely be determined by the technological advance in the
extraction of shale oil and by the cost of using alternative fuels for power
generation. Solar energy would be used for water heating and low lift irriga-
tion pumping.
Energy Sector Issues
37.      The price system in Egypt is still characterized by a great deal of
centralized control and involves substantial explicit or implicit subsidies
on many goods and services. The prices of energy supplies are set at levels
that are substantially below their opportunity cost (border prices) to the
economy. The Government has traditionally kept the overall price of energy
low relative to the rest of the domestic prices to foster industrial growth
through publicly owned enterprises. At present, close to 58 percent of the
petroleum products is consumed by industry and the power sector, and about
82 percent of the electricity generated is consumed either by industry or
Government-related activities. The low prices for energy continue to hinder
the ability of the entities in the energy sector to generate sufficient
revenues to finance the capital investment necessary to meet future needs.
An additional shortcoming of the prevailing pricing structure is that the
relative scarcity of the various competing energy products is not reflected in
the prevailing price system. This leads to the use of energy resources in a
non-optimal combination.



- 12 -
38.       Increasing the domestic prices of energy resources to the interna-
tional level should be the goal of the national energy pricing policy. How-
ever, this is a long-term objective which is primarily determined by the
ability of the Egyptian economy to structurally adjust and absorb the new
higher prices. This adjustment is particularly difficult in the Egyptian
economy with its extensive system of subsidies, price controls and quantity
rationing where the impact of increases in the price of energy requires
careful analysis. In connection with the Gulf of Suez Gas Project (Loan
1732-EGT) and the first power project (Loan 1453-EGT), the Bank is financing a
pricing study for petroleum products and another study for the formulation of
electricity tariffs. Both studies aim at the improvement of the overall
pricing of energy in Egypt. The implementation of the results of these
studies will require continued Bank involvement in the sector which is being
provided for under existing agreements.
39.      Pending the outcome of the above studies, the Bank intends to continue
its dialogue with the Government, in connection with ongoing and proposed gas
and power projects, aimed at bringing about improvements in energy pricing
policy affecting key petroleum products and electricity tariffs. In this
regard, certain positive developments have taken place. Under the proposed
Cairo Gas Distribution project, for instance, the Government has agreed to two
important pricing measures: (i) domestic consumers will be charged a price
which is substantially above the current price of city gas and liquefied
petroleum gas, and (ii) two small power stations to be supplied with natural
gas under the project will pay about two and a half times the price charged
until recently to all power stations. Also, it should be noted that in
January 1980, in a move to improve energy pricing, the Government increased
prices of petroleum products by about 20 percent with the exception of the
prices of liquefied petroleum gas and fuel oil, which remained unchanged.
Electricity tariffs for residential and small commercial consumers were also
increased on the average by 20 percent. Also, in connection with the proposed
power project, EEA agreed to complete by December 31, 1982 a load management
study and submit to the Government and the Bank proposals for regulations
aimed at improving efficiency in the use of electricity (Loan Agreement (LA),
Section 4.07). The Government agreed to implement by June 30, 1983 regula-
tions which are mutually acceptable to it and the Bank (Guarantee Agreement,
Section 3.03). Further, to avoid burdening EEA with rising fuel costs for
power generation, the Government agreed that whenever it shall approve any
change in the price of fuels supplied to EEA by the Egyptian General Petroleum
Corporation, it would take simultaneously appropriate action to enable EEA to
adjust its tariffs accordingly. EEA, in turn, agreed to a corresponding
adjustment of its tariffs (GA, Section 3.04(a) and LA, Section 5.07).
The Power Subsector
40        The Ministry of Electricity and Energy (MEE) is in charge of public
electricity supply. Under MEE, the Egyptian Electricity Authority (EEA) is
responsible for generation, and bulk supply of electricity to the whole coun-
try. Power distribution is carried out by seven distribution companies which
are subsidiaries of EEA. Other agencies of the Ministry of Electricity and
Energy are: the Rural Electrification and the Qattara Hydropower and Renewable



- 13 -
Energy Resources Project Authorities and a power equipment manufacturer (medium
voltage switchgear and distribution and small power transformers). Recently
MEE has informed the Bank that it plans to transfer the five rural distribution
companies (those other than for Cairo and Alexandria) to REA. In accordane
with existing agreements (Loans 1453/1733-EGT) the Government would confirm
that the transfer would take place in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
41.       In 1979 Egypt's total interconnected generating capability was
3404 MW in 17 generating stations. Of these, 1151 MW were in steam electric
plants, 647 MW in combustion turbines and 1606 MW in hydro. The power system
comprises also a 500-kV interconnection between the hydro plants in the
south (Aswan) with the load centers and thermal plants in the northern part of
the country (Cairo and the Nile Delta). A 220-kV network serves the Northern
Egypt loads and a 132-kV system, generally parallelling the 500-kV link,
serves the loads in the Nile Valley and nearby oases. Utilization voltage is
380/220 volts and system frequency is 50 Hz.
42.       Planning in the power subsector has been improving primarily as
a result of improvements in EEA's organization in line with the recommendations
of the UNDP-financed Power Sector Survey carried out in 1976-78, for which
the Bank was Executing Agency. The Survey identified major issues in relation
to pricing, organizational and institutional aspects of the Egyptian power
subsector. EEA is making progress in dealing with these issues, with assis-
tance from the Bank under the first power project (e.g. tariff study, strength-
ening of financial administration and accounting, safety inspection services,
manpower development and training, etc.). In addition, EEA has undertaken,
with financial assistance from UNDP and under Bank supervision, a thermal
power plant maintenance project to strengthen EEA's capabilities in combustion
turbine and boiler operation and maintenance.
The Market for Electrical Energy
43.       The Project forms part of the proposed development program to meet
the future demand for electricity on the EEA system. Maximum demand rose
from 987 MW in 1969 to 2,814 MW in 1979 (11.0 percent per annum) and sales
from 5,580 GWh to 14,675 GWh (10.1 percent per annum). The average growth
rates for the whole ten-year period conceal very divergent trends within the
period. Between 1969 and 1972 annual growth rates for sales declined from 6.6
percent to -0.8 percent, and from 6.1 percent to 1.4 percent for maximum
demand; the average annual growth rate over the period being 4.2 percent and
6.1 percent respectively. These low growth rates reflected the relatively
lackluster performance of the economy in these years, during which the growth
of GNP averaged only 3 percent per annum. Since 1972, there has been a sharp
reversal of these trends, with economic growth of 7.8 percent per annum and
power demand growing at over 16 percent per annum on average. The key factor
in the much higher growth rate of the power market over the last few years has
been the demand of major industrial consumers. Sales to large industrial
consumers grew at over 29 percent per annum during 1974-79. On the other
hand, sales to other consumer categories grew much less rapidly, ranging
from 16 percent per annum for residential/commercial consumers to 0.4 percent
per annum for irrigation/agriculture. As a result, the share of industry



- 14 -
in total electricity sales rose from 55 percent to 65 percent. This high
proportion of industrial sales also accounts for the relatively high load
factor (68 percent in 1979).
Power Development Program
44.       A balanced, least-cost system expansion program using economic cost
figures for all inputs has been defined by EEA with the help of up-to-date
planning tools including the Wien Automatic System Planning (WASP) digital
computer programs in use by EEA since 1978. The most recent updating of the
program (November 1979) confirmed the need for early commissioning of the
available Nile hydro-power at Aswan (Aswan II) and three existing barrage
sites. The further development of the "old" Aswan Dam which is part of the
proposed project, would include the installation of 270 MW additional capacity.
Of the remaining 460 MW potential on the Nile River, about 190 MW are planned
to be harnessed at three existing barrages (Esna-89 MW, Nag Hammadi 48-MW,
and Assiut 53-MW) and about 270 MW at other potential barrage sites not yet
identified. Coal fired and nuclear power plants also form part of EEA's
long-term development plans, e.g. the construction of a 600 MW coal fired
plant and a nuclear station are planned for 1988 and 1990, respectively. For
the near future, however, EEA will have to rely on hydro and oil and gas fired
thermal power stations to meet the load growth. About 4,500 MW of additional
generating capacity are planned between now and 1987 (more than double the
existing capacity). Of these, 600 MW of steam electric units are being
installed under the Second Power Project (Loan 1733-EGT), 270 MW of hydro and
300 MW of thermal are included under the proposed Project. 300 MW of addi-
tional combustion turbines and 3000 MW of steam electric capacity are already
committed.
45.       Taking into account the need for expansion in transmission and dis-
tribution facilities, the total power sector investment program for 1980-1987
amounts to LE 5.7 billion (US$8.2 billion) including escalation and contin-
gencies. The proposed project would represent about 7 percent of the total
investment requirements. It is recognized that the above investment program
is a very ambitious one and will require careful monitoring during the review
of the Five-Year Development Plan.
Bank Group Participation in the Energy Sector
46.       The Bank Group has made two loans/credits for power in Egypt.  A
loan (1453 EGT) of $48 million was made in 1977 for regional electrification
providing for rehabilitation and extension of electric power facilities serv-
ing a regional population in urban zones and rural centers outside Cairo
and Alexandria.  Progress on the project is satisfactory and the project
is expected to be completed on schedule by the end of 1980. In June 1979 an
IDA credit of $37 million, a Bank loan of $102 million, and an EEC Special
Action credit of $35 million (Loan 1733 ECT et al) were approved to help
finance part of the foreign cost of the first stage (600 MW) of a 900 MW
thermal power station at Shoubrah El Kheima. Bidding documents for civil
works and electro-mechanical equipment are expected to be issued in late 1980,
respectively. In the oil and gas sector, the Bank made a first loan of $75
million to the Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation (EGPC) for the Gulf



- 15 -
of Suez Gas Project (Loan 1732-EGT) in June 1979. The project is designed
to gather, process and transport associated gas from oil fields in the Gulf
of Suez which is presently being flared. The stripped gas would be used
principally as fuel for electric power generation and industrial users,
thus freeing fuel oil and diesel oil which could be exported. The project
also includes financing for several important sector studies covering energy
pricing, oil/gas reserve assessment and optimal utilization of gas as
mentioned above. A second project in the sector, the Cairo Gas Distribution
Project, for which a $50 million IDA credit was approved on May 20, 1980,
is designed to supply natural gas to domestic consumers in four districts
of Cairo and to two power stations, thus reducing Egypt's reliance on imports
of liquified petroleum gas (LPG), gas oil, and kerosene.
The Borrower/Beneficiary
47.       Three authorities within the Ministry of Electricity and Energy
(MEE) would carry out the three components of the proposed project: the
Egyptian Electricity Authority (EEA) would be responsible for the thermal
power, the Qattara Hydropower and Renewable Energy Resources Project Authority
(QPA) for the hydro-power, and the Rural Electrification Authority (REA) for
the regional electrification components, respectively. As in the case of the
first power project (Ln. 1453) and the loan component of the second power
project (Ln. 1733), EEA would be the borrower under the proposed Bank loan.
The proposed IDA credit would be made to the Arab Republic of Egypt who would,
in turn, onlend it to EEA on the same terms as the proposed Bank loan. EEA is
a Government-owned public utility established in 1976. It is responsible for
implementation, management, operation and maintenance of all electric power
facilities throughout Egypt. In addition, for the time being, EEA controls
distribution throughout Egypt as the parent company of seven subsidiary
distribution companies (see para. 40 above). EEA is governed by a Board of
Directors, whose chairman is EEA's chief executive. Other members of the
Board are: two deputy chairmen, one for systems operations, and the other
for financial and administrative affairs, the heads of EEA's five regional
offices, representatives of the Ministries of Electricity and Energy, Finance
and Planning, and the Chairman of REA. While as a Government-owned utility
it is subject to overall Government regulations, EEA is financially partly
autonomous, in that it prepares its own annual budget and 5 year plans,
retains surplus revenues for its own development and is legally authorized to
contract loans from national and international sources and to procure goods
and services. In personnel matters, however, i.e. hiring and firing of staff,
wages and salaries, EEA has little autonomy since it has to comply with the
rather restrictive Government policies.
48.       QPA was established originally under the name of Qattara Depression
Authority to carry out investigations related to the development of the
Qattara Depression Generating Scheme. Recently QPA has been given the task of
identifying, preparing and carrying out all hydroelectric projects in Egypt
starting with the Aswan Dam redevelopment (Aswan II) included in the proposed
project and for developing projects using renewable energy resources. Other
major hydro projects being studied by QPA in addition to the Qattara depression



- 16 -
developments are pumped storage hydro generating facilities along the western
shore of the Gulf of Suez and hydro power development at three Nile barrages,
Esna, Nag Hammadi, and Assiut. REA will be responsible for the execution of
the distribution component of the proposed project as part of REA's National
Rural Electrification Plan. This would be the second Bank-financed project in
which REA participates as Executing Agency. REA is also Executing Agency for
the Regional Electrification Project being financed under Loan 1453-EGT. Both
QPA and REA are separate legal entities, independent of EEA and functioning
only as non operating executing agencies under MEE. Upon completion of the
works for which they are responsible the assets thus built will be owned and
run by EEA.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Objectives
49.      The proposed project forms part of a least-cost system expansion
program, developed by EEA with the help of consulants and using up-to-date
system planning techniques to meet Egypt's demand for electricity through
2000. EEA's interconnected power system is growing rapidly to meet the needs
of industry, which presently accounts for about 65 percent of electrical
consumption, and to supply the growing urban and rural demands. The project
was identified in July and appraised in November 1979. Negotiations were
held in Washington from April 7 to 11, 1980. The Government was represented
by Mr. Samir Koraiem, Undersecretary, Ministry of Economy, Foreign Trade and
Economic Cooperation, EEA by Eng. Desouki, Chairman, REA by Eng. El Sherif,
Deputy Chairman and QPA by Eng. Rizk, Deputy Chairman. A supplementary project
data sheet is attached as Annex IV. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 2874-EGT
of June 9, 1980) is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Project Description
50.       The proposed project would consist of:
(a)  a hydro power redevelopment (4 x 67.5 MW Kaplan turbines) in
upper Egypt (Aswan II);
(b)  the third 300-MW steam electric generating unit to complete the
Shoubrah El Kheima Thermal Power Station near Cairo (Shoubrah
no. 3);
(c)  rehabilitation and extension of the distribution system in urban,
suburban and rural areas outside Cairo and Alexandria (about
6,990 km of 11-kV and 380/220 Volts lines and 250 MVA of distri-
bution transformer capacity).
51.        Specifically, the hydro-power component of the project would add
4 x 67.5 MW of Kaplan turbine generators at the old Aswan irrigation dam



- 17 -
to obtain about 1110 GWh/a additional generation from programed irrigation
water releases from Lake Nasser. The new installations would operate inter-
connected with the national grid system. Addition of the third thermal power
unit at Shoubrah El Kheima, north of Cairo would complete the development of
this site to its full capability (3 x 300 MW). This portion of the project
would round out the work being financed by the Bank through Loan 1733-EGT and
Credits 985/20-EGT. Rehabilitation and extension of regional distribution in
outlying towns and suburban and rural areas would improve service to a popula-
tion of about 1 million and bring electric service for the first time to
another 2 million inhabitants. Because of a chronic lack of foreign exchange
funds routine upgrading has been less than adequate and service extensions to
new consumers greatly curtailed. The project would tend to remedy these
deficiencies.
Project Cost and Financing
52.       The estimated total project cost for the three components is
US$575.8 million equivalent excluding import duties and taxes for which EEA
is not liable. The project's foreign exchange component is estimated at
US$487.9 million. For the hydro generation component, the cost estimate is
based on a feasibility study prepared by QPA's consultants. The cost estimate
for the thermal generation component is based on the feasibility study pre-
pared by EEA's consultants for the first two Shoubrah El Kheima units. Cost
estimates for the distribution component were developed with data from the
First Regional Electrification Project (Loan 1453-EGT) and planning figures
developed by REA and its distribution consultants. All estimates were appro-
priately revised during appraisal. Costs per man-month of engineering and
management consultants for the hydro component are estimated at $8,420, for
the thermal component at $8,500 and the distribution component at $7,400.
All the above costs include salaries, social costs and overhead. A physical
contingency of 15 percent was applied to the hydro generation cost estimate to
take account of pending refinements of design data on underwater excavations,
but lower physical contingencies were assumed for the thermal generation (7
percent) and distribution (5 percent) components for which better site data
are available. Price contingencies of 10.5 percent for 1980, 9.0 percent for
1981, 8.0 percent for 1982, 7.0 percent for 1983-85, and 6 percent for 1986
were applied to both equipment and civil works estimates in line with the best
available data on expected price escalation.
53.       The proposed IDA/Bank credit/loan of $120 million and $7 million
respectively, would finance about 22 percent of total and about 26 percent
of the project's foreign cost. The proposed credit would be made to the
Arab Republic of Egypt on standard IDA terms which, in turn, would relend
the proceeds to EEA under a subsidiary loan agreement. The proposed loan
would be made to EEA for 20 years including five years of grace; the same
terms would apply to proceeds of the IDA credit re-lent to EEA. The execu-
tion of (i) a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Arab Republic of Egypt and
EEA covering the terms and conditions on which the proceeds of the credit will
be made available to EEA; and (ii) subsidiary agreements between EEA and QPA
and REA, respectively would be conditions of effectiveness (Development
Credit Agreement (DCA) and LA, Sections 5.01(a) and 7.01(b)). The foreign



- 18 -
exchange risk on the proposed Bank loan and the proceeds of the IDA credit
relent to EEA would be borne by EEA. As to the remaining financing require-
ments, the following would apply: regarding the regional electrification
component, the Egyptian Government has already secured $35 million from the
Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) and the Netherlands for
related equipment. An additional $15 million are being secured from the
Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) of Japan. Regarding the hydro power
component, bidding documents for electro-mechanical equipment which have been
issued on February 15, 1980 require interested suppliers to submit a financing
proposal with their technical offer. Bids are to be submitted by early June
1980. Completion of a satisfactory financing plan regarding the hydro-power
component would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan and
credit (LA and DCA, Sections 7.01(a) and 5.01(b)). Regarding the thermal
power component, bidding documents for the first two 300 MW units being
financed under the second power project (Ln 1733) and the third 300 MW units
to be financed under the proposed project are likely to be issued only in
late 1980 and actual contract signing is not expected until early 1981. As in
the case of the hydro-power component, the bidding documents will require
suppliers to offer financing for the third unit. The completion of a satis-
factory financing plan for this component would be a condition of disbursement
for this specific component (DCA, Schedule 1, para. 4). Based on the results
of a meeting of potential co-financiers interested in the electro--mechanical
equipment for the thermal and hydro-power components, held in Paris on March
13 and 14, 1980, prospects to secure the necessary financing appear quite
promising. Agreement will be sought with major cofinanciers on a Financial
Administration Agreement to provide for mutual cooperation during execution
and supervision of the Project. Cross default clauses are also envisaged with
major cofinanciers with a view to assure a reasonably complete financing plan
for the Project at all times. The Government agreed to provide the remaining
local and foreign funds as well as any funds required to meet cost overruns
(GA, Section 2.02).
Project Implementation, Design and Supervision
54.       The project would be implemented during 1980-86 starting with the
hydro and distribution components. The expected completion date is December
1986 when the third Shoubrah unit is scheduled for commercial operation. Once
commissioned, all components would be owned and operated by EEA or one of
EEA's distribution subsidiaries. Within each of the participating Agencies,
i.e., EEA, QPA, and REA, a Project Unit (PU) will be in charge of the respec-
tive component. The PUs will in turn report to a Project Coordinating
Committee under MEE. Consultants to assist in design, preparation of bidding
documents and management and supervision of construction for each of the three
project components have already been appointed and would continue to assist
EEA, QPA and REA during project execution.
Procurement
55.       The tentative financing plan for the project envisages that Bank/IDA
financing would most likely be allocated to civil works only. Equipment and
materials would probably all be financed through export credits or bilateral



- 19 -
assistance. Contracts being financed from proceeds of the proposed Bank Group
loan/credit would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding
in accordance with Bank guidelines. Civil works contractors would be subject
to prequalification. Civil works bids for (i) the hydro component are due end
May 1980 and (ii) the thermal component will be invited by mid-1981, together
with bids for the civil works for the first two 300 MW units being financed
under Loan 1733-EGT. Although civil works for the distribution component will
cover widely scattered areas throughout the country, bids will be invited for
large enough contract packages to attract international firms.
Disbursement
56.       The proceeds of the proposed Bank loan would be disbursed against
100 percent of the foreign cost of imported items, 70 percent of the civil
works contracts for the hydro component, 72 percent of the civil works contract
for the thermal component, 50 percent of the civil works contracts for the
distribution component (representing the respective foreign exchange component
of the civil works contracts), and 100 percent of the cost of engineering
services. As mentioned in para. 53 above, completion of a satisfactory
financing plan for the thermal power component would be a condition of dis-
bursement for that particular component.
Environmental Aspects
57.      The hydro component is only an extension of the old Aswan irrigation
dam. The environmental impact therefore will be insignificant. Also, no
particular environmental problems are envisaged in relation to the extension
of the Shoubrah project to accommodate the third unit to bring the site to
full capability (3 x 300 MW). As agreed under Loan 1733-EGT at least one of
the three units will be operated on gas to avoid excessive sulphur dioxide
emission from operating all three units on heavy fuel oil. The distribution
component involves work consisting entirely of rehabilitation and extension of
overhead and underground distribution. The overhead lines would be built
mostly in agricultural areas; no significant environmental impact is expected.
Electricity Tariffs
58.       As mentioned above (para. 37), prices of energy supplies in Egypt
are set at levels that are substantially below their opportunity cost (border
prices) to the economy. In the case of electricity, there is a two-fold
subsidy: an economic and a financial subsidy. The economic subsidy is passed
on to all electrcity consumers through the unrealistically low prices paid by
EEA for oil and gas supplied by EGPC ($11/tons). If exported, EGPC could earn
about $160 equivalent/ton on these commodities. In addition, there is a
financial subsidy absorbed by EEA. This financial subsidy is particularly
visible in the case of two public sector companies, the Kima fertilizer plant
and an aluminum complex. The two consumers which account for 30 percent of
EEA's total sales but pay only about 60 percent of the tariff applied to other
industrial consumers. As a result, EEA is incurring a loss of about $15
million during 1980 for electricity supplied to these plants.



- 20 -
59.       Since the uneconomic and unsatisfactory tariff structure for indus-
trial consumers is only a reflection of an overall deficiency in the tariff
system as a whole, especially at the high and medium voltages, the Government
agreed in connection with the first power project (Loan 1453-EGT) to carry out
a tariff study for the high voltage consumers (phase I). Because of inadequate
technical and financial data, the study has been delayed by about 18 months.
EEA agreed to (i) complete phase I of the tariff study by March 31, 1981, (ii)
submit to the Government and the Bank by June 30, 1981 a draft plan and imple-
mentation schedule to increase electricity tariffs charged to "high voltage
consumers", and (iii) finalize and implement such plan by December 31, 1981,
taking into account the Bank's comments. The Ministry of Electricity has also
initiated Phase II of the tariff study which covers, among others, the formula-
tion of tariffs for the medium and low voltage consumers. However, to avoid
the delays experienced with Phase I, the consultants will be responsible for
the collection of the required data, the training of EEA's staff in tariff
work and advise EEA on the establishment of a tariff department and the com-
pletion of the study according to a specific timetable. EEA agreed to (i)
complete the phase II study by December 31, 1981, (ii) submit recommendations
emanating from the study to the Government and the Bank by March 31, 1982, and
(iii) implement such recommendations by June 30, 1982, taking into account the
Bank's comments. The Government in turn, agreed to enable EEA to comply with
the above undertakings (LA, Section 4.01(e) and GA, Section 3.04(b)).
60.       Pending the completion of the two phases of the tariff study, the
Government has introduced as an interim measure a new tariff for domestic and
small commercial consumers. The new tariff was made effective January 1,
1980, after approval by the Egyptian Parliament in the context of the 1980
budget. It is designed to induce conservation in the use of electricity by
almost tripling the rate for consumption above 150 kwh/month. The new tariffs
are expected to generate about $11.5 million in additional revenues to EEA
during 1980.
61.       Another positive development is the Government's decision to charge
companies operating in the joint venture sector the international prices for
oil and gas on the grounds that these companies are mostly export oriented and
therefore enjoy to operate in world market economic framework. This distin-
guishes these companies from those functioning in the public sector, especially
as regards pricing of their output. Furthermore, these companies are now being
charged electricity tariffs that reflect the opportunity cost of the resources
used in the production of electricity. In addition, to protect EEA from
increasingly greater fuel expenses on thermal generation, EEA will promptly
adjust its tariffs to reflect changes in the price of fuel supplied to it by
the Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation (see para. 39 above).
Financial Performance of EEA
62.       On the basis that the Government wished to establish EEA as a
financially viable entity with a level of earnings high enough to provide for
some of EEA's future expansion after meeting operating expenses and debt
service obligations, Loan 1453-EGT, as subsequently modified by Loan 1733-EGT,
required EEA to achieve a minimum return, on its revalued assets, of 5 percent



- 21 -
in 1980, 6 percent in 1981, 8 percent in 1982 and 9 percent in 1983 and there-
after. These targets were to be applied to the consolidated results of EEA
and the seven distribution companies which were established on January 1, 1979,
as subsidiaries of EEA. Agreement with the Bank on the specific measures,
including tariff increases, required to achieve the 5 percent return in 1980,
and their timing, was a condition of effectiveness of Loan 1733-EGT. After
such agreement was reached, the loan was made effective on April 8, 1980.
However, additional measures would have to be taken by EEA in the coming
years to meet covenanted rates of return of 6 percent in 1981, 8 percent in
1982 and 9 percent in 1983. To achieve these targets, a cumulative 100
percent tariff increase would be required over the three-year period even if
fuel prices remained at the present level (January 1980). However, it is
recognized that it will be extremely difficult to achieve such increases
during 1981-1983 given the fact that under the prevailing system of price
controls, any move in changing an essential input price such as energy,
requires a careful assessment of its impact on prices throughout the system
so as to avoid economic and social disruptions. It was, therefore, agreed
that EEA would achieve a rate of return of not less than 5 percent of its
revalued assets from fiscal year 1981 (LA, Section 5.04(a)). Upon comple-
tion of the studies and agreement between the Government and the Bank on the
implementation of mutually agreeable proposals resulting therefrom, the
Government, EEA and the Bank may have to establish new rate of return targets
as appropriate to enable EEA to carry on its operations in accordance with
sound public utility financial practices. To achieve even the 5 percent rate
of return, would still require tariff increases in the order of between 15 and
20 percent per annum. EEA also agreed to present to the Bank by November 30
of every year a plan on how it proposes to achieve the agreed target rate of
return for the subsequent year and agree with the Bank and the Government on
such a plan before December 31 of every year (LA, Section 5.04(b)).
Arrears
63.       EEA has always had difficulty in collecting its bills from munici-
palities, Government industrial enterprises and other public sector entities.
The Government and EEA have been taking vigorous action to reduce EEA's
accounts receivable to no more than the equivalent of 3 months' sales, as
agreed under Loans 1453-EGT and 1733-EGT. The Government further agreed under
Loan 1733-EGT to take all measures necessary on its part to enable EEA to
achieve this. Action by the Government and EEA in pursuance of these under-
takings have almost yielded the desired results, and EEA's receivables for the
sale of electricity amounted to the equivalent of only four months' revenues
at the end of August 1979, excluding municipal overdues of about LE 9 million
responsibility for payment of which has been accepted in principle by the
Ministry of Finance. However, since this is likely to be a continuing problem
with effects on EEA's liquidity position, the Government and EEA agreed to
extend the covenant under Loan 1733-EGT also to the proposed loan (GA, Section
3.02(a) and LA, Section 4.01(b)).



- 22 -
Other Financial Covenants
Debt Limitation
64.       Under Loans 1453-EGT and 1733-EGT, EEA agreed to obtain the Bank's
prior consent to any borrowing it plans to undertake whenever its internal
cash generation is not sufficient to cover its debt service at least 1.5
times in any future year. In calculating amortization of long-term debt, EEA
had agreed that it would revalue all foreign debts at the end of each year in
accordance with the current rates of exchange obtainable by EEA. Revaluation
of the 1979 foreign debts is presently being carried out on the basis of a
methodology which has been agreed with the Bank. EEA agreed to extend this
covenant also to the proposed loan so that EEA and the Bank could keep under
review EEA's assumption of debt liabilities and ensure that they do not
exceed prudent levels (LA, Section 5.05).
Audit
65.      EEA's accounts are audited by the Government's Central Auditing
Organization, a satisfactory arrangement, although timely completion of the
audit report has posed problems in the past. With the expected improvement
in its inventory management and accounting, EEA considers that the past delays
in the submission of the audited financial statements and Audit Report to the
Bank would be eliminated within about three years. Accordingly EEA agreed
under Loan 1733-EGT to submit to the Bank its audited financial statements and
audit report for a fiscal year within six months of the close of the year
beginning with 1981. For the years 1978 and 1979, the Bank extended the time
limit for the submission of the audited accounts and audit report from 6 to 9
months, and for the year 1980 to 7 months. EEA agreed to extend the covenant
under Loan 1733-EGT to the proposed loan (LA, Section 5.02).
Benefits and Justification
66.       The project will help meet Egypt's electricity load demand up to
1986 as part of the least-cost system expansion program developed to meet
the country's future demand for electricity. The project would meet primarily
the growing needs of industry (which currently accounts for about 65 percent
of electricity consumption), but would also serve the rural and urban popula-
tion who would be supplied with electricity under ongoing distribution projects
financed by the Bank and other aid donors. The main benefits are the incre-
mental sales of electricity attributable to the generation, transmission and
distribution facilities included in the Project. Other benefits comprise fuel
savings through substitution of electricity from the plant for higher cost
fuels, extra tax revenues and connection charges.
67.       As to the project's rate of return, if one was to calculate it using
border prices for fuel input and domestic sales prices 1/ for the electricity
produced, the rate of return obtained is 6.1 percent. This reflects the fact
that electricity tariffs in Egypt are substantially lower than the opportunity
1/   The conversion factors required to express the domestic price revenues
into equivalent border prices are not available.



- 23 -
cost of the resources used in the production of electricity. The Government
has recently introduced new tariffs for the sale of electricity to the new
high and medium voltage industrial consumers operating in the uncontrolled
segment of the economy. The new tariffs are based on the long run marginal
cost which reflects the value to the economy of the resources (in border
prices) used in delivering electricity to these consumers. At present, only
20 such firms are paying the marginal cost-based tariffs. If these tariffs
were taken as a proxy for the willingness to pay of all high and medium
voltage consumers (about 30 percent of the total sales), the rate of return
on the project would be 11.5 percent.
Risks
68.       Difficult underwater excavations in the hydro component for which
additional field surveys are being made are the major physical risks. On
the institutional side, the major risks are inadequate performance of EEA
under existing covenants in Loans 1453-1733-EGT and the yet unsecured co-
financing for electrical and mechanical equipment of the hydro and thermal
components under the proposed project. However, as a result of the ongoing
discussions on energy pricing with the Government and EEA, early agreement
on acceptable measures to overcome EEA's financial difficulties is foreseen.
Also, provisions for adequate safeguards in the loan/credit documents would
ensure adequate financing throughout project execution. Other risks are
also manageable and no major implementation problems are expected.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Arab Republic
of Egypt and the Assocation, the draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and
the Egyptian Electricity Authority, the draft Project Agreement among the
Bank and the Qattara Project Authority and the Rural Electrification Authority
and the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Arab Republic of Egypt and the
Bank, and the Reports of the Committees provided for in Article V, Section
l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association and in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, are being distri-
buted to the Executive Directors separately.
70.       Features of the Development Credit, Loan and Guarantee Agreements
of special interest are referred to in Section III of Annex III.
71.       Special conditions of effectiveness of the credit and loan are:
execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and EEA
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 5.01(a)), execution of subsidiary
agreements between, on the one hand EEA and, on the other hand, QPA and REA,
respectively (Loan Agreement, Section 7.01(b)) and completion of a satisfactory
financing plan for the hydropower component (Loan Agreement, Section 7.01(a)).
A special condition of disbursement with respect to the thermal power component
would be the completion of a satisfactory financing plan therefor (Development
Credit Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 4).



- 24 -
72.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit and Loan would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the association and the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank, respectively.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
73.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit and the proposed Loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 9, 1980
Washington, D.C.



- 25 -
TABLE 3A                                     AM EX  I
EGYPT - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET             rage  1  of  5
LANDIARIAC(THOUS  EGYPIT  REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED Ay1RAGES
LAND AREA  (THOUSAND SO. IM.)                                            - H0ST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
TOTAL          1001.4                                                SAME        SAME    NEXT HIGHUR
AGRICULTURAL     29.6                               MOST RECENT    GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME    INCOME
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b     RFGION /c  GROUP /d  GROUP /e
GNP PR CAPITA (USS)                 90.0       150.0    400.0          1532.3      209.6      467.5
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(XILOGRAHS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    298.0      275.0    473.0           838.1      d3.9       262.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION  HID-YEAR (MILLIONS)    25.9       32.6     37.8
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 38.0      42.3     43.9            49.0       16.2       24.6
POPULATION PtOJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                    58.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                     90.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPMLATION IS REACHED              2105
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                     26.0        33.0     39.0            19.9       49.4       45.3
PER SQ. YH. AGRICULTURAL LAND   982.0     1125.0   1324.0            99.0      252.0      149.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                       42.0        42.1     40.0            45.6      43.1        45.2
15-64 YRS.                       55.0        54.7     56.0            51.4      53.2        51.9
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                 3.0         3.2      4.0             2.8        3.0        2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                            2.4         2.3      2.1             3.0       2.4         2.7
URBLN                            6.0         3.4      2.7             5.2       4.6         4.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUsAND)    44.0       40.0     36.0            43.7      42.4        39.4
CRUDE DOAlE RATE (PER THOUSAND)    19.0       15.0     13.0            13.5       15.9       11.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE            2.8/f       3.0      2.3             3.2        2.9        2.7
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)     ..       206.0    187.0
USERS (PERCRNT OP HARIED WOMEN)   ..         9.0     21.1              ..      12.2        13.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)        92.6        99.0     95.0            90.8      98.2        99.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY Of
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIRDENETS)                 95.0       106.0    113.0            99.0       93.3       94.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)        66.0        66.0     70.7            63.6      52.1        54.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE     17.0/8      16.0      16.0           16.0       13.6       17.4
CHILD (AGES 1-4) HDRTALITY RATE    31.0       23.0     18.0            15.9       18.5       11.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   46.0       51.0     54.0            53.8      49.3        54.7
INFANT HORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           ..          ..    108.0              ..     105.4        68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..          ..     66.0            56.4      26.3        34.4
UIBAN                             ..          ..     88.0            83.4      58.5        57.9
RURAL                             ..          ..     50.0            34.3      15.8        21.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..          ..       ..            59.1       16.0       40.8
URBMN                             ..          ..        ..           78.2      65.1        71.3
RURAL                             ..          ..       ..            26.4       3.5        27.7
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        2600.0      1910.0   1190.0/h        3677.0   11396.4      6799.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    2730.0/h   1640.0/h  1150.07h       1730.6    5552.4      1522.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          480.0       460.0    460.0           577.0    1417.1       726.5
URBAN                             ..       290.0    250.0              ..      197.3      272.7
RURAL                             ..      2110.0   2090.0              ..    2445.9      1404.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED         ..          ..       ..            21.8      24.8        27.5
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                            5.0          ..      5.8             5.8       5.3         5.4
URBAN                            4.8          ..      5.6             5.5       4.9         5.1
RURAL                             ..          ..      6.0             6.0       5.4         5.5
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                            1.9          ..      1.8
URBAN                            1.6
RURL                               .          .         .
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                           38.0          ..     45.7            45.1      23.5        28.1
URBAN                           37.8          ..     77.0            67.9      17.8        45.1
RURAL                             ..          ..      19.6             ..        ..         9.9



- 26 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                        Page  2  of  5
EGYPT - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 /b     1970 lb ESTIMATE /b       REGION 1c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 66.0        69.0       72.0            85.0       63.3         82.7
MALE                 80.0         84.0      88.0            103.7       79.1        87.3
FEMALE               52.0         53.0      56.0            66.0        48.4        75.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 16.0        32.0      42.0             27.6       16.7         21.4
MALE                 24.0         44.0      54.0             39.2       22.1        33.0
FEMALE                9.0         21.0      29.0             20.8       10.2        15.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY)  22.0         19.0      18.0              4.3        5.6          9.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            39.0        38.0      40.0             32.6       41.0         34.1
SECONDARY                          16.0        25.0      29.0             23.4       21.7         23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        26.0          ..       44.0            41.4        31.2        54.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0         4.0       6.4             16.7        2.8          9.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         58.0       132.0     138.0            147.9       27.2         76.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.9        16.0      17.0             36.0        2.4         13.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    ..        22.0      21.0             17.9        5.3         18.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PEB CAPITA  3.0          2.0         ..             2.9         1.1         2.5
LABOR FORCE
MOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      7482.0      9319.0    9600.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    7.3         7.2       7.6              8.6       24.8        29.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              58.4        54.4      51.0             43.0       69.4         62.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 12.2        18.8      26.0             23.7       10.0         11.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                28.9        28.0      28.0             26.7       36.9         37.1
MALE                                 53.2        51.5       51.3            46.4       52.4         48.8
FEMALE                                4.2         4.1       4.3              5.1       18.0         20.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.6         1.6        1.8             1.8        1.2          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.5LJ       17.4Li.  22.0              21.4         ..         15.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  44-411       42.8Li,1  49.2             48.6         ..        48.2
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.6/1        7.0OLW    5.1              5.3         ..         6.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.5L/       18.7LW   14.8              15.0         *-         16.3
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..     116.0            201.3       99.2       241.3
RURAL                               ..           ..      84.0            134.2       78.9       136.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..     153.0            288.6       91.9       179.7
RURAL                                ..          ..      65.0            107.0       54.8       103.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..          ..      21.0             22.9       44.1        24.8
RURAL                               ..           ..      25.0             31.2       53.9        37.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c    North Africa S Middle East;  /d   Low Income ($280 or less per capita, 1976);  /e  Lower Middle
Income (S281-550 per capita, 1976);   /f  1950-55;  la  1960-62;   /h  Registered, not all
practicing in the country;  /i  1964-65;  /i  rural expenditure only.
Most Recent Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August, 1979



-27 -                                                                              Annex I
kts  ~ the 4.. r  b         COm  ecese" 68NOaJJ1 judged the Meat &OItat,ve  MA reliable, it .-aI, also in mated thet thay my Mt he lztema
b=   ftb    -  ofStusa -  duitiu   -1 cot                      o   y tiffereat COcKtri.. LB ocllactlMt  the dat&, lbe dta are, Dethe15es,
21bk. iAig Ufor e                 dist  ts presucaiee-eLmtetge.amtr-ie   -, incdisg the  strams raises of the idistic                 r se t c   met Pepolatid
gr os leak of dtat, rmap aeverges of all 1adlOators for CapItal Rerplcs Oil xportra eat of i.sItloaos of Accoee te Water eft eret.
Dispseai, Souing, Iwomee okstributifa  md %wwetl for other cousty group ane poplation-aeigbtet geamtric mac. sithoat amiceloL  of the eatrees vlsa ead
te atpePIlated cosatry.  ho,o   ocre                               h   clao                  i aleil o   aaeti   c   af o    ctica edt h   soi
~ iA(thseaa  eq.h.                                                                  A,,,,, to.~E 2oost frsca   ort of;9seaics                 oa.coi   a  re-a-
- Ttal eofcea    comprtisin  load are  ad 1alent eater..                          Samber of poi   ttl   ri,atrc-l  evdb   ert    psla
M!loa        ost receat extloat. of egricultural area uast temprwsily            percentages of their respecti,e ppacl&tioas. looceta diepoaLI seW inciute
orpraaal  for crop., FaStur.., meiet aid kitehm  g-arde  or- to                  the coll.ction sit diaposLI, sith or sithoot trWoteat, of ba  *eor.ta
21.  alice                                                        aid~~~~~~~~~~~-  rets-rat-r by eate-bora. syteta   or the Ase of pit pririse  aid eloole
.01Pp55 capita aetleatas    carrest markoneter Paicias    population divLided by comber of practic log physic Lii
1960, 19M0,sa4 1977 dtat.                                                .                                                Popalation tiridet by mbtr of psracticinog male
c   w      AP.         Annual oasm ti- of commrial energ                                                    psatical mar..55  end a.i.iteat euaoss.
tezoa  eatioityl 5cOko                        etbe--, nuclear atd gee                     otltc   rEeta  e     oa.chn.-etreael - Popolatioc (total,  t,,
th-wa  lwtritiiyrn    =    o  coaeqsivbleat per capita; 1960,                 ai   ua    iie   yterrsetv    str.ofhopital bed" a.eil".e ta
Ipso  .ad 19pg tat.                                                                       pobl   eat poicat. gamera1 sad sp-Loieiad hotpital eat rehahiLitatinc  mt.re.
lb.pitel. ac- etabliahemta parmasatly stu?ffat by at leasht 00s Vbyaiciaa.
POPH=01 MM VrTAL  3                                                  l~~~~~~~~~~~~atbIlimeate proetdia prtosipal.y ousttial caeare -  -t ixLostd. Ruoral
as. pmtm   f-Year           om)- As of Jaly 1; 1960, 1970, eat                    hospital., bover  include health and osdiceL centers act peromeatly ataffed
IT"  "t..                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~by a pV'IW.ie1  (hot by a  .UdicL aa.latemt  soe..,  tidif., ec.) ehlb offer
tOo-bn P0  100   erosa  of ttal) . Btlo of srbe  to total poplatico uapaie  acendation eat provide a lialtsd ra.W  of med1oal feeiliti.s.
diffreatdeftdie.of a-teaarea  my  ffect.oprehILIty of date                A4:tpI.p'flgJrjppAtOV &           Toal muaber of adai.sions to or dischwarge  fr00
ameoeors.1960, 1970. aid 1970 tate.                                           hiiltedfh1merof beds.
Povpoplatosireectproaejbcedions1S
ems ead- at their  atelity sad fertilIty              Aorg  05   f Honssehld (sroma   rbsibi)-tota.  ra. -et    ,al -
rate. Projection permeete  or m-tailty raisacomi.. of tbee.                         A W Aeeol  consists of a group ofitrdaseoaa h gquearver  eAt
ILevl  -Aaea-i  life  epsotmay at birtOh Iaerasa.ng Ath country s                    their mali meals.  A hoardr or lodger emy or my  Mct be inclded L. the
Pe" sepita ioo   leve, eat fC l. Life -eapeteay atehimlg at                          heceshold for statistical peerpee..
77.5 jeers   Th. p-Owatur. for fertility rat. also hare three l-vela               Aveaeabro  oras                 pm-toa.o-m    a                    turalwwvrage nmiber
V-L~ift  dec11. i0 fertilitY according to twomm level eat Peaufpseaprs                                     A     ohat        rualroomie  cav %tosL deslloS,,
feadlt   --eia  pefrfosece. lash sintry Is thee  .aiged me of these                  repeetielyi,  Dasiig   -.erot   -o-pssmaet et-et,O-e  eat oa-eopi.  perte.
nine ca Leati     of nortallty kW  fetility trmd. for projectimoLcs  oEetiiy(e-eto   oelo.-ttl  ehn   a   ua                                                         m
PAfPOS64.                                                                          LAMttoAl   ftUg  nObk letricit  IA.  ;iRlvIogoas-tr  Ls peceaag  of
at-tiona" ?Dw    - ic a attioeas  Popelatio  ther  is no groeth                   total, urban,  at s-os-el d-eLsga respectivel.
:itssthibhkbt   t   qual to the death rats, and also to. see
stractur* remids.-ctaltt. This is aihievd -al  after fertility rates            !IPLTIOI
declice to the osplWacent level of colt eat rproduction rate, Ahnn           ~     ~    dcoitatott0
seth geaertioo of         rasn   placee itself  .. ttly.  The stticoay 00Db.         TIIr= %p!ffI17rt6aoll  oatd fuemle  1- rs  Ootal, sole ad fcols   -11ol-
lation sic. ca  eatiented oM the basis of the projected o~baeteristica                 miofllaes at the primary ls-sl aspercovtes of respective pigary
of thepbclatioc IA the year 2000,  Ad the rote of deolios of fertility                scolaepopuLatiocl ocomaly includee otildres  gas 6-11 Yease. hot
rte to repla= aet level.                                                              adjwt.d for differeat lengths of prisary eductioc; for ocats-i.e cith
Yon gtati2Ess-  -o,ltO ecahed - Tho ys-oarshe  sttiocory pOteolAti..                     ociv-ersalduoctioo se"ar.lnLt MaY  oast. 100 poroet slice  em  wpoplo
si.. ha. heec reached.                                          ore ~~~bolos or  b.ov  the officil ach.ol age.
leodr   oci - oae       aeat _  Camle~ - C."Ated Os shove;  acoodary
Par e..  t-yer pOa.laioOper eqoe. kiloeste  (100 oectarea  of                     dotior,ie  a1.0   oryasof approca  ps'-ar  itetrotico;
total area                                                                             proides g9ceral I     aial  or teachr traiciag  isstrotioc   for pupil.
Pe ks. e. saitotr   ed   C--C oted as abov  for agico.ltural led                     uitoall  of 12 wo.17 ymar  of ag.; correspoodeace coors.s are game-aIly
21.lf                                                                                   eocluded.
bplsaltico AA. Strcaccor  (pErveat) - Child-an (0.14 V---) ,  -crulg-age                 VoctiocoL  erimt (terosotf s.ooday) -  oaiclicatlt%iq9lo    LcclOt
~15-h  y"sral, ea  reird     yeere eat ove) as p-eroteg.. of aid-year                    tchoiLaL, IAo.tra, or ohrw progem  shiob oPerte iedepeadetly or a
poPolation; 196, 1970, and 1977 late.                                                    departats of ceceata7 itotit,tioai-
Popalatioc Groeth cats  nercet - tta  - A--Ime  =-tO  rates of total mid-                 P,cI-Ies    -rtiM-renfeteeodr   - Tota  etdatet  .erliad to
year poPIlti_c  for  l90-0  177   aid 1970-77.                                            priar  e t acailir  level  diiMS        ycobr   ftecesi  tecr
pos..atIo  Oreh  .a. psov-t) -  sh.- Anssual groeth ratos Of caba                           4poedig 1Lel..
po olaa   or- 1950-6, 19b0-70, ad 1970-.                                                           rat      r       -at   - lt-ret  -tolts  ebl. to read WiA  -ite) os
Or.d  ItLh R. (mthou-d)- Ai-AaI live births per thoosand of aid-                                 oftt eotpoPalatio. egd 15 years aidovr
year popojotico; 19c0, 1970 cad 1977 data.
C~A. D&tl R. ~arth-a-ed) - A-area  deaths per theossod of aid-yea -bPI
pipo1atio  iiVl, 9707, wd1977 data.                                                   paao?Cas(par thessea  oo,lto)-   asse   as  cpi atr care
Ir..e Rsprodootioc RWt  -iAreeg  oab-r of  --cdotrs     ca    l   vrsata   ssta   ih  pesos-eo-aubsu,l.aoe, he-arse  cad alltar
in her for.-LI reprodmctv  period if she  opari.cce  proosot age-veil
speciflc fertility  -t..; osArce11  fiv-year avrago  ending Jo 1960,                 Radio  eevr  (pertoe d opoi.i(-All1 types of reoeo-r. for  5dbo
1970, acd 1975.                                                                        b..oast, ts  0;or.lpbi   .  tbcoacd of Popolotioo;ealee,iO e
F.t;il_ Plcli-S ptors. Aiou-l (thouaaid. ( - AcoocL comber of                            rciver  L. coitrias eat in  ersoe  rogi.trtic  of ratio sets es0
accptrs  f  irt-_oatrel devIces Ander auscpiC.. of oCticoal family                 feffct; data for recent year  my cot heb.       r l  since met cooctrie
plI-isg program.                                                                       abolished liceasing.
yeaul. ?Iacie    eestor t of mriod som) -iPer-auteg. of   rvid                         7Occovr  (asI thecocad cooaioc)   TVreivs for brostoat to geoe-ei
sam  of obi  :d.-berog. ae(5-i  yea-s ( oh  bo brthl-otrol d.rto-                       pobll  per thou.ea                          --oaisceIteoLio-.A:' T7 receiver  -- coontriese
t.  l married  ees  in 'am  age groap.                                                 end IA years she  registratioc of TV sets sain effect.
cciD AND eborRTIOW                                                                         fRi                                                    b.t....g               uto
[Was or                          rd.. of Par ..Pit.               ~~~~~~~~of 'diygeooLr Literet ceappe  *dew te  as .periodIcal poblicatioo
tot  ofFoo  ~o  '-tic   ~r Cpit (i6~971.00  -tieofprcit                     Ierted primarily to recortlg geeral uases.  it is omoiter*d t0 ha 'dAlyly
esLmoL prodwetio   falfo  ccdte.                   -tion caclods seat md                if it app.rs at Leout four time a seed.
feed ai  Is -0 oaleatr year basic.  C.-ditiee  coe  prIms', goots                    Clim  Acce Atteadeace  Ya ait  s   eer  3- hd 00 the otomoer of tickets
(e.g 4soerc  itoeted of ea-s ( hich are edible aid ocotal  Octriente o.dro  the yea, l                               tlolo    aisoal on    driv-ic cIdsm- ac  achiLe
(eg . cofe  aid tea are -ccided).  Aguegatt  Protootio  of eahIL sh                   omits..
is based  e astiosal averag  prodocer price eeights.
Per c,pit  -ooi  o  cloie   os2veat of ragoal                 Coup( -t "te    Lre   AP0   i
-eaer  eqtoireat of oct food coppilac aviabe10oosr  per ctia                                 r 'oLathoaid.  - ftoweinla.ly ative per.o,  -lecldlog Ormd
per day.  Availble sepplis  -Wri.. domestic prot,cction, ipmpot  I..esa          ~   Coianodid~JC6l7Aot aseclotig  oasseives  stodeata, etc  Dafliti-c
experts, aid thesges 10 stock.  Net se4pplies esold   cimaI feed, $seds,             iA vebsoca  ccis-lee ar oat -wsehble.
oceeItite   seed In food ProcesaLig, eat bases ic dctribotios. capsizee            !41A.~~(' mle labor fove  as Percetage of total labor force..
-ms ea-  estimated by Pc based o0 pby.iailgioal osedi for so-r%l                   Mothil60f.   reait  - Lhoro forv-.a inareing, forestry, b,oatlsg sad
activity acd health coceidorisg uftairosasotal taeeratA,*, body swights,             C1i.bInd as jeemage of totalmo lhr.rce..
age oct sa  dietrib,Ation. of  ppoaic, dc a11io 6a 10 percent for                 toDectt,oeoa   - tAhor fovea IA aliag,  -mtroctwn,  -efaatoclIg aid
aets at household lard.                                                               seletct          - e  aid gas as Perveatag  of total Labor Coves.
.ervoito  oprf'rti    -m.prder( -Protein coatet of per                             patccto    ae(percect) - totalIml,et .l   Pacpetio or
captaoa                                     ofppY oftoiod pe  d gtsppyo  od is defibd ea  activity rates ar  compted u  total, sae1atC   .lbrCfoves as pe--
shov. Osqaieote  for 011 cosOotr-is  cetabliid by look provie for                    csot".g   of total, gmle  -  fatCmis popelatics of al eages rpectivly;
aiiu  Uo,,ac  of 650 gea   of total poteIo Per dW eatd 20 gra   of               1960, 1970, eat 1975 data.  The.se are 0v0 5PertboOpeti   ratee reflacting
Tacia  eatd PAI.e protei., of ohich 10 gpame should be a.11  prot-a                  -ag.-e.. .troct-r  hf the poPolation, eat 1ag tim  tree.  A fee estimetes
Iba   tenderd  are lose  thea thoes of 75 Sr-e  of total vrotei. aid              s'sfea    tiooi scre...
25 gram  of.imiPvetet  as ca aveag  for the erld, proposed by PIOl                                       R.&L  -  Ratio of l,Pslatiou coder 15 catd 65 aid 0-.  to
L. the Third Wdorld Food Sorvy.                                                      teiof 6ba grousp of 15-64 years.
Per osItaetel  c         iC oeaimasL sat Pulse  - Protel  VAPPlYl of foot
Zhild ais10)gralt   at             ic .hoo ssed- Accoaal deaths por thoosat             PeoaioPrivt   om(b                   Atsk ai kad   .foeeve  OF richest
Iage""osa  14 year, to childom  in thi, age grap; for met decal.                    5 ims.Mta, rtoh55t  0  eea,pret 20 Per t  aid pooret -.0 p-erst
opi.g occtris  data derived Cr00 lifs tables,                                           of ~sba.. lts.
Ufe bosoteacy at hi-t V      t%rs  -  vrg        bro   ears of life                     Ielae   ho.te Poverty  omlvlUAaroia      re   o   oh 
-miciueag  t birth; 10,. 190   id19   numtar  fbolt pYr   lo    lvl i.s ta  hm evlhl.aih o  iae
lofamt IcbrtLLIO" catsor tooIAst ( - A-oAsL deaths of iofeits  xodr one                 Asutrihiaally edsquat. dist plc.  -ectil. 00-food retq,irmat. is act
yea  of ege per thoosedliebis-th.,                                                      affordable.
Acess. to Oaf e Vater (oerct of ooletioa) -itot _al rban.stcrl.                         Itue    ealsPoet   e                ee  0$ rcta   csha eat rucral-
Bhater of Ppeopl   total, or-h     o   oa    ltraonbl   cest                             sa   eaiepoet   ca    oo   sm-hr 0o  averageprcit
eafr  eter supply (Lccl,cdsa treated ss-facs cter  or octreated hot                     Persomal icem  of the 0-try0. Urbe Leve  is derived Cfrc  Pthe 'rra ..ave
Amotetmando   eater such -e that fc-  protaetad Or           e  sprisga,                otto idJums~t for higher cost of 1ivOog is o-bee areas.
eat sealter  sobu) as peretages of their respestiv  populations. to                  Iaiaa   oelticSleAelt Pvry:c                            ee  oeeet  - o-a  a
ma o~  aea    poIlofosatmis or  Uatsidwsa  isated eat me theahProe   P50-ct   f ppl  Aatic ;* orb    atroeal fse  r                                Miest  poor.
me.ters fra  a hoece my be  osiderd as being sitkin  -eaa..ebi* c...sa
of that he.  Ia ral ara  reasmehL  w&*&e             .. e dsel   th.- at the
hoeseif.   mor  er  of the boAuQWI  d. et bae" to ePmd a disawpe-                                                              U i   sat Oocial D.ta Divisic
.imo   part of the day is feteoi"  -b  AMRy'  Jan,$e  akege                                                              Scm~ov  Adiaia  eat P-eietioes Depertvt



-28 -                              ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GNP PER CAPITA (1978)-US$400                                          MID-1978 POPULATION - 38.7 Million
(World Bank Atlas Methodology)
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978                                       ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH 7.. Constant Prices)
US$ Mln.      a                     1961-66 1/       1967-74 1/       1975-78 2/
GNP at Market Prices             13,600       100.0                      5.4              3.6             13.3
Gross Domestic Investment         3,590        26.4                     10.7              5.4             24.9
Current Account Balance          -1,760        12.9
Export of Goods, NFS               3,530       26.0                      4.3              6.2              7.8
Import of Goods, NFS              6,490        47.7                      8.8              9.2              7.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978
Value Added                 Labor Force 3/             V. A. Per Worker
US$ M%.        .                M.       7                EI
Agriculture                        3,350       28.7              4.135   41.1                 810        15.7
Industry 4/                       3,460        29.6              1.902   18.9                1820        35.4
Distributive Sector                2,340       20.0              1.560   15.5                1500        29.1
Services                          2,530        21.7              2.472   24.5                1020        19.8
Total/Average             11680/2920      100.0             10,069  100.0                1160      100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government 5/
US$ Mln.           % of GNP
1978        1974         1978
Current Receipts                  5,310           33.9         39.1
Current Expenditure               4,640           34.0         34.2
Current Surplus/Deficit              670          -0.1          4.9
Capital Expenditures              3,310           13.8         24.3
External Financing (net)           1,140           3.3          8.4
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES
1973        1974         1975         1976         1977        1978
(Million L.E. outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                   1207         1515        1883         2417         3185         4090
Bank Credit to Public Sector            1852         2338        3527         4123         4775         6035
Bank Credit to Private Sector            102          149         230          251          434          570
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP       31.7         36.1        38.5         38.5         43.4         47.5
Wholesale Price Index (1973 = 100)   100.0          112.4       119.1        131.4        145.0        157.7
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                   10.4         12.4         6.0         10.3         10.3          8.7
Bank Credit to Public Sector             9.6         26.2        50.9         16.9         15.8         26.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector           10.9        46.1         54.4          9.1         72.9         31.3
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the 1978 weighted exchange rate of US$1.496 -1 LE.
1/ At 1965 Constant Prices.
2/ At 1975 Constant Prices.
3/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.
4/ Manufacturing and Mining, Petroleum, Electricity and Construction.
5/ Local Government comprises a small part of General Government.
not applicable



-29-                                    ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                              MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975-78)
1975       1976       1977       1978                                       US$ Ml.n    %
(US$ million)
Cotton                       354      19.8
Exports of Goods, NFS           2,194       2,759      3,537      3,530          Yarn and Textiles            364       20.4
Imports of Goods. NFS           4,931      -4,910    -5,486    -6,490            Petroleum                    442       24.7
Other Agriculture            224      12.5
Imports of Foreign               -140        -240       -330      -290           All other commodities        405      22.6
oil ComLpanies                                                                      Total                1,789     100.0
Workers' Remittances              366         755        894     1,760
Other Factor Services (Net)      -104        -202       -205      -270
Net Factor Services               262         553        689     1
EXTERNAL DEBT (MLT), DECEMBER 31. 1978
Balance on Current Account   -2,615        -1,838    -1,590    -1,760
Amortization                     -600       -734        -812      -900                                             US$ Mln
Total Deficit                  -3,215      -2,572    -2,402    -2,660
______      Public debt, incl  guaranteed  9,970 1/
Repayments on public debt           900
Direct Foreign Investment         140         300        434       440           Interest on public debt             390
Grants                          1,076         792        445       345
MLT Borrow.ing                  2,509       1,622      3,Q27     2,585
3,725      2,714      3,Q        3,370
3 725  2714       3 906      3.370          DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1978 if  23.7%
Other Capital 'Net)              -152         236       -961      -495
Residual                         -420        -333      -348       -145
Tncrease in Reserves '+)          -62          45       195         71
Gross Reserves 'end year)          294         339       534        605
Fuel and Related Materials
tmports
of vhich: Petroleum         -477        -385       -250      -200
Exports
of ihich: Petroleum          164         268        600       730
1/ $10,590 million as of July 31, 1979.
/ Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and services.
February 4, 1980



30                                           ANNEX II
Page I of 8
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1980) 4/
Asount in million US dollars
Loan/Credit         Approved                                                                      1ess cancellations
Numbers              FY        Borrower         Purpose                                 Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Ln 243-UAR             60          SCA            Suez Canal Expansion                    56.5       -
Cr 181-UAR             70          UAR            Nile Delta Drainage                      --    26.0          1.9
Cr 284-UAR             72          ARE            Railways I                               --    30.0          0.8
Cr 393-UAR             73          ARE            Upper Egypt Drainage                     --    36.0          4.0
Cr 412-UAR             73          ARE            Development Industrial Bank 1/           --    15.0          0.3
Cr 423-UAR             74          ARE            Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation            --    18.5          3.5
Cr 437-UAR             74          ARE            Population                               __      5.0         0.1
Cr 484-UAR             74          ARE            Talkha Fertilizer                        --    20.0          0.4
Cr 524-EOT             75          ARE            Ag/Ind Imports                           _-    35.0          0.3
Ln 1062-EOT            75          ARE            Ag/Ind Imports                          35.0      --         1.2
Ln 1064-EGT            75          SCA            Suez Canal Rehabilitation               50.0      --        21.7
Ln 1085-EGT            75          ARE            Tourah Cement                           40.0      __         4.0
Ln 1098-EGT            75          ER             Railways II                             37.0      --        10.4
Cr 548-EGT             75          ARE            Telecommunicationa                       --    30.0          3.1
Cr 576-EGT             76          ARE            Development Industrial Bank II 1/    --    25.0              0.5
Ln 1239-EOT            76          APA            Alexandria Port                         45.0      --        32.7
Ln 1276-T-EGT 2/       76          ARE            Fruit and Vegetable Dev.                50.0      -_        42.3
Cr 637-EGT             76          ARE            Upper Egypt Drainage II                  --    40.0         23.1
Ln 1285-EGT            76          ARE            Upper Egypt Drainage II                 10.0      -_        10.0
Ln 1292-EGT            76          ARE            Textile Rehabilitation                  52.0      --        34.8
Ln 1369-EGT            77          AWA            Alexandria Water Supply                 56.0      __        45.2
Cr 681-EGT             77          ARE            Education                                --    25.0          5.8
Cr 719-EGT             77          ARE            Nile Delta Drainage II                   --    27.0         13.9
Ln 1439 EGT            77          ARE            Nile Delta Drainage II                  27.0      -_        27.0
Ln 1440-T-ECT 2/       77          ARE            Nile Delta Drainage IT                  12.0      __        12.0
Ln 1453-ETT            77          EEA            Regional Electrification                48.0      __        28.6
Ln 1456-EGT            77          ARE            Industrial Imports                      70.0      -_        38.0
Ln S-005-ETT           77          ARE            Iron Ore Beneficiation and               2.5      __         1.1
Engineering
Ln 1482-EOT            78          SCA            Suez Canal Expansion                   100.0      --        41.4
Cr 5-20-ETT            78          ARE            Water Supply Engineering                 --      2.0         0.2
Cr 774-ECT             78          ARE            Telecommunications II                    --    53.0         53.0
Ln 1533-EGT            78          DIB            Development Industrial Bank III         40.0      --        28.0
Cr 830-ERT             78          ARE            Agricultural Development                 --    32.0         32.0
Cr 831-EGT             78          ARE            Urban Development                        --    14.0         13.7
Cr 850-EGT             79          ARE            Second Population                        --    25.0         24.9
Cr 868-EGT             79          ARE            Second Education                         --    40.0         38.7
Ln 1-14-EGT            79          ARE            New Valley Phosphate Engineering    11.0          -_         4.3
and Technical Assistance
Cr 909-EGT             79          ARE            Tourism                                  -_    32.5         32.5
Ln 1732-EGT            79          ARE            Gulf of Suez Gas                        75.0      --        75.0
Cr 935-ETT             79          ARE            Shoubrah El Eheisa                              37.0        37.0
Thermal Power 3/
Ln 1733-EGT            79          EEA            Sboubrah El Kheima                     102.0      --       102.0
Thermal Power
80          ARE           Agroindu.tries                           --    45.0         45.0
80          DIE           DIB                                     50.0      --        50.0
Totals                                                                                  969.0  613.0        944.4
Of which has been repaid                                                                 58.5
Total now outstanding                                                                   910.5
Amount sold                                                              7.5
Of which has been repaid                                                 7.4              0.1
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                                          910.4   613.0
S. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(Amount in US$ million)
Year           Obligor                       Type of Business                       Loan           Equity       Total
1976           Arab Ceramic Company          Ceramic Industry                       4.25             .75         5.0
(Plus .635 contingency commitment)  (5.635)
1977           Nile Clothing Company         Ready-Made Garment Industry            0.40            0.20         0.60
1978           Delta Sugar Company           Agricultural Production,              20.0             2.00        22.00
mainly sugar             (Plus 1.0 standby commitment)          (23.00)
1979           Ismailia Misr Poultry         Food and Food Processing               5.97            1.52         7.49
Company
1979           Ismailia Fish Farming         Food and Food Processing               1.929            .453        2.382
Company                                             (Plus 0.1 contingency commitment)   (2.482)
32.549           4,923      37.472
(Plus contingency conitment)          (39.207)
1/ Formerly Bank of Alexandria
2/ Third Window Loan
3/ Not included is EEC Sp. Action Credit 20 of $35.0
4/  Tha following Bank loans and IDA creditc  hays been approved and signed since March 31, 1980:
$69 million Bank loan for Second Textile Project, $30 million Bank loan for Miar Iran Development
(DFC) project, $50 million IDA credit for Cairo Gas Distribution Project, and $50 million for
Pulp and Paper Project.



- 31 -                          ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 181-UAR - Nile Delta Drainage I Project; US$26 million Credit
of April 17, 1970; Effective Date: December 22, 1970; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The only outstanding activity on this project is installation of
field drainage, which remains to be accomplished on about 9 percent of the
project area of 950,000 feddans. Progress on this activity is slow due mainly
to management problems with public sector contracting companies. Work is
complete on other major components including some 1,700 km surface drains and
eleven pumping stations. The Drainage Authority expects to achieve full
completion of the project ending December 1980.
Cr. No. 284-UAR - Egyptian Railway Project; US$30 million Credit of February
9, 1972; Effective Date: July 17, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project generally was implemented satisfactorily but progress
on the electrical signalling items which is 95 percent complete, has been at a
standstill for the last two years due to difficulties with municipal authori-
ties regarding site occupation. Successive extensions of the loan period have
been necessary. ER has been informed that no further extensions will be
agreed beyond the present closing date. The disbursement total is likely
to be US$29 million.
Cr. No. 393-UAR - Upper Egypt Drainage I Project; US$36 million Credit of
June 8, 1973; Effective Date: November 28, 1973; Closing Date: July 31, 1981.
Work is almost complete on some 1,640 km surface drains in 300,000
feddan project area. Of the five pumping stations, one is operational and
work on the others is about 82 percent complete. Installation of tile drains
is about 61 percent complete. Progress on this activity is slow because of
inadequate management by contractors and physical difficulties arising from
sugarcane which occupies in the cropping pattern some 50 percent of the area.
Bilharzia Control Program is proceeding as scheduled. Progress on procurement
is satisfactory.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 32 -                          ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
Cr. No. 423-UAR - Cotton Ginnlng Rehabilitation Project; US$18.5 million
Credit of July 30, 1973; Effective Date: February 15, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The scaled-down project financed by IDA is estimated to be completed
in 1982. The remainder of the full project is being financed by a loan from
the Saudi Fund for Development. The foreign cost estimates for the project
have remained basically unchanged, but the local component continues to
escalate mainly due to delays caused by shortage of local funds.
Cr. No. 484-UAR - Talkha II Fertilizer Project; US$20 million Credit of June
24, 1974; Effective Date: January 22, 1975; Closing Date: April 1, 1980.
Project is nearing mechanical completion; procurement has been
completed. According to the latest indication, the project is expected to be
commissioned by mid-1980, about two years behind schedule, partly because of
delays in civil works and procurement.
Cr. No. 524-EGT and Ln. No. 1062-EGT - Agricultural and Industrial Imports
Project; US$35 million Credit and US$35 million Loan of December 20, 1974;
Effective Date:  March 19, 1975; Closing Date:  December 31, 1980.
The bulk of the procurement actions has been completed and only
about $0.4 million and $1.2 million remain to be disbursed under the credit
and loan, respectively. Discussions are presently taking place with the
Government regarding the utilization of the uncommitted funds prior to the
closing date which has been extended by one year.
Ln. No. 1064-EGT - Suez Canal Rehabilitation Project; US$50 million Loan of
December 20, 1974; Effective Date:  April 21, 1975; Closing Date:  December 31,
1980.
Progress in implementation has improved and about 85 percent of the
project funds have been committed. The design of the last major item of
equipment to be financed from the loan is now being undertaken. Because of
the initial delay in implementation, the project is now expected to be com-
pleted only by December 1981; the closing date of the loan will, therefore,
have to be extended.
Ln. No. 1085-EGT - Tourah Cement Expansion Project; US$40 million Loan of
February 10, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Procurement of machinery and equipment is completed. Most items are
already on site being erected. Slow civil works execution has further delayed
project execution. Thus start-up of commercial operations is expected to be
only towards early 1981.



- 33 -                          ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
Ln. No. 1098-EGT - Railways II Project; US$37 million Loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: August 20, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Investment in mobile assets has been satisfactory but progress on
fixed installations is slow. The Egyptian Railways' (ER) operations and
maintenance situation remains very poor with low availability of locomotives
and rolling stock. The track renewal and repair program is also behind
schedule. Efforts are now being made to improve rolling stock maintenance
with the help of consultants and ER plans to set up separate companies with
overseas technical assistance to upgrade track conditions. The 1980-84 draft
investment program contains many large investments including new lines for
which no economic justification has been demonstrated. The financial situation
is poor and a deficit of LE 38 million was forecast for 1979. After many
years without tariff increases, substantial increases in freight tariffs were
made in 1979, and passenger fare increases are promised for 1980. A draft
decree which would establish a National Railway authority and aims to give the
railways inter alia considerably more autonomy in relation to tariffs and
staff salaries is under discussion.
Cr. No. 548-EGT - Telecommunications Project; US$30 million Credit of May 16,
1975; Effective Date: August 14, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Procurement has now been completed and the IDA credit has been
fully committed. Procurement of the telex exchanges was transferred to
the Telecommunications II project. Physical installations are about two
years behind the appraisal schedule mainly because of initial delays in
procurement actions and in building construction.
Cr. No. 576-EGT - Second Development Industrial Bank (formerly Bank of
Alexandria) Project; US$25 million Credit of July 30, 1975; Effective Date:
February 19, 1976; Closing Date: October 31, 1980.
The credit is now fully committed and $24.5 million has been dis-
bursed as of April 2, 1980.
Ln. No. 1239-EGT - Alexandria Port Project; US$45 million Loan of April 19,
1976; Effective Date: August 30, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The contract for the major part of the civil works and dredging was
awarded in April 1979 and work is now progressing. Procurement of equipment is
also progressing satisfactorily. Because of the delayed start of the main
civil works, the project is now expected to be completed only by June 1982; the
closing date of the loan will, therefore, have to be extended.
Ln. No. 1276-EGT - Fruit and Vegetable Development Project; US$50 million
Third Window Loan of June 11, 1976; Effective Date: December 20, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The project is now over two years behind schedule. Work on the
drainage and irrigation components of the project is proceeding although



- 34 -                         ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
behind schedule. The seed component has major problems, which the Bank is now
discussing with Egyptian officials. The Agricultural Development Lending Unit
in Bank Misr is attempting, with assistance from the World Bank, to ensure
that the variovfs sub-borrowers proceed with their respective investments, and
to identify additional sub-borrowers. The project scope has been expanded
to allow financing of agroindustries subprojects, and terms of financing
liberalized.
Ln. No. 1285-EGT and Cr. 637-EGT - Upper Egypt Drainage II Project; US$10
million Loan and US$40 million Credit, both of June 11, 1976. Effective
Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Work is progressing in accordance with the revised schedule on some
1,602 km of surface drains in 500,000 feddans. Overall progress is about
55 percent. As compared to appraisal target of 240,000 feddans, field drainage
is complete on only about 24,000 feddans. This shortfall has resulted from a
delay of almost two years with supply and erection of USAID financed equipment
for three PVC pipe-making factories. As these factories are now nearing
production, the work of installing tile drains will be accelerated. Contracts
for the same have already been awarded covering the entire project area.
Ln. No. 1292-EGT - Textile Project; US$52 million Loan of September 20, 1976.
Effective Date: February 16, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
The project is proceeding with a year and a half delay caused by a
later and slower than anticipated start of the civil works. The project is
now estimated to cost about US$21 million equivalent (all in local currency)
more than appraised, due to increased scope of civil works and general price
increases of construction materials beyond what was expected at appraisal.
No difficulties are foreseen in financing this, although some government
equity contribution would be required in the next two years to supplement the
companies' internal cash generation in order to adhere to the financial
covenants as well as project costs. Early management problems have now been
overcome and both companies have developed effective project implementation
units. Disbursements are slower than anticipated reflecting initial delays in
procurement. However, about 90 percent of the contracts for machinery and
equipment have now been awarded and the balance is expected to be awarded in
the near future.
Ln. No. 1369-EGT - Alexandria Water Supply Project; US$56 million Loan of
March 7, 1977; Effective Date: July 6, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
After a second round of bidding for construction of the pipelines,
borrower decided to reject all bids as being out of line with prices obtainable
from local contractors for similar work, and informed the Bank that it wished
to execute this component with local contractors using Egyptian funds.
Accordingly it requested cancellation of that part of the loan. The Bank has
thus cancelled US$2.85 million. The construction contract for the treatment
plant extensions is currently out to bid. Proposals for data processing
equipment and training have been called for. Meter replacement to improve



- 35 -                          ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
AWA's operations continues at a satisfactory pace. An application for a
general tariff increase is with the Governor for consideration by the
Alexandria Local Council but approval is still pending.
Cr. No. 681-EGT - Education Project; US$25 million Credit of March 7, 1977;
Effective Date: August 19, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Project implementation, since the transfer of two MOHE institutes
to Credit 868, is proceeding satisfactorily. Virtually all technical assis-
tance has been completed. About 90 percent of all equipment has been procured
and nearly all has been installed. Of the 23 institutions to be constructed
17 are completed and are operational, 5 will be completed by August and the
other by December 1980. All of the existing institutions being re-equipped
are operational. About 77 percent of Credit amount has been disbursed and
nearly all of the remainder has been committed.
Cr. No. 719-EGT, Ln. No. 1439-EGT and Ln. No. 1440T-EGT - Nile Delta Drainage
II Project; US$27 Million Credit, US$27 Million Loan and US$12 Million Third
Window Loan of July 15, 1977; Effective Date: April 17, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Progress on surface drains is satisfactory with completion achieved
in some 230,000 feddans out of total area of 815,000 feddans. For construction
of four new and renovation of two existing pumping stations, the contractors
have started preliminary works following award of contracts in December 1979.
Work has not started on installation of field drainage in 400,000 feddans.
Progress on this activity will depend upon KfW financed PVC pipe-making
factory (planing is currently in progress). This factory is expected to be
commissioned more than one year behind appraisal target of December 1979. It
would accordingly delay completion of field drainage, which is critical
to full completion of the project.
Ln. No. 1453-EGT - Regional Electrification Project; US$48 Million Loan of
July 15, 1977; Effective Date: February 6, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
Physical progress is good. A six month delay in completion of
construction is expected, however. Consultants for the extension of the
UNDP Power Sector Survey have completed their work. The Tariff Study financed
under the Loan has been completed. Consultants for the distribution companies
have been engaged. All contracts for equipment, materials and technical
assistance have been awarded.
Ln. No. 1456-EGT - Industrial Imports Project; US$70.0 Million Loan of July 15,
1977; Effective Date: November 7, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
As of February 29, 1980, about $31.4 million had been disbursed and
about $38.3 million committed, representing some 55 percent of the total loan.
Utilization of the loan proceeds has been slow mainly because of delays in
procurement of equipment for public sector firms.



- 36 -                          ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
Ln No. S-5 EGT - Iron Ore Engineering and Beneficiation Project; US$2.5 Million
Loan of July 15, 1977. Effective Date: February 2, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Consultants preparing both iron ore beneficiation and diagnostic
studies have submitted the final feasibility studies. The closing date was
extended to help finance consulting services to help prepare a rehabilitation
and balancing project for Egyptian Iron and Steel Company.
Ln. No. 1482-EGT - Suez Canal Expansion Project; US$100 Million Loan of
September 28, 1977; Effective Date: February 8, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Progress in the execution of the project is close to appraisal
estimates although in some areas, such as demolition and procurement of tugs,
there is some delay. This, however, is not expected to materially affect
the project completion date. The financial situation of the borrower is
sound, canal traffic and revenue being higher than appraisal estimates.
Cr. No. S-20-EGT - Water Supply Engineering Project; US$2.0 Million Engineering
Credit of December 29, 1977; Effective Date: April 28, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
Formal presentation of final draft report took place in December
1979 and Government comments have been incorporated into the draft report.
Project in Beheira Governorate identified in the report.
Ln No. 1533-EGT - Development Industrial Bank III; US$40.0 Million Loan of
Ap-ril 12, 1978; Effective Date: July 18, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Commitments and disbursements are progressing satisfactorily. As of
February 29, 1980, $10.8 million had been disbursed and $35.5 million had been
committed. The balance of the Loan is expected to be committed by June
1980.
Cr. No. 774-ECT - Second Telecommunications Project; US$53.0 Million Credit
of March 21, 1978; Effective Date: September 19, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Some reallocation of Credit proceeds was agreed to in September
1979. Bid documents for a substantial part of the equipment and materials to
be financed under the Credit had been processed by January 1980, and the rest
are expected by May 1980.
Cr. No. 830-EGT - Agricultural Development Project; US$32.0 Million Credit of
July 24, 1978; Effective Date: February 20, 1979; Closing Date: December 31,
1983.
Satisfactory progress has been made in procurement of farm machin-
ery. Institutional development is lagging behind appraisal expectations.



- 37 -                          ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
Cr. No. 831-EGT - Egypt Urban Development Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
August 30, 1978; Effective Date: April 30, 1979; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Key staff have been appointed, draft terms of reference for some
advisors and consultants have been agreed and contracts are being finalized.
Preliminary steps on the design of physical works have been started. Completion
of the project is expected to be delayed by at least 18 months.
Cr. No. 850-EGT - Second Population Project; US$25.0 Million Credit of
October 30, 1978; Effective Date: May 1, 1979; Closing Date: December 31,
1983.
Civil works and procurement of furniture, equipment and vehicles
are proceeding satisfactorily. Recruitment of project personnel shows progress,
but is not complete.
Cr. No. 868-EGT - Second Education Project; US$40.0 Million Credit of
January 26, 1979; Effective Date: July 18, 1979; Closing Date: March 31,
1984.
Project implementation is proceeding very well. Of the twenty three
institutions to be constructed, two are completed, eight will be completed by
mid-1981, 10 will be completed in late 1981 and the three MOHE institutes are
expected to be completed on schedule by late 1983. Eighty four percent of all
equipment is under procurement with contracts already signed for 23 percent.
All technical assistance has been contracted and implementation is underway.
Disbursements are well ahead of schedule, a situation which is expected to
continue.
Ln. No. 5-14-EGT - New Valley Phosphate Engineering and Technical Assistance
Project; US$11.0 Million Loan of May 25, 1979; Effective Date: October 19,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Procurement and delivery of mining equipment is underway and erec-
tion has started at mine site; laboratory tests of phosphate rock are being
carried out.
Cr. No. 909-EGT - Tourism Project; US$32.5 Million of June 13, 1979;
Effective Date: March 26, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
Project implementation has started.
Ln. No. 1732-EGT - Gulf of Suez Gas Project; US$75.0 Million of June 29, 1979;
Effective Date: January 29, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1982.
Project implementation is in progress. The onshore contract was
signed on March 23, 1980. Construction completion is scheduled for 19 months
after receipt of a 10 percent downpayment due within 30 days after signing.
Ln. No. 1733-EGT, Cr. No. 935-EGT and Special Action Cr. No. 20-EGT - Shoubrah
El Kheima Thermal Power Project of September 6, 1979; Effective Date: April 8,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
Agreements declared effective on April 8, 1980.



ANNEX III
- 38 -                           Page 1
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
THIRD POWER PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by Ministry of Electricity    Eighteen months (January 1978
and implementing agencies to prepare         to June 1979)
project:
(b)  Agencies which have prepared project:    Egyptian Electricity Authority (EEA)
Qattara Project Authority (QPA)
Rural Electrification Authority (REA)
(c)  Project first presented to the Bank:         May 1979
(d)  First Bank mission to consider project:  July 1979
(e)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:  October 1979
(f)  Date of completion of negotiations:          April 11, 1980
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:               December 1980
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
Special conditions of effectiveness of the credit and loan are:
Ci) execution of Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the Government and EEA;
(ii) execution of subsidary agreements between, on the one hand, EEA and,
on the other hand, QPA and REA, respectively; and (iii) completion of satis-
factory financing plan for hydropwer component. Special condition of dis-
bursement for the thermal power component is a completion of a satisfactory
financing plan therefor (para. 51).
Other special conditions are:
Ci) adjustment of EEA's tariffs in line with fuel price increases being
introduced by Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation (para. 39);
and
(ii) completion of phase I and II tariff studies and implementation
of the recommendations emanating therefrom taking into account
the Bank's comments (para. 59).



,BRD 14794
Medewr0'neptt  3C  Sect  ISRA  L' j  35-                                                                                          MARCH 1980
!El =                                   eo                                       ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
2J                 Elmir AloeejnOlt  \il/ORDAN                                            THIRD  POWER  PROJECT
-30'             nrs                i,o
Eiton I F                                                                       Aswan II Location
Elboero.(                                                               Proposed  Forebay and  Powerhouse
Proposed  132kV  Transmission  Line
Sokog !   A    E      Y     T    \ 0  ''  XExisting  132kV  Transmission  Line
A. R.  EGYPT '                       Qeo  X    @                                   |        * Existing 500kV Transmission Line
_    !                      E Khorqo 1lo,                \ rg_    Roads
do~~~~~~~~~~od
-25-                                 Aoris            * Isi      \ 2I                               --I-I  Railroods
.                                 Aswoa alTnoma   ISi    x
Si  U          DD A /Egg.  n
Oearesn,o. r      ?        }
Thi sttp has bee pepaed by the                                                                                                        KILOMETERS
World Bet/ne 5sy soshfacsirely for                                                          /     r    
the --enienje  of the reders of.
the report to wh,oh it is ott- ohed.
The denentietions ud and the
bounderies shown on this tes//
do not -sply. o the pert of the
World -en/s end its  -hhetes any
judgment on the Iegel etetue orf
any teitory or any eadorsenent                                                                        As_   \ 
2                          ~           ~           ~~~/  
I --t  /f ft'h                                                              I'd-9-,
K-ts
SWITCHYR             i es            \        gr'                           / )
High Dos.
ka             N   ss s pr
! O f e    fVA S S e r~~~~~~~~~~






__________________________________________________________________________________________                                                                                                                               IBR D   1479514 79
MARCH 1980
BYA   A'R                                                                                                                                 M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~dlni                                            NLOOI
E.  SA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dl~~~                                                                                                                                                                            S 
CHAD                                                                                                                               --j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f-
1                                                                       5~~~~~4
OE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ar Eastp 
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,, ~ ~ ~ ~         ~           ~           ~          ~           ~          ~         ip,
E I Wam~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PAND 18 ls
S. S.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rnn,so  ins20V  iin
A                                                   hr    ronf   in-P,  fPoe.
~~~~~~za    v-  ~istOoUnt   iane    ndrLo
I K   i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~113 G
1'                                                                                 -     -    Calo,  20IU- Nt Prien
,0 
--- T-- -   --o-osso   L.nes 220EV-P.,,
T,2  opAro
Ot7nsr,aEGTsLeR
NA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~----CMs6E
Y  VN A.                                                                        C.bl., 2201kV- N~~~~~~~~0  nosttion
EOS    TuNC,o Roe OratiCONS        .TUT
me i.ep no, oeeop'epenedo. a. Wo,Oeeitoosatseonois,,eiii ton to nonsionenne ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~    O
ottOo,.edetootoo,epotoooinnisieetsenheo Tnede,onoi,eooneoeedoi,oth. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       ~           ~          ~           ~          ~          ~          ~          ~         ~         ~         ~         ~        ~       ~ ~ L  5
ononanoee onset onsaneen do eni onnip onnepetotine WosidOenk ,nn,o ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~          ~           ~          ~          ~          ~          ~         ~         ~         ~         ~        ~ ~ ~ ~~Z: 2Ok
enitiese.. ennndoirwni onstaieooLsasos oteny renitnsnoton,erdnoensein,n ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~          ~            ~            ~           ~            ~           ~           ~           ~           ~           ~          ~          ~L-,66k
enneponne oto,onooononieo ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cb.,6k






IBRD 14796
MARCH A     193R
K.,w,    CtS eTa )_ St?A R 
Y'  I R A Q
-       ,. ICRAQ B 
LIBYA I EGYPT \1 X\$  5                                         M  E D   TrTRR A Nf AN                                   S f A
s   - - -'-   A- ABA
C HAD  |        S I        S               
C H A DI
M'A ~ \\   , _--                            P,tSaid
KAFR  EL SHEIIKH
7
AnBdB                                                                            / ,i nonet                                 /'\)4 '<; t eee    >  
X ! -? XMXX  t r _>< MP<4IG of,2 9                                               4X
/                I-1   B          Kr4Trnt< %k54j KAHtAEH                                   I
7u                         \.Yokir                        AAAo,nn      R K I E H
Ar|    huSiX u   42     4                         (d,
N                                             ALYQAL OBIYA                               
ts E C,                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Suei1
l 10   20   30   40   50                                                                  20                     .,
KILOMETERS                                                                          
t 0R EARAB  REPUBLIC  OF EGYPT
$ @Ct       THIRD POWER  PROJECT
>z)   x         1 /                   ~~~~~~Regional Electrification Project Area
iF,iS547   ut    '          o'se 4Lower Egypt
Th,~~~~~~~~~~~~~' h-' b... -p- by ih..................  0 
Wrzldt2messofr rclys1veSyhr \ r\2h _ k F5                              Markc  Numbers
thr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5 Aonbmnc of he                                                                                  BeYr o  <u
,h. der-mmomnh -l .-tah              d                   ELFAYUM  - \ -)                                               Governorote Boundories
bomd.n ssho.mo thrsap. f lb.;                                 I MN      BENI     '                                     Cultvted Area Boundaries
~d tmrnB-k  ssluo --_                                       , il,-    SUEF   0/  Ma/fiflolo GOe,s
anyterritcryoronyimdors mentt----------  v 
ov accaprfflnce ot such boundarles    1l            o//29~~~~~~~~~IT           fl~ 






IBRD  14797
MARCH 1980
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
THIRD POWER PROJECT
Regional  Electrification  Project Area
Upper Egypt
/   7  \\        \ '    A n ~~~~~~~~~ /- enfn   bnotnnr seQ,)
BENI SU5 OH AG\
1/W,'       \\              d\'~~~~~~~~~~\\\\'\N ' 
,ti    @  \\  Nogha t  v   10  20  30  40  50
124 t                      K LOMETERS
5                          \\                                            Q      122/
t \\ / 'o |                    Morkazs under Project
5atmbute f                                   \\                             \  r                    75     Markaz Numbers
K1 \\NS            -.  -    Governorate Boundaries
Cultivoted Area Boundaries
El MA,tnyc,                              \\                           I  1                       Major Cities
M  @                           \X\~                       ~~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ \ _
m I N Y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  
ldfu                     N
A                       N
\  a                               \\                             ~~~~~~~~~A S WA N
A S Y U                                                                                      m\  
1 R A                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A,..n H,gh D..s 
IA.R
I BYA    EGYPT
AT-,            SAUDI                            HTh sap has be prd by the
ARABIA   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~clt,World Ranks~ Wtat e-cluivey fro
Soho ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~terpott h,c h. -td- atace
The d-nominatrons ohd end the
Cl A D  Ido not -eply, - the part of the
5 u D                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~World Bank and it aihht-s asy
SUDAN          ~~~~~EMET'.                                                                                1.dg"m,t on the laga oat- of
A.   )                                                                    tay terror  or any endo           -rseet
crT1 IPIA                                                                                            .-nsantp-pr    racptanc bf suh boenda-e



