DOCUMENTS      LOAN NUMBER 1886 EGT
Project Agreement
(Third Power Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
QATTARA HYDRO POWER AND RENEWABLE ENERGY
RESOURCES PROJECTS AUTHORITY
and
RURAL ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
Dated                             , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1886 EGT
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       K                             , 1980,
among INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(hereinafter called the Bank), QATTARA HYDRO POWER AND RENEWABLE
ENERGY RESOURCES PROJECTS AUTHORITY (hereinafter called QPA) and
RURAL ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY (hereinafter called REA).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between the Bank and the Egyptian Electricity Authority (herein-
after called EEA), the Bank has agreed to make available to EEA an
amount in various currencies equivalent to $7,000,000, on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on
condition that QPA and REA agree to undertake such obligations
towards the Bank as are hereinafter set forth;
(B)  by the Development Credit Agreement of even date here-
with between Arab Republic of Egypt (hereinafter called the
Government) and the International Development Association (here-
inafter called the Association), the Association has agreed
to make available to the Government an amount in various cur-
rencies equivalent to $120,000,000 (hereinafter called the
Credit) on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development
Credit Agreement, but only on condition that (1) by a subsidiary
loan agreement to be entered into between the Government and EEA
the proceeds of the Credit will be made available to EEA on the
terms and conditions therein set forth, and (2) QPA and REA agree
to undertake such obligations towards the Association as are
hereinafter set forth;
(C) by subsidiary agreements to be entered into between, on
the one hand, EEA and, on the other hand, QPA and REA, portions
of the proceeds of the Loan and Credit provided for under the
Loan Agreement and the Development Credit Agreement will be made
available to QPA and REA on the terms and conditions therein set
forth; and
WHEREAS QPA and REA, in consideration of inter alia the
foregoing (including the terms and conditions set forth in the
Loan Agreement and the Development Credit Agreement), have agreed
to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless
the context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined
in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined)
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. QPA and REA shall, respectively, carry out
Parts B and C of the Project described in Schedule 1 to the Loan
Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and
public utility practices.
Section 2.02. In order to assist QPA and REA in the design
and the supervision of the construction of, and the preparation
of bidding documents and specifications for, Parts B and C of the
Project, respectively, QPA and REA shall each continue to employ
engineering consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank and QPA or REA, as the case may be.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and works to be financed out of the
portions of the proceeds of the Loan made available to QPA and
REA shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the
Loan Agreement; it being understood that the expression EEA shall
be deemed to refer to QPA or REA, as the case may be, whenever
either of such entity shall be required to take any action pur-
suant to the provisions of such Schedule.
Section 2.04. (a) QPA and REA undertake each to insure,
or make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made avail-
able to them by EEA against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by QPA or REA, as the case
may be, to replace or repair such goods.


﻿-3-
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, QPA and REA
shall each cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan made available to them by EEA to be used
exclusively for Parts B and C of the Project, respectively.
Section 2.05. (a) QPA and REA shall each furnish to the
Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for Parts B and C of the Project, respectively, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) QPA and REA shall each: (i) maintain records and proced-
ures adequate to record and monitor the progress of Parts B and C
of the Project, respectively, (including their cost and the
benefits to be derived therefrom), to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made available
to them, and to disclose their use in Parts B and C of the
Project; (ii) enable the Bank's accredited representatives to
visit the facilities and construction sites included in Parts B
and C of the Project, respectively, and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Bank at regular intervals
all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request con-
cerning Parts B and C of the Project, respectively, their cost
and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived therefrom, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan made available to them
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in
any event not later than six months after the Closing Date or
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between EEA,
QPA, REA and the Bank, QPA and REA shall, in conjunction with
each other and EEA, prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, on the execution and initial operation of the Project,
its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the
performance by EEA, QPA, REA and the Bank of their respective
obligations under the Loan and the Project Agreements and related
agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
(d) QPA and REA shall each enable the Bank's representa-
tives to examine all its installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment, and any records and documents relevant to
Parts B or C of the Project, as the case may be, the operation of
the facilities included therein and the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement.


﻿-4-
Section 2.06. QPA and REA shall each duly perform all its
obligations under the QPA or the REA Subsidiary Agreement, as the
case may be. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, neither QPA
nor REA shall take or concur in any action which would have
the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the QPA
or the REA Subsidiary Agreement, as the case may be, or any
provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) QPA and REA shall each, at the request of
the Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress
of Parts B and C of the Project, respectively, the performance of
its obligations under this Agreement and under the QPA or the REA
Subsidiary Agreement, as the case may be, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) QPA and REA shall each promptly inform the Bank of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Loan, or the performance by QPA or REA, as the case may
be, of its obligations under this Agreement and under the QPA or
the REA Subsidiary Agreement, as the case may be.
Section 2.08. QPA and REA shall each take all action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and
rights in respect of land as shall be required for carrying out
Parts B and C of the Project, respectively, and shall each
furnish to the Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence
satisfactory to the Bank that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to Parts B or C of the
Project, as the case may be.
Section 2.09. QPA and REA shall each maintain a project unit
to carry out Parts B and C of the Project, respectively, in a form
and with powers, functions, responsibilities, organization, staff
and resources satisfactory to the Bank.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of QPA and REA
Section 3.01. QPA and REA shall each at all times manage
its affairs, plan its future expansion and carry on its opera-
tions, all in accordance with appropriate engineering, administra-
tive, financial and public utility practices, under the supervi-
sion of experienced and competent management.


﻿-5-
Section 3.02. (a) QPA and REA shall each at all times main-
tain its corporate existence and right to carry on its operations,
and take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all
rights, powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary or
useful in the conduct of its business and for the execution of
Parts B and C of the Project, respectively.
(b) QPA and REA shall each at all times operate and maintain
its plants, equipment and properties and promptly make all
necessary repairs and renewal thereof, in accordance with appro-
priate engineering and public utility practices.
(c) Except in the normal course of its business, each of QPA
and REA shall not, without the prior approval of the Bank, sell,
lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its properties or
assets which shall be required for the efficient operation of
its business and undertaking.
Section 3.03. The obligations of QPA and REA expressed in
this Agreement shall be applied to any subsidiary of QPA and REA,
as the case may be, as though such obligations were binding on any
such subsidiary, and QPA and REA shall each cause any such subsi-
diary to carry out such obligations.
Section 3.04. QPA and REA shall each take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory
to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. QPA and REA shall each maintain records ade-
quate to reflect, in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices, their operations and financial
condition.
Section 4.02. QPA and REA shall each: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A)


﻿-6-
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of QPA or REA, as
the case may be, and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time
to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effec-
tive.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank, QPA and REA hereunder shall terminate on earlier of the
following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Loan Agreement shall termi-
nate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the date on which the transfer of the operation
and maintenance of the works, assets and proper-
ties covered by Parts B and C of the Project
shall take place pursuant to Section 3.01 (b)
of the Loan Agreement, it being specified that,
if such transfer cannot take place simultaneously
for those Parts of the Project, this Agreement and
all the obligations of the parties hereunder shall
continue in full force and effect, with respect to
(1) the Part of the Project for which the transfer
of the operation and maintenance of the works,
assets and properties has not taken place yet and
(2) the parties then concerned with such transfer,
until such time as such transfer shall have been
duly completed.
(b) If the Loan Agreement terminates in accordance with its
terms before the date referred to in paragraph (a) (ii) of this
Section, the Bank shall promptly notify QPA and REA of this
event.


﻿-7-
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address here-
inafter specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For QPA:
Qattara Hydro Power and
Renewable Energy Resources
Projects Authority
Hoda Shaarawi Street 18
Cairo
Arab Republic of Egypt
Telex:
92694 QTARA UN CAIRO


﻿-8-
For REA:
Rural Electricity Authority
Ramses Street
Nasr City, Abbassiah
Cairo
Arab Republic of Egypt
Cable address:                      Telex:
CAHRIF                             2368 CAHRIF UW
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of QPA or REA may be taken or executed by
their respective Chairmen, or such other person or persons as QPA
or REA, as the case may be, shall designate in writing, and QPA
and REA shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By* P
/ /                Regional Vice resident
Europe, Mi le East and North Africa
QATTARA HYDRO POWER AND RENEWABLE ENERGY
RESOURCES PROJECTS AUTHORITY
By                         "
Authorized Representative
RURAL ELECTRICITY AUTHOR4TY
By                     r
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of A 4 U, 198 0.
FOR SECRETARY


