FmE      ~C OPY                        Documient of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-2048-ZR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
FOR A
FOURTH SOFIDE (SOCIETE FINANCIERE DE DEVELOPPEMENT) PROJECT
April 7, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ZAIRE
FOURTH SOFIDE PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit          - Zaire (5), Z1.00 = 100 makuta (k)
51.00                  - 1 SDR (Special Drawing Right)  US$1.15
ABBREVIATIONS
CCCE                   - Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
EIB                    - European Investment Bank
KfW                    - Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
OPEZ                   - Office de Promotion des Petites et Moyennes
Entreprises Zairoises
SBI                    - Societe Belge d'Investissements
SOFIDE                 - Societe Financiere de Developpement
GOVERNMENT OF ZAIRE FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE FOR A FOURTH SOFIDE
(SOCIETE FINANCIERE DE DEVELOPPEMENT) PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Zaire for the equivalent of US$10
million on standard IDA terms to finance a fourth development finance
company project. The proceeds of this credit would be relent by the Zairian
Government to SOFIDE at an interest rate of 8.5 percent per annum, with a
flexible amortization schedule conforming to the aggregate amortization
schedule of SOFIDE's subloans.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Basic Economic Mission visited Zaire in April-May 1974 and its
report, entitled "Economy of Zaire" (No. 821-ZR), was distributed to the
Executive Directors on August 8, 1975. An updating economic mission was
conducted in May-June 1976, and its report is being finalized. Country data
are attached as Annex I.
3.        Zaire, the third largest country in Africa, is rich in mineral,
agricultural, forestry and energy resources, but the country is among the
poorest in terms of per capita income. The key constraints to development
are: (a) shortage of skilled manpower and overall weakness of development
institutions; (b) very poor social conditions, particularly low nutritional
and educational levels; (c) a transport network which is inadequate to serve
the scattered population; (d) deterioration of agricultural production, which,
however, remains the only source of employment and income for over 75 percent
of the population; and (e) heavy dependence on one export, copper, which is
subject to wide and uncontrollable price fluctuations.
4.        Few countries suffered as much disruption and chaos as did Zaire
in the first 6-7 years of its independence. Political order and stability
were established in 1967 and only then could Government begin to promote
economic development. From 1967 to 1970, GDP grew by about 10 percent
annually (in real terms); government savings rose to US$110 million com-
pared with a deficit in 1966; and the resource surplus grew from US$15 mil-
lion to US$60 million. These favorable developments were due, in part, to
rising copper prices, which increased by over 25 percent between 1967 and
1970 (12 percent in real terms), and to an increase in copper production,
which rose from 317,000 tons in 1966 to 385,000 tons in 1970.
5.        In 1970-74 GDP growth slowed to about 5 percent per annum.   Possi-
bilities of growth based on unutilized capacity in the manufacturing and
service sectors gradually narrowed. Attempts by Government to transfer
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriution.



- 2 -
foreign-owned assets in agriculture, industry and commerce to private or
public Zairian ownership, without adequate advance preparation, disrupted
the modern sectors of production and distribution. Further, the prevailing
exchange rate increasingly favored the expansion of import demand, while
wiping out most incentives for exports.    Particularly adverse pricing pol-
icies led to declining agricultural production and exports, and to further
diversion of resources to finance food imports for the growing urban popu-
lation. Lack of appropriate project evaluation and selection procedures
resulted in the initiation of investment projects whose return would not
help the servicing of the external debt contracted for their financing.
Moreover, these projects absorbed a large part of the country's limited
management resources, and reduced its capacity for further borrowing.
6.        In 1974, revenues from taxation of copper exports increased sub-
stantially as a result of record world prices for this commodity. The
increase in revenues encouraged the Government to step up its expenditures
significantly. The latter were also affected by high cost increases due
to steeply rising import and domestic prices. Reflecting the combined effect
of these factors, government expenditures rose by 60 percent during that year,
far beyond the resources that could be mobilized domestically, and the overall
fiscal deficit almost doubled, attaining F224 million. Deficit financing,
together with credit expansion for the business sector and rapidly rising
import prices, led to a 28 percent domestic inflation rate, as well as to a
draw down of net international reserves of about 39 percent (from US$220.6 to
US$134.2 million). Thus, a combination of government policies and external
factors led to the severe economic and financial crisis which the country has
been experiencing since early 1975.
7.        To deal with the worsening economic and financial situation, the
Government attempted in early 1975 to reduce the budget deficit, to restrict
the expansion of credit and to allocate scarce foreign exchange to priority
payments, i.e., service of external debt, transfer of expatriate salaries,
and import of essential raw materials.   In addition, the Government con-
tracted a loan for US$50 million from Abu Dhabi for balance of payments
support, and drew about US$90 million from the IMF, about one half of which
was secured under the 1974 oil facility.
8.        Given the difficulties inherited from the earlier years, these
measures could only have partial success. In 1975, expansion of credit to
enterprises was substantial, but shortage of raw materials, spare parts and
other essential imports, as well as continued high inflation, slowed down do-
mestic production and GDP declined by 2 percent in real terms. Unemployment
increased and consumption per capita decreased in real terms by about 8 per-
cent. In 1975, government expenditures were reduced by 21 percent in current
terms (50 percent in real value) to F585 million, but a larger reduction in
revenues resulted in a budget deficit of 9180 million, only 930 million less
than the record 1974 deficit.   Imports of goods and services in 1975 are



- 3 -
estimated at about US$1,830 million, about 2 percent lower in nominal terms
than in 1974. However, the current account deficit was, in current prices,
larger than in 1974 (US$846 million as compared to US$330 million), mainly
because of lower copper prices. Despite substantial amounts of capital in-
flows and accumulation of arrears, the country's international reserves became
negative by about US$106 million in December 1975.
9.        In November 1975, the Government entered into consultations with
the IMF on a comprehensive Stabilization Program. The Stabilization Program,
agreed with the IMF in March 1976, provided for about US$150 million in IMF
assistance (first tranche, compensatory financing and 1975 oil facility), all
of which was drawn in 1976 in response to the Government's commitment to carry
out a detailed program covering public finances, credit, exchange rate, ex-
ternal debt, and price policies. The program's three main objectives were
to reduce the expansion of domestic demand, to transfer real resources to the
export sector and to stimulate the growth of production. It covered a one-
year period and its implementation was monitored by a high-level Stabiliza-
tion Committee, comprising the Director of the Office of the President, the
Governor of the Central Bank, and the Ministers for Finance and Public Enter-
prise.
10.       In order to dampen the expansion of domestic demand, the Stabiliza-
tion Program provided for a reduction of the budget deficit to M6O million,
to be financed principally by a 13 percent increase in domestic bank credit.
Salary increases, including government salaries, and expansion of credit to
enterprises and households, were to be limited. The budget implied a nominal
reduction in current expenditure in 1976 of 4 percent.
11.       In order to improve the balance of payments situation, the national
currency previously linked to the US dollar at the rate of Z I = US$2, was
pegged to the SDR on March 12, 1976, at the central rate of Z 1 = SDR 1,
implying a reduction in the value of the zaire of 42 percent in terms of
the SDR. Foreign exchange controls were maintained in order to limit the
balance of payments deficit to US$100 million at the new exchange rate. The
system of import controls introduced in 1975 was retained, and deposit require-
ments up to 100 percent were imposed on importers. Some firms, which could
not continue operation due to lack of foreign exchange, received a special
allocation and GECAMINES (Generale des Carrieres et des Mines), which is the
country's main copper producer and foreign exchange earner, was allowed to
retain half of its net foreign exchange earnings.
12.       It is too early to make a final judgment on the implementation
of the Stabilization Program. It is estimated that the budgetary deficit was
about Z225 million in 1976, as compared with the target of Z60 million set in
the Stabilization Program. Of this deficit, about F105 million would be due
to lower revenue than foreseen in the budget and X6O million to expenditures
greater than were expected. Due to a 20 percent increase in salaries in the
public sector, to the high rate of inflation, and to the effect of exchange



- 4 -
rate realignment on expenditures in foreign currency, total budgetary expend-
itures were estimated at about 27 percent higher in 1976 than in 1975. How-
ever, such an increase would imply a decline in government consumption in real
terms. The low level of revenues is the consequence of a lower than expected
volume of exports, in particular of copper, the low level of imports, the
continued generally depressed level of economic activity and of a tax rebate
of US$64 million equivalent to GECAMINES, which was needed to enable GECAMINES
to continue its operations.
13.       Real wages have been eroded, especially those of the lower income
workers. Price increases in the first half of the year were of the order
of 50-60 percent. They were spurred by the Government's deficit financing,
the devaluation in March, the adjustments in official prices, especially of
agricultural producer prices, subsequent to devaluation, and finally by the
scarcities resulting from the lack of foreign exchange. Since then, however,
inflation appears to have slowed down. The Stabilization Program also aimed
at limiting expansion of credit to the private sector to 35 percent over the
previous year, and credit policies seem to have followed the program guide-
lines. The Bank of Zaire turned away from a policy of indirect controls and
reinstated credit ceilings by bank and by sector. Commercial banks were no
longer authorized to extend credit to enterprises with negative working
capital, except with specific Bank of Zaire authorization. The program
objectives of diversifying the export base and increasing production will
take longer to achieve.
14.       The balance of payments current account deficit is estimated at
about US$480 million in 1976, as compared to US$846 million in 1975. The
country's imports of merchandise are estimated to have been about US$1,050
million in 1976 as compared to US$1,350 million in 1975. Exports of mer-
chandise are estimated to have been US$1,1201million as against US$850
million in 1975.
15.       As part of the Stabilization Program, the Government had offered
in November 1975 to return 40 percent of the share capital of nationalized
firms to the original owners. On September 16, 1976 the Stabilization Com-
mittee, chaired personally by the President on that occasion, decided to
return the management and total ownership of Zairianized or nationalized
firms to their original owners provided that 40 percent of equity is offered
to Zairian citizens, chosen by the foreign owners, over a reasonable period
of time. In the energy, transport and forestry sectors, the Government would
reserve for itself the 40 percent share of equity to be allocated to Zairian
partners. In the plantation and ranching sectors, property will only be
returned if it is established that the Zairian owner has been a bad manager,
or an absentee owner. Compensation is being made available to owners of
properties whose return is either not possible or not desired. In the oil
palm sector, major plantations are being returned and in the case of Uni-
lever's plantations, for example, the Government has offered to take the 40
percent equity share reserved to Zairians. In the ranching sector, arrange-
ments are being negotiated to return 60 percent of the equity to previous
owners.



- 5 -
16.       The actual outcome of these developments cannot be predicted with
certainty. The Government's intentions are clear but the extent to which it
will be able to carry out its policies remains to be seen. Furthermore, it is
not yet known what will be the attitude of foreign owners and investors. The
preliminary reactions of the foreign business community seem to be favorable
and commercial credits in Europe (especially in Belgium) now appear more
readily available. Recent arrangements concerning Zaire's external debt
(paras. 19 and 20) should further improve the investment climate.
17.       Zaire's medium- and long-term external public debt outstanding at
the end of 1975, including undisbursed, was provisionally estimated at US$2.7
billion, as compared to US$760 million three years earlier. The disbursed
portion of the debt at the end of 1975 was about US$1.7 billion, of which
US$55 million was owed to the Bank Group. Service payments falling due in
1975 amounted to about US$240 million.
18.       Zaire has been in default on some of its external debt obligations
since the end of 1975. Some service payments, including those to the Bank
Group, are being made. Exporters are instructed to deposit ten percent of
export receipts with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York as a special re-
serve for debt servicing. It seems that this arrangement is functioning.
19.       Two sets of parallel negotiations have been conducted between Zaire
and its creditors on debt rescheduling. The first one, within the framework
of the "Paris Club," was with creditor governments and official guarantee
institutions, and was concluded in June 1976 with a general agreement to
reschedule over ten years all of Zaire's arrears for 1975 and the first six
months of 1976, plus the principal due in the second half of 1976. This
general agreement will be implemented through bilateral agreements with
creditor governments. The first such agreement was concluded with Belgium
in September, consolidating an amount of about $20 million. Agreements with
France and Germany were also finalized recently. The Paris Club rescheduling
of maturities falling due in 1975-76 alleviated Zaire's debt service by about
US$160 million according to Zairian sources and by US$200 million according
to creditor sources. Another meeting of the Paris Club, likely to take place
in the near future, is expected to consider rescheduling of the principal
amounts falling due in 1977.



- 6 -
20.       The second set of negotiations was with the private creditors and
banks. Between September and November 1976, four meetings were held. An
agreement was reached at the last meeting on November 4 and it provided
for immediate payment of all interest in arrears, amounting to about US$40
million. These payments were made as agreed. Principal payments are ex-
pected to resume shortly. In return, the bankers have agreed to use their
best efforts to obtain for Zaire a new line of credit of US$250 million
provided a new standby agreement is concluded between the IMF and Zaire,
such an agreement covering the second tranche and part of the third tranche
is presently being negotiated.
21.       To manage its public debt the Government of Zaire has also estab-
lished, on September 16, 1976, a new governmental agency (OGEDEP - Office of
Public Debt Management) charged with the task of: (i) servicing the country's
public debt out of special revenues and budget allocations; (ii) centraliz-
ing the records and management of loans and of all related transactions, and
(iii) advising government authorities on new loans, and on possibilities and
prospects for borrowings.
22.       Zaire's export earnings and government revenues will continue to be
heavily dependent on the price of copper. World copper prices are expected
to recover during the remainder of the decade, although in real terms they are
unlikely to reach the average attained during 1970-74. Zaire's export earnings
are expected, nevertheless, to grow by about 19 percent per annum in 1976-80
in current terms, and about 5 percent in real terms, mainly on account of
the maturation of current investments in agriculture and mining. Apart from
copper, Zaire has the potential to produce many commodities for which market
prospects are favorable: tropical woods, many agricultural products, and
several minerals, including petroleum.
23.       Gross capital requirements are tentatively projected at about US$850
million a year in 1977-80, compared with a yearly average of US$530 million
in 1973-75. The debt service ratio was 23 percent in 1974; with reschedul-
ing, it dropped to 14 percent in 1975, and, with the assumed capital inflow,
it would rise to about 22 percent in 1980. In view of the adverse effects
of the recent recession on domestic resource mobilization, and the efforts
the Zairian authorities are making with regard to the implementation of the
Stabilization Program, there appears to be a reasonable case for the financ-
ing of a large share of project cost, including some local costs, by external
lenders.



- 7 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAIRE
24.       From 1969 through 1976, Zaire received eleven IDA credits totaling
US$174.5 million for transport, development finance company operations, water
supply, agriculture and education projects. The Bank has also extended grants
totaling US$400,000 as contributions toward the cost of two planning assistance
projects in Zaire. In 1975, a Bank loan of US$100 million, which was made for
the GECAMINES Mining Expansion Project, cofinanced by the European Investment
Bank (EIB) and by the Libyan Arab Foreign Bank (LAFB), provided for special
repayment arrangements linked to the project's export earnings. The IFC,
which has a US$760,000 participation in the Societe Financiere de Developpe-
ment (SOFIDE), the development finance company, has expressed interest in
financing several projects in Zaire.
25.       To date, Bank Group assistance to Zaire has been limited compared
to the needs of the country. An important restricting factor has been the in-
adequate project preparation and implementation capability of the Government,
but this is slowly being overcome. The Bank Group's share of Zaire's total
commitments is about 10 percent, its share of disbursed loans about 4 percent
and of current debt service slightly more than one percent. Annex II con-
tains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as
of December 31, 1976, and notes on the status of ongoing projects.
26.       Disbursements on IDA credits, which were slow for a long time, have
accelerated and amounted to US$53.1 million as of December 31, 1976. Project
implementation has been poor, due primarily to the country's inadequate sup-
ply of trained manpower and management capacity. For example, execution of
the First Education Project (1972) was delayed because of administrative
weakness, and faulty selection and coordination of foreign consultants. The
Government has asked for a reduction in the scope of the project which has
been approved by the Executive Directors (See Memorandum of the President
to the Executive Directors of December 15, 1976). Also, the technical assis-
tance component of the Second Highway Project (1972) was poorly implemented,
and the civil works were started only in 1975, due to the shortage of ex-
perienced local personnel, and delays in procurement and in the implementa-
tion of organizational reforms. On the other hand, certain other entities
which have benefited from IDA credits and Bank loans, the development finance
company (SOFIDE), the National Water Authority (REGIDESO) and GECAMINES, are
executing projects in an acceptable manner.
27.       A main objective of Bank Group operations in Zaire has been insti-
tution-building. The development finance company (SOFIDE), was established
in 1970 with assistance from IFC and IDA. The River Transport Project (1971)
helped strengthen the agencies concerned with waterways, i.e., the Office
National des Transports (ONATRA), the Regie des Voies Fluviales (RVF),
and the Regie des Voies Maritimes (RVM). The Railway and River Transport
Project (1975) continued this assistance and provided funds for a major
management training program for ONATRA. The First, Second and Third Highway
Projects (1969, 1972 and 1975) provided technical assistance to establish
and operate the Bureau of Roads. The Education Project (1972) included a



- 8 -
manpower survey to furnish data for a review of the educational system, and
the Livestock Project (1974) helped establish the National Livestock Devel-
opment Authority, which has since acquired responsibilities beyond the proj-
ect area.
28.       The Bank Group's main efforts are directed towards assisting in
the rehabilitation and improvement of transport, agriculture and education,
all high priority sectors in which the Bank Group should be able to make
a contribution to institution-building. Lesser emphasis has been given to
development finance company operations and water supply. This concentration
should assist the Government to design and implement appropriate policies
in these critical sectors. In most projects this will mean providing for
transitional technical assistance and training.
29.       Lack of transport is the major physical impediment to the country's
development. The Government has placed considerable emphasis on the improve-
ment of its river/rail arterial network, and the Association is helping to
finance both studies and new investments designed to extend and improve this
system. Roads are essential for inter-regional commerce, agricultural devel-
opment and as a feeder network for the river/rail system. Agriculture has
received insufficient attention from the Government. Preference should be
given in the short run to increasing agricultural production thru rehabilita-
tion. This includes the rehabilitation and expansion of large plantations,
while the capacity to implement rural development projects is established in
the Government. A second livestock project which is geared to small-holders
in the northeastern part of Zaire and will contribute to the rehabilitation of
the livestock industry [was approved on April 12, 1977 ]. A palm oil project,
focusing on rehabilitation of existing plantations to meet rising internal
demand, is also being prepared. A project for increasing maize production is
currently in the identification stage.
30.       In education, there is a need for curriculum reform, and emphasis
on non-formal and vocational education, especially agricultural training. In
this area our objective will be to assist the Government in framing appro-
priate policies through project formulation. In industry, we are continuing
our support for the development finance company (SOFIDE). In the area of pub-
lic utilities, our assistance would be directed toward assuring broader access
to these essential facilities and strengthening the executing agencies. The
Bank is also assisting the country through the UNDP Planning Assistance Project,
for which the Bank is Executing Agency.
31.       An expansion of the Bank Group's activities in Zaire will be pos-
sible only if substantial efforts toward improving the country's economic
management are initiated and sustained progress is achieved. The Government
is aware of the pressing need to take corrective action and is cooperating
with the IMF in preparing a second program of economic stabilization. The
Government has also recently requested the Bank to convene a meeting of the
Consultative Group [which is now scheduled for June 8-10].



- 9 -
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL AND BANKING SECTOR
Industry
32.       Between 1970 and 1975 manufacturing accounted for about 9 to 10
percent of GDP at market prices, and total value added in the sector increased
at an annual rate of 5.0 percent. Production of consumer goods - mainly
beverages, food processing and clothing - accounted for about two thirds of
total value added by the manufacturing sector and grew faster than capital
goods industries. The main capital goods industries are textile equipment
and nonferrous minerals.
33.       According to a survey conducted in 1970 by the Department of
National Economy, 35 percent and 24 percent, respectively, of manufacturing
plants were located in Kinshasa, the capital, and in the Province of Shaba,
providing salaried employment to about 117,000 persons. Since then, the
importance of Kinshasa as an industrial area has further increased.    The
industrial sector employed an estimated 150,000 persons in 1973.    It is al-
most entirely directed to supplying the domestic market.   Nonmineral indus-
trial exports in current prices were estimated at only US$12.9 million in
1974, representing 0.9 percent of total merchandise exports. Chemical
products, cement and tobacco products are the main nonmineral industrial
exports. Effective protection rates range from low for agro-industries to
high for import dependent industries producing consumer goods, such as shoes, tex-
tiles and auto-assembly industries. This has discouraged the growth of industries
based on local raw materials, to the benefit of industries with a high import
dependency.
34.       In 1969, the Government adopted an Investment Code which allows
certain tax exemptions (on profits, expatriate income taxes, property taxes,
import duties on capital equipment) and guarantees for repatriation of in-
vested capital, profits and interest. The code specified that litigation
arising from foreign investments may be arbitrated at the request of any
party, under the provisions of the International Convention for the Settlement
of Investment Disputes (ICSID). The code also established an Investment
Commission to examine all project applications for approval and granting of
incentives,'but the small staff of the commission, which meets informally
on an ad hoc basis, has not been able to review adequately the large number
of applications and it appears 'that, for lack of overall guidelines or objec-
tives, it takes decisions witho'ut adequate financial and economic analysis.
Moreover, decisions to grant the advantages of the Investment Code are some-
times taken by other authorities without consulting the Commission. Conse-
quently, although the Code succeeded in attracting foreign capital, mainly
in the period preceeding the nationalization measures, it has not been used
as an effective tool to channel investment to priority areas.
35.       In early 1975, the Government took a series of measures to limit
the import of merchandise and services, which are still applicable. For
essential commoditios (food, pharmaceutical products, raw materials, spare
parts), commercial banks remained free to issue import licenses. For the



- 10 -
importation of nonessential goods, the prior approval of the Central Bank is
necessary. Under the current Stabilization Program, the Bank of Zaire now
claims 100 percent deposit from importers, although imports of raw materials
and spare parts are exempted. In the case of non-factor services, the Bank of
Zaire suspended the transfer of rent, other revenue from capital, and profits
(except for the profits of enterprises established under the Investment Code).
36.       The Government controls prices paid to producers and to manufac-
turers. Since 1967 it has been reluctant to allow increases in prices and
this has resulted in reduced profits for some manufacturing enterprises.
However, following the March 1976 devaluation, the Government raised producer
prices for a number of important agricultural products and retail prices for
a wide range of manufactured goods.
37.       The Government's attempt to play an increasing role in the indus-
trial sector through nationalization and Zairianization (see paras. 5, 14
and 15), as well as retrocession of most foreign-owned property, has primarily
affected the agricultural, trade and commercial sectors; it has also created
a climate of uncertainty in the business community, contributing to a slowdown
in the rate of expansion in the industrial sector. Moreover, many foreign
enterprises experienced serious difficulties as a consequence of these poli-
cies. This was aggravated by pressures from the Government to reduce the
number of expatriates and reluctance to grant price increases and to allocate
scarce foreign exchange. The retrocession measures taken at the end of 1975
were accompanied by a more liberal policy regarding the employment of expa-
triate managers, and special allocations of foreign exchange were designed
to permit enterprises to operate normally. Difficulties remain, however, for
the repatriation of past and current profits due to the acute foreign exchange
situation. Although no time limit was fixed for the transfer to Zairians of
40 percent of the retroceded firms, it is expected that this will be done
within five years. This could pose difficulties, as there are relatively few
Zairians who can afford to buy shares.
38.       The situation of companies which were Zairianized varied widely.
Small-scale enterprises are largely disorganized. In some of the larger
firms, the new Zairian owners and, subsequently, the government-appointed
"delegues generaux", worked closely with the former owners or kept expatriate
management; these companies are in relatively good shape. Other companies
were mismanaged and are in difficulty. Owners who left Zaire when their firms
were taken over are gradually coming back and the reaction of the foreign
business community to the Government's retrocession measures has generally
been favorable. Foreign investors consider that the Government is now taking
a more pragmatic attitude towards foreign investment.
39.       The 1976 devaluation should have a positive impact on the manufactur-
ing sector by increasing the attractiveness to the investors of manufacturing
projects with a potential for exports. However, for most of the existing
manufacturing firms, which depend heavily on imports, the devaluation has
increased operating costs. Generally, companies are experiencing working
capital shortages, as there is a scarcity of both foreign and local currency.
As a result of the foreign exchange shortage, Zairian companies have difficulty



- 11 -
in securing imported raw materials, spare parts and replacement equipment.
At the same time, the budgetary and credit tightening has resulted in serious
cash problems for most firms. Given the uncertainties of the situation and the
immediate problems of financing inventories and securing imported raw materials
and spare parts, there is currently a greater demand for financing working
capital than for financing expansion of plants and equipment. However, when
Zaire's foreign exchange problems are alleviated, demand for financing of
expansion and new projects is expected to be strong.
Banking
40.       Eight commercial banks, with a total of 46 branch offices, cover
virtually the entire country. The Banque Commerciale Zairoise is by far
the largest, with 20 branch offices and deposits accounting for more than 60
percent of all commercial bank deposits. The second largest is Banque du
Peuple, controlled by a multinational group of banks. The third is Union
Zairoise de Banques (UZB). The newest commercial banks are the Banque de
Kinshasa, almost fully Zairian-owned, which opened for business in 1970, the
Banque Internationale pour l'Afrique Occidentale (BIAO) and the First National
City Bank, which opened a branch in 1971. Since the Central Bank does not
rediscount medium-term credits, commercial banks are reluctant to provide
such credits beyond three years, although through revolving short-term credits
they have significantly contributed to financing the development programs of
large-scale public and private enterprises. SOFIDE, which was created in
1970, is the only development bank in the country.
41.       The control of bank credit to the private sector, exercised through
quantitative limits until 1969, was progressively relaxed. Credit policy
became sharply expansionary toward the end of 1973, when the balance of pay-
ments and credit situationswere favorable. Following the Zairianization mea-
sures, the pattern of credit to industrial and commercial enterprises changed.
The managements of newly Zairianized companies were not interested in new
investments, and demand for medium-and long-term credit dropped. The latter
continued to decline in 1975 and, as a result, their share in total credit
fell during 1974-75. At the same time some nationalized activities began to
require credits to cover deficits. Credit expansion was allowed to continue
unabated through 1974, even after the availability of foreign credits had
deteriorated.  In 1975, in order to restrict credit expansion, the reserve
requirement of 40 percent (introduced in February 1974 to replace credit
ceilings) was raised to 45 percent. As part of the Stabilization Program of
March 1976, a limit was set on the expansion of credit to enterprises and
households during 1976. However, this limitwas not applicable to SOFIDE.
42.       Between 1970 and 1975, lending to industry has increased from 16
percent to 26 percent of total lending, and lending to commercial enterprises
from 19.9 percent to 27 percent. The share of agriculture in total bank lend-
ing has declined from 35 percent in 1970 to 18.7 percent in 1975, in spite of
the concessional rates available for agricultural credit. Loans for agricul-
tural investment account for only 20 percent of total bank lending for this
sector. Maximum interest rates applicable to commercial bank medium- and
long-term loans to industry, which averaged 13-14 percent between 1971-73,



- 12 -
have risen recently to 15 percent for medium- and long-term loans. Conces-
sional rates (for which banks are subsidized by the Central Bank via redis-
count privileges), however, have for some time now been available for agri-
culture at 6 percent and small-scale enterprises at 8 percent.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
43.       The appraisal report for this project, entitled "Appraisal of the
Societe Financiere de Developpement in Zaire" No. 1371a-ZR dated April 5, 1977,
is being circulated separately. The appraisal mission visited Zaire in May
and September 1976. Negotiations were held in Washington on March 10 and 11.
The Government delegation was led by Mr. Kazadi Membu, Director General of
SOFIDE.
44.       The project would support Zaire's industrial development by con-
tinuing IDA financial and technical assistance to the Societe Financiere
de Developpement (SOFIDE). Specifically, it would provide financing to
productive enterprises in Zaire through SOFIDE and would continue to support
the growth of SOFIDE by strengthening its resource base, its project appraisal
capabilities, and its internal organization and procedures. Three IDA cre-
dits have already been made for SOFIDE in 1970, 1972, and 1974 for a total
amount of US$25 million. This proposed fourth credit would provide US$10
million to finance about 34 percent of SOFIDE's total financing require-
ments and about 45 percent of its foreign exchange needs for the period from
September 30, 1976 to December 31, 1978.
45.       Background of SOFIDE.   In 1968, the Government of Zaire and the
Association examined the need for a development finance institution in Zaire
and concluded that there was substantial unsatisfied demand for medium- and
long-term finance for investment in the manufacturing sector, and that the
establishment of a development finance company would be justified. The Bank
Group took an active part in promoting a development finance company and made
arrangements for a group of foreign investors to participate with Zairian
investors and the Government of Zaire in its share capital. SOFIDE was es-
tablished in January 1970 and the Bank Group provided a substantial share
of its initial resources, through an IFC equity investment of US$750,000 and
an IDA credit of US$5 million. In September 1971 and February 1974, the second
and third IDA credits to SOFIDE were signed for US$10 million each. Disburse-
ments on the first credit were completed on April 30, 1975. The third credit
is now almost fully committed.
46.       In 1976, the Bank's Operations Evaluation Department conducted a
project performance audit of the first credit    to  SOFIDE.    In
summary, it found as follows: "SOFIDE has been generally successful in ful-
filling the objectives set for it. It has built a competent organization.
Though its operations remain small in terms of total fixed capital formation,
they have grown rapidly during the period under review and SOFIDE has partici-
pated, if marginally in some cases, in a significant proportion of the invest-
ments in the sectors to which it lent. It has made little progress in foster-
ing the growth of the local capital market for reasons beyond its control."



- 13 -
It was, however, pointed out that SOFIDE was slow in adopting economic criteria
for project selection and in supervising its investments. Both of these issues
are specifically dealt with in this report (para 57). The OED report noted
SOFIDE's independence from the Government, but indicated that closer coopera-
tion with the Government's Investment Commission would be desirable (para 65).
47.       Organization, Management and Staff.   SOFIDE's Board of Directors
consists of nine members: three designated by private Zairian shareholders,
two by the Government and the Central Bank, three by non-Zairian shareholders,
and one by IFC. SOFIDE's Director General is presently the Chairman of the
Board. The Board meets four to five times a year. It is required to review
loans exceeding F150,000 and equity investments above 950,000. An Executive
Committee, on which IFC is not represented, is empowered to approve indi-
vidual loans up to S150,000 and equity investments up to 750,000. Board
decisions have been generally good, despite the variable quality of SOFIDE's
project appraisals and the operating difficulties resulting from the drastic
changes in the economic environment of the country. The presence of an IFC
representative in the Board has contributed significantly to the Board's
effectiveness.
48.       From 1970 to May 1973, SOFIDE's Director General was seconded to
SOFIDE by the Bank Group. A Zairian, formerly head of the Central Bank's
Credit Department, succeeded him, and shared management responsibility with
a Principal Advisor, a UNDP-financed expert recruited from the French Caisse
Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE), who was subsequently appointed
Deputy Director General. In September 1976, a Bank staff member replaced the
CCCE expert as Deputy Director General. The Director General and his Deputy
have been an efficient management team. Two technical assistance positions of
financial analyst and engineer were financed under a UNDP project that expired
in mid-1976. The UNDP has also been financing, since May 1976, three experts
for a three-year period to help SOFIDE develop its project promotion and
processing capabilities in the agricultural sector. SOFIDE has recently
recruited a new expatriate engineer to head its Technical Department.
49.       SOFIDE is divided into six departments:   a Project Department, in
charge of the financial aspects of project appraisal,and a Technical Depart-
ment in charge of the engineering aspects; a Supervision Department, respon-
sible for project implementation and follow-up; a Department of Research,
Documentation and Promotion; an Accounting and Administrative Services
Department; and an Agricultural Department. As of December 1976, SOFIDE's
staff totaled 83, including 18 Zairian professionals and two expatriate
professionals. Most of the Zairian professionals are university graduates who
joined SOFIDE at the end of their studies and have proven to be dedicated to
the work of the Company. They have also received on-the-job training or have
attended courses at the Centre d'Etudes Financieres, Economiques et Bancaires
(CEFEB) of the Caisse Centrale, or EDI. The overall quality of the staff is
good, but given its relatively limited working experience it still needs close
supervision.



- 14 -
50.       Capital Structure and Operational Policies.   SOFIDE's share capital
of A2 million is fully paid in. Thirty percent of the share capital is held
by private investors in Zaire, and 25 percent by the Government and the Central
Bank. Private foreign investors hold 26.25 percent of the capital, and IFC
18.75 percent. Its quasi-capital consists of an interest-free subordinated
advance from the Government of 91 million, which will remain at the disposal
of SOFIDE during its entire corporate existence, and a subordinated loan of 92
million with a 40-year term and a 20-year grace period at an interest rate of
one percent per annum. SOFIDE is now considering increasing its quasi-capital
in 1977 and its capital in 1979 in order to increase its capacity to finance
major investment projects.
5i.       SOFIDE's Policy Statement was prepared in cooperation with the Bank
Group and adopted by SOFIDE's Board in 1970. It was amended in 1973 to allow
SOFIDE to lend to the increasingly important parastatal sector. The key pro-
visions of the Statement are: a) the Company shall finance private enterprises,
but may also finance parastatal enterprises up to a limit of 25 percent of its
total commitments; b) the Company's loans or equity participations should not
normally be less than 910,000; c) the total amount of any loan granted by the
Company, together with its equity participations and any other commitments of
a financial nature to a single enterprise, may not exceed 20 percent of the
paid-in share capital, the unimpaired reserves and the quasi-capital contri-
buted by the Government; d) SOFIDE may not contract debts of more than a one
year term in excess of three times the amount of its capital plus quasi-capital;
e) SOFIDE may not accept the exchange risk on borrowings of foreign currency.
52.       Since 1971 and until the end of 1975, SOFIDE charged interest rates
of 8 to 9 percent per annum for loans to agro-industry and small-scale enter-
prises and 10.5 percent for other loans. This latter rate was increased to
11.5 percent at the end of 1975. In January 1977, SOFIDE raised its lending
rate to large foreign enterprises from 11.5 percent to 12.5 percent. Other
rates remain unchanged. The foreign exchange risk on all SOFIDE's external
borrowings has been borne by the Government, except that, under the third IDA
credit, industrial clients of SOFIDE with total assets exceeding 3150,000 have
the option of either taking the foreign exchange risk or of paying a one per-
cent per annum premium, transferred by SOFIDE to the Government for the cover-
age of the foreign exchange risk.
53.       Operations.   In the financing of industrial projects, SOFIDE is,
in theory, competing with commercial banks. However, in practice, commercial
banks provide mostly short-term credits (see para. 40). For long-term financ-
ing, SOFIDE's major competitors are not, therefore, commercial banks, but
suppliers' credits which have traditionally been used by major enterprises.
In the past, such enterprises had no difficulty in obtaining suppliers'
credits at rates between 6-7 percent. Recently, however, the significance of
suppliers' credits has been considerably diminished owing to their higher
interest rates (now around 10 percent), the foreign exchange risk associated
with them and the reluctance to give such credits to Zaire in the present
economic situation.



- 15 -
54.       SOFIDE's operations started up rapidly in 1970-71 but slowed down
in 1972 as the investment climate in Zaire deteriorated. Between 1973 and
1975, approvals of projects by SOFIDE increased, but disbursements were consid-
erably reduced due to serious delays in project implementation. During 1976,
as the investment climate started to improve, approvals increased by 91 per-
cent and disbursements by 72 percent.
55.       From 1970 to December 1976, SOFIDE approved 128 loans totaling about
934 million and 10 equity investments totaling Z1.7 million. Disbursements
on loans amounted to a20.6 million, and disbursements on equity investments
totaled F0.9 million. Projects financed by SOFIDE during the period under
review represented a total investment of about 970 million, of which Z45
million were for import requirements. The projects ranged in total cost from
925,000 to F8.6 million. About 30 percent of approvals were for small- and
medium-size projects. The most important subsectors assisted were food and
beverages (14.4 percent of total approvals), transport (14.1 percent), hotels,
restaurants and tour agencies (8.3 percent) and mining (7.3 percent). Of all
the projects approved, 14 percent were new projects and 86 percent were for
the expansion of existing facilities. Beneficiaries of loans were predomi-
nantly located in the Kinshasa area (55.6 percent of total approvals) and
the Shaba area. About 51 percent of loans approved had a maturity of 5 to 7
years, 29 percent less than 5 years and 20 percent more than 7 years.
56.       Agricultural credit is not very developed in Zaire and there is no
agricultural credit bank. From the start of its operations, SOFIDE has
charged lower rates for loans for agro-industrial projects than for loans to
other enterprises. The creation of an agricultural credit bank has been under
study for several years. As a first step, it was decided to create within
SOFIDE an Agricultural Department which would determine the potential and
priorities for the financing of agriculture in Zaire and would appraise a
limited number of agricultural projects for SOFIDE's financing. The depart-
ment started its operations in May 1976 with UNDP-FAO assistance. SOFIDE
intends to limit itself at first to financing projects with high economic
return and low -risk and to providing financing to smallholders through agri-
cultural cooperatives or through large agricultural projects which can provide
extension service and supervision.
57.       Appraisal and loan administration:   SOFIDE's procedures for
project appraisal, supervision, procurement and disbursements have been only
partially set down in writing, and the Company does not yet have a compre-
hensive operational manual. SOFIDE agreed to prepare, by December 31, 1977,
such a manual (Section 2.09 of the Project Agreement). In the case of its
appraisals SOFIDE has usually prepared a financial rate of return calculation,
but has rarely made an economic rate of return calculation. On the basis of
data presented to IDA by SOFIDE for projects to be financed by IDA, we have
found economic rates of return ranging from 18 percent to 27 percent. Sub-
sequent verification of these rates has not been possible, but in general
SOFIDE's financial decisions do appear to have been sound and economically



- 16 -
justified. Henceforth all projects submitted by SOFIDE to IDA for approval
will be required to include an economic rate of return calculation
(Section 2.02(b) of the Project Agreement). Furthermore, SOFIDE still lacks
a systematic approach to supervision and there are no regular on-site visits
nor periodic reports to management. Until two years ago, the need to super-
vise projects regularly was not felt by SOFIDE's management since very few
borrowers defaulted. SOFIDE has agreed to strengthen its supervision program
by December 1977 (Section 2.09 of the Project Agreement).
58.       Available Resources.   On September 30, 1976, resources available
for new project approvals amounted to F8.9 million (US$10.2 million), of
which 98.7 million (US$10 million) was in foreign exchange. SOFIDE's local
resources consist of its share capital (92 million) and quasi-capital (s3
million), and rolled-over IDA funds (i1 million) (funds repaid to the Govern-
ment by SOFIDE on the first two IDA credits and then relent by the Government
to SOFIDE).
59.       SOFIDE's foreign resources come mainly from the three IDA credits
totaling US$25 million. In 1971, SOFIDE also obtained a US$0.8 million loan
from EIB to finance a single textile project (9 years at 6.5 percent per
annum). A US$2 million loan granted in 1972 by the Societe Internationale
Financiere pour les Investissements et le Developpement en Afrique (SIFIDA)
has been totally repaid. SOFIDE also obtained a line of credit of BF 300
million (US$7.9) from the Societe Belge d'Investissement (SBI) and a line of
credit of DM 6.5 (US$2.6 million) from Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW).
Under the SBI line of credit (8.25 percent per annum), SOFIDE can refinance
its loans and equity investments with maturities up to 12 years, including
local currency expenditures, but is limited to financing projects with Belgian
participation or improving Belgo-Zairian economic relations. The KfW loan has
a 30-year maturity, including a 10-year grace period, and must be used for
loans to small- and medium-scale private enterprises located outside Kinshasa
(up to a limit of 100,000 per project). The interest rate is 7.5 percent,
but only 2 percent is paid to KfW; the other 5.5 percent is set aside by
SOFIDE to finance promotional studies and technical assistance to Zairian-
owned enterprises, directly or through specialized institutions. As of
September 30, 1976, only 9250,000 had been disbursed out of the KfW line of
credit. KfW has indicated, however, that the use of this line of Credit could
be extended to small scale enterprises in the Kinshasa area. It is expected
that SOFIDE should have no difficulties matching the funds from the SBI and KfW
credits with eligible projects to be approved during the period 1976 to 1978.
60.       Financial Performance.   SOFIDE's profitability declined steadily
from 1973 to 1975. Net profits, which represented 8.9 percent of average net
worth in 1973, declined continuously in subsequent years to only 2.7 percent
in 1975. This unfavorable situation has been caused by a substantial increase
in administrative expenses, slow disbursements, and increasing financial charges



- 17 -
on borrowings (from 3.5 percent average in 1971-72 to 5.6 percent in 1974-75),
whereas income from loans remained more or less constant at about 11 percent
of average loan portfolio between 1972 and 1975.
61.       Appropriate measures have been taken by SOFIDE and the Government to
reverse the decreasing trend of SOFIDE's profits in recent years. The interest
rate charged by SOFIDE on its loans to medium and large enterprises has been
increased from 10.5 percent to 11.5 percent at the end of 1975 and from 11.5
percent to 12.5 percent effective January 1, 1977. The Government has agreed
to charge a one percent interest rate when relending to SOFIDE loan repayments
received from the institution, which will be used to increase the quasi-capital
in 1977, and only 4 percent per annum on the remaining rolled over funds (para.
58), instead of the 8.5 percent interest rate previously charged, thus leaving
SOFIDE a much wider spread. This measure was applied retroactively as of January
1, 1976 and the appropriateness of the interest rate spread on funds relent by the
Government to SOFIDE will be reviewed by the Government and IDA no later than
December 31, 1979. The growth of administrative expenses will be controlled more
strictly and the ratio of administrative expenses to total assets is expected to
decrease from 3.3 percent in 1976 to 2.2 percent in 1979. In 1976 SOFIDE had a
net profit of Z234,000 representing 10.4 percent of its average net worth. This
favorable development was due mainly to an increase in disbursements after the
slowdown of 1975 and to the wider margin on SOFIDE's operations.
62.       At the end of December 1976, SOFIDE's financial position was sound,
with capital and quasi-capital totaling Z5.3 million and term borrowings of
911.6 million against a total portfolio of about 913 million and net current
assets of 92.7 million, i.e., more than 3 months of disbursements. Provisions
for losses at the end of 1976 amounted to a258,000 (about 2 percent of total
portfolio). Given SOFIDE's generally sound portfolio, these provisions are
adequate. SOFIDE's ratio of term-debt to the total of capital, plus quasi-
capital, at the end of December 1976 was at 2.2:1, below the permissible
maximum of three specified in SOFIDE's policy statement.
63.       As of December 31, 1976, SOFIDE's total loan portfolio amounted to
Z12.1 million, i.e., an increase of 33 percent above the levels of December
1975 reflecting a faster pace of disbursements during 1976. As of the same
date SOFIDE also had equity participations in five companies for a total of
B885,000. Despite the adverse effect of government policies in 1973-1975,
the portfolio is of good quality and well diversified. Total arrears of
more than three months as of December 31, 1976 totaled a283,000 and affected
9 percent of the loan portfolio, which is acceptable.
64.       Future Operations.   As of August 1976, SOFIDE had a pipeline of
13 projects, representing a total investment of 135 million. The potential
SOFIDE financing of these projects amounts to F9 million, of which 96 million
is for equipment replacement and expansions, and F3 million for new projects.



- 18 -
Approvals are projected to increase by 10 percent yearly, starting in 1977.
Such an increase would be consistent with a rather slow recovery of the
economy. If a second Stabilization Program is agreed and successfully
implemented, claims on SOFIDE's resources could be higher than forecast. In
such event, the Government would support SOFIDE's efforts to raise additional
foreign exchange resources.
65.       The most urgent task facing Zaire in the industrial sector remains
the rehabilitation of medium- and large-scale enterprises following the mea-
sures of retrocession (see paras 5, 15, 16, 37 and 38). SOFIDE is expected
to commit itself to concentrating in the near future on helping these enter-
prises. To this end, SOFIDE intends to strengthen its relations with the
Investment Commission. The Government would take steps to insure that SOFIDE
will participate in the work of the Investment Commission (see para 34 above)
(Section 3.04 of the Credit Agreement). Assistance to small enterprises
remains a major objective. However, owing to the high risk of lending in this
sector and to OPEZ' limited capacity to provide technical assistance, SOFIDE
will limit its lending to small-scale enterprises such as bakeries, saw mills
and transport, where risks would be acceptable.
66.       SOFIDE's equity investments will, we estimate, grow progressively
but moderately. It is thought that SOFIDE could play a useful role as
representative of Zairian interests in joint ventures with foreign investors.
SOFIDE intends, however, to make equity investments mainly in expansion
projects, so as to get a quick return on its investments and thus protect its
equity base against monetary erosion.
67.       Future Resources Situation.   SOFIDE's total requirements during the
period from September 30, 1976 through December 31, 1978, are expected to
amount to Z25.9 million (US$29.8 million), the foreign exchange cost of which
is estimated at g19.4 million (US$22.3 million). Considering the availability
of 98.9 million (US$10.2 million) of which 98.7 million (US$10 million) is in
foreign exchange (see para. 58 above) and an expected repayment of foreign
borrowings of ZO.4 million, there would be a gap of 11.1 million (US$12.8 mil-
lion). The IDA credit would cover US$10 million of this gap and SOFIDE will
need to obtain about US$3 million from other sources. SOFIDE has already con-
tacted a number of foreign and international agencies, including KfW, CCCE
and the African Development Bank and it appears that the CCCE is prepared to
make credits available to SOFIDE in an amount sufficient to cover the gap.
Sufficient resources will be available to cover local currency requirements from
cash flow from operations, increases in capital and quasi-capital, and rolled-
over IDA funds.
68.       Relending terms:   the Government would relend the proposed credit
to SOFIDE at an interest rate of 8.5 percent per annum with a flexible
amortization schedule conforming to the aggregate amortization schedule of
SOFIDE's subloans, none of which should exceed 15 years. SOFIDE would relend



- 19 -
the funds to its borrowers, including small and agro-industrial enterprises,
at a minimum rate of 12.5 percent per annum (Section 2.01(b) of the draft
Project Agreement) plus a one time charge of one percent at the time the
commitment is made to reimburse SOFIDE for appraisal costs. As in the case
of previous credits, SOFIDE would pay to the Government a commitment charge
of 3/4 percent per annum on the undisbursed amount of the credit, starting 60
days after signature. The free limit for individual subprojects would remain
US$150,000 and the aggregate limit US$2 million. The proceeds of IDA credits
190-ZR and 271-ZR repaid to the Government would be used in part: i) to
increase SOFIDE's quasi-capital in 1977, and(ii) to provide the increase in
the combined share subscription of the Government and the Central Bank from
25 percent to 40 percent of SOFIDE's capital when it will be increased in
1979.
69.       In the past, the Government assumed the foreign exchange risk on
all SOFIDE's direct or indirect borrowings. For the third IDA Credit it was
decided that large borrowers (those with assets exceeding Zr150,000) should
reimburse the Government for accepting this risk by paying a commission of
1 percent per annum. Considering the recent effective devaluation of the
Zaire and the continuing high rate of inflation in Zaire (55 percent in 1976),
it was agreed that for the fourth IDA Credit, the Government should not con-
tinue to bear this risk except in the case of small-scale enterprise (now de-
fined as those with assets less than the equivalent of $250,000). These
enterprises will, however, be required to pay a commission of 1 percent per
annum through SOFIDE to the Government for its acceptance of the foreign ex-
change risk. Individual loans made by SOFIDE to this category of clients would
not be financed by IDA in amounts greater than US$100,000 equivalent. However,
small enterprise demand for loans funded by the proceeds of the Credit is ex-
pected to be slight in view of the lower interest rate available to such enter-
prises on loans made out of SOFIDE's other resources.
70.       Disbursements:   Disbursements would be made against 100 percent
of the cif cost of imported goods, 85 percent of the cost of goods purchased
locally and previously imported, 70 percent of the cost of goods produced
locally from imported materials, and up to 55 percent of the cost of con-
struction works.
71.       Risks: The special risks posed by this project stem from Zaire's
general economic difficulties. During the past two years, SOFIDE has been con-
fronted with major problems, due to the deterioration of the economy and un-
certainties of governmental policy regarding future ownership and management
of industrial enterprises. SOFIDE's management must be credited with main-
taining the company on an even keel through this difficult period and assuring
that it attained its principal development objectives. With the expected re-
covery of the economy, SOFIDE's profitability should increase substantially.
However, should the Government revert to policies which had a negative impact
on industrial activity, the risks associated with the project would increase
measurably.



- 20 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
72.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Zaire and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Associa-
tion and SOFIDE, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article V,
Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement, and the text of the draft Reso-
lution approving the proposed credit are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
73.       Features of the draft Credit and Project Agreements of special
interest are referred to in paragraphs 57 and 65 and are listed in Section III
of Annex IV of this report.
74.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
75.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
April 7 , 1977



Page 1 of 4 pages
TABLE 3A
Z A liE- SOCIAL INDICATORS OATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KN2)                      ...........................
------------                                      ZAIRE                                    REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL       2345.4                                            MOST REkCENT
AGRIC.           ..1960                                 1910    ESTIMATE           'ETHIOPIA         NIGERIA     BRAZIL**
GNP PER CAPITA (USA)                          60O.0      11      0.01OO                     10.0        170.0        540.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MIO-TR. MILLION)                16. 6       2 . 6       24j.7                2 4.6        66.-2        92.6 
POPULATION DENSITT
PER SQUARE KM.                            I1.0         9. 0       11 .0                20.0         12 .0        11. 0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND               ...                     ..                 30 .0           .         6 6.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATEO (/THOU, AV.            4~7 3       46.8        45~.2                50.3          49.8         38. 4
CRUM8 OKTH RATE UTSD    A".              26.0        23.         20.                  28 .7        24.5           9.9
INFANT MORTALITY RmATE (/THOU)          104.0     ~     ...                               ..                     1.
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH       Y RS)      39.5        4)2.0       1)3.5                38.0         38.5         59.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                     .          2.8         2.9                  2.9          3.3          2.6
POPuLATION GROWTH RATE CZ)
TOT AL                                      ..         2.17        2.7                  2 .1         2 .5         2. 9
URBAN                                       ..         3.7         8.0                  9.4  j,      5. 0         5. 0
URBAN POPULATION CZ OF TOTAL)               19.7        21.6        26.1)                 9 .1         2 3.0        56.0
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                            4~3.7       44h.4      I4J.2                 4)3.0        4 4 .8       4 2. 0
15 TO 64 YEARS                            52.5        52.8        53.0                 54)3         5 3. 0       5 5. 0
65 YEARS ANO OVER                          3.8         2.8         2.8                  2.7          2.-2         3.0
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                         0.9         0.9         0 .9                  0.9          0 .9         0.6a
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                    1.0A        1.0 /       1.1 /a                             1. 21.       1. 5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)                             ..                               .         12.9        250.0
USERS (I OF MARRIED WOMEN)                  ...                      ..                                .1. 6
EMIPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)               80010.0     9800.0    10800.0                    .      2 5600 .0    2 9600.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (I)              84.0        18.0        11.D /               85.0         6 1. 0        4 4. 0
UNEMPLOYED CZ OF LABOR FORCE)                  .           ..
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
I OF PRIVATE INCOME REC'0 BYT
HIGHEST    51 OF HOUSEHOLDS                                                                                      35 .  0. /a.
HIGHEST 201 OF HOUSEHOLDS                   .            ..                               ..                     6 2. 0 
LOWEST    201 OF HOUSEHOLDS                 ..          .                                 ..                       3.0 7
LOWEST    401 Of HOUSEHOLDS                 ..          .            ..                                .         10. 0 
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
1 OWNED BT TOP lill OF OWNERS                  ..                     .                     ...                     45.0
X OWNED BY SMALLEST 101 OWNERS                  .          .           ..                                 .          1.5
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                      .      3011a0.0    2,790. 0              73300.0     24 66 0 .0 go  1910.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON                 .      13230.0     11680.0 fc            2361)0.0 /b  5070.0 L      3220.0A~
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED                   .        3 20. 0                          2980.0      22 20. 0       240. 0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (I DF REQUIREMENTS)              92.0        9 2. 0      93.0 Ld              92 .0        91.0        109.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)                   33. 0       33.0        33.0 Pd              6 9.0        60.0         6 4.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE                .        16.0 A          .                 25. 0        16.0         39. 0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4                    .           ...
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                            12.0        66.0        86.0/c               18.0         3 4.0        810
SECONDARY SCHOOL                           3.0        11 .0       14s.0o                4.0          4.0         2.
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED                         ~c28 
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)                    .        13.0         12. 0                1 2.0        14.0         1 3. 0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(I OF SECONDARY)                         21.0        10.0j&      I .. L                 5.0a         8.0         17.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (1)                        .        1 3.0       15.0                    .                       6BS. 0
HOUS ING
PERZSONS PER MOON     (MTwAN)                   ...                     ...1.0
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (I)                             ..          .            .                    ..                       3.0 /
ACCESS To ELECTRICITY
CZ OF ALL DWELLINGS)..                                  .         2.0 /c                  ..                     48.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY CZ)                          ..          .            ..                                .8.0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU Pop)               3.0         3.0         4.0                   6.0         23.0         60.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)                3.0          3.0        4. 0                  2.0          1.0         25. 0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)                137.0      1h1.0       164.0                 2 1.0         28.0        49 1.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                      ..          .02        0.05                  .           0. 3         2.17
--   -  - - -  - -  - - -  - - -  - -  - - -  - - -  - -  - - -  -- -  - - -  - -  - -  - - -  - -  - - -  - - -  - -  - -  - - -
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONIS ON REVERSE



ABNEX I
Page 2 of 4. pages
Ulslos otherwise acted, data for 1960 refer to sny year betwee n 1959 ahd 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970 and for Most Recent totimate between
1973 and 1975i
fl  Brazil has been selected as am objective country for Zaire       eoau.. of the comparability of oboe and natoral reanorce endowmet of the two
coontrIee, plus the faot that Brasil has a high growth rote and is at a higher jnoos level.
Z      1960     /A  1955-58, African population only;       /b  Ratio of population under 15 and 61 and 00cr to total labor force.
1970     A/0 Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;         /0   196i-661     ac  imludlog pont-primary technical
echmolo.
MOST RECENT FSTThTEs / Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force; /b As per-stage of omploy.sst;
ac   1972;    ad   1969-71 averge;      /e  1971;     /f   tocludiog poat-prieary technical scboola.
ETHIOPIA       1.2     /a   1965-70;     As  Including sidwines and public health nuroco.
NIGERiIA       1970    A/0  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to to tal labor force;       /A    Regiotered, not all practicing in the country.
BBAZTh         1970    /a   E.onosically active population;      /b   Hospital personnel;      Ic  Inside only.
86, Januar 3, 1977
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Land Ars   (thou km )                                                                 PopuIutioo per nursing 000000 - Populatioc divided by comber of practicing
Totol1   Toto1 surface area coprising land area and iniand caters-                      mate and fomlo graduete 000000, 'trained       or "certifiod"   ore,and
Agri..- Most    -rcet cetioute of aiotoa         area used t-nporarily or               .u..tMary por.nono 1 with traioing orvpeic.
pare..vontiy for crop,, pooturee, macbet & bit.bso gardens or to lite               Popuiation per honoital hod - Popoiction divided by comber of hosyitu1 beds
fuliva.                                                         ava~~~~~~~~~~~~~ituble in public and private genora1 ovd speocIited bcopitai and
rehabilitation ceners       eIcdon coretog h.... ..od ostublinhoo..te for
GBP per capita (US$) - GNP per capito eatimaten at      uresct aneket priceo,           custodial acd prv-c.tivscarc.
calculated by cas    over io     ethod uo Wan1d Bank Atlas (1973-75 basin);         Pvr capita ..pply of caoisM of reuitrene..to) - Cvmputed fr..eccrBy
1960, 1970 sod 1975 dote.                                                             eqoivalet of net food supplies    -viloblo in -ootry per capita per duy,
a-aiablc supplies com prise domestic Production, imports leaa epocto,
Popolation a.nd vita; etatianic                                                         and vhsng es in etock;,oc   oupplen eaid      animalI fesd, needst,qoati-
Popotarcof (id-yr, million) -As of July fitrt,       if not avilabic,                  tIes   led tofod procsoog ad          looe  iv dttihutic; rqoir-ets
avresort  o nd-y-u esioe;19ff, 2970 and 1975 data,                              were ot iouted by FAD bascd non yhyaiolugicui ned      for nunouI act ivity
and health coid           -iisor-nv -l tocyorotore, body lnights, u0 nond
Population do...ity-    r soa      o-Mid-year population pnr sqoare kilo-               enditr ihotoe       ofPoPu1tioo, al oIIoeimg 107. for waste at house-
meter 1M00 hectarns    ofqtotal aron                                                  boild i-1.
Populatiow dscutty - per snuare ho of usric. land - Computed an bh-e for              Per -apitu auppi    fpo      o(rm      per day) - Protein coctont of per
ugrivolior..  toe.d only.                                                             caPita net opyp     of food por day; net nayply of fool -o drfiovda
vit.1                                                             l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bove, reqoirementn for a1   -rll cootlo   escal-hod by USDlA i oi
01001 acatlscics                                             ivacarob Sorviocs ~~~~~~provid  fuc a vnio vm  ....oac oef 6i crams of totni
Crude hini rtet per thb....san      ..d uvro-decA...I lint bitrh. per thecoand           proteil pcr day, aend 20 gcun of oniol anod pulen protic, of which
of  id-yosr pepulatiac; too-year ari    -thei  avorgo   nodig in 1960 and             i grac   should he -vi-a1 protoie; ith-    stuedardo are 1-c     tham thone
I10f, sod five-ynur average ending in 1975 for .0cc recent ostit,      e.             of 75 grams of total prtvli enod 23 gcas of anioul protete en on
Cro'de do-th waco pe  thouosnd,-avrugo - Ae..uai deatho per theoosd of mid-              average, for the world, proponed by FAG in the Third Werld Pood Sur-y.
your ppu    tle;    a-yo    srt     tio -onruc     ending ic 1960 and 1907 aend     Pv' caPIta prutoi nopply fros coibol avd poise - Proteic nupply of food
fiv-year. -vrg.eondieg to 1975 for nont toreect rotcnate.                             drvdfen      -ai    aad pulnca in coons per day.
fnfat _orc1ity rain C/thou) - An..o.l deaths of infants under one year of            Death rats C/hico) ogen 1-4 - uncool denthe per thou...nd in age group
age per thousa nd live births.                                                        1-4 years, to children in th- ace group; noggacetd a.n a        oirator of
Lifec eapeote_o v t bir th (yes-) - Averaga cober of yearn of life remaining            valn tr itin
at bIrth, onw.Ily five-your ad or.gro ending in 1960, 197f and 1973 for
deveoping cooti ins.                                                                EducaLion
r  srerdcilm rate -Average ounber of lIve duoghtora a      oa    ill          Adilooted cccoln-ntracc       -rPriourv -chuol - Eoro1llen   of at] agoo as
bea,r in her norml  rerduc.tive1period if.she onpueto...cs proen..t age-              percontage of primary ochool-age popuILti.on     includro   hilidren uged
specfic fertiity ra to;uo         y fIv-_yea   averages coding in 1960,               6-li years hot aijuntod tar diff-enrt Ilngthe of pri-ory odoco.tiot;
1970 and 1975 for dve-Ip ig ....vtrI_a                                                for .o..i ico with universal edocotic,      -nr11-oL nay .emond 1007.
Popolaci-n growth rate (7. - total - Conpoovd aonu...    grooth rates of mid-           sire come pupil. are bviw or oho.c the off-ciu1 achool ago.
yearpoplaton  or  950-60, 1961-70 and 19791-75.                               Adluotodcrooatrutl-              ..ccd-r school - Computed an above
.Puplatiov go    thrts .       ra     - Coptd lihe growth rate of total                  ecnay odonalc        rqor      orbut four yours of approved prmy
Popula-tion, diffsrent definltto-    of urban ocean .ya affect com pare-              i-atru-ttn; pr-idcn generlt., vctoa            r t        tciorcroing
bility   f data an ng conrb.isrc                                                                 n  for popiln of 12 tc 17 y-ro of oge; correaPoedd.c.
Urban ppontaion (7. of  .tota) - cR.io of urhan to total population;                    00u0500 are generally vooloded.
difretdfinitiomo of orban areas may off ot comparability of data              Ynuro of orkoulieg pr-oldd (first nod necood Ir-eisl - Total years of
a    nog  ecren                                                                  schooling; at seCondary Iv-vi, voctional inocruccioc map be par-
Age p!ctu-jJ           ~mj- ChIldren   ll-14 ycrar), working-age (15-64 ysar-),          c.ialyor co_pIeloly e-1ldod.
an,d  tinredy (65i yersad over     aa perorncgee of aid-your population.             Vocational c-rllmct (7. of nocondory) - Vncational iootitotiemn imolods
Andependee   rto- Ratio of popolacion under 15 and 65 and over tm                      tcohnical, lodastrll orother programs which opertet lndopndvetly or
rih-  ofIgn    i  theough 64.                                                         an   . dpartmnncs of  endarytsittoa
tonncdependency oc1r atio_ti    of population under iS and 65 and ov.r           Adult lit eray rate (7) - Litrarte udolts (oily to read and write) a
to ths labor force in agc grou p of li-6i years.                                      percentage of total adult Population oged is years ood ove..
Pamiiy pin..ming - accptors (umulative, thou) - Counlai-e mnhber of
uceetorst of hirth-coetro1 devicen under aospicnn of national family                TMo-oLg
planning program since incoption.                                                   Per-onn per room (urban) - overage camber of p-rsoo      per room io
Family planning - usern (7. of narried wovvm) - Percen.tages of carried                  occ.pind convetional duellingo in urban areal; d-11tinge -ocldn
wmeof chil d-hearing age (15-44. yearn) who use hirth-coetro1 d-niono              non-pornan..nt stutrsand unccpied parts.
to all married women in nam    age groop.                                           Occupied duollimgn aitboot piped water M%     - Occupied conventiena1
duollting  in orion   ed roraI area   without   -nide or outside piped
Eoployoent                                                                               _otcr fac,iticnaaspcercntageof. al      occupied delltingo.
Total labor force (theo..avd) - Econcei-aiy active persons, including                 A.cco t      elorily     o   l   due11in&o) - Convetional danllings with
arced forces aed uamplepod but -orludiog houseolves, students, etc.;                  elcrctInlvn              uresas povo          fttldelnsi               ra
deflnicon    inro   oneoer o        r  not comparable.                               and rura   aras
Labor force in agriculture (7.   - Agricultural labor forcn (in farming,              Rural dosllings conncoctd to electricity (7.) - Computed an above for
forestry   huting sod fiohig     au percentage of tota    lahor foos-rra                     dwellingn only.
lOno    yayed (7. of la.bor force) -IUomploynd are usually definodfaspeon
.eh. are able and willing t. cabs a Joh, oat ofIaJoh en a given day,                Coomtm
engind out of a job, and ...oking watk fee a specified        inians  period        Raircivr         (per thou pup) - All typen of roeelirs for radio bread-
net  oceedin   one- eok; may nout be coepoesble betl.sso gouenteioe due to            casto to gonera-l public per thoo..and of population; occudes unlicensed
differenrt dfinitiono of unemplo yed and s.urte. of data, a.g., smploy-               c-cive-    it moonteiss and in years when registration of radio sootwa
sent office statistics, sample ar-cy, compulsor.y -nmpll4nset insuronce.              in offeoc; data for receet yeors may nout he coparbLleinite ...at
countrino abo1iohod li-nmimg.
Income diotribntio     -  Psr -trgv of private ino..s (both in cash and hind)         Passenmr cars (per thou PoP) - P...ngergn    cars tonpriss sotor car      a sct-
rovoi-ed hy richest 57., richest DOT, poorest 20%, and pearept 40% of                 lg lesa than sight persons; eaclude.sobnhu.a.oes, hearses and silicon7
h....eho1ds.                                                                          v-hi.ls..
Electricity (khub/r per cap) - Aenual consamption of ieduatrtsl, coo-
Di.itrihution of land oworship - Percencagee of land owad by wealthiest                 mercint, public and private electricity in kilowa.tt hours per capital
10% and pocroa        fln      mss                                                    genrai     haeed on prodacti n data, wttheut     lew    sfor basesc in
grids hat allesing fur imports and oporta af electricity.
Bealth and Batritien                                                                  Bowaprint 1kg/yr p-e oapj- Per capita annua       consauptivn in kilograms
Peaota per phosician -Population dividod by machr of practicing                     estimated from domestic production plus met imports of -cuprint.
physicians qa    letd fro   a mdical scheal at university lvl



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1975                                       ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.       %                        1960 -69          1970 -74           1975
GNP at Market Prices           3593.6      100.0                        ..                 5.3          - 0.7
Gross Domestic Investment     1290.0        35.9                        ..               10.3             1.6
Gross National Saving           272.4        7.6                        ..               16.3           - 3.4
Current Account Balance        845.8        23.5
Exports of Goods, NFS         1024.2        28.5                        ..               10.0           -14.3
Imports of Goods, NFS         1830.0        50.9                        ..                8.0          -11.3
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1975
Value Added                  Labor Force                    V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln. US$
Agriculture                    589.0      16.2
Industry                      1081.2      29.8
Services                      1962.4      54.0
Unallocated
Total/Average
363t.6-1/ i00.0                                                           TOO-0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government -Central Government
z Z - Mln.)      sof GDP                     (  Z Nln.)         % of GDP
1974         1974       1971-73                 1974       1974        1571-573
Current Receipts                   671.0         36.5         32.5
Current Expenditure                579.0         31.5         27.2
Current Surplus                     92.0          5.0.
Capital Expenditures               316.1         17.2         10.7
External Assistance (net)           83.4          4.5          3.0
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                 1970          1971        197;        1973        1974         1975
illion z      outstanding end periodT
Money and Quasi Money                    231.3        261.5       298.4       440.3       608.1        597.7
Bank credit to Public Sector                3         26.         294         403         681         577
Bank Credit to Private Sector            9            130.6       160.5       188.5       327.5       445.4
42.9         60.3        91.6        137.9       234.3       326.5
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP        24.3          25.8        27.2        29.6        33.2         31.4
General Price Index (1970 - 100)        100.0         108.1       122.7       136.6       174.6        230.1
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index 3/                    .8.1                     13.5        11.3        27.8        31.8
Bank credit to Public Sector             13.4         31.0        22.9         17.4        73.7        36.0
Bank credit to Private Sector            53.8         40.6        51.9         50.5        69.9        39.4
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ GDP at factor cost.
2/ Includes budgetary and non budgetary Central Government operations.
3/ Retail price index.
not available
not applicable



ANNEX I
ntADB PATMENTS AND CAPITAL FWWb                          Page 4 of 4
BALAHCE OF PAYMZNTS                                                 MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1973-75)
1973     1976     1975                                                US $ Mln    %
(Millions US $)
Copper                             693.4   62.2
Exports of Goods, NFS       1123.4   1633.8    1024.2              Cobalt                              77.4     6.9
Imports of Goods, NFS       1285.2   1861.0   1830.0               Diamonds                            58.8     5.3
Resource Gap (deficit   8 -) -161.8  -227.2    -805.8              Coffee                              56.9     5.1
Jnterest Payments (net)      -68.0.2  -110.2    -50.0
Workers' Remittances        -124.2   -129.8      ..
Other Factor Payments (net) -  0.4   -  8.6    -162.0-_
Net Transfers                151.2     145.4    172.0               All other commodities             191.7    17.3
Balance on Current Account -203.2     -330.4   -845.8                    Total                       1114.2   100.0
Direct Foreign Investment      -        -         -               EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31, 1975
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements             429.4    507.8     649.2                                                       US $ Mln
Amortization              172.2     268.4     95.0
Subtotal                  257.2    239.4     554.2               Public Debt, incl. guaranteed          1684.2
Capital Grants                 -         -        -                 Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)            -         -        -                 Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i              7.6       4.6     50.8                                         1/
Increase in Reserves (+)      61.6   - 86.4    -240.8             DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1975-
Gross Reserves (end year)    265.8     200.8    216.2
Net Reserves   (end year)    220.6     134.2   -106.6               Public Debt. incl. guaranteed           14.2
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                          Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                     48.0     101.0
of uhich:  Petroleum      48.0     101.0
Exports                       0.7      -
of which:  Petroleum        0.7      -       *          IBRD/IDA LENDING. December 31, 1976 Million US$
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                      IBRD        IDA
From hLpe 23 967 to March 11. 19T76.       *Slzce March 12,   9760utstanding & Disbursed             32.4         53.1
__  1~~~~~~~~, ~~~~~                              In~~L~ disbursed                    67.6        121.4
US $ 1.00 !   zn.5                           SDR 1.0 = Zl.0      Outstanding incl. Undisbursed      lUU.U6      T7.5
Zaire 1.00 =   US $ 2.0
1/  Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
2/ Investment income
3/ Includes an undetermined amount of workers' remittances
not available
not applicable
EACPII, March 29, 1977



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAIRE
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of March 31, 1977)
Loan or
Credit      Fiscal       Borrower                             Amount in US Million
Number       Year                    Purpose              Bank         IDA  / Undisbursed
Prior to      Congo &      Transport
June 1960     Otraco       Infrastructure      91.6 1/
Two Credits Fully Disbursed                                            11.0
255          1971        ZAIRE       River Transport                    7.0        1.8
271          1972        ZAIRE       DFC II                            10.0        2.2
272          1972        ZAIRE       Education                          6.5        4.4
292          1972        ZAIRE       Highway II                        19.0        5.6
398          1974        ZAIRE       Livestock                          8.5        4.6
463          1974        ZAIRE       DFC III                           10.0        3.7
1090          1975        ZAIRE       GECAMINES           100.0                    61.2
536          1975        ZAIRE       Highway III                       26.0       18.8
571          1975        ZAIRE       Rail.River II                     26.0       25.0
625          1976        ZAIRE       Water Supply                      21.5       20.2
624          1976       ZAIRE        Education II -/                   21.0       21.0
660          1977        ZAIRE       Cotton Rehabili-
tation 3/                        8.0        8.0
TOTAL (less cancellations):              191.6        174.5       176.5
-of which has been repaid                91.6
TOTAL now outstanding:                   100.0        174.5
Amount sold:                  54.5
- of which has been repaid    54.5
TOTAL now held by BANK and IDA 2/        100.0         174.5
TOTAL Undisbursed:                        61.2         115.3      176.5
1/ Guaranteed by the Kingdom of Belgium
2/ Prior to exchange adjustments
3/ Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT
Fiscal                              Type of            Amount in US$ Millions
Year           Obligor             Business        Loan      Equity      Total
1970     Societe Financiere de
Developpement (SOFIDE)       DFC             -        0.76       0.76
Total gross commitments
less cancellations,
terminations, repayments
and sales:                                   -        0.76       0.76
Total commitments now
held by IFC:                                 -        0.76       0.76
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit 255   River Transport; US$7 Million Credit of June 21, 1971; Effective
Date: January 17, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The project, based on UNDP-financed studies, consists of (a) reha-
bilitation of navigational aids, dredging facilities and equipment for the
Zaire River estuary; (b) improvements of navigation on the Kinshasa-Ilebo
waterway; (c) rehabilitation of the ONATRA river fleet; (d) provision of
experts to fill key positions in ONATRA, RVM and RVF; and (e) a feasibility
study of the Voie Nationale, the combination of rail-river links between the
mining areas of Shaba and Zairian seaports.    The river agencies have been set
up as autonomous public entities, and most goods and services provided under
the project have been procured or contracted.     The completion of the re-
habilitation of navigational aids on the Kasai River will be carried out
by RVF on force account.   After a delay of about one year, resulting from
a lack of local currency payments by the Government, construction of two
buoy tenders for the RVF has recommenced. The three agencies involved
in the project, especially ONATRA, continue to suffer from adverse finan-
cial positions and institutional weaknesses. The original Closing Date,
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
December 31, 1973, was extended twice to provide additional time for recruit-
ment of technical assistance personnel, for the works related to the rehabil-
itation of markings on the Kasai River and for reconditioning of two dredgers.
Credit 271   Second DFC; US$10 Million Credit of September 24, 1971; Effec-
tive Date: February 1, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Credit 463   Third DFC; US$10 Million Credit of February 20, 1974;
Effective Date: July 25, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
A first line of credit to SOFIDE was made in 1970 and was fully
disbursed.  The second line of credit to SOFIDE was made one year after the
first, since SOFIDE's volume of operations was three times that forecast. The
credit was not fully committed until December 1973, due to the availability to
SOFIDE of other resources. A Bank staff member has been seconded as deputy
to the Zairian General Manager for three years. The third line of credit to
SOFIDE is almost fully committed. SOFIDE's operations have been conducted in
a satisfactory manner and a fourth line of credit of $10 million was recently
negotiated.
Credit 272   Education; US$6.5 Million Credit of December 17, 1971; Effec-
tive Date: May 31, 1972; Closing Date: April 30, 1977
The project consists of construction and rehabilitation of three
teacher training colleges, a demonstration school and four technical second-
ary schools, a management study and a survey of manpower requirements. At
the end of 1975, implementation of the project was more than two and a half
years behind schedule and a cost overrun of 150 percent over the appraisal
estimate was likely. Since the cost overruns could not be financed on the
government budget, the Government asked for a reduction in the scope of the
project and this was approved by the Executive Directors (memorandum from
the President to the Executive Directors of December 15, 1976). As of the
end of February 1977, all contracts for civil works had been signed and
about 80 percent of all the contracts for furniture and equipment had been
awarded. Rehabilitation work on one school in Kinshasa was completed. The
implementation of the project is showing progress, but procurement of con-
struction materials from abroad and internal transportation are a cause of
delay. The management study has been completed. Disbursements have reached
US$1.1 million and are expected to increase rapidly. The project is continu-
ing to be monitored closely. The Closing Date will be postponed to December 31,
1979.
Credit 292   Second Highway; US$19 Million Credit of March 23, 1972; Effec-
tive Date: September 11. 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The project, jointly financed by IDA, UNDP, CIDA, FAC and USAID,
consists of a comprehensive program to strengthen highway administration and
maintenance, and to rehabilitate high-priority roads. All project components,
except rehabilitation works, have been completed. The main institutional ob-
jective of the project, the establishment of the Office des Routes (OR) as



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
a countrywide organization responsible for highways, was achieved. Twelve
contracts, awarded in early 1974 for rehabilitation of about 1,600 km of
roads, have progressed much more slowly than anticipated, due to the failure
or weakening of several contractors, delays in local payments and shortage
of critical supplies. By June 1976, about 740 km of road had been resur-
faced, that is, about 46 percent of the revised total. Delays have led to
cost increases and, due to these cost increases, some contracts have had to
be cancelled or revised. The OR has prepared a revised project completion
plan, taking into account the latest estimates of final cost and financing
requirements. The revised program would provide for rehabilitation of 1,265
km and for improved maintenance of remaining roads. It would be completed by
the end of 1977. The present Closing Date of December 31, 1977 may have to
be extended.
Credit 398  Livestock Development; US$8.5 Million Credit of June 21, 1973; Ef-
fective Date: February 14, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project is intended to develop three government ranches in the
Shaba region and to help establish a National Livestock Development Authority
(ONDE) and also provide substantial assistance (US$1.3 million) for training
and the preparation of future agricultural projects. The project had a slow
start and is experiencing difficulties, in particular an increase in costs,
estimated at about 35 percent in US dollar equivalent as of June 1976, the
failure of Government to adjust producer prices resulting in a negative rate
of return and delays in the payment of government counterpart funds. ONDE
has been dissatisfied with the consultant firm's performance and has termi-
nated its contract. It is now recruiting staff on an individual basis.
We wrote to the Government about the availability of counterpart funds and
about the need to increase producer prices. The Government subsequently
increased prices to the level recommended by the mission.
Loan 1090   Mining Expansion Project; US$100 Million Loan of March 8, 1975;
Effective Date: December 2, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The project consists of expanding the production facilities of the
state-owned Generale des Carrieres et des Mines (GECAMINES) to produce an
additional 120,000 tons per year of refined copper and 4,000 tons per year
of cobalt in the form of copper-cobalt alloy. Project execution is well
underway. As a result of transport and supply problems, and lack of foreign
exchange, it is expected that copper production in 1976 will fall short of
the projected output. However, the Government has already taken steps to
allocate to GECAMINES the necessary foreign exchange. Due to rising copper
prices, the availability of stocks, windfall profits on sales of cobalt,
and an exemption from supplementary export duties, the company is expected
to make a profit in 1976. Nevertheless, GECAMINES is likely to experience a
US$55 million cash shortfall in 1977, which may impede project implementation.
The transfer of marketing responsibilities to SOZACOM, a state-owned company,
had caused delays in the financing of GECAMINES shipments. SOZACOM's activi-
ties are being closely monitored. Military operations against insurgent forces
are taking place in the area of Kolwezi, the site of the project. It is feared
that if fighting intensifies,construction contractors might invoke force majeure
clauses in their contracts thus delaying completion of the project.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
Credit 536 Third Highway Project; US$26 Million Loan of March 19, 1975;
Effective Date: July 31, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The project, which is a continuation of the Second Highway Project,
is designed to build up an efficient highway administration, to initiate
sound highway sector planning and to assist with the rehabilitation of a
key road. It consists of the following elements: (a) provision of tech-
nical assistance to the Bureau of Roads; (b) organization of a pilot high-
way maintenance scheme; (c) establishment of a countrywide logistic support
system for highway maintenance; (d) rehabilitation of the gravel surfaced
Kabinda-Kindu road (about 600 km); (e) a highway traffic survey; and (f) fea-
sibility studies affecting about 1,500 km of roads. The total cost of the
project, estimated at US$40 million including taxes, is financed jointly by
IDA, UNDP, the Belgian and French governments, and the Government of Zaire.
Consultants are carrying out a feasibility study of the Kikwit-Kananga road
and consultants have been retained to assist with the establishment of the
logistic support system for highway maintenance. The maintenance program is
progressing satisfactorily. A contract has been awarded for the first part
of the Kabinda-Kindu road and the Government intends to carry out work on the
second section on force account. The Government has asked for modifications
in the project to allow it to start a ferry maintenance program, pay for addi-
tional technical assistance out of the Credit and make an early start on a
second regional, pilot maintenance project. This would require certain
changes including the elimination of a major road feasibility study and a
reduction in the road works on the Kabinda-Kindu road. These proposals are
under consideration.
Credit 571 Railway and River Transport Project; US$26 Million Credit
of July 11, 1975; Effective Date: November 18, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project provides: (a) technical assistance to ONATRA, includ-
ing a comprehensive training program; (b) finance for a major part of ONATRA's
1975-77 investment requirements for river transport equipment, railroad im-
provements and track renewal; and (c) funds for additional river markings
on the Kasai river, port studies and a preliminary engineering study for
the Ilebo-Kinshasa rail link. Progress is being made in the award of con-
tracts for some of the river craft provided under the project and the rail-
way rehabilitation works are proceeding slowly but satisfactorily. The Gov-
ernment has asked for some changes in the list of goods to be procured and
this is under consideration. All agencies of ONATRA are limited in their
operational capacities by a spare parts shortage, resulting from the lack
of foreign exchange. Some relief is in sight from the promise of recently
allocated foreign exchange from stevedoring receipts at Matadi Port and spe-
cial bilateral assistance. The Matadi-Kinshasa port development study is
nearing completion. In spite of recently approved tariff increases, ONATRA's
financial situation will continue to be critical until firm action is taken
to control and to reduce costs.    Its operating losses are   expected
to reach some Z15 million in 1976. Declining traffic, collection problems,



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
lack of discipline and general instability compound ONATRA's financial prob-
lems. ONATRA has recently embarked on a Plan de Redressement designed to
improve the financial situation and has appointed an experienced General
Manager, We are carefully monitoring the execution of this plan.
Credit 625  Water Supply Project; US$21.5 Million Credit of June 18, 1976;
Effective Date: August 4, 1976; Closing Date: September 30,
1979
The project comprises construction and expansion of production and
distribution facilities in six major cities, the rehabilitation of existing
facilities, engineering consultant services for the six cities, a comprehensive
training program and feasibility studies for additional water supply projects.
REGIDESO, the state corporation responsible for water supply and electricity
in Zaire, is the executing agency. The project, which is cofinanced by ADB
and BADEA, will finance approximately half of REGIDESO'S investment program
for 1975-78. Project execution is satisfactory. All contracts were recently
awarded.
Credit 624 Second Education Project - US$21 Million Credit of December 28,
1976; Effective Date: Not Yet Effective; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982
The project is intended to provide facilities for training rural
primary teachers and agricultural technicians. It comprises: (a) construc-
tion, equipping and furnishing of five rural primary teacher training insti-
tutes; (b) rehabilitation and repair of six agricultural technician training
institutes and one higher institute of agricultural studies; (c) a fellow-
ship program to aid the efficient functioning of the project institutions;
(d) the evaluation of the new programs promoted in the project institutions;
(e) the carrying out of preinvestment studies in preparation for a further
education project. After the project was presented to the Executive Direc-
tors in April of last year, contract negotiations between the Government
and the private architectural firm previously designated for the project
broke down. The Government then proposed that the Centre National de Con-
structions Scolaires (CNCS), a school design unit within the Ministry of
Education, do the architectural work and, on our request, submitted a plan
for the strengthening of the CNCS so as to enable it to carry out its obli-
gations. The Credit was signed following the approval of this plan by the
Bank.
Credit 660 Cotton Rehabilitation Project - US$8 Million Credit of
December 28, 1976; Effective Date: Not Yet Effective;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project will help the Zairian Government to rehabilitate cot-
ton production in the Equateur region through reorganization of the buying,
transporting and ginning operations of the National Textile Fiber Authority
(Office National des Fibres Textiles, ONAFITEX) in the project area. It
also includes rehabilitation of the network of roads linking the production
areas. The project is to be executed by ONAFITEX and the Office des Routes.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 5
ZAIRE
FOURTH SOFIDE PROJECT
Borrower:         Republic of Zaire
Beneficiary:      Societe Financiere de Developpement (SOFIDE)
Amount:           US$10 million equivalent
Terms:            Standard
Onlending Terms: The Government would relend the proceeds of the proposed credit
to SOFIDE at an interest rate of 8.5 percent per annum with a
flexible amortization schedule conforming to the aggregate
amortization schedule of SOFIDE's subloans, none of which
should exceed 15 years. SOFIDE would relend the funds to
its borrowers at a minimum rate of 12.5 percent per annum.
SOFIDE would pay to the Government a commitment charge of
3/4 percent per annum on the undisbursed amount of the
credit. Large enterprises will be required to accept the
foreign exchange risk. The Government will bear the
foreign exchange risk in the case of small enterprises
(those with assets less than $250,000). Loans made by
SOFIDE to this category of clients would not be financed
by IDA in amount greater than US$100,000 equivalent.
Purpose:          The credit would finance about 45 percent of SOFIDE's
foreign exchange requirement from September 30, 1976
through December 31, 1977.
Final Date for
Sub-project
Submission:     December 31, 1978
Free Limit:      US$150,000 for individual sub-projects
US$2,000,000 aggregate limit
Estimated
Disbursements:   Year ending June 30      FY    1978  1979  1980  1981  1982
Annual (US$ million)            1.5   2.4   3.3    2.2   0.6
Cumulative (US$ million)        1.5   3.9   7.2    9.4  10.0
Procurement:     Through normal commercial channels
Appraisal
Report:         A report entitled "Appraisal of Societe Financiere de
Developpement (SOFIDE) - Zaire" (No. 1371a-ZR,dated
April 5, 1977) is being distributed separately.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 5
SOFIDE
Forecast of Operations
(z'000)
1977    1978      1979     1580     1981
APPROVALS
Loans:
New loans              1/            8,580    9,4h0   10,400   11,450    12,600
Supplementary financing              2,000      -        -        -20
Sub-total loans                   10,580    9,h4o   io,ho00  ll.L50   12,600
Equity investments                       165      185      205      225       25W0
Total Approvals                   10,7145   9,625   10,605   11,675   12,850
COMMITMENTS
Loans                                 10,268    9,896   10,016   11,030   12,11O0
Equity investments                       165      185      20(5     225       250
Total Commitments                 l0,h33   10,081   10,221   11,255   12,390
DISBURSEKENTS
Loans                                  9,111   10,082    9,956   10,523   11,585
Equity investments                       265      185      205      225       250
9,279   10,267   10,161   10,748   11,835
1/ To finance increase in cost of previously approved projects, folloving the
devaluation of the zaire.
EAPID
April 1977



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 5
SOFIDE
Balance Sheets (audited)
(Z'OOO)
1972     1973      1974     1975     1976
uwMa-auditeT
ASSETS
Cash and Bank Deposits             336      944    1,7514    2,020    2,333
Treasury Bills                   1,000      -         -        -        -
Other Current Assets               406      645     1,132      896    1,00(
Total Current Assets             1,742    1,589    2,886     2,916    3,339
Medium and LT Loans              5,968    6,862    7,460     9,LiO1  12,401
Less provision                    (60)    (20)      (230)    (2g7)    (2CC)
Net:               69                    U,6514    7700     9,l14lT  12,11l
Equity Investments                 403      534      615       6145     885
Fixed Assets   (net)               380      372       381      3-56     355
TOTAL ASSETS                8,433    9,149   11,142    13,061   16,722
LIABILITIES
Dividends Payable                  100      100      1142      -        ,4
Payable and Prepaid Income          861/     90       686      596      670
Short-Term Borrowings              500-      -        -
Total Current Liabilities          686      190       827      596      674
Medium and LT Debts
IDA Credits                     1,426    2,494     3,0614   1,386    7,031
EIB                               170      443      853       729      501
SIFIDA Loans                    1,010      940       396      -        -
KfW              2/               -        -         -         79      503
Government Loans-               2,000    2,000     2,000    2,000    2,000
Rolled-over IDA funds             -        -         920    2,132   11,)!'
Total                      4,606    5,877    7,233     9,326   11,57)
Government Advance              1,000    1,000    1,000     1,000    1,00O
Government Deposit    /           -        -         -        -      1,100
Eauity
Paid-In Share Capital           1,982    2,000     2,000    2,000    2,000
Reserves                           39       57        57       66       63
Retained Earnings                 120       25        25       73      306
Total                      2,141    2,082     2,082    2,139    2,369
TOTAL LIABILITIES          8,433    9,149    11,112   13,061   16,722
Debt/Equity + Quasi-Equity      0.9:1    1.2:1     1.4:1   1.8:1     2.2: 1
I/ Short-term loan from Italian bank repaid totally in 1973.
v/ For participation in share capital increase.
3 Quasi equity includes Government loans and a Government advance, as fol1(.h's:
Loans: Z2 iuillion, 40 ycars including 20 years graco period; interest   1";
Advance: ZI million, interest free, no maturity. Both loan and advance rank
pari pacsu with share capital in the event of liquidation.
EAPID
April. 1977



ANNEX III
Page 4 of 5
SOFIDE
Income Statements (audited)
(Z'O 0)
1972     1973     19714    1975     19'76
unaudited
INCOME
Interest on Loans                 504      692      749      981     1,253
Interest on ST Investments         79       78       79       63       123
Gain on Foreign Currency           17       -         -        -
Dividends         .                 5       21         7       8        -
Other Income                       1l       25       11       12        26
TOTAL INCOME                 609      816      846    1,064     1,402
EXPESES
Interest on Govt. Loans            16       20       20       20        20
Interest on ITA Credits            81      ],80     246      4147 V    503 1/
Interest on other Foreigni Loans   70      124      110       64        65
Vther ]7inancial Expenses          27       28        -        -         4
Ad-,,inTi.straLive Expenses       209      271       32'7     404      548
lBlr~'etcrs and Auditors Expenses  17       21        21       25       23
Provision for Bad Debts            -        36        22       27       -
TOTAL EXPENSES               420      680      746    1,007     1,168
Profits before general provision for
risks                             189      136       100       57      234
General provisions for risks         60       -         -        9        _
Profits after general provision for
risks                             129      136       100       48      234
Allocated to:
Dividends                         100      100      100        -        _
Revenues, retained earnings        29       36        -       48       234
Profit /as % of share capital         9.4      6.8      5-.       2.9      11.7
Profit  as % of average net worth     8.9      6.4      4.8       2.7      10.4
Administrative Expenses as % of
average total assets                3.6      3.3       3.4      3.3        3.7
1/ Including interest paid on "rolled-over' IDA funds" ;117,500 in 1975 and
z 62,000 in 1976.
2/ hc,fore general provision for risks.
EAPID
April 1977



ANNEX III
Page 5 of 5
SOFIDF.
Past and Projected Finanicial Ratios
Actual______                                      Pr  etd
1972     1973     1974     1975     1976         1977     1978      1979     1980     1981
Ilcome Statement Elements as
7. of Average Total Assets
1. Total Income                                        9.1      9.3      8.3      8.8     9.4           9.8      10.4     10.9     11.4     11.9
Of Which    INtcrcst on loans                     (7.6)    (7.9)    (7.4)    (8.1)   (8.4)          (8.8)   ( 9.4)   (10.1)   (10.6)   (11.2)
Dividenids                             (0.1)   (0.2)    (0.1)    (0.1)      -           (0.2)   ( 0.2)   ( 0.2)   ( 0.2)   ( 0.2)
Others (Shiort-term                    (1.4)    (1.2)   (0.8)    (0.6)     1.0          (0.8)   ( 0.8)   ( 0.6)   ( 0.6)   ( 0.5)
fi,ti rests, coimiasions)
2.  InLtrest Pa'ymn-rs                                 2.5      3.7      3.7      4.4     3.9           4.9       5. 4     5.3      5.1      5.2
1. Administrative Exp,ns;es                            3.1      3.1      3.2      3.3     3.7            2.7      2.3      2.2      2.2      2.2
4. Provisions                                          0.9      0.4      0.2      0.3     1.7            0.9      0.7      0.5      0.4      0.4
5. NWt Profit                                          1.9      1.5      0.9      0.4     1.6            1.1      1.9      2.9      2.3      2.5
Proftt.uility Iy.licnrmrs
6. Ilet Primfic as % of Fq-lity                        6.0      6.5      4.8      2.2    10.3            9.4     19.0     18.0     15.0     16.7
7. Dmividend,,s 7. of Average Equity Portfolio         1.2      4.5      1.2      1.2       -            3.9      5.0     4.9       4.9      4.9
E. Incim-e fromil Iamms as 7 of Average Loani Portfolio  11.6  10.7    10.5     11.6    11.5           11.0     11.5     12.0     12.5     13.0
9. C-st of 1.Iit as 3 of Average DebL                  4.0      5.2      5.0      5.7     5.1            5.8      6.2      6.2      6.2      6.2
Fin,ancial Strucotwe  iidicators
10. T,rm-r.DbIt/Yvar-Fnmid Fqoity  1/                   2.2      2.8      3.5      4.4     4.9           6.1       7.5     4.4      4.8       5.1
11. 'Icem-lmchm/Yeac-tmmd Equity plus quasi-equity 2/   0.9      1.2      1.4      1.8     2.2            1.7      1.9      2.0      2.3      2.6
12.  Im    C.rcs( Coverage Ratio                        3.8      2.2      1.6      1.2     1.5            1.4      1.5      1.6      1.5      1.5
i/, Cv rnmmn .advance (iil million - 0% - no maturity) conside red neither as equity ntor as debt
2/ lime lade (imoerimmemit ma1is and Government advance.
EAPID
April 1977



ANNEX IV
ZAIRE
FOURTH SOFIDE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
1.   Since this credit (the fourth to SOFIDE) is a repeat operation
with an institution which has been closely monitored by the Bank
Group since it was created in 1970, the project did not require
special preparation before the appraisal mission visited SOFIDE
in May 1976. A post-appraisal in August 1976 was made necessary
since several issues arose that had to be at least partially
solved before appraisal could proceed. These included an in-
crease in the interest rates of SOFIDE and the doubling of its
quasi-equity. Negotiations were completed on March 11, 1977.
The planned date of effectiveness is July 31, 1977.
II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
2.   None.
III. Special Conditions
3.   Large borrowers would assume the foreign exchange risk.   The
Government would assume the foreign exchange risk on SOFIDE's
loans to small-scale Zairian enterprises who would be required
to pay a commission to the Government of 1 percent per annum.
Loans made by SOFIDE to this category of clients would not be
financed by IDA in an amount greater than US$100,000 equivalent
(para. 69).
4.   SOFIDE's management will strengthen its supervision program
(para. 57).
5.   SOFIDE's management will prepare a comprehensive operational
manual (para. 57).
6.   All projects submitted by SOFIDE to IDA for financing will
include the calculation of an internal rate of return (IRR)
and all rpojects that involve import substitution will include
the calculation of an economic rate of return (ERR) (para. 57).
7.   The Government shall arrange for SOFIDE to participate in the
work of the Investment Commission (para. 65).



