CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 710 ZR
Development Credit Agreement
(Fourth Development Finance Company Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated August 2, 1977


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 2, 1977, between the REPUBLIC OF
ZAIRE (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Section
3.01 of this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter
provided;
(B) The Project will be carried out by the Socift6
Financiere de D6veloppement with the Borrower's assistance,
and as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available
to the Socigt6 Financiare de Dgveloppement the proceeds of
the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(C) The Association is willing to make the Credit available
upon the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and the Socift6 Financiere de D6veloppement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-4-
(a) "SOFIDE" means the Societ6 Financiere de
D6veloppement, established pursuant to authorization given
under Ordonnance-loi No. 70/001 of the Borrower dated January 9,
1970.
(b) "Project Agreement" means the 'agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and SOFIDE, as such agreement
may be amended from time to time.
(c) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and SOFIDE pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement.
(d) "Sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to
be made by SOFIDE to an Investment Enterprise for an Investment
Project out of the equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit
relent to SOFIDE under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and
"free-limit sub-loan" means a sub-loan, as so defined, which
qualifies as a free-limit sub-loan pursuant to the provisions
of Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
(e) "Investment" means an investment other than a sub-loan,
made or proposed to be made by SOFIDE in an Investment Enterprise
for an Investment Project out of the equivalent of the proceeds
of the Credit relent to SOFIDE under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.


﻿-5-
(f) "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which
SOFIDE proposes to make or has made a sub-loan or in which it
proposes to make or has made an investment.
(g) "Investment Project" means a specific development
project to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing
the proceeds of a sub-loan or investment.
(h) "Zaires" and "Z" mean the currency of the Borrower.
(i) "foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Borrower.
(j) "Statutes" means the statuts of SOFIDE approved on
January 11, 1970, as amended on March 16, 1972 and on April 19,
1973 and as further amended from time to time.
(k) "Statement of Policy" means the D&claration de
Politigue Gen6rale of SOFIDE as adopted and approved by its
Board of Directors on February 10, 1970, and amended on March 14,
1973 and as the same may be further amrnded from time to time.
(1) "Prior Credit Agreements" mean the development credit
agreements (Nos. 190 CK, 271 CK and 463 CK) between the Borrower
and the Association dated May 28, 1970, September 24, 1971 and
February 20, 1974, and "Prior Credits" mean the credits provided
for therein.
(m) "Government Loans" means the advance and the loan
totalling 3,000,000 Zaires authorized to be granted by the
Borrower to SOFIDE pursuant to Ordonnance-loi No. 70/002 of
January 9, 1970.


﻿-6-
(n) "subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of
the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is
owned or effectively controlled by SOFIDE or by any one or more
subsidiaries of SOFIDE or by SOFIDE and one or more of its
subsidiarie.                           '
(o)   -ovention" means the Convention d'Etablissement
between the Borrower and SOFIDE dated January 15, 1970.


﻿- 7 -
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva=
lent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000), for use by SOFIDE.
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs
(b), (c) and (d) of this Section, SOFIDE, on behalf of the
Borrower    pursuant to Section 2.08 of this Agreement, shall be
entitled to withdraw from the Credit Account:
(i) amounts expended (or, if the Association shall so
agree, such amounts as shall be required to meet
expenditures to be made) for the reasonable cost
in foreign currency of imported goods (except goods
described in paragraph (c) of this Section) and
services required for carrying out the Investment
Project in respect of which the withdrawal is
requested;
(ii) the equivalent of eighty-five per cent (85%) of
the invoiced price paid for goods purchased as
set forth in paragraph (c) (i) of this Section;


﻿-8-
(iii) the equivalent of seventy per cent (70%) of the
I
invoiced price paid for goods purchased as set
forth in paragraph (c) (ii) of this Section; and
(iv) the equivalent of fifty-five per cent (55%) of
the costs in Zaires of construction works included
in Investment Projects and carried out by Zairan
contractors.
provided, however, that no amount shall be withdrawn from the
Credit Account in respect of an Investment Project unless (A) the
sub-loan or investment for such Investment Project shall have been
approved by the Association or (B) the sub-loan shall be a free-
limit sub-loan for which the Association shall have authorized
withdrawals from the Credit Account.
(b) A free-limit sub-loan shall be a sub-loan for an Invest-
ment Project in an amount to be financed under the Development
Credit Agreement which, together with any other amount or amounts
previously financed for the same Investment Project under the
Development Credit Agreement or under the Prior Credit Agreements,
and not repaid, shall not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent
of $150,000 and which, when added to all other free-limit sub-
loans financed under the Development Credit Agreement, shall not
exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of $2,000,000, the fore-
going amounts being subject to change from time to time as
determined by the Association.


﻿-9-
(c) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
withdrawals from the Credit Account may be made on account
of expenditures in the currency of the Borrower only for: (i)
goods previously imported into its territory through normal
trade channels and from countries which are members of the Bank
(or from Switzerland); (ii) goods produced in the territory of
the Borrower to a substantial extent from components or raw
materials so imported, and purchased by Investment Enterprises to
carry out Investment Projects; and (iii) construction works as
described in subparagraph (iv) of paragraph (a) of this Section.
(d) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawals shall be made on account of expenditures (i) made by
an Investment Enterprise prior to the date of this Agreement or
(ii) to be financed under a sub-loan subject to the Association's
approval, or with an investment, and made more than ninety days
prior to the date on which the Association shall have received in
respect of the Investment Project the application and information
required under Section 2.02 (b) of the Project Agreement or (iii)
to be financed under a free-limit sub-loan, and made more than
ninety days prior to the date on which the Association shall have
received the request and information required by Section 2.02 (c)
of the Project Agreement.


﻿- 10 -
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1981
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower and SOFIDE of
such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from t4ae to time.
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each June 15
and December 15 co.mencing June 15, 1987, and ending December 15,
2026, each installment to and including the installment payable on
December 15, 1996, tc be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.07. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿- 11 -
Section 2.08. SOFIDE is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted
to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement
and Article V of the General Conditions.


﻿12
ARTICLE III
Description of the Project;
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
Section 3.01. (a) The Project for which the Credit is granted
is the financing by SOFIDE of economic development in the territory
of the Borrower through loans for productive purposes to enter-
prises in such territory, and through other productive investments
in such enterprises, all for specific development projects and in
accordance with the Statutes and Statement of Policy of SOFIDE.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit or
the equivalent thereof to SOFIDE under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and SOFIDE under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Association.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall not take, or permit any
of its political subdivisions, or any of its agencies or instru-
mentalities, or any agency or instrumentality of any political
subdivision, to take, any action which would prevent


﻿- 13 -
or materially interfere with the carrying out of the Project or
the performance by SOFIDE of any of its other obligations under
the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and shall
take or cause to be taken all reasonable action which shall be
required on its part in order to enable SOFIDE to carry out the
Project and to perform such other obligations.
Section 3.03. The terms and conditions of the Convention and
of the Government Loans shall be modified only pursuant to the
agreement of the Borrower, the Association and SOFIDE.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take the necessary steps to
ensure that the facilities and expertise of SOFIDE for the
appraisal of industrial and tourism projects be utilized by the
Borrower by associating such work, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to SOFIDE and the Association, with that of the
Investment Committee of the Borrower.


﻿- 14 -
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) a default shall occur in the performance of any obliga-
tion of SOFIDE under the Project Agreement or under any other
project agreement between the Association and SOFIDE;
(b) the Statutes of SOFIDE shall have been amended so as to
affect materially and adversely the operations or financial condi-
tion of SOFIDE;
(c) SOFIDE shall be unable to pay its debts as they mature
or any action or proceeding shall have been taken whereby any of
the property of SOFIDE shall or may be distributed among its
creditors;
(d) any part of the principal amount of any loan to SOFIDE
having an original maturity of one year or more shall, in accor-
dance with its terms, have become due and payable in advance of
maturity, as provided in the relative contractual instruments, or
any security for any such loan shall have become enforceable;
(e) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of SOFIDE or for the suspension of its operations; and


﻿- 15 -
(f) a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or acquired or taken over by SOFIDE, if such creation, acquisition
or taking over would adversely affect the conduct of SOFIDE's
business, its financial situation, the efficiency of its management
and personnel or the carrying out of the Project.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additonal events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b) or (f) of
Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for
a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Association to the Borrower and SOFIDE; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d) or (e) of
Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿-16-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section'10.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) The execution of the Project Agreement on behalf of
SOFIDE has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
corporate and governmental action; and
(b) The execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf
of the Borrower and SOFIDE, respectively, has been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, SOFIDE, and
constitutes a valid and binding obligation of SOFIDE in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of, the Borrower and SOFIDE in accordance with its
terms.


﻿- 17 -
Section 5.03. The date October 3, 1977 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The provisions of paragraphs (a) through (f)
of Section 4.01 of this Agreement and those of paragraphs (a) and
(b) of Section 4.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate
or on a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿18-
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Subject to the provisions of Section 2.08 of
this Agreement, the Commissaire d'Etat responsible for Finance of
the Borrower is designated as representAtive of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Departement des Finances
Botte Postale No. 12997
Kinshasa 1
Republic of Zaire
Cable address:                   Telex:
DENFIN                                298 KIN/GOMBE
Kinshasa, Gombe
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INDEVAS                               440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                       24423  (RCA) or
89658 (WUI)


﻿- 19 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names and to
be delivered in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
By /s/ Kamimbaya wa Djondo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is! W. A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


