CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 710 ZR
Project Agreement
(Fourth Development Finance Company Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
SOCIETE FINANCIERE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
Dated August 2, 1977


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 2, 1977, between the INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
the SOCIETE FINANCIERE DE DEVELOPPEMENT (hereinafter called the
SOFIDE), established pursuant to authorization given under
Ordonnance-loi No. 70/001 dated January 9, 1970 of the Republic of
Zaire (hereinafter called the Borrower).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Association, the Association
has agreed to lend to the Borrower, for relending to SOFIDE,
an amount in various currencies equivalent to ten million dollars
($10,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that SOFIDE
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as
are hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS SOFIDE, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto'hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01 Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in'the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿- 3 -
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project;
Management and Operations of SOFIDE
Section 2.01. (a) SOFIDE shall carry out the Project,
described in Section 3.01 of the Development Credit Agreement,
and conduct its operations and affairs, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate economic, financial
and investment standards and practices, with qualified and
experienced management and in accordance with its Statutes and
Statement of Policy.
(b) The proceeds of the Credit made available to SOFIDE
by the Borrower under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall be
relent to Investment Enterprises at a rate of interest of not less
than 12.5% per annum.
(c) SOFIDE shall consult with the Association on any
proposal for an appointment to the position of its Director
General and for the purpose shall furnish to the Association
prior to such appointment details of the qualifications and
experience of the proposed candidate and of the proposed terms
and conditions of employment.
Section 2.02. (a) In accordance with and subject to the
provisions of the Development Credit Agreement, SOFIDE shall
submit Investment Projects to the Association for approval or
for authorization for withdrawals to be made from the Credit
Account.


﻿-4-
(b) (i) When submitting a sub-loan (other than a free-limit
sub-loan) or an investment to the Association for approval,
SOFIDE shall furnish to the Association an application, in form
satisfactory to the Association, together with a description
of the Investment Enterprise and of the'Investment Project to
be financed thereunder (including a description of the
expenditures for such Investment Project proposed to be financed
by SOFIDE and an appraisal of the Investment Project) and the
proposed terms and conditions of the sub-loan or investment,
including the schedule of amortization of the sub-loan, or of
repayment to the Borrower of the amount to be used for the
investment, and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request. (ii) Such appraisals will include a
calculation of the internal rate of return and, in cases of import
substitution, an evaluation of the economic rate of return,
established in accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the
Association.
(c) Each request by SOFIDE for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Credit Account in respect of a free-limit
sub-loan shall contain a summary description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment Project (including a description
of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit) and the terms and conditions of such free-limit
sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization therefor.


﻿- 5 -
(d) The amortization schedule applicable to each Investment
Project shall provide for an appropriate period of grace, and,
unless the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, (i)
shall not extend beyond fifteen years from the date of approval by
the Association of such Investment Project or of authorization by
the Association to make withdrawals from the Credit Account in
respect of such Investment Project, and (ii) shall provide for
approximately equal, or reasonably increasing, semi-annual, or
more frequent, aggregate payments of principal and interest or
approximately equal, or reasonably increasing, semi-annual, or
'more frequent, payments of principal.
(e) Except as the Association and SOFIDE shall otherwise
agree, SOFIDE shall submit applications for approval of Investment
Projects pursuant to the provisions of paragragh (b) of this
Section and requests for authorizations to withdraw from the
Credit Account pursuant to the.provisions of paragraph (c) of
this Section on or before June 30, 1979.
Section 2.03. (a) SOFIDE undertakes that unless the Association
shall otherwise agree, any sub-loan or investment will be made on
terms whereby SOFIDE shall obtain, by written agreement or other
appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests
of the Association and of SOFIDE, including, in the case of any
such sub-loan and to the extent that it shall be appropriate in


﻿- 6 -
the case of any such investment: (i) the right to require the
Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
sound technical, financial and managerial standards and to maintain
adequate records; (ii) the right to require that the goods and
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the sub-loan or
investment shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the
Investment Project; (iii) the right of the Association and of
SOFIDE to inspect such goods and the sites, works, plants and
construction included in the Investment Project, the operation
thereof, and any relevant records and documents; (iv) the right to
require that the Investment Enterprise shall take out and maintain
such 1.1surance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall
be consistent with sound business practice and that, without any
limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the sub-loan or investment
to the place of use or installation, and that any indemnity
thereunder shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such goods; (v) the
right to obtain all such information as the Association or SOFIDE
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the
administration, operations and financial condition of the Investment


﻿-7-
Enterprise and (vi) the right of SOFIDE to suspend or terminate
the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of the proceeds
of the sub-loan or investment upon failure by such Investment
Enterprise to perform its obligations under its agreement with
SOFIDE.
(b) SOFIDE shall exercise its rights in relation to each
Investment Project in such manner as to (i) protect the interests
of the Association and of SOFIDE, (ii) comply with its obligations
under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and (iii)
achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.04. SOFIDE shall furnish to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of the sub-loans and
investments, the Project, the Investment Enterprises, the Investment
Projects, the sub-loans and investments.
Section 2.05. SOFIDE shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreementa Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, SOFIDE shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of assigning, or amending,
abrogating or waiving any provision of, the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.


﻿-8-
Section 2.06. Except as the Association and SOFIDE shall
otherwise agree, SOFIDE: (i) shall not sell, lease, transfer
or otherwise dispose of any of its property or assets, except in
the ordinary course of business and (ii) shall take all action
necessary to maintain its corporate existence and right to carry
on operations and to acquire, maintain and renew all rights,
powers, privileges and franchises necessary or useful in the
conduct of its business.
Section 2.07. SOFIDE shall cause each of its subsidiaries
(if any) to observe and perform the obligations of SOFIDE under
this Agreement to the extent to which the same may be applicable
thereto as though such obligations were binding upon each of
such subsidiaries.
Section 2.08. SOFIDE shall not amend its Statement of Policy
except in agreement with the Association, and shall consult
with the Association on any proposal to modify its Statutes.
Section 2.09. SOFIDE, by December 31, 1977 or such later date
as the Association may determine, shall (i) incorporate in a
comprehensive manual its existing operational policies and
procedures with those under preparation and (ii) strengthen its
program of supervision of projects it finances.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. SOFIDE shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project and of each Investment
Project (including the cost thereof) and to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices the operations and financial condition of SOFIDE and
shall enable the Association's representatives to examine such
records.
Section 3.02. SOFIDE shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than three months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning the accounts and financial statements
of SOFIDE and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request.


﻿- 10 -
Section 3.03. Except as the Association and SOFIDE shall
otherwise agree, SOFIDE shall not incur or permit any subsidiary
to incur any debt if, after the incurring of such debt, the
consolidated debt of SOFIDE and all its subsidiaries then incurred
and outstanding would exceed three timeb the consolidated capital
and surplus of SOFIDE and all its subsidiaries. For the purpose
of this Section:
(a) The term "debt" means any debt incurred by SOFIDE or
any subsidiary maturing more than one year after the date on which
it is originally incurred, including debt assumed or guaranteed by
SOFIDE or by a subsidiary.
(b) Wherever reference is made in this Section to the
incurring of debt, such reference shall include any modification
of the terms of payment of such debt. Debt shall be deemed to be
incurred (i) under a loan contract or agreement on the date and
to the extent the loan is drawn down pursuant to such loan
contract or agreement and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on
the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been
entered into but only to the extent the guaranteed debt is
outstanding.
(c) Whenever in connection with this Section it shall be
necessary to value in terms of Zaires debt payable in foreign
currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing lawful


﻿- 11 -
rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the time
of such valuation, obtainable in Kinshasa for the purposes of
servicing such debt.
(d) The term "consolidated debt of SOFIDE and all its
subsidiaries" means the total amount of debt of SOFIDE and all its
subsidiaries excluding (i) debt owed by SOFIDE to any subsidiary
or by any subsidiary to SOFIDE or to any other subsidiary and
(ii) debt referred to in paragraph (e) (ii) and (iii) of this
Section.
(e) The term "consolidated capital and surplus of SOFIDE
.and all its subsidiaries" means the aggregate of (i) the total
unimpaired paid-in capital, surplus and free reserves of SOFIDE
and of all its subsidiaries after excluding therefrom such amounts
as shall represent equity interests of SOFIDE in any subsidiary,
or of any such subsidiary in SOFIDE or in any other subsidiary,
(ii) the amount of the Government Loans and (iii) such amount
of any other loan which the Association may determine to be
included in the consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower.
Section 3.04. Except as the Association and SOFIDE shall
otherwise agree, SOFIDE shall not make any repayment in advance
of maturity in respect of any of its borrowings (other than
deposits) having an original term exceeding one year.


﻿- 12 -
Section 3.05. SOFIDE shall take such steps satisfactory to
the Association as shall be necessary to protect itself against
risk of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange
between the various currencies (including Zaires) used in its
borrowing and lending operations.


﻿- 13 -.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. (a) The Association and SOFIDE shall cooperate
fully to assure that the purposes of the Credit will be
accomplished. To that end, the Association and SOFIDE shall from
time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to the progress of the
Project, the performance by SOFIDE of its obligations under this
Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the administration,
operations and financial condition of SOFIDE and other matters
relating to the purpose of the Credit.
(b) SOFIDE shall furnish to the Association all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning
the administration, operations and financial condition of SOFIDE
and its subsidiaries (if any).
Section 4.02. SOFIDE shall promptly inform the Association
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere
with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the
maintenance of the service thereof or the performance by SOFIDE
of its obligations under this Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.


﻿14
Section 4.03. SOFIDE shall enable the Association's
representatives to inspect the records referred to in Section
3.01 of this Agreement and any relevant documents.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of SOFIDE thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with it terms; or
(ii) a date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragrah
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
SOFIDE of this event and, upon the giving of such notice, this
Agreement and all obligations of the parties thereunder shall
forthwith terminate.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any
cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿- 16 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The address so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                    24423  (RCA) or
89658 (WUI)
For SOFIDE:
Socift6 Financiere de Developpement
Bolte Postale 1148
Kinshasa 1
Republic of Zaire
Cable address:                       Telex:
SOFIDE                               390
Kinshasa


﻿- 17 -
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement or under Section 2.08 of the Development Credit
Agreement on behalf of or by SOFIDE may be taken or executed
by its President jointly with any Director, or by its Director
General and Principal Advisor, or by such other person or persons
as SOFIDE shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. SOFIDE shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of the person or persons who will, on behalf of SOFIDE,
take any action or execute any documents required or permitted
to be taken or executed by SOFIDE pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.


﻿-18-
IN WITNESS HEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ W. A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
SOCIETE FINANCIERE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
By /s/ Kamimbaya wa Djondo
Authorized Representative


