Document of
Tne World Bank
FOR OFFICMIL USE ONLY
FIlJE QODPY
Report No. 5356
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
rut r                   it_g, (CREDIT 748-LSO)
Z)  Z          IC
i - . s o cnm
I,             (n  O     j
Z
mc
m
II        ~z
December 1i, 1984
Education and Manpower Development Division
Eastern Africa Regional Office
This docmeot his a restricted distribuon ad may be used by recipievts only in the perforumace of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY
COSC                Cambridge Overseas School Certificate
CTI                 Commercial Training Institute
DANIDA              Danish International Development Agency
GOL                 Government of Lesotho
JC                  General Secondary Junior Certificate
LAC                 Lesotho Agricultural College
LDTC               Lesotho Distance Teaching Center
LIPA               Lesotho Institute of Public Administration
LTI                 Lerotholi Technical Institute
LTS                Leloaleng Trade School
MOE                Ministry of Education, Sports and Culture
MOW                Ministry of Works
NCDC                National Curriculum Development Center
NTTC               National Teacher Training College
NUL                National Urii'ersity of Lesotho
RSA                Republic of South Africa
T.A.                Technical Assistance
TSRP               Training for Self-Reliance Project
LTS                Leribe Technical School
First Education Project (Credit No. 479-LSO)
Second Education Project (Credit No. 748-LSO)
Third Education Project (Credit No. 1148-LSO)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of I
Itheir official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



LESOTHO - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT 748-LSO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE                                                                   (i)
KEY PROJECT DATA ...................................   (ii)
HIGHLIGHTS                               o.e....e... ,                   ,..  (v)
Is     SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS . *........ ....................        1
II.    INTRODUCTION ...................     Os      ...... C ...........   5
III.   PROJECT BACKGROUND ....................     e...................    6
Socio-Economic Setting.         ...................... .           6
The Education Sector                         ................      7
Project Identification ......       .............................  8
Project Objectives ....        ...................................  8
Project Content ......................................             9
Modifications to the Project ...............                        J
IV.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .-   ...............                        10
Credit Effectiveness                    ....                      10
Project Administration        .                                   10
Physical Implementation         ......      ..11
Furniture and Equipment ....       .14
Technical Assistance ......16
Audit Reports                      .......                        16
Pre±w.restment Studies                                            17
Retroactive Financing ..........                                  17
Covenants ............      ......   ....... ...........    17
Bank Group Performance ...................................    18
V.     PROJECT COST AND FINANCING ...............19
Capital Costs ...........19............19
Areas and Costs                                                   21
Disbursements .......                                             22



Page No.
VI.    PROJECT OPER  TING OUTCOME ....         ..........................    22
The National Curriculum Development Center         ...............   22
Expansion of Technical Education Facilities         ..............    23
Trade Testing         .......................................*    25
Improvement of Secondary Education          .......................    25
Assistance to Teacher Training          ...........................    29
Evaluation .......      ................................ ......    29
Non-Formal Education Program          .............................    30
Female Participation u...........              .0 ......         30
ANNEXES:
Annex 1  -  Cost of Physical Facilities - Civil Wcrks
Annex 2  -  Cost of Physical Facilities - Furniture and Equipment
Annex 3  -  Implementation Schedule
Annex 4  -  Compliance with Credit Conditions
Annex 5  -  Key Indicators
CHARTS
Chart 1 - Ministry of Education Organization Chart, 1983
Chart 2 - Education Pyramid, 1982
Chart 3 - Education System 1983



- i. -
LESOTHO
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (CREDIT 748-LSO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This project completion report reviews the implementation of the
Second Education Project in Lesotho, which was signed on November 30, 1977
for US$7.5 million.  The Credit was fully disbursed in April 1982 and the
project was closed December 31, 1982.
This report was prepared by Bank group staff following a mission
to Lesotho in March 1983. Additional data were collected during a prepara-
tion mission for a proposed Fourth Education Project in June 1983.
The valuable assistance provided by the Government, in particular
by the Project Implementation Unit, and 1by the evaluation consultant, inter
alia, during the preparation of this repcrt is gratefully acknowledged.
The project has not-been audited by the Operations Evaluation
Department. Copies of the project completion report were sent to the
Government for comment in September 1984. No comments have been received.



(ii)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LESOTHO - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT 748-WSO
Key Project Data
Appraisal
Estiate       Actual
Total Project Cost (US$  aillion)                         9.3           10.i
Cost Overrun (Z in US$ terms)                              -               9Z
Credit Amount (US$  million)                              7.5            7.5
Credit Funds Disbursed (US$ Million)                      7.5            7.5
Completion of Physical Components                        3/31/81    12131/82
Number of Months since Credit Signed (11/30/77)           40              61
Proportion Completed by Above Date                        65%             99Z
Proportion of Time Overrun (from Credit signing)           -              53Z
Institutional Performance                                  -             Good
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ Million)
1st        2nd
Semester   Semester
FY78   FY79    FY80    FY81       FY82        FY82
Appraisal Estimate         0.10   1.00    4.30    6.90       7.50        7.50
Actual                     0.00   0.20    0.96    4.61       5.55        7.50
Actual/Estimated (Z)         0     20       22     0.67       74         100
Other Project Data
Original      Actual
First Mention in Files                                  05/26/75          -
Initial Project Brief                                   0524/76          -
Government 'a Request                                   11/25/76          -
Appraisal Missicn                                       01/02/77          -
Negotiations                                            10/03/77          -
Board Approval                                          11/15/77          -
Credit Agreement Date                                   11/30/77          -
Effectiveness Date                                      03/30/78          -
Closing Date                                            12/30/81       12/31/82
Borrower                                                Kingdon of Lesotho
Executing Agency                                       Interministerial
Project Authority
Fiscal Year of Borrower                                April 1 to March 31
Follow-up Project Name                                  Third Education Project
Credit Number                                        114S-LSO
Currency Exchange Rates
Name of Currency: Maloti 1/ (abbreviation M)
Appraisal Year                  1977 : Ml - US$1.1500
Implementation Years            1978: Ml - US$1.1500
1979 : Ml - US$1.2094
1980: Ml - US$l.3402
1981   Ml - US$1.0454
Completion Year                 1982: Ml - US$0.9314
i  Although Lesotho is part of the S.A. Rand monetary area it established
its national currency, the Maloti, in 1979 and has been mnintalned at
par with the Rand ever since- The Project was appraised in Rand.



(iii)
Data on Missions
Type of           Sent  Month/   No. of   No. of Persons    Staff  Date of
Mission            by    Year      Weeks   and Composition   Weeks  Report
Reconnaissance   IDA   08/75       1.8 a/  2 (G,A)             2.6    9/04/75
Identification          03/76      3.2 al  3 (G,E,NP)          9.6    4/01/76
Pre-appraisal           07/76      5.2     1 (E)               5.2    7/28/76
Pre-appraisal           10/76      1.6     3 (G,Ag.E)          4.8   11/23/76
Appraisal               1-2177    5.0      5(E,A,2G,NP)b/    17.0   11/02/77
Total                         16.8                         39.2
a/ Concurrently with supervision of Education I.
b/ Of those, one general educator and the non-formal educator participated
part-time (l week each).
Supervision 1    IDA   04/78       2.0 a/  2 (A,T)             4.0   06/05/78
Supervision 2           09/78      2.2 al  3 (A,E,P)           6.6   11/08/78
Supervision 3           02/79      5.1 b/  2 (A,P)            10.2   04/04/79
Supervision 4           07/79      5.0 b/  3 (A,Adv,P)        15.0   06/17/79
Supervision 5           12/79      4.4 cl  2 (A,P)             8.8   01/30/80
Supervision 6      -    02-03/80  3.4 d/  3 (A,E,P)           10.2   06/06/80
Supervision 7           07-08/80  3.6 dJ  2 (A,T)              7.2   09/18/80
Supervision 8           09-10/80  6.2 e/  4 (A,E,P,T)         24.8   11/21/80
Supervision 9           02/81      2.8 f/  1 (P)               2.8   04/10/81'
Supervision 10    -    06-07/81  2.8 fl  1 (A)                 2.8   08/27/81
Supervision 11          09-10/81  3.6 g  2 (A,P)               7.2   11/30/81
Supervision 12          01-02/82  2.8 h|  4 (A,OA,P)          11.2   03/30/82
Supervision 13          06/82      2.8 Fl  I (P)               2.8   07/22/82
Supervision 14          10-11/82  3.2 hl  2 (A,P)              6.4   12/16/82
49.9                       119.0
A    = Architect
Adv  -  Advisor/Women in Development
Ag.  -  Agricultural Educator
C    -  Consultant
D.Ch = Division Chief
E    -  Economist
G    -  General Educator
OA   -  Operation Assistant
p    =  Planner Educator
T    -  Technical Educator
NF   =  Non-Formal Educator
Notes:  Combined with and including tine for:
a/  jointly with supervision of Educ. I
hi  jointly with supervision of Educ. I and reconnaissance Educ. III
c/ jointly with identification of Educ. III
d/ jointly with preparation of Educ. III
e/ jointly with appraisal of Educ. III
f/  jointly with post-appraisal of Educ. III
j/  jointly with supervision of Educ. III
h/  jointly with supervision of Educ. III and reconnaissance of Educ. IV



(iv)
Allocation and Disbursements of Credit Proceeds
(in US$ equivalent)
Credit        Credit Funds          Final
Category             Allocation       Reallocated      Disbursements
1. Civil Works                4,500,000      + 194,339.93       4,694,339.93
2. Furniture                    500,000      + 343,076.29        843,076.29
3. Equipment                    600,000      +  85,307.66         685,307.66
4. Technical Assistance         300,000      - 164,971.83         135,028.17
5. Professional Services        160,000      + 194,632.75         354,632.75
6. Evaluation                   120,000      -  54,330.08          65,669.92
7. Project Administration       500,000      + 221,945.28         721,945.28
8. Unallocated                  820,000      - 820,000.00               0.00
TO!.:AL                   7,500,000                         7,500,000,00



(v)
LESOTHO - SECOND EDUCATION 1faOJECT
CREDIT 748-LSO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS
The Development Credit Agreement became effective March 30, 1978,
one month after the scheduled date of February 28, 1978. Effectiveness and
early progress were affected by delays related to the staffing of the
architectural team. By February 1979, the project was experiencing a delay
of about one year. In 1979 the Government was advised by the Bank Group
that unless the management of the project was improved it was likely that
substantial cost and time overruns would occur. The Government reviewed
the situation and appointed a new director in January 1980 and the MOW
seconded a new team of architects and architectural technicians to TSRP.
The new staff made energetic efforts to recover lost time. As a result
implementation progress improved and disbursements increased from US$1.2
million in February 1980 to about US$6.0 million by December 31, 1981, the
original Credit Closing Date.
The US$7.5 million Credit was to help finance a project,
estimated originally to cost US$9.3 million, to build and equip a
Curriculum Development Center and to extend two technical secondary and
eleven general secondary schools so that the latter could provide the
diversified curriculum which had already been supported under the first
project. Equipment and vehicles for other institutions was also included
in the project, together with technical assistance and fellowships for
project implementation, evaluation, and for training teacher-educators.
Pre-investment activities and studies rounded out the project (PCR, para.
3.15).
The project has been successfully implemented in regard to its
physical facilities and appears on the way to achieving its educational
objectives but the attempt to introduce a diversified curriculum in the
secondary schools was slowed by a lack of teachers to teach the subjects
and difficulties in finding space for the subjects on an already crowded
secondary timetable.
Other problems of this project were educational and arose in part
because bilateral sources, on which the project was relying to supply
specialist teachers of various kinds were unable to provide the teachers in
the numbers required.
Basically, the objectives of the Curriculum Development Center
are being achieved (PCR, para. 6.04), as are those of expansion of
technical schools (PCR, paras. 6.05-6.08). In respect to the secondary
education component the expansion of facilities and introduction of the new
courses was reached. But, at the time of the completion mission, school



(vi)
enrollments had only reached 55% of the new facilities capacity (PCR,
para. 6.12) and full utilization was unlikely to be achieved for a few
years since enrollments were being increased by only one level annually
(PCR, para. 6.13). The assistance to teacher training, evaluation, and
non-formal education programs were all successful (PCR, paras. 6.16-6.20).
All but one project component was completed by the original Closing Date
and at the request of the Government, the Bank Group agreed to postpone the
Credit Closing Date by 12 months (to December 31, 1982) and by that date
the project had been basically completed.
The Credit of US$7.5 was fully disbursed with the final cost of
the project being US$10.2 million versus US$9.3 million estimated at
appraisal. Delays with the implementation of the civil works combined with
a period of high inflationary cost increases were the main reasons for this
10% cost overrun.
Overall, the project was successful and other points of special
interest are
Ca) the purchase of supplementary equipment for the eleven
secondary schools needs to be addressed at the earliest
to enable these schools to increase enrollments and
maximize the use of the facilities provided (paras. 4.17,
6.15);
(b) to assist the Government improve the cost effectiveness
and efficiency at the secondary level, additional
assistance for the implementation of the newly established
administrative policies should be considered in future
projects (para. 6.13);
c) attention should be given to the training of school
principals (para. 6.13); and
(d) the quality of vocational and technical training is
dependent upon improved trade testing. This area
will need further assistance in the future if not dealt
with by other donors (para. 6.10).
The project can be considered to have basically succeeded in its
objectives including considerable institutional building as regards the
implementation agency (TSRP). Additional time is required to fully
evaluate its long term effects.



I. SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Project Objectives
1.01      The project was designed tc -ontribute towards increasing the
Government's ability to deal with the two main elements which sustain the
country's economy: (a) tbe agricultural sector, and (b) migrant employment
in the RSA. The project would help to increase the focus of primary,
secondary, and adult education on rural development as a means of
attaining, over the long term, increased self reliance and reduced
dependence on the RSA. In the medium term, the project would provide the
country wtth additional skill training designed to maximize the earnings of
migrant workers and also to 4ncrease the pool of -_killed people who might
remain in Lesotho.
1.02      Specifically, the project consisted of:
(a) The construction, furnishing, and equipping of a National
Curriculum Development Center (NCDC);
(b) Extensions, furniture, and equipment for two existing
technical schools;
(c) Office and trade-tescing equipment, a vehicle, and
operational expenses over the project period for a new
Trade-Testing System;
(d) Extensions, furniture, and equipment for eleven general-
secondary schools;
(e) Minor improvement in teacher-education workshop facilities,
limited staff housing, and a bus for the institutions (the
National Teacher Training college, the Lesotho Agricultural
College, and the Lerotholi Technical Institute) which
together will train the teachers of pre-vocational subjects;
(f) Technical assistance for the training of Basotho teacher-
educators, for the Trade-Testing System, for project
implementation (an architect, a quantity surveyor, and
engineering and procurement consultants), and for fnrmative
educational evaluation;
(g) Permanent office accommodations, furniture, vehicles,
equipment, and operating expenses for project
administration; and
(h) Pre-investment activities and studies.



-2-
Project Costs
1.03      The cost of the project at appraisal was estimated at US$9.3
million of which the Bank Group financing of US$7.5 million was ezpected to
cover 81% of the total project costs. As implemented the final cost of the
project vas US$10.1 million about 10% higher than expected with the IDA
financing 75% and the Government funding 25Z. Cost overruns were mainly
experienced in civil works, 7%; furniture, 39%; and equipment, 27%. These
increases were mainly due to the high lnflationary cost increases
experienced in SoutnQcn Africa and as a result of delays in implementation.
Project Implementation and Outcomes
1.04      The projact became effective about one month beyond the original
termination date due to belated staffing of the architectural team.
Project implementation experienced difficulties during the first two years
but following a change in personnel the components were rapidly and
efficiently implemented. In brief, the execution of the project components
was as follow,s:
(a) A National Curriculum Development Center (NCDC) was
constructed, furnished, equipped and has been in use since December 1980.
The facilities for curriculum development, career guidance, a primary
examination unit, a statistics unit and the TSRP were provided. All the
facilities, except for the career guidance where staffing problems have
occured, are being used for the purpose they were designed.
(b) Two existing religious administered technical/trade schools,
the Technical School of Leribe (TSL) and the Leloaleng Trade School (LTS)
have been expanded and provided with appropriate furniture and equipment.
The TSL component was successfully built by the departmental forces of
school (using teachers and students) and was completed about two years
ahead of schedule. At the time of the Completion mission the LTS's
enrollments were 57% greater than the target, while those of the technical
school of Leribe, largely due to management problems, had reached only 83%
of the enrollment planned at appraisal. The two institutions have
introduced all the proposed courses. Both schools have also established
advisory committees which have initiated adult training programs.
(c) The trade testing system, which had been started by the
Government prior to Credit effectiveness, was provided with the appropriate
materials and equipment required for its operation.
(d) Eleven secondary schools were provided with facilities and
equipment to introduce practical subjects with the enrollment targets
reaching about 60% of the appraisal estimate in 1984. The slower than
expected growth is largely due to the shortage of teachers. Enrollments
are expected to be reached within a few years. All the proposed facilities



- 3-
have been completed and adequately furnished. Some shortages of equipment
are being experienced in two subjects, home-economics and agriculture. The
elementary technology subjects with supplementary equipment supplied by the
Irish Government have been satisfactorily equipped. The introduction of
the secondary practical subject's program is having initiation problems
resulting from: (i) the late construction (all facilities built during the
last three years of the project); (ii) the delays in electrical
reticulation; (iii) a shortage of qualified teachers; (iv) the weak
administrative skills of the principals; and (v) the lack of clear
implementation policies from the MOE. At the time of the completion
mission the Government had, with the assistance of an evaluator, identified
the above problems and had established appropriate secondary school
administrative policies and started training principals.
(e) With the assistance of the Irish Technical Assistance
Program, the project component to strengthen the training of teachers in
elementary technology was implemented. An existing facilty at the
National Teacher Training College (NTTC) was upgraded and equipped. A
vehicle was purchased to assist with the transport of teacher tralnees in
agriculture to the Lesotho Agricultural College (LAC) and the technology
students to LTI. This program of joint teaching between LAC, LTI, and NTTC
was initiated in 1979 but was dropped in L980 due to coordination
problems. With assistance from the Irish Technical Assistance a one-year
improved pedagogical training program in elementary technology has been
implemented at NTTC.
(f) Only the part of the technical assistance necessary to
successfully implement the above programs and services was obtained. The
British High Commission which was to provide about 240 man-months for the
NCDC was unable, due to budgetary reductions, to supply the advisors.
Fewer teachers than expected were made available by other donor agencies,
thus making the introduction of the practical subjects in the secondary
schools more difficult. The Irish Government did supply about 80
man-months of unscheduled technical assistance for teacher training and the
teaching of elementary technology.
(g) Funds made available in the pre-investment category were used
to employ a consultant architect and a textbook consultant to prepare the
ongoing Third Education Project (Credit No. 1148-LSO). Funds were also
used to purchase computer equipment for the planning office and to
construct a pilot primary school/craft center where children or the Roma
Valley attend courses in the production of local crafts.
1.05      Generally, it can be stated that the objectives of the project
have basically been achieved L.>. it is too early to determine whether the
project wiU achieve its long tern objectives of quality output and of
reducing the dependency on expatriates. The indications point to a good
beginning in their directions and are being reinforced under the Third
Education Project.



-4-
Recommendations
1.06      The Government should exert efforts to implement its new policies
as contained in the recently approved Education Sector Survey, in
particular those pertaining to secondary education (Report of the Task
Force Nov. 1982) to maximize the returns to their investment in the eleven
secondary schools.
1.07      The arrangement of seconding Ministry of Works staff to the TSRP
architectural team was a worthwhile solution and should be continued in
future projects. That structure allows the MOW to control the employment
of the technicians and speeds up the processing and approval of designs and
plans and enhances the dialogue with MDE.
1.08      The preparation of equipment lists should always involve the
recipient school and be approved by HOE. To make that process efficient
the MOE with TSRP should formalize within specific time limits this
procedure to prevent delays in processing and avoid changing lists three or
four times as experienced during the project.
1.09      TSRP should have a system of central files controlled by its
director to avoid the loss of important documents such as equipment lists
which happened when staff changes occurred.
1.10      As stressed by many supervision reports the execution of a
project will suffer major delays if the activities of the accounts,
procurement and architectural units are not properly coordinated. Efforts
to better coordinate and train the staff of the above units must be
continued.
Lessons Learned
1.11      The implementation of the Second Education Project produced the
following lessons:
(a) The Bank Group probably should have been more cautious in
financing a second phase of facilities for practical subjects at the
secondary level when policy issues faced by the first phase (six schools in
the First Education Project were still not resolved. Issues that
particularly should have been resolved include staffing, curriculum and
examination matters. Since the above policy issues had not been resolved
the Third Education Project (Credit 1148-LSO) did not include a secondary
component. The Government since then has completed an Education Sector
Survey and has established specific policies for curriculum, facilities and
staffing. With funds from the PPF (P264-LSO), an analysis of tiie
facilities and utilization of staff is being carried out. The study will
give the Government the data needed to implement its recently adopted
educatien policies. Future investment in secondary education should hinge
on the conditionality that the Government implement its official policies;



(b) Additional attention should be given to the training of the
key staff of the project implementation unit, particularly of the director,
accountant and procurement officers;
(c) Weakness in MOE and school principals management affected the
implementation of new programs. It is not sufficient to supply new
facilities and equipment; MOE staff and principals must be trained on how
to make the most efficient use of the investment. This issue needs to be
addressed in order to further improve the efficiency and quality of the
education system; and
(d) Provision of technical assistance provided by donor agencies
should be carefully reviewed and appropriate assurances obtained where the
success of a component like the NCDC is dependent. As a precautionary
measure key posts should be included within the project as was done in the
Third Education Project.
TI.  INTRODUCTION
2.01      This report is based on the findings of a mission by Messrs. A.
Aimg (Education Planner) and M. Giuseppi (Architect) and Ms. H. Yamaguchi
(Operations Assistant), who visited Lesotho February 18 to March 3, 1983.
The mission visited seven of eleven junior secondary schools, the National
Curriculum Development Center (NCDC), the National Teacher Training College
(NTTC), the two vocational schools included in the project and the new
premises of the Project Implementation Unit (called Training For Self
Reliance Project in Lesotho - TSRP). The completion mission reviewed the
physical execution of the project and assessed it in comparison with the
appraisal estimates. It also analysed the impact of the project vis-a-vis,
its objectives.
2.02      This report is further based on:  (a) a completion report
prepared by the TSRP and submitted to the Bank Group by the Ministry of
Education, cn June 30, 1982; (b) information obtained from correspondence,
studies and data in the World Bank files, particularly staff supervision
reports and progress reports received from the TSRP and other departments
of the Government; (c) visits to institutions mentioned above; and (d)
discussions with TSRP staff and other Government officials, principals,
staff and students of project institutions, consultanus and Bank Group
staff familiar with the project.



-6-
III. PROJECT BACKGROUND
Socio-Economic Setting
3.01      At the time of appraisal in 1976, Lesotho, a small country
surrounded by the Republic of South Africa (RSA), had been independent for
ten years. The total land area of 30,350 square kilometers ranges from
5,000 to 11,000 feet in altitude and had a population of 1.4 million
growing at a rate of 2.4% per year. Agriculture accounted for more than
half of the GDP and two thirds of the country's export earnings, but only
about 13% of the land surface is suitable for crop production. By 1979/80
the GNP per capita was estimated at US$530 equivalent, although GDP per
capita in the same year was about US$435 equivalent. The difference was
composed mainly of migrant vorkers remittances.
3.02      During the 1970's and despite the country's limited resources,
Lesotho's GNP grew at an impressive average rate of 9% per annum in real
terms. In the last two years (1982-83) however, because of the detrimental
effects of world recession compounded by a prolonged drought and the
closing of the only large diamond mine in the country, the rate of economic
growth is estimated to have declined to only 3% per annum.
3.03      The slower expansion of the economy was accompanied  by
increasing fiscal deficits, financed mainly by commercial borrowing, the
service of which, is placing a heavy burden on the budget. Although in
1982-83 there was noticeable improvement in the fiscal outcome due to a
concerted effort to keep expenditures under control through freezes in
Government employment and wages and reduction in public investment, further
improvement is required.
3.04      Mainly because of Lesotho's limited natural resources and likely
decline in employment openings in the RSA, development prospects do not
appear as promising as in the 1970's - Nevertheless, opportunities do exist
for economic improvement. These include better use of the country
lhydroelectric potential, introduction of high-value crops, improved range
and crop land management and further development of livestock-based export
industries. However, in order to succeed along these lines, it is
necessary to restore the public sector financial health and in general
increase the efficiency of public sector management and operation. In
particular, the planning and budgetary processes need special attention.
It is also necessary to provide the citizenry with the specific skills
required for the effective implementation of development projects in the
above mentioned fields.
3.05      i. 1980, the distribution of the labor force was 36% in
agriculture, 49% in the mines and industrial sector of South Africa, 9% in
the services sector and 6% in industry. The most striking feature of



-7-
Lesotho's employment situation is the fact that almost half of the male
labor force (an estimated 160,000 people in 1980, according to the National
Manpower Development Study) was employed in the RSA. With so many men
absent from Lesotho at any one time, women play a significant role in the
economic affairs (farming, marketing, industry, and services) as well as in
the political affairs of the nation.
The Education Sector
3.06      At Independence in 1966, Lesotho found itself with a large formal
education network, provided by various mission societies, the
administration of which was largely in the hands of the churches. At that
time, few Basotho had obtained education beyond the junior secondary level
or had benefitted from skill training. The country had until then relied
heavily on expatriate expertise for the preparation and implementation of
development programs.
3.07      Following Independence, the new Government identified education
as a priority and made serious efforts to increase its administrative
control over the system. The Lesotho education system at the time of
appraisal was and still remains a joint venture between the Government and
the churches where the latter own and operate 97% of the primary and 86X of
the secondary schools, while the Government pays salaries of primary and
secondary teachers.
3.08      The structure of the formal education system and the organization
of the Ministry of Education (MOE) are shown in Charts 1, 2 and 3. The
system consists of seven years of primary education, five years of
secondary education (three years of junior secondary and two years of
senior secondary) and four to six years of higher education (Chart 1). The
administrative, financial, and academic control of the formal education
system is vested in MOE. The MOE trains and appoints teachers, administers
examinations, reviews and authorizes curricula, opens and closes schools,
inspects the operations of alU schools, and pays teachers' salaries.
Although the National University of Lesotho (NUL) is administered by an
independent board, MOE provides the bulk of its recurrent budget and is
represented on the Board of Directors. Additional special training
programs are operated by the Ministries of Agriculture, Commerce and
Industry, Rural Development, Health, the Prime Minister's Office, and in
the industrial sector by the Lesotho National Development Corporation.
3.09      In 1982 primary schools had a total enrollment equivalent to 123%
of the girls and 102% of the boys aged six to twelve. Almost all the
primary teachers were Basotho of which 36% were unqualified and the primary
teacher pupil ratio was 1:48. During the 1970's there was an enormous
growth in general secondary school enrollments, from 5,370 students in 1970
to 29,000 in 1982 which was equivalent to about 20% of the population aged
13 to 17. In 1982, 1,314 secondary teachers (30% unqualified) were
employed resulting in a teacher-pupil ratio of 1:21.



- 8 -
3.10      At the higher level, the National University of Lesotho offers
courses in humanities, social sciences, education, law and science to about
1,140 students. In addition, about 423 students are sent abroad to study
in fields not offered by NUL.
3.11      Non-formal education courses are provided by MOE through the
Lesotho Distance Teaching Center (LDTC) and by four other Mini.itries
(Agriculture, Health, Interior and Rural Development). In addi%zlca,
courses are provided by the Prime Minister's Office, five non-statutory
agencies, the NUL, and by over 400 church and voluntary groups with little
cooperation and coordination among them. LDTC provides (a) correspondence
courses at the JC and COSC levels; (b) formal and non-formal educational
radio programs; (c) coordination for MOE's adult non-formal education
programs; and (d) support to mass media in Lesotho.
Project Identification
3.12      In August 1975 a Bank Group mission responded to a Government's
request to consider a possible Second Education Project. The mission found
that the Government had already prepared the education chapter for the
Second Five-Year Development Plan (1976-1981). The education chapter
defined education needs including, inter alia, expansion of the practical
subjects at the secondary level, initiation of non-formal education,
expansion of vocational/technical training facilities and curriculum
development.
3.13      The Government's request was further reviewed during missions in
March and July 1976 and possible project components were identified during
a mission in October 1976. All of the components proposed by the
Government, except the non-formal training program which was not fully
prepared, were retained. The project was prepared by the Government with
the assistance of experts hired with funds provided by the-First Education
Project (Credit 497-LSO). During appraisal in January/February 1977,
provision of funds for studies, assistance to the Trade Testing Center and
fellowship fees for teachers at the NTTC and for MOE inspectors were also
included in the project. Negotiations were held in October 1977 and the
project was approved on November 15, 1977. The Development Credit
Agreement was signed on November 30, 1977 providing an IDA financing of
US$7.5 million.
Project Objectives
3.14      The project was designed to contribute towards increasing the
Government's ability to deal with the two main elements which sustain the
country's economy: (a) the agricultural sector, and (b) migrant employment
in the RSA. The project would help to increase the focus of primary,
secondary, and adult education on rural development as a means of
attaining, over the long term, increased self reliance and reduced



dependence on the RSA. In the medium term, the project would provide the
country with additional skill training designed to maximize the earnings of
migrant workers and also to increase the pool of skilled people who might
remain in Lesotho. The project's broad objectives were to (a) establish a
curriculum-development center, including strengthened career-guidance and
educational-radio services; (b) increase the facilities for technical
education, making it possible to expand enrollments and to introduce
courses for adults; (c) assist with establishment of a new, permanent
trade-testing system; (d) expand the curriculum-diversification program at
the level of secondary education by introducing pre-vocational subjects in
agriculture, elementary technology, home economics and commerce; (e)
strengthen the institutions responsible for training teachers of
pre-vocational subjects; and (f) provide the human resources necessary for
the above services and institutions, the implementation of the project,
formative evaluation of the secondary-level pre-vocational subjects; and
(g) preparation of future programs and projects.
Project Content
3.15      Specifically, the project as approved included:
(a) The construction, furnishing, and equipping of a National
Curriculum Development Center (NCDC);
(b) Extensions, furniture, and equipment for two existing
technical schools;
(c) Office and trade-testing equipment, a vehicle, and
operational expenses over the project period for a new
Trade-Testing System;
(d)  Extensions, furniture, and equipQent for eleven general-
secondary schools;
(e) Minor improvements in teacher-education workshop facilities,
limited staff housing, and a bus for the institutions (the
National Teacher Training college, the Lesotho Agricultural
College, and the Lerotholi Technical Institute) which
together will train the teachers of pre-vocational subjects;
(f) Technical assistance for the training of Basotho teacher-
educators, for the Trade-Testing System, for project
implementation (an architect, a quantity surveyor, and
engineering and procurement consultants), and for formative
educational evaluation;
(g) Permanent office accommodations, furniture, vehicles,
equipment, and operating expenses for project
administration; and
(h) Pre-investment activities and studies.



- 10 -
Modifications to the Project
3.16      The Government, in a letter dated July 21, 1981, requested the
postponement of the Credit Closing Date. The request was made when TSRP
realized that it could not, for technical reasons, complete as scheduled
the 15 staff houses in Maseru. In support of the TSRP management which bad
performed well during the last two years and based on the technical
problems encountered, the Borrower's request was accepted and by telex
dated November 20, 1981 the Credit Closing Date was postponed from December
31, 1981 to December 31, 1982.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Credit Effectiveness
4.01      The establishment and staffing of the architectural team within
the Ministry of Works for project implementation was a condition of crec'tt
effectiveness. The Development Credit Agreement became effective on March
30, 1978, about one month later than anticipated due to delays in staffing
the architectural team.
Project Administration
4.02      TSRP which had administered the First Education Project, was
assigned the implementation responsibilities of the second project.
Government supervision of TSRP was the responsibility of an
interministerial project authority chaired by the Permanent Secretary of
the Ministry of Education. TSRP's function was to implement the project
while helping Government establish an effective school building program
using standardized designs for educational facilities. TSRP was staffed by
Basotho throughout the project implementation (director, deputy director,
accountant, procurement officers and support staff) (para. 4.06). The
architectural personnel of TSRP, on the other hand, was initially staffed
primarily by expatriate architects and technicians but it gradually
increased the number of Basotho employed with the result that by the ead of
the project about 60% of the architectural staff were Basotho. Locally
based consultants and quantity surveyors, civil engineers and site
supervisors were employed to assist the architectural unit.
4.03      A procurement consultant was employed as needed to assist with
the purchase of furniture and equipment. An evaluation consultant was
employed from September 1980 to the end of the project to evaluate and
assist with the implementation of practical subjects and vocational



- U. -
components. All the consultants performed satisfactorily with the
exception that no appropriate training for local staff was provided by :he
procurement consultant.
4.04      As part of the project's objectives to develop local manpower
resources and to increase self-reliance, the deputy project director was
invited to the Economic Development Institute's project management seminar
in Washington and the accounting study program of the assistant accountant
(evening classes) were financed by the project. Much progress was realized
in keeping of records by both the accounting and procurement divisions but
at the close of the project the staff of these units still needed further
strengthening. This issue will be addressed in the proposed Fourth
Education Project. Another successful training program was organized
between the architectural unit and the Technician Training Program of the
Polytechnic. About six architectural and engineering technicians trainees
at one time, (twelve per year) were given about six months of on-the-job
training during the last three years of project implementation. The
trainees were paid a stipend by TSRP. This training was very successful
and greatly assisted the architectural team in advancing project
implementation as well as providing practical on-the-job experience.
Institutional building as regards the TSRP has been good and further
improvement is expected as the staff gain more experience.
Physical Implementation
4.05      Suitable sites were available for the expansions of existing
schools and the construction of new facilities at institutions included in
the project. The construction of the NCDC and of the TSRP facilities were
combined in order to reduce costs. A site for 15 staff houses in Maseru
was provided early in 1978.   Unfortunately this site had drainage problems
and because of the difficulties in finding another suitable site the
hydrological problems required the assessraent of a consulting engineer who
found an acceptable solution.  The study delayed the constructica of the
houses, and as a result the Government requested to have the Credit Closing
Date postponed by one year. Due to the late start of the construction
phase and to the extra site work required as a result of the hydrological
conditions, to remain within its budget only 13 of the 15 houses were
constructed. Since this reduction did not affect the project's educational
objectives it was accepted by the Bank Group.
4.06      Architectural/Engineering Services.  The establishment of an
architectural team to assist TSRP with the design and supervision of
construction works was a condition of Credit effectiveness. Difficulties
in recruiting an architect delayed the effectiveness of the Credit by one
month. Work had been initiated by an architect provided by UNESCO for the
First Education Project. This architect left Lesotho in mid-May 1978 and
the architect financed under the project took up his post in July 1978.
About a year after effectiveness the architectural team was composed of two



- 12 -
architects (one local) under contract with TSRP, and another architect
provided by DANIDA, and two architectural technicians. Due to the
difficulties in recruitment it was decided to use consultants for quantity
surveying and construction supervision work. The architectural team
initially located in the MOW had no clear terms of reference for the
education project it was assigned to. Also no division of responsibilities
were defined between IOW and MOE. In February 1979 a Bank Group
supervision mission found that the architectural design prepared exceeded
by as much as 30% the agreed construction areas and that the high standards
of design resulted in costs that exceeded appraisal estimates by about
90%. The architectural designs were reviewed and the TSRP Director was
advised to have these simplified and to remain within the agreed areas and
costs. This was done but about one year of the implementation period was
lost.
4.07      In August 1979 the Government nominated a review commission to
evaluate the TSRP management. As a result of the review the procurement
officer and his assistant resigned, and the TSRP Director was transferred
to another Government position. A new Director was nominated in January
1980, and a procurement officer in February 1980. The architectural team
remained for a while with only two architects, one in charge of the design
of only the Paray and St. James Secondary Schools, located in mountain
areas.  The architectural designs for the Leribe Technical School were
completed in mid-1979, and the construction contract using the school's
on-the-job training program, involving students and teachers was signed
between MOW and the Leribe School administration (para. 4.12).
4.08      The design and the tender documentation for the NCDC and three
other schools were ready by November 1979. Unfortunatelv the architect
in charge had to resign for health reasons in November 1979. A new
architect, provided by Irish Technical Assistance, was Pcsted to TSRP by
MOW in December 1979. Efforts to make-up the lost time were made and in
October 1980 a Bank Group supervision mission reported that construction
work was virtually completed at the NCDC, at four high schools and at a
technical school. In addition, construction works were proceeding at six
more high schools, including the mountain school implemented through direct
labor, and construction contracts were signed for the expansion of a trades
school and a junior secondary school. All the physical facilities included
in the projects were underway, with the exception of the 15 staff houses in
Maseru.
4.09      Due to their remote locations and lack of interested contractors
the Credit Agreement (Schedule 3, C (ii)) included a clause regarding the
use of force account methods for the construction of Paray and St. James
schools. However, in 1980, the Government had carried-out, with the
support of external aid, a comprehensive development scheme in the area of
Thaba Tseka, where the Paray school is located. Consequently civil works
contractors were in the area and a construction contract was awarded using



- 13 -
LCB.  The construction of the most remote school, St. James, was
implemented by foree account.  The force account operation which started in
November 1979 ran immediately into procurement, transport, and financial
management  problems.  The MOW did its best to help and posted in St. James
one of its most competent foremen. Nevertheless, the difficulties of
procurement and transport could not be totally resolved and the component's
construction work was delayed and was completed just prior to the extended
Credit Closing Date.  The DANIDA Architect left the TSRP in June 1981, and
the architect provided by the Irish T.A. took over the supervision of St.
James and another architect sponsored by USAID was assigned supervision of
the Paray school.
4.10      The services of civil engineer, quantity surveyor and site
supervisors provided by locally based consultants, were timely and
professionally carried out.
4.11      The designs prepared by the architectural team took into due
consideration the experience acquired during the implementation of the
First Education Project. The opinions and observations made by the users
of the facilities included in that project were also taken into account,
and an improved standard of design was developed, which was more economical
and easily replicable. Maximum use was made of locally produced
construction materials and the construction details adopted were simple
enough to be executed by medium-sized domestic contractors which were
operating in the interior of the country. The final designs respected the
agreed areas. The final project cost had a modest cost overrun of 9X which
could have been entirely avoided with an earlier start of implementation.
Generally, all the physical facilities provided under the project with the
exception of the kitchens at Bereng and Hlotse and the home-economics
facilities at Paray and St. James, are functional and economical, and they
serve their intended purpose. The kitchens were overdesigned (built on the
basis of a large commercial enterprise) with the result that they are too
costly for the schools to operate. The original home-economics classrooms
designs approved by the Bank Group staff were modified without agreement of
Bank Group staff. The two rooms originally proposed were combined into one
reduced in size with the result that it is difficult to teach the program.
Floor finishing is mostly in cement and walls are of locally produced
bricks or cement blocks. Timber roof trusses or steel trusses had to be
imported as corrugated asbestos sheets or clay tile roofing cover. These
materials provide adequate thermal and noise insulation.
4.12      Construction.  LCB was mainly used for the implementation of the
physical facilities in the project. Due to the comparatively small and
scattered locations, only medium sized domestic contractors answered the
invitations to tender. In the case of the Leribe Technical School the
administration of the school undertook the construction (para. 4.07). At
Christ the King High School, the school administration had built all the
other buildings on the campus using expensive dressed stones. The school



- 14 -
proposed for aesthetlc compatbillity to bear the difference in cost for the
construction of the academic buildings using the same dressed stones. The
proposal was accepted and good quality work was timely executed withLi the
cost estimate.
4.13      Force Account.  Due to its remote mountain location the St.
James' school did not attract any contractors and the construction wsa
carried out by force account organized by NOW. The operation ran into the
difficulties of obtaining construction materials because of poor financial
record keeping. The construction activilies at St. James dragged on from
November 1979 to December 31, 1982, the final Credit Closing Date. After a
final inspection made in January 1983, the TSRP archltect reported that a
certain amount of work was still to be done, about 14Z (M. 80,000) of the
component in monetary terms. Nevertheless, the total cost of the component
inclusive of the remaining work to be completed was about 15X less than the
amount estimated at appraisal including all contingencies (M. 653,521). In
conclusion the use of force account in the project was not an entirely
negative experience, but it should be kept in mind that it was limited to
only one school (less than IOZ of the total construction work) and received
all possible attention and support from a very active MOW.
4.14      Maintenance of Facilities.  The maintenance of the school
facilities has been previously carried out by the religlous missions and
organizations who own and adminlster the schools including the collection
of a maintenance fee from the parents of the students. In most cases the
schools are well run and properly maintained, in spite of the fact that
some of the fees collected for the maintenance are used to add new
facilities (which in turn have to be maintained). In other cases,
particularly in schools administrated directly by the MOE, maLntenance la
entirely la6king. Under the proposed Fourth Education Project, a system of
maintenance control is to be established.
Furniture and Equipment
4.15      The original cost of furniture was estimated at M520,000
including contingencies and the equipment at M593,300 including
contingencies for a total of M1,113,300. The final costs are: furniture
M743,800 (about M223,800 above appraisal estimate), and equipment M732,800
(about M139,500 above estimate); for a total cost of M1,479.600 or about
28% above the estimate (Annex 2). TSRP with assistance from a consultant
prepared all furniture and equipment lists, tender documentations, tender
analysis, contract awards, and supervised the procurement and dlstribution
to the project institutions. Approximately 75% of the furniture and
equipment was procured through ICB, 5% by LCB and the remaining 20% by
other approved methods. All procurement was processed by the Lesotho
Tender Board. Goods were supplied by Canadian, British, American, Japanese
and German companies, with the main suppliers coming from the RSA. The
furniture and equipment supplied at the Leribe Technical School, the



- 15 -
Leloaleng Trade School, the Trade Testing Center and teacher training
components are experiencing high usage rates estimated at over 90Z by TSRP
staff. It is believed that the close participation of the lnstitutlon's
staff in the selection process at these schools largely accounts for the
suitability and high usage of equipment.
4.16      Some shortcomings in the supply of equipment to the secondary
schools has been experienced. Insufficient numbers of hand tools for
elementary technology and agriculture and home economics utensils were
supplied. Some over sophisticated (i.e., drafting equipment, radial arm
saws and elaborate hatching brooders) were purchased. However, most of
this equipment was exchanged for hand tools or transferred to the
Agriculture Training College. The equipment for the practical subject
elementary technology (woodwork, metalwork, technical drawing) is
appropriate and adequate to teach the new syllabus. At the time of the
completion mission, some shortages in the home-economics and agriculture
equipment were being experienced with the result that the introduction of
the latter courses in some schools has been difficult or delayed. In
addition, the Government was unable to recruit all the expatriate teachers
It had hoped to. Combined with the shortage of qualified teachers, certain
schools (Hlotse, Masitise, St. Agnes and Bereng) were unable to begin
teaching some of the practical subjects in January 1982, because of delays
experienced with electrical connections. As of 1983, during the second
year of implementation of the program, only about 78% of the new subjects
had been started. As a consequence, only about 512 of the furniture and
equipment supplied were being used at the time of the mission. But in
January 1984, when the third year of a three-year intake for the practical
subject program is implemented, the MOE expects that all the courses will
be started with the enrollment and utilization of equipment increased
accordingly. This will be reviewed by future Bank Group education
missions.
4.17      Funds are included in the forthcoming Fourth Education Project
for supplementary equipment at the schools. It is Important to note that
the list of equipment procured by TSRP is not the list the Bank staff
approved in 1979. It appears that when the new procurement officer took
his post in 1980, he did not have the original lists, and to satisfy the
request for speedy procurement, new lists were hurriedly produced with
minimal consultation with the schools. When the new lists were provided to
the Bank Group staff for review in 1981, TSRP was advised to adjust the
quantities of equipment. In spite of repeated confirmations to the Bank
Group missions only minimal adjustments were made and it was not until Bank
Group staff advised TSRP that the reimbursement of withdrawal application
for equipment would be delayed until the requested information was
received, and that combined with the complaints from the institutions
suffering from shortages of equipment, TSRP finally made attempts to adjust
the lists. As a result of this experience, the MOE has established a
policy that all future equipment lists will require the signatures of a
school representative and of a subject specialist from the MOE prior to
their being approved for procurement.



- 16 -
Technical Assistance
4.18      To assist TSRP implement the project, 216 man-months (mm) of
techuical assistance and 72 am of consultant services for evalustion, trade
testing, architectural, engineering end procurement were provided under the
project. At appraisal the average mm cost per month for these services was
estimated at US$2,500. The project actually used 55 mm of T.A. for
architectural services, about 8 m (on a part-time basis) for procurement
and 18 mm for evaluation for a total of 81 mm. In respect to architectural
T.A., another 33 mm were supplied by bilateral agencies (Irlsh and USAID).
The performance of the technical assistance has been satisfactory. Due to
recruitment problems and the intervention of other donor agencies, the
total T.A. used was less than estimated at the time of appraisal, but mre
consultant services were used for engineering, construction supervision,
and quantity surveyor services. The project included US$353,100 for
technical assistance including contingencies whlle only about US$225,900
equivalent was used during project implementation. On the other hand,
expenditures for consultant services estimated at US$199,700 increased to
about US$417,100. Total expenditures for T.A. and consultants were
US$640,900 versus US$643,000 as originally estimated.
4.19      In addition to the above T.A. the appraisal team identified a
total of 984 mm of experts/consultants to be provided by other bilateral
and multilateral agencies. That assistance consisted of 240 mm for the
NCDC, 360 mm for the technical and trade schools (Leribe and Leloaleng), 48
mm for the Lesotho Agricultural College (LAC), 192 mm for the secondary
schools and 144 mm for the NTTC. The MOE was able to obtain the following
T.A.: 115 mm at NCDC; 348 mm at technical and trade schools; 60 m at LAC;
144 mm at secondary schools; and 54 mm at NTTC, for a total of 721 mm with
a shortfall of 263 mm. The shortfalls in T.A. occured primarily at the
NCDC and secondary schools level because of budgetary reductions by
donors.  Also, the 24 mm of T.A. provided for the Trade Testing Center was
not used because the trade testing system operating at LTI was already
assisted by T.A. teachers working at the institutions. This shortfall did
not materially effect the outcome of this project.
Audit Reports
4.20      As set forth in Section 4.01 of the Development Credit Agreement,
audit reports, prepared by the Auditor General, were to be submitted for
each year of project implementation. Delays in the submission of reports
were experienced during the first three years of project implementation.
However, after Bank Group supervision missions reviewed the process and due
dates directly with the Auditor General's office, the reports were prepared
and forwarded to the Association on time. The reports were satisfactory
and always included a statement of remedial actions that had been or were
to be taken by the TSRP.



- 17 -
Pre-investment Studies
4.21      As part of a long term investment program, the project provided
funds to support pre-in7estment studies which included the preparation of
future projects, and support for the continuation of a tracer study (Annex
5, Key Indicator, Section 3). Funds were used to: (a) employ architectural
and textbook consultants for the preparation of a Third Education Project
which was appraised in September 1980; (b) a survey existing education
radio programs and methods to improve the educational impact of the radio
which was completed in 1981 (however largely due to a shortage of
counterpart funds, tne Government is still assessing the recommendations of
the survey); (c) construct a pilot, self-financing handicraft center to
train in crafts, primary and junior secondery students and adults from the
Roma Valley on a rotation basis M14,000). The Roma Valley is one of the
major handicraft production areas of Lesotho. To guarantee full use of the
center, it was built next to a primary school e_periencing a shortage of
classrooms. At the tirie of the completiun mission, about 140 women were
active at the cen-ter and about 1,900 primar?7 pupils were receiving.
instruction on specific days. To allow mothers to work at the center, a -
day-care center was established in existing facilities.  Pre-investment
funds were also used to purchase computer eq-aipment (M75,000) to link-up
the education planning unit with the Department of Statistics. With the
help of an adviser supplied by USAID, about twelve operators and two
computer specialists (master's level) were trained locally and abroad. The
above input has enabled the MOE to establish a comprehensive statistical
aud data base for the education system.
4.22      Only part of the funds identified for the tracer study were
utilized because the specialist responsible for the study was transferred
to another Government position and was never replaced. The evaluation
consultant in his spare time tried to continue the collection of data but
was unable to analyze it. At completion, the MOE was still seeking a
qualified person to continue the tracer study.
Retroactive Financing
4.23      Retroactive financing not exceeding US$150,000 equivalent for:
(a) the acquisition of architectural copyrights; and (b) the specialists
services of an architect and engineer was provided under the agreement.
The Government decided not to utilize the school designs that a private
firm of architects developed for the First Education Project and therefore
did not purchase the copyright. The specialists services of an architect
and engineer were financed under the First Education Project. Retroactive
financing was therefore not utilized under the project.
Covenants
4.24      The covenants of the Development Credit Agreement reviewed in
Annex 4 were timely fulfilled with the exception of Section 3.03 (b),
employment of an evaluation specialist, and Section 4.04, establishment of



- 18 -
permanent advisory committees at the Leribe and Leloaleng schools, 'which
experienced delays. Section 3.04, regarding the provision of technical
assistance by other institutions experienced shortfalls and Section 4.06 on
establishment of a council for educational broadcasting was not yet
established as of December 31, 1982, the Credit Closing Date. However, the
Government was in the process of organizing such a council. Initial delay
was also encountered in timely receipt of audit reports. In sumiary, the
combination of the Government efforts together with the assistance of
regular Bank Group supervision missions, which monitored the project,
resulted in most covenants being satisfactorily implemented.
Bank Group Performance
4.25      The project was supervised by 14 missions, excluding the
completion mission (March 1983, done jointly with supervision of the Third
Education Project), and several visits by the staff from the Controller's
Unit in the Bank's Regional Mission in Eastern Africa. Most missions were
organized in conjunction with reviews of other education projects in
Lesotho and in neighbouring countries. The intervals between missions were
between two and five months, with half of them of five months. Architects
participated in twelve missions, Technical Educators in two, Economists In
three, Education Planners in eleven, the Division Chief in one and an
Operations Assistant in one.
4.26      The Bank Group should have been more reluctant to include in the
Second Education Project a second phase of the introduction of practical
subjects at the secondary level until the first phase included in the First
Education Project had been completed. The inclusion of the component could
have been delayed particularly since the Government had yet to establish a
suitable policy at the secondary level such as teacher distribution,
timetable regulations and responsibilities for operating costs (para.
6.13).
4.27      Bank Group supervision was slow in pointing out to the TSRP
project administration the need to speed-up the project implementation
during the start-up period. This was largely due to the good reputation
gained by the previous TSRP administration, which had successfully
implemented the First Education Project.
4.28      Nevertheless, the Bank Group staff supervising the project
greatly assisted the Government to re-organize TSRP in 1979-1980 and
maintained a good relationship with the officials throughout the project.
As a result of this close cooperation, the Second Education Project was
successfully implemented, and led the way for the Third Education Project
which is being implemented satisfactorily.



- 19 -
V. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Capital Costs
5.01      Comparisons of estimated and actual costs of pbysical facilities
are shown in Annexes land 2. Total estimated costs including contingencies
at appraisal were M. 8.1 million or US$9.3 million equivalent (at the
prevailing rate of exchange of 1977 of MI - US$1.15). The Credit
allocation of US$7.5 million was to cover 81X of the total estimated
project cost iucluding taxes or 84Z of the total estimated project cost
excluding taxes. The final cost of the project was M. 8.8 corresponding to
about US$10.2 million (at the average weighted rate of exchange consisteut
with project implementation period of Ml - US$1.1549). US$7.5 million or
the entire Credit allocation were disbursed, representing about 74Z of the
final project cost.
5.02      A detailed comparison of the appraisal cost estimate and the
final project cost is shown in the following tables:



- 20 -
Project Cost by Component
(Maloti and USS Millions)
Percent of
Actual in
Appraisal       Actual           respect of
Estimate          Cost           Estimated
Z of               Z of      Cost
Original Components           m    US$  Total  H    US$   Total   M        US$
1. Construction, Furniture
and Equipment for:
a. National Curriculum
Development Center
and Project Adminis-
tration               0.71  0.82a/  9%  1.21   1.40b/142    170%  170%
b. Technical Schools    0.60  0.69    7%  0.66   0.76   7%    110   110%-
c. Secondary Schools    5.28  6.07   65%  5.65   6.53  64%    107X  108%
d. Consolidation of
Secondary Teacher
Education, Trade
Testing and Tech-
nical Assistance      0.24  0.28    3%  0.04   0.05   1%       17%   18%
2. Technical Assistance    0.35  0.40    4%  0.20   0.23   2%        57%   58%
3. Project Administration
and Preinvestment
Activities and Studies  0.57  0.66    7%  0.60   0.69   7%    105%  105%
4. Architectural, Enginee-
ring and Procurement
Services                 0.20  0.23    3%  0.36   0.42   4%    180%  183%
5. Formative Evaluation    0.12  0.14    2%  0.10   0.11   1%        83%   79%
TOTAL (1-5)              8.07  9.29  100%  8.82c/10.09 100%    109Z  109%
a/ Using the rate of exchange prevailing at the time of
appraisal : Ml = US$1.15
b/ Using the weighted average rate of exchange consistent with the
implementation of the project : M1  US$1.15494
c/ The source of information is the data supplied by the TSRP
architectural team. A slight discrepancy exists with the data
received from the TSRP accounting section.



- 21 -
Project Cost by Category
(M. and US$ Million)
X of Final
Cost in
Appraisal Estimate    Final Cost       respect of
X of               Z of   Appraisal
M    US$   Total  M    US$  Total  Estimate
1. Construction              5.72  6.58   712   6.09  7.03  69%       107%
2. Furniture                 0.54  0.62    6%   0.74  0.85   9X       138%
3. Equipnent                 0.57  0.66    7%   0.73  0.84   8%       127%
4. Architectural,
Engineering, and
Procurement Services      0.20  0.23    3%   0.36  0.42   4%       183%
5. Technical Assistance      0.35  0.40    4%   0.20  0.23   2X        58%
6. Formative Evaluation      0.12  0.14    2%   0.10  0.12   1%        86%
7. Project Administration   0.57  0.66    7%   0.60  0.69   7%        105%
TOTAL                     8.07  9.29  100%   8.82 10.09 100%       109%
Areas and Costs
5.03      Since the project intervention in the schools consisted only of
additions to already existing facilities, unit areas and costs per student
place cannot be determined. The architectural team of the TSRP made an
accurate reassessment of the areas required taking the areas established at
the time of appraisal as a guideline and increasing them in some cases, but
mDstly reducing them without altering the educational objectives. Areas
which were increased were those for classrooms, houses and of a workshop
for non-formal programs. The rest of the areas including those for other
workshops, dining and kitchen, administration, hostels, laboratories, etc.
were reduced. This reduction in areas partially offset the increase in
cost per square meter of construction largely due to the -late start of
the project which greatly increased the imapct of the inflationary trend
experienced during the years of implementation. As shown in the tables
of paragraph 5.02 reduction in costs were made possible in some other
categories bringing the total project cost overrun to about US$900,000
equivalent or a modest 9.7% of the original estimate, including taxes.



- 22 -
Disbursements
5.04      The estimated and actual disbursements are sumarized on page 'i"
of the Key Project Data. A comparison of the original allocations and
finnl disbursements of the Credit proceeds by category is also shown on
page "ii" of the Key Project Data. The Credit Closing Date was postponed
from December 31, 1981 to December 31, 1982, and the credit was fully
disbursed with the final disbursement taking place on April 14, 1982.
Payments to civil works contractor, however, continued using local
counterpart funds until works were fully completed just prior to the
December 31, 1982 Closing Date.
Vt. PROJECT OPERATING OUTCOME
The National Curriculum Development Center
6.01      The objective of this component was to centralize, strengthen and
integrate primary and secondary curriculum development activities. This
involved the furnishing and equipping of a new curriculum development
center.  The NCDC would provide offices for the curriculum development
career guidance, educational radio, the primary examination and the
educatiou statistic units. The project also identified 240 man-months of
technical assistance and 138 man-months of fellowships to be provided by
various bilat=ral aid agencies. In addition, to alleviate the housing
shortage in Maseru and enable the Government to recruit the above
specialists needed, 10 modest staff houses were provided.
6.02      To facilitate the cooperation between the NCDC and TSRP staffs,
their facilities were integrated within one building. The radio studio was
not needed since one was constructed at LDTC by USAID and the Lesotho
Broadcasting studios were expanded through aid from ODA. NCDC is equipped
with locally manufactured furniture of good quality. All the office
facilities provided except the offices for career guidance are being used
for their planned purposes. The career guidance offices which had been
used are temporarily vacant while MOE awaits the return of trainees who are
studying overseas. The centralization of NCDC staff has enhanced the
production of new Sesotho, English, Mathematics and Social Studies
syllabi.
6.03      The Government was only able to obtain from bilateral sources 115
mm out of the 240 mm of technical assistance estimated for the proper
launching of the NCDC and thus had to adjust its objectives. The aim of
supplying textbooks to the students was retained but instead of developing
their own textbooks immediately, a task which would have bee-a impossible



- 23 -
without the T.A., they decided to purchase 1,900,000 existing books which
were the most closely related to their new syllabi. This modified approach
in fact is placing books into the hands of the children sooner (1983-84,
with funding from the Third Education Project) and is enabling the NCDC
staff to learn the appropriate skills of textbook adaptation and writing
while working on units to supplement the selected books rather than on
entire books. The MOE officials now recognize that the approach applied
was more economical and will have an impact on the quality of education
earlier than if the initial approach had been retained.
6.04      Basically the objectives of the NCDC components were achieved
with the exception of the establishment of the Education Broadcasting
Council. This was delayed because of a lack of interest by the Ministries
involved (Information and Broadcasting, Agriculture and Education), which
are to coordinate all the country's education broadcasting. At the time of
the completion mission, efforts were still being made to assess the
consultant's Education Radio Report in order to better coordinate education
radio activities with Radio Lesotho.
Expansion of Technical Education Facilities
6.05      This component was to provide additional facilities at two upper
secondary level technical schools, the Leloaleng Trades School and the
Technical School of Leribe to enable them to increase enrollments and
expand the programs offered. The improved facilities would enable the
schools to respond better to identified manpower shortages while improving
the institutions efficiency and cost effectiveness. The folloving table
summarizes the schools' programs and enrollments:



- 24 -
Existing prior         Planned at
to Appraisal          Appraisal               Actual
Institutions
Enroll.               Enroll-               Enroll.
Courses   (1976)    Courses       ment    Courses      (1983)
Leloaleng   Carpentry    22    Carpentry         32    Carpentry       61
Trade       Leatherwork   7    Leatherwork    15    Leatherwork    14
School      Motor               Motor                  Motor
(LTS)        Mechanic    26      Mechanic       24      Mechanic       36
55    Construction   24    Construction   38
95                   149
Technical   Motor                Motor                  Motor
School of    Mechanic    28       Mechanic       30      Mechanic      26
Leribe      Metalwork    16      Metalwork       20     Metalwork      14
(TSL)       Masonery      16     Masonery       20      Masonery       20
Carpentry    30      Carpentry      30     Carpentry      28
Electricity   20      Electricity   15 *
l  90                120                   103
- Electricity course was offered and enrolled about 15 students from 1979
to 19B1. Due to the lack of a qualified teacher, the course was not
offered during 1981-82. In July 1983, a qualified Basotho teacher is
returning from training in Germany and the course will again be offered.
6.06      Essentially, all the proposed physical facilities have been built
and courses have been introduced at the mission owned schools. It is
important to note that the Leribe facilities were built by the students
under the guidance of the instructors. Leloaleng's enrollments greatly
exceeded expectations while those at Leribe's fell short of the objective
since the school experienced serious management and financial problems
following the departure of its principal. During the completion mission,
the management problems of the school were being resolved and it was
expected that by January 1984 the enrollment forecasted at the time of
appraisal would be reached.
6.07      The use factor of facilities provided was estimated at about 9OZ
at the Technical School of Leribe and about 94% at the Leloaleng Trade
School. Both schools have organized work forces made up of students.
These work forces bid for house construction, roofing, masonry and
furniture contracts in the local communities, giving the students
supervised practical experience. TSL also operates furniture and metal



- 25 -
production centers where students can work and earn their tuition and
up-keep. Adult committees were established at both schools and short
week-end and holiday courses have been offered to adults. The adult
program has been particularly successful at Leloaleng where about ten such
courses were offered during 1982 to about 120 participants. Fewer courses
were offered at TSL and, due to the management problems, no courses were
offered during 1982.
6.08      The MDE officials indicated that during 1982, over 90X of LTS and
96% of the TSL students passed the trade certificate at their first
sitting. The administration of the schools also indicated that during 1981
and 1982, 100% of their graduates found jobs either in Lesotho or in the
RSA. The mechanical and electrical graduates from TSL were in particularly
great demand.
Trade Testing
6.09      The trade testing system was re-organized within the Labor
Department and the project provided it with the office equipment, vehicles,
trade testing equipment and materials necessary to run the trade tests.
This component ran into problems in 1979 when the Department of Labor
stopped providing office space to trade testing staff who eventually
obtained office space at LTI where the majority of the trade tests are
given.
6.10      A one month fellowship was used by the trade testing director to
visit trade testing centers in Malawi and Zambia. The international
specialist in trade testing was never recruited because expatriate and
Basotho instructors at LTI undertook the task of organizing and supervising
trade testing activities. The supervision was good while these experts
were in the country but, unfortunately deteriorated following their
departure. This issue was discussed by the last two Bank Group supervision
missions and the Government is aware of the problem. A technical education
specialist (supplied by Commonwealth Fund) has been asked to review with
the assistance of ILO consultants, the best way to improve the efficiency
and quality of the trade tests. A report is expected by aid 1984.
Improvement of Secondary Education
6.11      This component was to provide buildings, furniture and equipment
required to introduce pre-vocational subjects, basically elementary
technology (woodwork, metalwork and drafting), home economics, commercial
subjects, development studies and agriculture. The program also provided
the schools with the needed classrooms, laboratories, library and dining
facilities to enable them to expand their enrollments and improve the
quality of education. To assist with the recruitment of teachers and due
to the rural location of the schools, a limited number of staff houses and
student boarding places were also included.



- 26 -
6.12      The facilities included in the project were to expand the total
student places at the eleven project schools from about 4,000 to 8,000.
The actual growth of enrollment was 60X of the objective set Which is
somewhat below the target. This will be further reviewed by future Bank
Group education missions. These enrollments, the introduction of the
proposed courses and the utilization of the facilities are summarized in
the following chart.



Sary of Secondary School Enrollment, Practical Courses Offered end Utilisetion of Faeilitles
INROLLHNDT                                      PLACTICAL STUDIeS                                         I UTILIZATION
SCHOOLS
Total  Total I Plan    Expected   Total          X Plan                  Courses  Courses                                                                           Total
Plan- Jan.   Jan.   2nd          growth    enroll-  achieved          Courses  offered  Offered  Z of   Class-                  Elem.               Home    Co_erce/  School
ned   1982   1983  Year            1984      ment      3rd year I/  Planned  Jan.'82  Jan.'83  Plan   rooms    Labe    Tech.   Agric.   EConow.   Typing    Average
1. Hlotee              800   369    400    502           40         440         55X             4         2         3       752      602      80X      40X       202        402        402       402
2. St. Agi,es          800   361    399    502           40          539        672             4         1         3       752   "952    370S    3402         I202        2202      1  0S       412
3. Bereng              800   409    507    63X           60          567        71S             4         2         4      1002      902      90S      401       202        402       1001       63X
4. HeAitiee            800   411      416    522         40          456        571             4         2         4      I00    16802    4802       3401    I60          2301        401       552
5. Paray               360   146    191    532           30          221        612             4         1         3       752      902     250S     1402      1002       I20SZ     °            0S
10       2         1        0          1         1*e
6. St. James           360   253    279    782           40          319        892             4         2         2       502      952      50S      402                             40S       621
1Is       4        3        0           0         1
7. OT.  Klng           800   422    452    57X           30          482        602             2         2         2      1002      901      8O0      602                             604       731
8. lutha Sithe        800   450    467    58X           20          487        612             4         3         3       752      802      852      802        1         402         O2       58S
9. St. Stephen         800   348    358    452           60          407        51X             4         2         2       501      802      40X      502       20S         01                  321
10. Sacred Heart       J00   408    410    SIX           30          438        55S             2         2         2      1001      152      80X     360X    °           °            801       781
11. Lesotho H.S.       800   415    417    52X           30          445        562             4         3         3       751      901      8O0      50X                 202         402       562
TOTAL            7920  3992   4296    552          420        4716        602            40        22         31       7822  54852   3$721   2492           442      a282         402        6
The estimated number of student places (about 800 per school) were arrived at by lO8 without sufficient consultation with the
owners of the schools (Kisalona) and an analysis of the shortage of teachers. The low enrollments are short term and as a
result of dialogue between the Coverment and the siasion these will be increaued once  the teachers are available.
Further enrollment Increues are expected in 1985. This chart represents the situation at the time of complelion and not wht
is expected to occur.
2/ All the proposed courses are expected to be implemented in 1984.



-28 -
Enrollment in the practical subjects in 1983 were elementary technology,
1,946; agriculture, 1,164; home-economics, 860; and commerce, 1,613, for a
total of 5,583. In addition, the MOE officials expect that the enrol3ments
in elementary technology, agriculture and home-economics will increase by
about 25Z and commerce by 8% in January 1984, the third year of program
expansion.
6.13      The introduction of practical subjects in Lesotho has been
hampered by a lack of clear policy guidelines at the secondary level.
Until the Education Sector Survey published in November 19821/, no clear
guidelines listing responsibilities and program content existed. This lack
of guidelines resulted in each school introducing the practical subjects in
the manner best understood by its staff. There was no conformity In the
time-tabling with schools allowing for the practical courses anywhere from
one to three hours per practical course. The biggest problem resulted from
the lack of change in the number of core subjects the students had to write
to pass the JC examinations. Since the MDE examination requirements were
left unchanged, each school had to continue to teach all the subjects and
add the practical subjects. To cope with the add-on subjects, the schools'
only choice was to extend the length of the school day. The varied time
allocations to practical subjects also had negative effects on the
practical subjects examination results which to date have been weak ranging
in the mid 50 percentile . The above problems combined with difficulties
in recruiting the required number of expatriate teachers for the program
(14 were recruited instead of 20) and delays for practical subjects at NTTC
resulted in only about one third of practical courses being introduced
during the first year of implementation in 1982. The evaluation consultant
employed in late 1980 visited the schools in 1981 and identified the above
listed problems. To resolve these problems, five seminars for principals
were organized (two in 1981 and 1982 and one in 1983) to review and teach
time-tabling, assess the staffing issues and the number of courses e schocl
could logically teach and improve administrative procedures. These
seminars improved the dialogue between schools and greatly influenced the
content of the secondary education policy adopted in the Education Sector
Survey. The seminars attended bv the Church Secretaries of Education also
helped the MOE officials better understand the problems faced by the
schools. Both the MOE and church. officials indicated to the completion
mission that they expected that by January 1984 all the proposed practical
courses would be in operation and that efforts would be made to increase
enrollments. Schools are expected to reach an enrollment of about 600
students rather than 800, as originally estimated.
1/ Comprehensive report prepared and approved by the Government, reviewing
the role of education in Lesotho and setting forth objectives for the
sector for the years 1983 to 2000.



- 29-
6.14      The JC exam results (locally marked on a curve) in the project
schools for 1982 were first class pass 11%, second class pass 45%, third
class pass 32% and failure 12%. The pass rates were slightly higher (about
10%) and repetition lower than the national average of over 20%. In spite
of the many problems encountered, the major inputs of facilities, equipment
and furniture provided under the project have benefitted the students
attending the project schools.
6.15      As stated in para 4.16, some shortcomings in the supply of
equipment has been experienced causing delays in the introduction of a
course or affecting the efficient teaching of others. Until these problems
are resolved, maximum efficient use of all the facilities provided will not
be possible. It is recommended that supplementary equipment be included in
the forthcoming Fourth Education Project.
Assistance to Teacher Training
6.16      The project included renovation of workshop facilities at LTI,
purchase of equipment, construction of staff houses, provision of
fellowships and purchase of a bus for teacher training all of which were
achieved by project completion. The supply of equipment for the training
of elementary technology teachers was particularly successful. With
supplementary technical assistance, and equipment and funds for facili:y
renovations supplied by the Irish Government an excellent elementary
technology program was established at NTTC. The program trained 11
trainees in 1981; 10 in 1982 and 12 in 1983. The trainees have all been
able to find employment in the schools with the result that the secondary
schools offering elementary technology should all have qualified
Basotho teachers by 1985. Future trainees will satisfy proposed expansion
of the program and cover teacher attrition.
6.17      The project included fellowship funds to assist the Government
recruit and upgrade at NtL 55 Basotho teacher educators from NTTC and MOE
inspectorate. Since the special teacher/inspector program and fellowships
at NUL were financed by UNDP, the Bank Group financed fellowships were used
to train qualified technicians as elementary technology teachers. The Bank
Group financed fellowships were used to train 39 such teachers at NTTC.
The Irish Government is continuing to support the program and fellowships
support at NTTC.
Evaluation
6.18      The two man-years of technical assistance to evaluate the
introduction of practical subjects at the secondary level included in the
project were fully used. Due to delays in recruitment, the evaluation
specialist only arrived in Lesotho late in 1980. The evaluator was able to
assist MOE review the implementation of the practical subjects. He also
assisted the MOE in training the secondary principals, but his main



- 30 -
contribution was his guidance to MOE for the development of administrative
policies leading towards a more efficient use of secondary school
facilities and staff (para. 6.13). The evaluator submitted a mid-year
report and a final report in May 1982. The evaluator also helped the MOE
prepare the Government's completion report on the Second Education
Project. That report was submitted to the Bank Group in June 1982. The
evaluator's performance was good and beneficial to the education system of
Lesotho.
6.19      As outlined in Annex 5, and para. 4.20, pre-investment funds were
used for the funding of a radio survey, tracer study, a primary school
pilot project, the purchase of computer equipment, and the preparation of
the Third Education Project, which became effective September 9, 1981.
These funds were utilized after review by the Bank Group and were
beneficial to the successful implementation of education programs.
Non-Formal Education Program
6.20      About US$12,000 of the Credit funds were allocated for adult
non-formal education programs in crafts and work skills. The courses were
taught in the facilities for practical courses supplied at the secondary
schools. This Outreach Program supplied the Peace Corps volunteers with
transport (motorcycles) and basic lodging needs (furniture, stove, etc.)
and start-up funds for small self-help projects. Six Peace Corps
volunteers initiated about twelve training programs such as a knitting
course, saddle repair, agricultural seminars and building courses, and
assisted with the funding of small projects such as rabbit and poultry
raising and fish ponds. Primarily due to the lack of funds and manpower to
replace the Peace Corps volunteers, the program came to an end once the
volvsnteers left the country. All project funds for this component were
fully utilized. The program was enthusiastically received by the
communities, assisted with interministerial exchanges and ran good courses
but, since the MOE was unable to obtain either the teaching staff or funds
to cover the operation, its activities ended in 1981. The LDTC is now
trying to revive the successful program with USAID assistance.
Female Participation
6.21      Female participation in the project institutions is estimated at
about 1l% at the technical schools; about 60% in the secondary lichools;
about 50% in the elementary technology teacher training program; and was
over 70% in the Outreach Program.  The programs developLi by NCDC will
affect the instruction of all the students among which girls account for
are about 57% at the primary level and 60% at the secondary level.



- 31-                                  ANNEX 1
LESOTHO
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT 748-LSO
COMPLETIOU REPORT
COST OF PEYSICAL FACILITIES
Civil Works
(in Maloti and USS OU's)
(Rate of Exchange HI - US*1.1549)
Project Items                                      Civil lorks
Z of Final
Cost in
Appraisal     Contract           Final Cost          respect of
Estimate      Sum, H.         H.             US;     Appraisal
M.                                                Estimate
A 1 National Curriculum
Development Center              292.145
2 TSRP Office Accommndation         75.873
Sub-Total A                     368.018        273.636       318.634      367.990        87%
B   Techntcal Education
1 L..loaleng T.S.                 280.422        278.200       320.447       370.084
2 Leribe T.S.                     -212.381       163.955       153.291       177.036
Sub-Total                       492.803        442.155       473.738      547.120        96%
C   Curriculum Diversification
I Hlotse H.S.                     556.374        559.663       574.725       663.75U
2 St. Agnes H.S.                  533.855        460.254       525.024       606.350
3 Bereng U.S.                     538.728        529.143       547.019       631.752
4 Masitise H.S.                   783.599        718.669       755.356       872.361
5 Paray J.S.S.                    912.847        993.148    1,072.400    1,238.515
6 St. James J.S.S.                653.521        653.521       555.825       641.922
7 Christ the King H.S.            268.894        257.761       125.163       144.574
8 Butha-Buthe H.S.                  69.209        76.054        65.653        75.823
9 St. Stephens H.S.                40.806         33.525        29.945        34.583
10 Sacred Heart H.S.                 75.130        53.907        43.948        50.756
11 Lesotho H.S.                     43.414         41.370        37.145        42.899
Electrical connections
and additional works               -              -          220.000      254.0?8  -
Sub-Total                     4,476.377      4,377.015    4,552.223    5,257.363        102%
D   LTI Workshop                      21.599         12.547       22.666        26.177       105Z
E   Staff Rouses
I NCDC (10)                       195.b80
2 LA C t2)                          66.775
3 Trade Testing (1)                 32.663
4 Project Administration (2)        65.326
Sub-Total                       360.444        724.788       724.788      837.058       201Z
TOTAL (A to E)                5,719.241      5,U30.141    6,092.049    7,035.708        107Z



- 32 -
AYNEX 2
LESOTHO
SECO3ID EDUCLION PROJECr
CREDIT 748-LSQ
COMPLETION REPORT
Cost of Physical Facilities Purniture and Equipment
(m 000's)
Spent                  Appraisal Difference  Increase
Institution              Furniture Equipment    Total  Estimate  (+ o  -)   Decrease
1. Curriculum Development
a) NCDC                         66,147   103,132    169,279    136,870 + 32,409       + 23X
b) 3CDC houses                 29,260       -        29,260      23,320  +  5,940     + 26Z
2.  Technical Schools
a) Leloaleng Trades School    106,059    29,621    135,680       bO,719  * 74,961     +122S
b) Leribe Technical School     24,596    27,546      52,142      44,021  +  8,121     + 182
3. Curricul-um Diversification
a) Hlotse High School           59,524    70,857    130,381    136,240  -  5,859      -  42
b) St. Agnes Hlgh School       82,822    70,600    153,422    123,460  + 29,962       + 24X
c) Bereng High School           59,223    7U,095    129,318    119,400 +  9,918       +  82
d) Masiise High School        110,820    70,531    181,351    141,570  + 39,781      + 28X
e) Paray Secondary School       86,798    53,583    140,381    102,4b0  1 37,921      + 37X
f) St. James Secondary School  45,406    75,297    120,703       74,380  1 46,323     + 62Z
g) Carist The King H.S.         40,056    50,527     90,583      67,420 + 23,163      + 342
h) Butha-Buthe high School      11,136     7,136     18,272      10,120  +  8,152     + 80X
i) St. Stephens High School    10,437      6,037     16,474       6,200 t 10,274      +166Z
J) Sacred Heart High School    13,746      9,237     22,983      17,450  +  5,533     + 35Z
k) Lesotho High School           6,464     4,802     11,266       8,980 +  2,286      + 33Z
Sub-Total                   526,432   488,702  1,015,134    807,680  +207,454      + 26Z
4.  Trade Testing Center             6,068    14,335      20,403     17,330  +  3,073     + 11X
5. Project Administration            1,300    13,000     14,300      12,910  +  1,390     +  8Z
b.  Community Outreach Program       2,802     2,898      5,700      12,000  -  6,300     - 48X
7. Teacher Training
a) National Teacher
Training College               -      41,885
b) Lerotholi Technical
Institute                     -       11,737     53,622     33,270  + 20,352      + 60X
c) Lesotho Agricultural;
College                     Nil a/    Nll         Nil        4,664  -  4,664      -10ux
GRAND TOTAL                 743,840   732,856  1,479,696  1,152,784  +323,912      + 215
a/ Two staff houses were not built.
Source: Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and hank Staff.



LESOTrO
SZOOND EDUCATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENrATION SCHIDULE
1977              1978              1979              1980              1981               1982
Iuple..ntation    I   a   3   4    1   2   3   4    1   2   3   4    1   2   3   4    1   2   3   4    1   2   3   4
Vocational 6 Sscondar Sehool.
(Lowland) and Pro1eet Office
Prep, sketch plane   IDA reviev              AppreLaal           DDD DDD DDD
Actual                               DDD DDD DDD  PDD
Working drawings A pre-tender                Appraisal                    DID  DDD
Actual                                   DDD DDD  DDD DDD DDD WDO
Tender & contract award                      Appraisal                         000 000 000
Actual                                             000 000 000 000  000
Construction                                 Appraisal                                  XXX XXX  XXX  WX  xxx OX  XXX XXX XXX
Actual                                                               XXX XXX  x  XXX   xx mI               in HZ   xxx
Seconder, Schools (lountain)
Prep. sketch plans b IDA review              Appraisal                DDD DDD
Actual                               DDD DOD DD  DDD
Working drawings a pre-tender                Appraissl                    DDD  ODD
Actual                                    DDD DDD  DOD DDD DDD DWD    ODD      DW D
Contract negotiations 6 IDA
reviev                                       Appraisal                         000 000
Actual                                                                    000 000000  000 W
Conatruction                                 Appraisal                                  XXDX XXX  XXX XXX XXX XX xlX UIx XXX
Actual                                                                       Kx  xxx  xxx mM XZ IR   XmX mm
Currlculuv Center
Prep. sketch plans & XDA review              Appraisal                         DDD DDD
A:tual                               DDDD DD DD0  DD
Worklng drawings a pre-tender                Appraisal                                  WDO DDD
Actual                                    DDD DDD  DDD DDD DDD
Tender & contract award                      Appraisal                                           000
Actual                                                          000
Construction                                 Appraisal                                               HXZ HxZ HZx  HXIX XXX  HZ    HZx
Actual                                                                  XXX   HZ HZ xH
Equipment a furniture
Preparatlon of llets                         Appralsal                         DDD DDD DDD
Actual                                                                             DDD  DM DDD MD DDD
Tender 8 award                               Appraisal                                  000 000  000 000
Actuel                                                                                      000 000 000  000 000
Delivery period                              Appraisal                                           FP1 PFP PPP FPP  FIP
Actual                                                                                               PPP  IPP  PPP Fm  P"
Technical Asssltance
quantity Surveyor                            Appraisal                          qqQ qqq      qqq  qQq  QQQ Qqq   qqq qqq QQQ
Actual                               qq qqq °QO                            ,°W °.° QQ  Q W Q  qq qqqOQQ QQqqq  qqqq qq q   qqqq q° qq  q
Architect                                    Appraisal                         XXX KKK KKK KKX K    X KK X KKK X KKK KKK  KK K
Actual                               KKI X KKK KKK   IUX KKK   IW K   KXK KKK KKK KKK  KK KK    IKK  mX KU OX mKK



- 34 -
ANNEX 4
LESOTHO                        Page 1 of 3
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT   748-LSO
STATUS OF COVENANTS OF THE CREDIT AGREEMENT
COMPLIANCE TO CREDIT CO(NDITIONS
CEFEIENCE
COVENAihS/OBLIGATIONS         IN CREDIT
DATE DUE           TO BE MET BY BORROWEk          AGREEMENT           ACTONS, REMARKS AND STATUS
Continuously   Provide staff and funds for        3.01         Covenant met.
appropriate administrative,
financial, and technical
operation of the project.
Continuously   Establish and maintain an          3.02 (a)     During the first two years
architectural team (two                        project implementation was slow
architects, a quantity                         and the architectural team, which
surveyor, two architectural                    was still being organized, recel-
technicians, two construction                  ved contradictory instructlons
supervisors, engineering                       from the new TSRP directions and
consultants, and other                         HCE. In addition the architect
supporting staff as                            had to withdraw because of
required).                                     illness.  By the end of 1980, the
team was entirely replaced and
progress began to be realized.
Two full time architects and a
expatriate building supervisor
were seconded from MOW and a third
privately employed. Seven Basotho
architectural technicians were on
the team. Covenant met.
Continuously   Locate architectural team at      3.U2 (b)      The MOW did participate actively,
the Ministry of Works (MOW).                   particularly during the last three
years in the design and tender
phase of the project through the
provision of its technical'servi-
ces. The speedy implementation of
the architectural components
during the last three years
resulted from the efflcient work
of the architectural team
seconded to the TSRP. The MOE
retained control of all the
technical aspects of the project.
Since the work was prepared and
supervised by architects from the
MOW, it did not experlence revlew
delays other projects often suffer
from in Lesotho. Covenant met.



- 35 -
ARNEX 4
Page 2 of 3
REFERENCE
CDVENANTS/OBLIGATIONS         IN CREDIT
DATE DUE           TO BE MET GY nORDIWE&         AGREEMENT            ACTIONS, REMARKS AN) STATUS
As needed      Employ consultants for            3.03 (a)      The hiring of an engineer and
engineering and quantity                       quantity surveyor as proposed at
surveying.                                     the time of appraisal proved to be
too difficult and costly. Instead
local consultants were employed
and their performance was
satisfactory. Covenant met.
b/30/78        Employ evaluation specilalists.   3.03 (b)      An evaluation coasultant was
employed at the end of 1980 (third
year of project implementation).
He submitted, on October 2, 1981,
a Formative Evaluation Progress
Report and, on May 27, 1982, a
Completion Report entitled 'Phase
I and Phase II Training For Self
Reliance Project Evaluation". The
covenant was met during the last
two years of Credit. The services
of the same evaluator are being
continued under the Third
Education Project.
Promptly as    Obtain technical assistance
needed         for project institutions as
follows:
a.  National Curriculum                        a.  About 115 man-months of
Development Center, 10                         consultants services were obtained
specialists;                                   for the NCDC (48% objective
achieved);
b. Technical Schools, 15                       b. Six teachers obtained at
teachers;                                      Leribe and seven at Leloaleng from
W. Germany Technical Assistance,
Danida and Peace Corps (87X of
objective achieved);
c. Lesotho Agricultural                        c. Five teachers instead of two
College, 2 teachers;                           proposed were obtained from the
British Council (250Z objective
achieved);
d.  Secondary Schools, 29                      d.  Twenty-one teachers obtained
teachers; and                                  from Peace Corps, World University
Service of Canada, IVS and W.
Germany Technical Assistance (72X
e. Trade Testing Center, 1                     of objective achieved);
specialist.                                    e.  No specialist was employed
because three specialists
were supplied by the British High
Commission to LTI for the
Technician Training program who
were able to assist LTI organizing
the Trade Testing Unit.
Covenant met.



- 36 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 3
REFERENCE
COVENANTS/OBLIGATIONS         IN CREDIT
7E DUE            TO BE MET BY  OMOKJOWER       AGELEMENT             ACTIONS, REMARKS AND STATUS
soon as     Acquire insurance coverage for   3.05 (a)        The proposed insurance contract
*sible       imported goods and for the                       was signed on August 1, 1979.
transport and delivery thereof                  Covenant met.
Ar all         Provide plans, specifications,   3.06 (a)        Plans, specifications, tender
eimes           contracts and procurement                       documentation and implementation
schedules to the Association.                   schedules were timely forwarded to
IDA for review.   Covenant met.
At all         Maintain appropriate and           3.06 (b)      Satisfactory civil works recoras
times          adequate records.                                were continuously updated by the
architects, while the procurement
officer's control over furniture
and equipment lists and data was
weak and needed more coordination
with the accounts division. PIU
was advised to better coordinate
the architectural procurement and
accounts section. Some
improvements were being
experienced at the end of the
project. Covenant met.
Promptly as    Acquire land and the rights        3.07          Covenant met.
needed         thereto in respect to the
project.
By September   Have the Project Unit's            4.01 (b)      The Government during the project
30 of each      records audited annually.                       implementation supplied yearly
year                                                            audit reports.  Covenant met.
As soon as     Acquire general insurance.         4.02          Covenant met (para. 3.05 (a)).
possible
From time      Review the service conditions    4.04            Reviews of all technical and
to time        of teachers of pre-vocational                    vocational teachers' salaries were
subjects.                                       made in April 1980 and 1982.
Covenant met.
6/30/78        Establish a permanent advisory                   Advisory coomittees have been
committee at the technical                      established at both schools.
schools of Leribe and                           Covenant met.
Leloaleng to determine
educational programs for
adults.
3/31/78        Establish a council for            4.06          Issue discussed with Central
educational broadcasting.                       Planning, MOE, MUI and Ministry of
Information and Broadcast.
Council is being established.
Covenant being met.



LeSOTHO
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(Cr. 748-LSO)
fIM INDICATORS
PLANNED                            ACIUAL
AT APPRAISAL                     INPLININTATION
eDUCATION                                    PROJECT TARGETS           START / CONPLE-       TARGET       START   CONPLE-
INDICATOR           PROJECT ITEH              AT APPRAISAL                       TION       REVISION                ?ION             r      9FINAL SUPERVISION
I. Provision   All the institutions    - Preparation of lists,         031/7     10/71       I8PP did not. 02180   01/811          r   delivery of furniture aod
of equip-                             - Tender period and awards, 08/78    10/79         work on list  02/81   11/81            equipment was coupleted at Leribe
ment and                              - Delivery of goods,           12/78    10/80      during first  09/81   02/83            So      tei  ufradu
reatlon.                              Center, National Teacher Training
College Trade Testing Centera, nd
eleven secordary schools in February
1983. Generally satisfactory
furniture ono equipmat at the above
instLtution except that at the
secondary schools somue over-
sophisticated, unneeded or ovr
supply of equipment are beilng
exchanged and replaced by more hand
tools where shortages ware belig
experienced.
Expert Consultants                                                                                                              W-J
Nusb r ofi
2, Provision   a) National Curriculum         ) People   Nan-Kanthe   01/79    12/81         a) onCly      09/79   12/82          a) light short con5ultafcies equtv-
of tech-       Development Center-                                                       short-term                            slant to about 16 man-month were
nical as-       (NCDC)                 proposed 10        240                             technical                            supplisd to NCDC by the British
esistance.                             actual    3        115                            assistance                           Council (IC) and 3 man-month by
was supplied                         USAID. At the time of mission, the
at NCDC.                             HOE and the IC had finalising the
supply of three instructors for two
years each (1983-84).
b) Teacher Training          b) Fellowships per                              b) Fellow-    01/79   12/82          b) The special teacher training
Individual:                                 ships were to                        program at NUL was picked-up by UIIDP.
About    NAn-Monthe                         be supplied                          Subsequently, the fellowships for
-    .....                               for NTTC in-                         NSTC tnternshiv supervisors and
ternship                             education officers were covered by
proposed 6 mos.   138                             supervisors                          that program. The 55 local fellow- 
actual  10 mos.   390                             and education                        ships were used instead to fund
officers at                          the tratning costs of 39 slemantary       .
Obtain teaching staff                          KUL.                                 technology teachers being trained          w
for practical subjects                                                              at NTTC.
c) For NRTTC staff were obtained from
c) Teachers                                                                        DANIDA (48 _), Peace Corps (24 m),
Nuaber    Man-Months                                                            ODA (12 _) and Irish Goverment
proposed  not specifTied                                                              (166 _) for a total 250 _ of which
actual  7          178                                                                178 on were used for practical subjects,



PLANNED                            ACTUAL
AT APPRAISAL                     D SULMWION
EDUCATION                                   PDJBCT TARGJTS            START / COMPLZ-       TAlBST       STAtT / COMPIL-
INDICATOR          PROJECr ITEM              AT APPRAISAL                       YIOH       DIISION                TION              FINDINGS rJimL SUPKVsIOU
Teachers              T"che=s                            TSehaere               Techntcal Assistaca SaDplied
c) Technical Schools.  c) Number        Man-Months                                                                 c) Three by DAKIDA, tbree by the
ropoise 1~360                   01/|1    12/83                     01/60   1982             R*public of Ger my, three by the
actual   13         348         01/80   onging                     01/60   ongoing         Mwa, aed four by ftsa  Corps
werea obtained with service
coatiwinugg.
Fellowships            Fellwhis                                                   Rpubitc of Gruny hs upplied
17 fellosbips, USD   2, and the
About    tMan-Months                                                                  Irlsh Covermt 2, for a total
propose" 2f                     1978     1965                                               of 21 fellouhlp.
actual   21         384         1979     1984
Teachers                                                 Pellowmhit
d) Lesotho Agricultural d) Number       Nan-Iontha                                                                 *) Five agriculturai specialists
Collegs                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~are being supplied by O5*S.
proposed 2            48                                           1980    1982
actual   5           120
F llovships
About      Mon-months
proposeT TW                                                        1960    1934             Four fellomhILpe for Dsaotbs
actual   4            48                                          t1ecbers at LAC are being sapplied
by Iritish 11gb cm1sson..
Advisor
e) Trade Testing    e      ) Musber     Man-Monthsa  No ten l                                                                            t       a
proposod 2            24                                           03/80   12/81             recruited b*tasne L.A. staff
actual   -           -                                                                      at L.T.I. did the work - a
part-tim   baie. Guver_ts
felt tbere wsmm asee to
duplicate the persoml.
helloshios
About      Mom-Montha
proposed 24 woe.     48                                            08/80   12/81             The director of the Trade TeSting
actual    1 in.        1Costr visited moch centers io
Malawi sad Zaoia bet. becsuee of
9he limited bnmimdgs uaqalmed
dueties these visits, end the hkigh
costs of such vits, so further
visits mrs undertaehn.
f) Seondary Schols                T ears                                                                           f) T.A. at th  project sc_mols e
i) Mosbsr     HS-Noths                                                                    suppunli  bj    0. bine. Cmp., and
preop'w-         -                                                 1979    1932              Nest Gaeasy  bank M  Belt"&
.Actual   6          144



PLAiflID                          ACWAL
AT APPRISAL                      DIPLENENTATION
EDUCATtON                                    PROJECT TARGETS            START / COMPL-        TuErT       START / CONPIX-
INDICATOR           PROJECT ITEH              AT APPRAISAL                       TION        REVISION               TION              FINDINGS FINL SUPERVISION
3. Studies.    Pre-investment            To be determined:             03/78    10/82                      03/80   09/?'2           The utilization of the H200,000
studies.                 Funds US$200,000                                                                           allocated for pre-investsmat funds
i.:
- Purchase of Computer
Equipment                H75,700.
- Radio Survey             30,900.
- Primary Pilot Project    14,000.
- Architect Consultant       1,500.
- Tracer Study               9,900.
- Preparation of Third
Project                   1.o500.
Total                   N147,S60.
The balance of H52,200 was
ueed to cover coat overruna in the
civil works and equipment areas.
A. Project     Training for Self         To coordinate the implement-  Unit aeta-                                                  Durtng the first two years of
administra- Reliance Project.         ation of the physical facil-  blished In                                                  impleewntation ineufficient efforts
tion.                                 ttits, check the use of         1975 to manAge                                            were made by TSIE  to expedite the
funds, keeping of adequate    Firt Education                                              ispleentation.  Followin, a change In
records and efficient use      Project was also                                           1980 of the director and procurement
of the project mployee.        reesponsible for                                           officer thi lmpleeatation pace we             W
the Iaplemn-                                              greatly improved and during the last
tation of the                                             three yeare the Project Unit performed
Second Education                                          well.
Project.
5. Lvaluation. Evaluation of educa-    Terms of Saterence to be        03/87    06/11    Evaluation        09/S0   05/El           An evaluation epecialiet completed two
tional progras           determlied during laple-                           objectives                             progress reports, ad prepared a final
promoted by the          mentation. Two san-yeare                           for:                                   report on the Introduction of practical
project.                 for technical assistance.                          (a) eccondary                          subjects in May 1982.
divsraif ica-
tion progr_; 
and
(b) distant                                                                      a
teaching
progra.                                                                         'a



LESOTHO
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(Cr. 748-LSO)
Ministry of Education, Sporu and Cultur
Orgnizulon Chrt - 1983
C.~~~~~~~~~~~~ I-
00~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
1/ Thus mu four Suiwo Edwcido Offco mr  c  dapw A Edwvo Oirinr
and Aastint EdwM*n Offc. in IN OItr
3/That m  -Am  dpWgm in Ca, d. Sum**. nud'wr.ti     *ionlsdmpsun 
.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~fi,e sAma. Id .ta m
EW  'fflim M .       p         -
A-E.. Aauta6s EduCiton Of fmw
1.0.  Edvcion Off,.
L0 IC. LMIRO tvc THfAiiC0nW
LT.I.  LasATdw.icT IfsAiltAs
MOO  inrdsuy of
N.U.L  NMionj Uanmeify of Liamac
ALT .T.C. asilTud 6*4uun C.lk
lAEO. kS.nr EjacUfan Offkw
TR- Trmweq lot S| |Nl||.u'c PrsWs
Sousa: MOE dmdBak doff                                                                                                                                                           watidSwb - 22a
__ ~~~~~~~~~~~~II1/T nb ri drOtheE,trI



LESOTHO
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(Cr. 748-LSO)
EDUCATIONAL PYRAMID, 1982
g   .  11  22    II s   IJi                                                            Xu                                                                            111k 'I IM          I
t I   2 1 119                                                                             12                                                                                   12Q
115    1 22  1X3  IA                                                                   1  IY 11                                                                     u   tI =my   2m'   u
A     *4 19 126                                                                             m  21 
D     Q15 .4. IIA74 162%                                                           2SD6   |       G |u2                                                                 IEIA3 144   AMt   |
A    9jr 14 ids                                                                       a                                                                                                             | 
P  12 163                                                                                                                                                                   my 9  .2*
C   It  M? 15                                                            Ii                    N?M
P   ..                                                                                                                                                                            % 11t 5 I 
6  10 15 t 4, A                                                                                     1
A      9 U 8  9S  Uin                                                                                                                                                   mm         1     .9  E 9 ".9  IS
.   12  165                                                               6482           06                                                                                 14 _
am 9  30m IU ¶61bho"m                                                   561 d2AA                                                                                             £
.     ,  ¶0 162                                                         93M U,s                                                                                     14,3
M    4*M 90 ¶68* I¶~  1027I1-108                                                                                                                                      i m  GmuA, 1131.1  mm  134dv an   w    d   owoa ora pftbdr
t2  F&noo1 18)     a() Y a
1~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~*J 6 9  2M



- 42 -
CHART 3
LESOTHO
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(Cr. 748-LSO)
EDUCATION SYSTEM. 1983
ThS dAge         7    * 9    g    10 , ,      12         13   U      i si   1V7    i st t20 o                                   D  0
ii i    i                          i             i                   11. I  I  I    I  1                                       I 
, 2    2    A          S    6    7            a    9    10           11   12   13           12   id   is        is    o        1?   20
PRIMARqY                    POSTM"IMAVtY (VOCATIONAU        14WiAAL    P,,                 C
JUNIa sO DARV            Uumio SECONDARY                    W U
c~~ri   -  ~~~ 1..-g ks.WI*        S           J.
LAC  - L.mIhc Ag'.c..Im.s8 CoUT.wc-                                       Tochm&Tr
LIPA  - L.*o I.,sI,wI. @~~ P..M.c    ~   ~   ~      Top-* .P.1Tfbr
LOC-LOWh.                ~L
afM    Owm  Owop..n,A-M.ubA.SMInI.
Minus 13g...dIUu.au . E.D
T_TC  Avv.ltC         TF_cm  [T.                      I
tLAC-dL  {3 Awft.W o
> E @LWAeVle,> F.zTm~gl- P..C
LOTC-         opw- jmr  T &twb"tm C-@K
AbD C-   Y    WA& . 1MSM .AWf IMU L.
CSC -   C .01 ScSRd  o-W Lo     e oh-
C71 - M  m b-_suf_-_                                           L.1 P.A.                  NW*% ..
C   -   L  ItUll Cd                 YCHt               H_If Nws  Ad
t1wF - L DjeAr0uledtSbleAdle F@_T_ 111 _,l~~~~~~~~~wkm ~-*  22



