Document of
FILESCOPYThekThe World Bank                                          R'URN TO
I       COU lo    0rf    Y                                      77 n-Fn FS D'".S,i,
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                 WITHIN
ONE WEEK
Report No. P-2130a-LSO
REPORT AND RECOMKENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
KNTMIO QOF LESOTRO
FOR A
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
October 27, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1            =           0.87 Rand (R)
R 1             =           US$1.15
R 1 million                 US$1,150,000
MEASURES
1 meter (m)                  =            3.28 feet
1 foot (ft)                  =            0.30 meter
1 kilometer (km)             =           0.62 mile
1 mile (mi)           2                   1.6093 kilometers
1 square kilometer (km )                  0.3861 square mile
1 square mile (sq mi)        =            2.59 square kilometers
ABBREVIATIONS
MINEDUC                 Ministry of Education and Culture
NCDC                    National Curriculum Development Center
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 through March 31
1



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LESOTHO
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Kingdom of Lesotho
Amount:                US$7.5 Million
Terms:                 Standard
Project Description:  The project would help Lesotho better relate its
general education to the conditions and needs of the
country through curriculum development and the expansion
of facilities for teaching pre-vocational subjects in
secondary schools. In addition, it would increase the
nation's pool of skilled workers through strengthening
technical education. It provides for construction of a
National Curriculum Development Center and extensions to
two technical schools and eleven secondary schools, furni-
ture and equipment, essential staff housing, technical
assistance, and support for project administration.
The project would benefit secondary school graduates
through exposure to agricultural and pre-vocational
courses; it would also increase the availability and
the quality of technical education. Risks of the
project are possible delays in recruiting the necessary
technical assistance, a lack of appropriately trained
local teachers, and inadequate local resources for
expendable materials for the teaching of scientific
and pre-vocational subjects.
Estimated Cost:                                          US$ Millions
% of
Local   Foreign   Total   Total
Item
1. Construction, Furniture and
Equipment                                  2.48     3.31      5.79     83
2. Technical Assistance and
Fellowships                                0.07     0.29      0.36      5
3. Project Administration,
Studies, Support Services,
Evaluation                                  0.58     0.28      0.86     12
Sub-total                                    3.13     3.88      7.01    100
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Local   Foreign   Total
Item
4.  Contingencies                                  1.03      1.25      2.28
Total Project Cost                           4.16     5.13      9.29
Total Project Cost                           3.76      5.13     8.89
(net of taxes and duties)
Financing Plan:
IDA                                          2.37     5.13      7.50
Government                                   1.39                1.39
Total                                        3.76      5.13     8.89
Estimated Disbursements:                             Bank FY
1979      1980       1981       1982
Annual:                         0.7       2.6        3.2         1.0
Cumulative:                    0.7        3.3        6.5        7.5
Appraisal Report:    No. 1628-LSO, October 21, 1977



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
FOR A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Kingdom of Lesotho for the equivalent of US$7.5
million on standard IDA terms for a second education project.
PART I: THE ECONOMY
2.        The most recent economic report entitled "Economic Memorandum
on Lesotho" (No. 1083a-LSO) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
July 8, 1976. A special mission visited the country in September 1976, as
part of a study on regional migration in southern Africa; a dxaft report
was distributed to the Government in August 1977. An updating economic
mission is scheduled to visit Lesotho in February 1978. Country data are
shown in Annex I.
3.        Lesotho is a country with few natural resources and is one of the
29 countries designated as "least developed" by the United Nations.   Sur-
rounded by the Republic of South Africa (and the Transkei), it is mountainous,
with less than 15 percent of its land area suitable for crop cultivation;
population pressure on the land is considerable. In 1976, the population was
was estimated at 1.2 million with a growth rate of 2.2 percent a year; GNP per
capita was estimated at US$170.
4.        The economy is characterized by the dominance of subsistence agri-
culture and by migration for employment in the mineral, industrial and agri-
cultural sectors of South Africa. Subsistence agriculture and livestock
rearing provide the main economic activity of about 90 percent of the resident
population and account for about 50 percent of the domestic product. The
production pattern is characterized by traditional methods of cultivation, low
productivity, and extensive soil erosion; the production of the main crops
(maize, sorghum and wheat) is presently inadequate for domestic needs, and
Lesotho has to rely heavily on food imports from South Africa. Although the
most recent agricultural census indicated an increase in crop production of
almost 50 percent between 1969/70 and 1973/74, this was due more to the
vagaries of the weather than to any long-term upward trend in output. In
fact, crop production in 1973/74 was only 13 percent higher than in 1960/61,
implying a long-term growth rate of about 1 percent a year, less than the
growth rate of the population. In recent years, the Government has success-
fully started implementing a rural development program (Basic Agricultural
Services) which provides farmers with a consistent package of inputs (in-
cluding fertilizer, seeds,extension services, credit) and which offers some
prospects for improving agricultural productivity and for arresting the
deterioration of the soil.



- 2 -
5.        While Lesotho's lack of natural resources imposes a severe con-
straint to development, its unique migrant labor situation remains the
Government's most formidable problem. About 200,000 Basotho (including
more than half the country's male labor force) are esimtated to be employed
as migrant workers in South Africa, mainly in mining and agriculture; this
contrasts sharply with only about 28,000 gainfully employed in the modern
sector of the domestic economy. With few opportunities for domestic earn-
ings comparable to those in South African mines, the rising wages in South
Africa in recent years have spurred even greater migration. Since 1970, the
number of Basotho workers in the mines increased by 28,000 while domestic
wage employment is estimated to have grown by about 6,000.
6.        Lesotho has benefitted from migration through substantial remittances
which have become critical to improving the living standards of a large
segment of the population. The value of net earnings of migrants is almost
equivalent to the country's domestic product. However, the absence of such
a large proportion of the country's able-bodied population occurs at the
same time as a domestic shortage of both skilled and semi-skilled manpower
and compounds the problem of long-term development of the economy. Further-
more, the country is now extremely vulnerable to developments affecting
migration in South Africa over which the Lesotho Government has no control.
This was brought home sharply in the beginning of 1974 when, because of
disorders at some south A£rican mines, between 10,000 and 15,000 migrant
workers suddenly returned to Lesotho. Although the emergency situation was
quickly resolved and most of the migrant workers resumed work in South Africa,
the likelihood of similar occurrences (which might be of lornger duration)
caused the Government serious concern. Also, increasing mechanization in the
South African mines and greater recruitment of South African workers since
1974 (the proportion of South African workersin mining has increased from
24 percent to 50 percent), are expected to lead to a slackening in the future
demand for foreign migrant labor.  Because of these uncertainties, the Lesotho
Government has established, during the current plan period, a labor-intensive
construction unit within the Ministry of Works (with IDA support under the
Second Highway project). The operations of the unit (comprising 35 profes-
sional and technical personnel and about 200 unskilled workers) are somewhat
experimental and are to be closely monitored. The unit is expected to develop
the Government's organizational capacity to cope with any future emergency
employment situations, while providing the opportunity for training in much
needed supervisory skills. It should also provide a basis for a long-term
strategy to accelerate domestic employment and gradually reduce the critical
reliance on migration to South Africa.
7.        Lesotho, together with South Africa, Botswana and Swaziland, belongs
to the Southern Africa Customs Union. Merchandise trade, which is carried
on mainly with South Africa, shows a substantial increase in recorded imports
from US$32 million in 1970 to an estimated US$154 million in 1976 as against a
corresponding rise in the value of recorded exports (mainly wool and mohair)
from US$6 million to US$12 million. So far, the trade deficits have-been
more than offset by migrant workers' remittances and transfers to the
Government as well as to the private sector.



- 3 -
8.        The Customs Union is the source of about 60 percent of Government
revenue, which increased from US$16 million in 1969170 to US$35 million in
1975/76. Recurrent expenditure in the same period rose from US$16 million
to US$32 million. United Kingdom grants in support of the current budget
were discontinued in 1973/74 when a surplus of US$8 million was realized;
in 1974/75 the current surplus was US$15 million but dropped to US$3 mil-
lion in 1975/76 as recurrent expenditure increased sharply following an up-
ward revision of public service salaries.
9.        Given the economic stagnation of the previous decade, results of
the First Five Year Plan have been encouraging. Between 1969/70 and 1974/75,
GDP growth in real terms was about 5 percent a year. This favorable perfor-
mance was due mainly to the recovery in agricultural production from its
low level of 1969/70, and the expansion in the government and tourism sec-
tors. Investment (most of which was in the public sector) increased from 10
percent to about 15 percent of GDP following a marked improvement in the
Government's implementation capacity. Manufacturing, mining, and construction
together account for about 5 percent of GDP. However, the investment of
US$30 million in developing a diamond mine at Letseng-la-Terai in the north-
east is expected to boost industrial output and create about 500 jobs; pro-
duction is scheduled to begin in late 1977. GNP increased during this same period
at about 8 percent a year largely as a result of substantial migrants' remit-
tances. In addition to output growth, there have been a number of other
favorable developments: the educational system is being reformed to better
serve the country's development needs; the chronic budgetary deficits were
eliminated; the financial system as well as the domestic resources mobiliza-
tion effort have been strengthened; and most importantly, the Government's
implementation capacity has improved significantly.
10.       The Second Five Year Development Plan (1976-81), which calls for
a GDP growth rate of 8 percent a year, extends the basic objectives contained
in the First Plan. Briefly, it aims at (i) raising agricultural output;
(ii) increasing employment opportunities at home; (iii) improving the quality
of education and expanding vocational training and educational opportunities
in rural areas; and (iv) improving communications among regions within the
country. It calls for public investments of US$92 million (compared to US$29
million in the previous Plan) of which one-third is allocated to agriculture
and rural development (compared to 23 percent in the previous Plan). The
Government recognizes the difficulties in raising agricultural incomes to a
level comparable with earnings in South Africa as well as the limited employ-
ment effects of agricultural programs. However, these investments are part
of a long-term process towards viability in agriculture, which would have to
absorb most of the migrants if there were a significant reduction in migrant
labor in South Africa.
11.       In the past, the country's low absorptive capacity was itself a
serious constraint to economic growth. However, in recent years, the Govern-
ment has increased its capacity to identify investment opportunities. The
results of a number of pre-investment studies on sector potential (transporta-
tion, tourism, power, minerals, telecommunications) have enhanced the project



-4-
content of the second Plan. With a substantial program of technical assist-
ance in education, training, and government administration, we expect the
country's overall implementation capacity to continue improving over this Plan
period.
12.       At the end of December 1975, Lesotho's external public debt (dis-
bursed only) amounted to US$13.2 million on which service payments were
US$0.4 million; this represents less than 2 percent of recurrent revenue (in
Lesotho's circumstances a more meaningful concept than the relationship to
foreign exchange earnings). Over the next several years, Lesotho is likely
to continue to receive most of its capital assistance as grants or conces-
sionary credits. Servicing of external public debt is therefore expected
to be about 2 percent of Government recurrent revenues.
13.       Lesotho's lack of natural resources and the constraints imposed
by the migrant labor situation underline the difficult task of development.
Current revenue remains critically dependent  on the Customs Union, the
future of which is uncertain. While the recent amendment to the revenue
sharing formula will improve the revenue situation, revision of public service
salaries in 1975 and again in 1977 (because of increasing skilled labor migration
to South Africa) will seriously reduce the budgetary surplus originally envisaged
to help finance the Government's capital investment program. In addition, the
country's growing absorptive capacity and, in particular, the recurrent budge-
tary commitments of an expanding public investment program call for a more
rapid increase in revenue and greater diversification of revenue sources.
However, given the country's limited resources and narrow tax base, these
objectives can only be realized in the long term. In the meantime, donor
agencies should consider financing in most projects not only all foreign
costs, but also a substantial part of local costs. If Lesotho is to sustain
its development, it will need continuing concessionary financing on grant and
IDA terms.
PART II: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
14.       To date Lesotho has received IDA credits totalling US$21.7 million
for five projects. The first, in 1966, was a US$4.1 million credit for a
highway project which provided for paving a section of the main north-south
road; the project was successfully completed in 1969. The second was a
US$5.6 million credit made in 1973 for the Thaba Bosiu rural development
scheme. The project is currently meeting its objectives of providing 12,000
rural families with a minimum package of inputs, credit and extension
services. The third, in 1974, was a US$4,0 million credit for an education
project. The project has progressed well in expanding Lesotho's vocational
and commercial training capacity and improving the country's rural educational
program. The fourth was a US$5.5 million credit for a second highway project
and the establishment of a labor-intensive construction unit. The credit was
signed in March 1976 and project implementation has made a good start. The
fifth, a US$2.5 million credit approved in April 1977 will assist Lesotho's
industrial development by providing financial assistance to the Lesotho



-5-
National Development Corporation (LNDC) and its subsidiary, the Basotho
Enterprises Development Corporation (BEDCO). At the end of 1975, IDA's
share of Lesotho's total external public debt (disbursed and outstanding) was
61 percent (due to the fact that most external aid in the past has been
provided on grant terms). Servicing of IDA credits accounted for 12 per-
cent of total debt service. Annex II contains a summary statement of
*           IDA credits and notes on the execution of the ongoing projects.
15.       Future operations will continue to support the Government's devel-
opment objectives (para. 10).  The Bank has appraised a follow-up project to
the Thaba Bosiu rural development project which will help improve output in
the agricultural sector, essentially through an extension of the Basic Agri-
cultural Services Program (para. 4). It will cover a large portion of the
country and encompass most of the activities of the Ministry of Agriculture.
In addition, preliminary work has begun on both a third highway project to
improve part of Lesotho's national highway network and a third rural devel-
opment project which will focus on land.use and soil conservation. The
Bank Group also expects to continue financial assistance to LNDC and BEDCO.
PART III: THE EDUCATION AND THE TRAINING SECTOR
Characteristics
16.       Lesotho has a comparatively high literacy rate -- about 40 percent
of the adult population -- and primary education (grades 1-7) is available
to most children. Dropout rates, however, are high, especially among boys
who traditionally herd cattle, sheep and goats. Thus, the very high levels
of primary enrollment drop sharply in secondary schools (grades 8-12).
Although secondary school enrollment increased 10 percent yearly during
1970-76, it still accounts for only about 10 percent of the 13-18 year age
group. Higher education, i.e., the National University of Lesotho, en-
rolls less than one percent of Basotho youth aged 18-22 years.
17.       The country's development efforts suffer greatly from shortages
of suitably trained manpower, although this situation is due, at least in
part, to the large numbers of Basotho who find emp-loyment in South Africa
(paras. 5 and 6). Curricula at all levels, however, have tended to remain
overly literary and deficient in manual-skills subjects, and education by
and large is not sufficiently related to Lesotho's particular conditions
and national requirements. In particular, there is need to emphasize agri-
culture, elementary technology, home economics, commerce and development
studies, as well as overhaul existing science and mathemathics courses.
18.       In response to this need, vocational training in industrial arts
and home economics is currently offered in eight lower-secondary level schools
and technical education in three post-lower-secondary level schools: the Lerotholi
Technical Institute, the Leribe Technical School and the Leloaleng Technical
School.  In 1975, about 550 students were enrolled in courses providing vocational



- 6 -
and technical education. In addition, the Civil Service Training Center
(soon to be replaced by the Lesotho Institute of Public Administration)
gives instruction in clerical administrative and commercial skills and
the Lesotho Agricultural College and the National Teacher Training College
offer training in agriculture and pedagogy. To reach parts of the popula-
tion which do not have easy access to schools, educational opportunities
are provided through radio and correspondence courses by the Lesotho Distance
Teaching Center.
Management and Finance of Sector
19.       Historically, education in Lesotho has been provided by mission
schools, though in recent years the Government has made considerable progress
in gaining administrative and academic control over the system. Most schools
in Lesotho are owned by Christian churches and managed by boards which the
churches have established. The Government through its ministry of Education,
Youth, Sports and Culture (MINEDUC) follows a policy of involving the school
owners, boards and staff in educational development efforts. MINEDUC exer-
cises its influence in the sector by maintaining responsibility for most
teachers' salaries and through control of the examination system which permits
it to exercise some control over school programs. The MINEDUC now intends
to increase its control over educational programs by creating a new Department
of Curriculum Development within the Ministry to centralize the presently
scattered curriculum-development efforts.
20.       Recurrent expenditures on education accounted for 24 percent of
total Government expenditures in 1975/76 and are forecast to increase by 12
percent per annum to an estimated 29 percent in 1985/86. Several factors
account for the estimated increases in recurrent expenditures. An across-
the-board salary increase of 25 percent was approved in early 1977, mainly
because the Government needed to adjust salaries or face a continuing exodus
of staff to the Republic of South Africa. This is likely to be followed
by additional salary increases. Another factor which will lead to a sub-
stantial increase in expenditures on teachers salaries is the Government's
intention to localize the secondary school teacher force by 1985/86. At
present only 43 percent of secondary school teachers are qualified nationals.
As the Government progressively localizes the teaching force it will have
to pay the salaries which heretofore have been paid by the churches or by
foreign bilateral assistance. To help defray costs, the Government charges
fees for secondary and higher education, although these were abolished for
primary education in 1974. The Government also levies an education tax of
R 2.50 per year on every able-bodied male and in addition receives sub-
stantial foreign assistance for both recurrent and capital expenditures on
education.
21.       The proposed level of Government recurrent expenditure on education,
while high in comparison with other countries, can be explained by Lesotho's
special circumstances. The country's lack of natural resources and its small
modern sector has limited the growth of industry and commerce and employment
opportunities in them. (Government recurrent expenditures in these sectors
also are correspondingly limited.) As a result, over half of Lesotho's work
force has migrated in search of employment, and estimates for the next five
years indicate that new local job opportunities will total only half the
increase in the labor force. In this situation, the Government's emphasis on



education appears sound: it provides the Basotho with higher skill levels
enabling them to earn better salaries and leading to a stimulation of the
local economy as a part of these salaries are repatriated; it also creates
over the long term a pool of skilled and literate Basotho ready to be
employed locally once suitable new opportunities are created.
Government's Strategy for Education and IDA Assistance
22.       The second Five Year Development Plan (1976-81) reiterates the
fundamental national goals stated in the first Plan (1970-75). These are:
continuing economic growth, social justice for all, the encouragement of
maximum domestic employment and decreased economic reliance on the Republic
of South Africa. The educational objectives derived from these national
goals are: the improvement of the quality and efficiency of primary educa-
tion; the development of secondary education with special emphasis on improv-
ing mathematics and science teaching and expanding instruction in pre-
vocational subjects; the development of technical, vocational and higher
education to meet national manpower needs in both the modern and rural sectors;
the establishment of a coordinated program of nonformal education; and the
strengthening of Government control and supervision of educational activities
of missionary societies.
23.       The second Plan calls for both quantitative and qualitative educa-
tional changes with added emphasis on increasing the participation of rural
groups and on improving the pre-vocational course content of the curriculum.
The quantitative aspects are largely in response to the Government's desire
to provide equitable educational opportunities to the entire population.
The qualitative and vocational aspects are required to provide nationals who
are adequately trained for skilled and semi-skilled work.
24.       Lessening dependence on South Africa, particularly in terms of
providing adequate employment sufficiently attractive to divert Basotho
labor from jobs in South Africa, is a long-term process. In the meanwhile,
income from employment in South Africa probably will continue to be highly
important to Lesotho's economy. Thus, it is essential that Basotho labor
attain as much skill as possible, to enhance their earnings (and remittances)
during the periods they work outside the country, but, equally important, to
develop the reservoir of skilled manpower needed for work in Lesotho as
well.
25.       The Association's first credit for education (Cr. 497-LSO, July
1974) was to assist the Government in achieving the above educational objec-
tives. With the credit, the Government has been able to expand the
Lerotholi Technical Institute, establish the Commercial Training Institute
(for commercial, administrative and financial training) and the Lesotho
Distance Teaching Center which gives instruction through correspondence
courses and by radio. The credit also helped finance facilities at six
secondary schools for teaching pre-vocational subjects. Project implementation
has progressed well, with substantial completion now scheduled for December



- 8 -
1977, about nine months ahead of the original schedule. Due to the 23 percent
devaluation of the rand in 1975, project costs measured in US dollars are
below the original estimates and a small savings in the credit is expected.
PART IV: THE PROJECT
26,       A Bank Group mission identified the proposed project in March 1976;
the Project Unit established under the first project largely prepared the
project. A Bank Group mission, with a UNESCO general educator, appraised
the project in January/February 1977. Negotiations were held in Washington
on October 3-6, 1977. Mr. A. M. Mapetla led the Lesotho delegation. An
appraisal report entitled "Appraisal of a Second Education Project",
No. 1628-LSO, dated October 21, 1977, is being circulated separately,
Objectives and Description of the Project
27.       The project will assist the Government in its efforts to restructure
Lesotho's educational system to meet the country's developmental needs. In
the long term the project's focus on improving the agricultural and practical
content of general education will lead to increased self reliance. In the
medium term, the project will provide the country with additional skill
training both to maximize the earnings of migrant workers and to increase the
pool of skilled people remaining in Lesotho.
28,       To meet these objectives the project will provide the following:
(i) construction, furniture and equipment for a National
Curriculum Development Center;
(ii) expansion, furniture and equipment for two existing
technical schools;
(iii) office and trade-testing equipment, and a vehicle, for
a new Trade-Testing System;
(iv) expansion, furniture and equipment for eleven
general-secondary schools;
(v)  minor improvements in teacher-education workshop
facilities and a bus for the institutions training
the teachers of pre-vocational subjects;
(vi) technical assistance for the Trade-Testing System,
for educational evaluation, for project implementation,
and for training Basotho teacher-educators;
(vii) project administration expenses, pre-investment
activities and studies, and staff housing.



-9-
Project Items
29.       The National Curriculum Development Center (NCDC).  The proposed
project will centralize and strengthen various curriculum-development activi-
ties of the MINEDUC. The new Department of Curriculum Development will be
accommodated in the NCDC, and will conduct integrated curriculum-development
activities for primary and general-secondary education. A service for career
*            guidance, including employment counseling also will be housed in the NCDC.
The service will oversee the Careers Education and Guidance Program which
MINEDUC is establishing in secondary schools (and which eventually will be
expanded to all educational levels).  The NCDC will also strengthen the educa-
tional radio service by providing facilities for a recording studio, and
office for MINEDUC's Broadcasting Officer and a library for tapes and other
materials, At present, the Lesotho Broadcasting Corporation transmits 19-1/2
hours of educational broadcasting each week. The agencies providing material
are MINEDUC, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Distance Teaching Center and
the Ministry of Health. In order to improve the effectiveness of the educa-
tional broadcasting in Lesotho, the Government will establish, by March 31,
1978, a Council for Educational Broadcasting under the Lesotho Broadcasting
Corporation, with representatives from all agencies providing educational
programs (Section 4.06 of the draft Credit Agreement). The Council will
advise the Lesotho Broadcasting Corporation on the use of radio for educa-
tional purposes and will allocate among the agencies the air time made avail-
able by the Corporation for educational broadcasts.
30.       Expansion of Technical Education.  Additional facilities will be
provided at two upper-secondary level technical schools, the Leloaleng
Trades School and the Technical School of Leribe, enabling them to increase
their enrollments to a more economical size. At Leloaleng, the proposed
classroom facilities and equipment will enable the enrollment of full-time
students to increase from 55 to 95 and will also allow the school to introduce
a course in construction. At Leribe, the additional facilities will enable
about 30 more students to be enrolled. The proposed expansions will enable
both schools to provide opportunities for adults to obtain skill training in
the trades for which the institutions are equipped. At both Leloaleng and
Leribe, permanent committees will be formed, including school personnel and
interested local personnel, to determine the content, form, and frequency of
adult programs. Such committees will be established by June 30, 1978
(Section 4.05 of the draft Credit Agreement).
31.       Trade-Testing.  Those students terminating technical courses in
Lesotho are at present not adequately evaluated. Under the proposed project,
a new permanent Trade-Testing System will be established and funds will be
provided for office and trade-testing equipment,and a vehicle  for the Trade-
Testing System (space is already available within the Labor Department).



- 10 -
32.       Improvement of Secondary Education.  The major component of the
project will be provision for the buildings, furniture and equipment re-
quired to introduce pre-vocational subjects into seven additional general-
secondary schools and to expand space at four of the six which received
such facilities under the IDA-assisted first education project. Emphasis
on science and mathematics is being increased and agriculture, elementary
technology, home economics, commercial subjects, and development studies 1/
are being introduced as regular subjects in the secondary-school program.
The additional pre-vocational facilities will free the existing academic
facilities part of the time and allow the eleven schools to increase their
enrollments. Since most students come from distant areas and are unable to
find housing near the schools, a limited number of boarding places will be
provided under the project for those students who at present are inadequately
housed and for the additional students whom the project will enable the
schools to enroll.
33.       Improvements in Teacher-Education Facilities.  The project secondary
schools will require additional teachers of pre-vocational subjects. These
teachers will be trained within Lesotho during the project implementation
period, so that they will be ready at the time of the completion of the new
facilities. To train elementary-technology and agricultural teachers, the
Government is arranging for joint programs between the National Teacher
Training College, the Lerotholi Technical Institute and the Lesotho Agri-
cultural College. The Lerotholi Teehnical Institute, which is being assisted
in the first project, will require improvement in its teacher-education work-
shop facilities; the Agricultural College will need to hire additional agri-
cultural educators; and the Teacher Training College will require a bus to
move its students between institutions and fellowships for Basotho teacher-
educators. These items will be provided under the project as a contribution
to strengthening teacher-education facilities for the pre-vocational subjects.
The Government discussed with the Association plans for the training of the
pre-vocational subjects teachers who will be needed for the eleven project
schools. In order to minimize the loss of such trained teachers to other
employment in the Republic of South Africa, the Government will review from
time to time the conditions of service of teachers of pre-vocational subjects
(Section 4.04 of the draft Credit Agreement).
34.       Technical Assistance.  The project will provide funds for:  (i) a
specialist in trade-testing (two man-years) to establish the new Trade-
Testing System and fellowships for local staff; (ii) a specialist or spe-
cialists in educational evaluation (two man-years) to be recruited by
June 30, 1978 for the purposes of evaluating the educational programs in
1/ A combination of basic economics and social studies emphasizing the
importance of pre-vocational subjects to Lesotho's development needs.



- 11 -
this project as well as similar programs undertaken in the first project; and
(iii) an architect and quantity surveyor for the architectural team providing
support to the Project Unit. The above specialists will be appointed on
terms and conditions acceptable to the Association (Section 3.03 of the
draft Credit Agreement). The project also will provide 55 fellowships for
the in-service training of Basotho teacher-educators. In addition, about
54 man-years of specialists' services (27 experts for two years each) will
be required by the completion of the project's construction phase (1980)
to ensure the educational programs supported by the project are properly
launched. The NCDC will need 10 curriculum specialists; the technical schools,
15 experts in various skill areas; and the Lesotho Agricultural College, 2
agricultural educators to help train pre-vocational subjects teachers in
agriculture. A large number of fellowships will be needed for the training
of the Basotho who will replace the specialists on their departure. Various
external assistance agencies have shown interest in providing the required
specialists as well as the necessary fellowships. The Government is expected
to be able to secure the required technical assistance from bilateral or
other multilateral sources and brought to negotiations a list of probable
sources of the various specialists (Section 3.04 of the draft Credit Agreement).
35.       Project Administration, Pre-Investment Activities and Staff Housing.
The project includes funds for general project administration (office accom-
modation, furniture, vehicles, equipment and operating expenses) and for un-
dertaking studies and preparing architectural sketch plans and equipment lists
for a further education project which might be considered for IDA financing.
Also included are funds for about 83 staff houses to ensure that Lesotho's
severe housing shortage does not constrain the recruitment of the technical
specialists and additional teachers needed to staff the project. The total
area and approximate number of housing units included in the project have
been agreed with the Government; the actual area of each accommodation unit
will vary according to the type of institution, and local requirements. The
housing for the 13 secondary and technical schools proposed in the project
is comparable in area to existing accommodations and about 68 houses, prin-
cipally for local teaching staff will be provided at an average area per
accommodation unit of about 60 ml. A further 15 houses will be provided,
principally for internationally recruited personnel required for the project
and would range from 60-95 m2 per unit. These areas are minimal in comparison
with existing accommodations of this type. The expected large inflow of
technical assistance during the next five years and the limited ability of
the other public and private sources to meet the housing needs, necessitate
that the project meet some of the housing needs which it is generating.
Project Cost and Financing
36.       The total project cost is estimated at US$8.9 million (excluding
taxes and duties, estimated at US$0.4 million). About US$5.1 million, or 57
percent, will be for expenditures on goods and services from outside Lesotho.
The proposed credit of US$7.5 million will cover 84 percent of project costs,
including some of the local costs. The Government will finance the balance
of project costs. Retroactive financing, estimated at up to US$150,000, is
proposed for expenditures incurred after March 1, 1977 for the services of an
architect and a quantity surveyor, and for the acquisition of copyrigthed



- 12 -
architectural plans. During any one year of project implementation the
maximum government contribution to the project is not expected to exceed
US$800,000. Recurrent expenditures generated by the project are expected
to constitute about 3 percent of MINEDUC's estimated recurrent budget in
1985/86.
37.       As a result of the Rand devaluation, a saving in dollar expendi-
ture estimated at about US$220,000 is expected in respect of the First
Education Project which is nearing completion, about nine months ahead of
schedule. The Government requested and we agreed to recommend that the bulk
of the savings be used to provide additional teacher accommodation at four
of the six schools assisted under the First Project, and to be expanded
under the Second Project. The Credit Agreement (No. 497-LSO) for the First
Education Project would be amended accordingly.
Project Implementation
38.       The independent Project Authority, representing the Ministries
of Education, Finance, Planning, Agriculture, Health, Works and Community
and Rural Development, which was established for the first project, will be
responsible for overall project control. Under the Authority, a Project
Unit established for the administration of the first project will be res-
ponsible for implementing the second project. The Project Unit has functioned
well, and no difficulties are anticipated in continuing to use it for the
second project. The Unit is staffed with a director, deputy director,
accountant, procurement officer and supporting staff, all on a full-time
basis. To support the design, construction and supervision requirements
of the Project Unit, the Ministry of Works will establish   an architectural
team consisting of two architects, one quantity surveyor, two architectural
technicians and two construction supervisors to be assigned to the Project
Unit on full-time basis, though located in the Ministry of Works. One of
the architects and the quantity surveyor will be provided under the project;
the other positions will be filled by the Ministry of Works. Establishing
the architectural team, including appointment of the architect and quantity
surveyor on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, will be a
condition of effectiveness (Section 5.01, Credit Agreement). The project
also includes funds for consultants, selected and appointed on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, to assist the architectural team
and the Project Unit with engineering services and the procurement of furni-
ture and equipment (Section 3.03 of the draft Credit Agreement). All sites
for the proposed expansions to secondary and technical schools are satisfactory
and currently available. The proposed site for the NCDC appears small in
size, and the site proposed for its associated staff accommodation has not
so far been made available. The Government would provide assurances regard-
ing the suitability and availability of these two sites (Section 3.07 of the
draft Credit Agreement).
Procurement
39.       All contracts for civil works, furniture and equipment will be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with



- 13 -
the Bank Group's guidelines for procurement except as follows: (a) construc-
tion contracts costing less than US$25,000 each (total estimated at US$150,000)
will be negotiated with small unregistered contractors on the basis of a
program to be agreed with the Association; (b) construction contracts for
the two schools in the mountain regions (total estimated at US$900,000),
where competitive bids are not expected due to inaccessibility, will be
undertaken by local teams consisting of a few skilled people furnished by
the Project Unit or by the Ministry of Works plus local unskilled labor and
will be supervised by the Project Unit according to a program to be agreed
upon with the Association; and (c) furniture and equipment contracts costing
less than US$50,000 each (total estimated at US$200,000), which, on the basis
of experience with the first education project, are unlikely to attract foreign
bidders, will be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally in accordance with local procedures acceptable to the Association.
Architectural sketch designs, draft tender documents and master lists of
furniture and equipment, indicating proposed grouping, will be reviewed by
the Association. Items will be grouped to the extent practicable to encour-
age competitive bidding and to permit bulk procurement. Review of tender
evaluation documents by the Association prior to award will not be required
for contracts for civil works costing less than US$200,000 equivalent and
for contracts for furniture and equipment costing less than US$50,000 equi-
valent. Where international competitive bidding procedures are used (i)
domestic manufacturers of furniture and equipment will be allowed a preference
of 15 percent of the existing applicable rate of import duties, whichever is
lower, over the c.i.f. price of competing foreign suppliers; and (ii) qualified
domestic civil works contractors will be allowed a preferential margin of
7-1/2 percent over the bid prices of competing foreign contractors.
Disbursement
40.       Disbursement will be on the basis of:  (a) 80 percent of expendi-
tures for civil works; (b) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for directly
imported furniture, instructional equipment and vehicles; c) 100 percent of
the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured furniture; (d) 100 percent of
foreign and 50 percent of local expenditures for technical assistance and
fellowships and for project evaluation; and (e) 80 percent of total expendi-
tures for locally procured furniture and equipment bought off the shelf,
professional services and project administration. Disbursements for project
administration would be made against certificates of expenditure, documenta-
tion for which would not be submitted for review but which would be retained
by the Borrower and would be available for inspection by the Association
during the course of project supervision. Procurement is expected to be
completed by March 31, 1980, and the project by September 30, 1980.
Benefits and Justification
41.       The project will contribute importantly to Lesotho's long-term
national objectives of economic growth, social justice and reducing economic



- 14 -
dependence on South Africa. Shortages of skilled manpower seriously hamper
Lesotho's development efforts. Education in Lesotho needs to be more closely
related to the country's particular conditions and requirements, including
training in relatively simple practical skills. The proposed National
Curriculum Development Center will help bring the education system's curricula
more in line with the country's needs, particularly by emphasizing agri-
cultural and other practical skills. Expanding the secondary school diver-
sification program will train a larger number of students in rudimentary
practical skills and expose them to technical and scientific subjects. The
proposed enlargement of technical education facilities similarly will increase
the output of skilled Basotho workers, and the guidance counseling program
will help to better match the country's demands for trained persons with
the output of the school system. Many of those outside the formal education
system will benefit from the expanded educational radio system, and others
from informal courses at the project's two technical schools. Some of the
courses would be particularly directed to women in view of their key role in
the country's economy.
42.       The project will benefit individual Basotho workers by enabling
them to obtain higher wages due to their improved skill base. For the near
and medium term (10-20 years) the realization of this benefit will depend on
the continued migration of Basotho laborers to the Republic of South Africa
since most local employers will not be able to pay skilled workers a competi-
tive wage. The recent Bank mission to study the migrant labor situation in
southern Africa (para. 2) found that up to 70 percent of Basotho migrant earnings
are repatriated in one form or another (through the deferred-pay system, postal
and banking system, returning friends, cash-in-hand and goods purchased).
These remittances not only directly permit families in Lesotho to increase con-
sumption and on-farm investment, but because 60 percent of certain types of
migrant earnings (mainly mine wages) are paid into accounts for the migrants
at the Government-owned Lesotho National Bank under the compulsory deferred-
pay system established in 1975, some of the migrants' remittances also revert
to the benefit of the country as a whole. For instance, by the end of 1976,
the Lesotho National Bank had accumulated R 10 million in the deferred-pay
fund, and had earmarked R 4.75 million for investment projects, including loans
for electricity, the new diamond mine and the recently established Agricultural
Development Bank. The project related improvements in migrant wages and
remittances will lead to an enlarged pool of resources in the Lesotho National
Bank, and an increased availability of financial resources for development
projects.
43.       Finally,through the proposed project,the Ministry of Education would
continue to gain valuable experience in the implementation of School construc-
tion programs. It will also further the Government's objective of greater
influence and control over the school system. The proposed construction would
create an estimated 400 man-years of employment during the project period, and
would benefit the local construction industry generally through on-the-job
training of local craftsmen and unskilled laborers. The project would create
continuing employment for about 170 persons, mostly teachers and curriculum
specialists.



- 15 -
Risks
44.       The proposed project has two principal risks.  One is that the success
of all the new facilities which will be provided under the proposed project
depends upon the availability of internationally recruited specialists to staff
them in the short term and a successful staff development program for Basotho
in the medium term. Several bilateral agencies, however, including ODM, USAID,
and DANIDA, have expressed considerable interest in the project and in supplying
supportive technical assistance. The Government has already contacted these
agencies and presented at negotiations a list of probable sources of various
specialists. More uncertain are the prospects that Basotho teachers will be
available to teach in the project-assisted schools. The problem stems from
Lesotho's unusual position as a poor, land-locked country unable to provide
employment opportunities for its population or to pay wages at levels com-
parable to those in the Republic of South Africa. As a result, Lesotho has
become increasingly dependent on migrant labor (paras. 5 and 6), and at the
same time has experienced difficulty in finding local laborers for skilled
and semi-skilled jobs. Over the long term, Lesotho's economic growth should
lead to more domestic employment opportunities and a reduction in the wage
differentials, but in the short and medium term, there is considerable risk
that locally trained teachers in skills and pre-vocational subjects will find
employment opportunities more attractive in the Republic of South Africa. In
order to permit some discussion of the realistic level of wages and other
benefits paid to teachers of pre-vocational and skill subjects, the Government
will review their conditions of service from time to time (para. 33). However,
the Government may not be able to provide the adequate incentive or salary
level to retain specialized local teachers in Lesotho due to the destabilizing
effect substantially increased wages could have on other wage levels in the
country, and thus the non-availability of Basotho teachers remains a potential
risk.
45.       The other major risk concerns the secondary diversification program,
of which there has not yet been a thorough evaluation in Lesotho. A large
body of evidence from similar projects in other countries, however, plus an
analysis of conditions in Lesotho indicate that the Government may safely pro-
ceed with the expansion of the diversification program as long as it is careful
to avoid two problems: (i) a lack of appropriately trained teachers, and (ii)
inadequate provision of recurrent resources to support the teaching of
scientific and practical subjects. On point (i), there are reasonable ex-
pectations that the arrangements outlined in the preceding paragraph will
result in the availability of the needed teachers.  On point (ii), it is
reasonably certain that the students themselves could provide the funds to
buy the expendable materials needed for the successful functioning of the
diversified curriculum. Students at the project institutions already pay
school fees, and school directors at all of the project institutions con-
firmed that their students would be able to afford to pay the additional
amounts necessary to buy the needed expendable materials.



- 16 -
PART V: LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
46.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Kingdom of
Lesotho and the Association, the Recommendations of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement and the text
of a draft resolution approving the proposed redit are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
47.       Features of the Credit Agreement of special interest are referred
to in Section III of Annex III of this report.
48.       Establishment of an architectural team, including appointment
of an architect and a quantity surveyor thereof, is a special condition
for the effectiveness of the Credit Agreement.
49.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI: RECOMMENDATION
50.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
October 27, 1977
.



-17-                                                    ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                  Paee 1 of 4 pages
LESOTHO               - SOCIAL INOICATORS DATA SHEET
LANO AREA (THFOU KMZI                      --                                                           CO- -TRIES (19701
------------                                     LFSO7THO                               REFERENCECfUTIS190
TOTAL                                                       MO . *ST RECENT                                      .IA -
A4rIC.        26.5                         1960       1970   ESTIMATE             ETHIOPIA         CAMEROON  SULThWA*
r,Np PFR CAPITA (US$)                        40.0 *      80.0       170.0 &              70.0         210.04       210.0 *
PnPULATION AND VITAL SYtATISTICS
Pr)PULATION t 413-YR, MILLION)              0.9         1.1        1.2 &               24.6          6.6          0.42
PnPJLATION OFNSITY
PEP SQUARr KM.                          *_9.0       36.0       141.0 o!             20.0         14.0         24.0
PR SQo. KM. AtGICULURAL LAND            32.0 /a    3S.0         41.°                130.0        42.0         28.0
VITRL STATISTICS
CV UnF SITH RATE TATHOU, AV)             38.9       38.1        39.0                 50.3         42.1         50.3
CAPlr.E OFATH RAlTE (THOU,#V)            24.4       21.7        19.7                 28.7         23.9         24.6
INFANT MOP'ALITY RR'F  W/THOUM         181.0          ..      114.0
tt                                  LIFE FXPECTANCY AT RIUTH IVYS)            38.4       43.5        46.0                 38.0         41.0         41.0
CRoSS RFPRqDUCTI0lN RATE                   .         2.5         2.S                  2.9          2.t          3.5
POPULATION BPrWTH RATE t  
T ',OT AL                                 2.1        2.2         2.2                  2.1          2.0          2. 9
URBAN                                     8.)        8.3         6.7                  9.4 La       6.1         13.6
f4M8fAi POPULATION tT rF T-T4LI             1.4         2.5        3.1                  9.7         20.3          7.1 /
AOF STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YFARS                          46.0        43.0        h40.0                43.0        43.0         46.6
15 TO 64 YVRAS                          47.0        51.0        55-3                 54.3         54.0        49.1 $
65 YFAPS AND OVFR                         T.0  b     6.0        14.7                  2.7          3.0          4.3 g
AGE qrPELtDENCY RATIO                       1.1 /b      1.0        0.8                  0.9          0.9          1.0 a
FCONnMIC  EDRFNfFNCY PATO                    ,.         1.l/Ab    1.1                    ..          1.2          1.2
FAMILY PLANNING
AccrpTOls (CUMULATIVE. THOU)               .           .
,JSEPS tt CF MARRIFn                       ..          ..WOMEN.
- MPLOYMFNT
TOTAL LAeOi FORCE (THOUSAND)                 ..          *       514O.01                 ,,       2800.0        185.0
-LAVIO'R rORCE IN AGRICULTURE (t)             ..          ..       90.0                 85.0         82.0         82.1
UNFMPLOYFO It OF LABOiP FnRCEI               ..          ..         ...
INCfml^ nTSTOTRI)TION
t nF PRIVATF INCOME RFECD OY-
HIGHEST  5S OF HOUSEHOLDS                                        ..          ..           ..
HIGHEST 20  OF HOUSEHOLDS                 ..          ..         ..
LOWEST  20t Of  HOIUSEHOLOS                ..          ..         ..
LnWEST  40S OF HOUSFHOLOS                                        ..          ..          ..
-IST~IBUTI.N nF LAMn CWNERSHIP
_ _ _-_  --_- _ _ _ _  _  _ -- -  --_     -- 
S DWNiFi RY TOP 10I OF OWNERS                ..       22...
A IwNFO FY SM4ALLEST 103 OWNERS              ..         3           ..
HSALTH AND NUTRITION
prP'ULATION PER PHYSICIAN                    *-    31190.0    29360.0 &             73300.0     29330.0        8100.0
POPULLATION PER NURSING PERSON          7710.0L8,d 380.0 0.      3830.00 L          23640.00Jt   2700.0 A          .
POPULATION PSR  HOSPITAL  EO                2         570.0   .O 58.0                2980.0        550.0        300.0
PFC CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALOQIES It OF REQU1REMENTS)               ..          ..         .                  92.0         96.0
PROTEIN  IGRAMS PER DAY)                   ..          .           .                 69.0         59.0
-CF WHICf4 ANIMAL AND PULSE              ..         .           .                  25.0        23.0 A
DEATH RATE I/THOU) AGfS 1-4                  ..          ..          ..
'OUCATICN
*                                 ADJUSTFD eNROLLPFNT RATIO
PIMkRY SCHOOL                          83.0        95.0       109.7                  MD.o       100.0         80.0
SFCON04PY SCHOOL                          3.0        7.0        13.3                  4.0          9.0         19.0
YEARS nF SCHOOtING PROVIOEO
tFIRST ANID SECOND LEVELl                12.0       12.0        12.0                 12.0         14.0 /'   12.0
VOCATIONAL ENFROLLMNENT
*                                    1(  OF SECONOARYl                        23.0        8.0         5.4                  5.0         22.0          2.0
ADUtT LITERACY RATE ()                       ..          ..       40.0                    ..        12.0         30.0
HOUSING
PIRSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                     ..          ..          ..
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WAT/R  tl                            ..          ..         ..(
ACCESS TO FLECTRICITY
(t  OF ALL OWELLINGS)                      ..          ..         ..                   ..           ..          9.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICTTY (                           ..          ..         ....
C CN IL P TI ON
RADOl  RECEIVERS (PER THOU POPI             6.0          ..       11.0                   6.0         36.0        74.0
PASSFNGRE  CARS (PER ?POU POPI              3.0 /a      2.0         2.0                  2.0          6.0        10.0
FLECTRICITY IKWHIYR PER CAP)                 ..          ..          ..                21.0        201.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                     ..         ..          ..
SE_ _ N_OT__    -          -   -------- --_-_----_--  ---------------------------- NDFI SOR S--------------- _ND   _I O  _ REV_-------S--
SFlE NQtFS AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



- 18-                                                           ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4 pages
NOTES
Unless otherwise noted, dat, for I16i refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1q70 between 19.3 and 1970, and fcr 1oat Recent Estimate between
1973 ,nd 1975.
* GNP per capita data are haced on World Bank Atlas methodology (1974-76 basis).
s   Swaziland has been celected  s an objective country for Lrsotho in ordor to provide conparative data in respect of a country of a similar sfe
which is land-lock.d but at a higher levcl of develcpmont.
LEa71H(      1960    Ia  1967;       b  1956;    /c  Enpulotion 15-59 years; and 60 yeors and over rs-pn-tively;    Id  Including nurses with midwifery
qua-iticatisns and assistant nurses;    /e  1965.
1970    /a  l966;    lb  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and wer to total labor force;    ic  Includes absentee workers;    /d  Arable
land held under tradiciona1 tenure arrangements;    /e  Including nore.-idwives sod assistant nurses.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE:    /a  1976;    /b  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and oer to total labor force;    Ic  Includs migrant labor
in South Africa;    /d  1971:    /e  Includes nure-midwives  and ac.intact n-urser
iTHI0PIA     1970    !a  1965-70;    /b  Including midwives and public health nurses.
CWi3MRONS    1970    /a  Including midwives and assistant nurses;    /h  1964-66;    /c  13 years for East Cameroon.
SWAZILAND    1970    /a  Difference between ttS rate of sotural incresse and IBRD population grotth rate due to different census bases;    /b  1956-66;
/c  1966;    /d  Ratio  f population under 15 and 65 and oer to total labor force.
R8, August 12, 1977
DEPFlIITIOPS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Land A:ee (thou us2)                                                                      Popsiation Per nursing person - P'pulatims divided by nusber of psacticing
Total - Total -urface ar-a comprisirg land area sod island wators.                          male and female graduate nurses. "trained" or "certified" nsraes, sd
Agric.  -  oct cecent estimato of agricultursl area aaed tespararily or pema-               aucilfary personnel with training or osperiesce.
ne.tly for crops, pastures, sorkot & kitchee gardens or to lie fallo.                   Population per hospital bed - Populattso divided by number of hbopital beds
available in public and private  sesel and specislised hospital asd
GNP por capita (US$) - GNP per -apita estimates at currant narket prices,                   cehabilitation centers; eseludes oursieg homes asd eetablishsent  fior
.carc-latd by sasse convero l    thod so World Bank Atlas (1973-75 basio)                  usatodial and preventive care.
1960; 1970 and 1975 data.                                                               Per capita aopply of calories (% of requlrementa) - Compated from energy
eqoiv-len- of net food supplies eailable in country par capita per day;
Popuistion and vital utatietics                                                             available supplies cosprise dosestic production, imports less erpsrts, and
Populati-s (rid-yoar eillion)   As of Ju1  first:  if not avsilable, average               changes in stock; net supplies erlude animal feed, seeds, quantitiet used
of tue end-year -stimates; 1'6O, 1970 and 1975 data,                                     in fond processing and losses in distribution; req,irements were estimated
by FAO based on physiological seeds for normal activity and health consid-
Populatioc density - per square km - Mid-year population per square kilometer               -rin  enviroimental temperature, body osighta, age end see distributions of
(100 hactares) of total area                                                              population, and allowing 10. for waste at household leve.
Yopulatton denaicy - per sonare km of saric, land - Computed as above for                 Per capits suppIy of protein (gras per day) - Proteim  content of per capita
agricltural land only.                                                                    net supply of food per day;  et supply of food is defined as above; raqaiee-
e-ats for a11 countries establiahed by USDA Economic Resesreh Services
Vital statistics                                                                            provide for a minimum s1lowasce of 60 grams of total protein per day, and
Crude birth rate per thousand. ae-rae - Ausaual live births per thousand of                 20 gras of animal and poise protein, of which 10 gross should be animal
oid-year population; ton-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970,                protein; theae standards are Iwer than those of 75 grama of total proteis
and five-year average ending in 1975 for moast recent estimate,                           and 23 gramsa of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by FA0
Crude death rate per thousa.d. oversre - Aonu-I deachs per tbousand of mid-year             in the Third World Food Survey.
popolation; ten-year arithmetic averages soding in 1960 and 1970 and five-              Per capita protein seely from ania`l and nulse - Protein supply of food
year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate                                      derived from snimels and pulses in grams per day.
Infant -orcality race (/thou) - Anual deaths of infants under one year of age             Death rete (/thou) ages 1-4 - Annoul desths per thosand in age group 1-4
per thousand iive births.                                                                 years, to ohildren in this age group; suggested as an indicator of
Life eo,ectasc.y at birth (yro) - Average somber of years of life remaining at              malnutrition.
birth; usually five-year averagS s..ding in 1960, 1970 sod 1975 for develop-
ing coontries.                                                                          Edonation
Gross reprodsctin rte - Average  unuber of live daughters a woman will hear               Adjusted enrollment raio - primr  school - Enrolment of a11 ages as per-
in her normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-specific                 centage of pr isry  school-age population; includea children aged 6-11 years
firtility cotis; -uwolly five-your sversgss ending in 1960, 1970 end 1975                 but adjusted for different lengths of primary education; for countries with
for devoloping rountrie.                                                                  univereal edusation, onrollomt may e..eed 1007. since some pupils are below
Population growth rate (7) - total - Ctmpound annual growth ratea  of mid-year               or  bove the official school  ge.
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                            Adiusted enrollment ratio - secondary  chool - Computed as above; secondary
Population growth rtte (7) - urbao - Coptpted like growth rate of total                      education requires at least four years of appraved primary instruction;
populstion; different definittonu  of urban areas may affect comparability of             provides general, vocational or teacher training intructios  for pupils
data a.ong countries                                                                       of 12 to 17 years of age correspondence courses are generslly  ssluded.
Srban population (7. of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; different            Years of schooling provided (first end second levels) - Total -yars of
definitions of urban arees may affect comparability of data among countries,               schooling; at secondary level, vocational instruction may be partially or
completely eclud-d
Ago structure (percgnt) - Children (0-14 years), working-age (15-64 years),               Vocational enrollment (2 of secondary) - Vocational institutions include
and reirod (65 years and oer) as percentages of mid-year population.                       techninsi, industrial or other progr-a  which operate independently or as
ice dependenoy ratio - Rstis of population under 15 and 65 and over to those                depamucento of secondary institutions.
of ageu 15 through 64.                                                                   Adult literacy rate (M1- Literate adults (able to read and write) as per-
Economic dc endeocy ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to                  ceetage of total adult population aged 15 yesre aed over.
the labor force in ag  group of 15-64 fears
FPaily pIanning - acceptors (cu.ulacive. thou) - Cutulatiye number of acceptors            Housing
of birth-control devic-t under auspices of national foily planning proge-               Pem-ons oer room  (-ubrn) - Average number of persons per coos in oncupied
since inception.                                                                           conventional dellings in orbs srsaa; dwellings eoslade son-permanent
Family planning  - users (7. of married women) - Percentages of married womee of             structures and unoccupied parts.
child-bearieg age (15-44 years) who sea birth-control devices to a11 married             0ccupied deellings vithout piped water (M) - Occspied conventional dwsllisgs
women is sane age grup.                                                                    in urban and rural areas without inside or outside piped water facilities
a percentage of all occupied dwellings.
Employmsent                                                                                Acceos to electricity (7 of all dwelligs) - Conventional dwellings with
Total labor force (thousand) - Economically active persona, including amed                   electricity in living quarters as percent of total dwellings in urban and
forces and uncoploed but secluding housewives, students, etc.; definitions                 rural areas.
in rarious countri -ra  not comperable.                                                 Rural dwellinRs connected to electricity (7.) - Computed as sbove for rural
Labor force in acriculture il) - Agricultural labor force (in farming, forestry,             dwellings only,
hooting and fishing) s- percentage of total labor force.
UnemlPIed (7 of labor force) - Unesploed are usually defined as perona who                 Consuption
are able and willing to take a 3jb, out of   3ob on a given day, remained out            Radio receiver  (per thou pop) - All type  of receivers for radio broadcasts
of a job, and seeking work for a spcified minimu  period not eaceeding one                 to general public per thousand of population; ecludes -ulicensed receivers
week; may not be comparable betweon countries due to different definitions                 in countries and in yeara when registration of radio sets was in effect;
of usemplayed and source of dt-, e.g., employment office  tatieti.c, saple                 data for recent years may not be coparable since most countries abolished
aurvoys, cospullory usmaploymeot inaarancs                                                 Iien tg.
P ssenger cars fr thou popl - P soenger cars comprise motor csa  seating
Income distribution - Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind)                   less than eight persons;  xcludes mbulanoes, heara.e  and military
received by richest 5%, richest 20%, poorest 20%, and poorest 40% of housa-                vehicles.
holds.                                                                                   Electricity (kwh/Tr per Cae) - Annual conseaption of industrial, coaercial,
public snd private electricity in kilowatt honrs per cspita, generally
Distribution of land ownership - Percentages of land owned by wealthiest 10%                 based om production data, without ilmesnee for looses in grids but allow-
and poorest 1071 of land ownera                                                            Sng for imports and sports of electricity.
NI rint (ke/yr per cus) - Per capita annusl consumption te kilogr
Health snd Nutrition                                                                         estimated from  damestic production plus net importe of newepriot.
Pepulation per physician - Populatiom divided by number of practicing
physicians qualified from a nedicsl school at university level.



- 19 -
ANNEX I
rage 3 et 4
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1974/7 5                                   ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (Z, constant prices)
US$ Mln.      %                                        1969/70-73/74       1974/75
GNP at Market Prices           232.0       100.0                                          10.0             8.0
Gross Domestic Investment       23.0         9.9                                          23.0
Gross National Saving            7.8         3,4
Current Account Balance         30.8        13.3
sk           Exports of Goods, NFS           21.5          9.3
Imports of Goods, NFS         128.9         55.9
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1973/74
Value Added                       Labor Force_/               V.A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.                              Thous.                      US           %
Agriculture                     51.8        51.5                      246    91                  209        56
Industry                         4.5         4.5                       3      1              ,  500        404
Services           -44.3                  ,4.0                        22      8                 2013       543
Unallocated                                                           .
Total/Average             100.6       100.0                     271    100                  371       .00
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                     Central Government
(     Mln.)        Z of GDP         (    R Mln.)              Z of GDP
197           197    196  -7         1975/76  __1973/74   1969/70-1973/74
Current Receipts                   ..            ..       ..             27.6           27.2     36.1.
Current Expenditure                                    W. .2.5                          20.3     27.0
Current Surplus                    ..            .. ..                    2.1           -6.9      9.1
Capital Expenditures               ..            .. ..                   12.8            6.2      8.3
External Assistance (net)       - .              ..       ..              6.5            4.7      6.2
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                 1971        1972        1973         1974        1975    1976
(Million Rands outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money
Bank Credit to Public Sector             0.1  -       0.2        -0.3        -4.:          U.6     3.8
Bank Credit to Private Sector            4.3          4.8         5.7         9.2          9.0   11.9
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as Z of GD,P        ..          ..
General Price Index 1972 - 100)2          ..        100.0       112.8       128.4        146.6     162.1
Annual Percentage Changes in:
General Price Index                       ..          ..         12.8         13.8        14,2      10.6
Bank Credit to Public Sector'(net)        -         100.0       -50.0    -1533.3         766.6     633.3
Bank Credit to Private Sector            65.4        11.6        18.8         61.4        -2.2      32.2
NOTE:  All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the
period covered.
1/ Estimates.
2/  Excludes migrant workers,
3/  Index relates to urban households with less than R500 per annum.
not available
not applicable
October 14, 1977



- 20 -
ANNrx I
Page 4 of 4
TRADE PAYMTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTSII                                                    MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1973-75)
1973/74    1974/75    1975/76                                      US$ Mln.       %
(Millions US $)
Exports of Goods, NFS               20.4        21.5       21.2          Live Animals                   2.1        16.2
Imports of Goods, NFS              106.0       128.9      163.6         Foodstuffs                      0.3         2.3
Resource Gap (deficit - -)         -85.6      -107.4     -142.4         Wool and Mohair                 6.6        50.8
Diamonds                       0.7         5.4
Interest Payments (net)
Workers' Remittances 1              81.2       120.9      117.3          All Other Commodities          3.3        25.3
Other Factor Payments (net)          ..          ..         *-               Total                   j13.0        100.0
Net Transfers                       14.6        17.3       15.5
Balance on Current Account          10.2        30.8       -9.6         EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31, 1975
Direct Foreign Investment            ..          ..         .,                                                US$ Mln.
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                    ..          ..         ..          Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed            13.2
Amortization                                                         Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Subtotal                         ,.          ..         ..          Total Outstanding & Disbursed             ..
Capital Grants
Other Capital (net)                  ..          ..         ..          DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 19752/
Other Items n.e.i.
Increase in Reserves (+)             ..          ..         ..                                                      Z
Gross Reserves (end year)            .           .          .           Public Debt, Incl. Guaranteed              1.3
New Reserves   (end year)            .           .          .            Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                .
Total Outstanding & Disbursed
RATE OF EXCHANGE
IBRD/IDA LENDING)1 (SePtXj  . 1977)  (Million US$)
1971    1972    1973    1974    1975    1976                                              IBED   IDA
US $1.00 =  R   0.715   0.768   0.693   0.679   0.732   0,870            Outstanding & Disbursed             . | 12.8
Rl.0O = US$  1,398   1.302   1.444   1.472   1.367   1.150           Uadisbursed                               8.8
Outstanding Incl. Undisbursed       .    21.6
1/ IBRD estimates.
2/ Ratio of Debt Service to Government Current Revenue.
not available
not applicable
October 14, 1977



- 21 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN LESOTHO
A. STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS
(as of September 30, 1977)
Amount (less cancellations,
refundings, and terminations)
(in US$ Million)
Credit      Year   Borrower         Purpose                   IDA    Undisbursed
82-BL       1966   Basutholand      Road Development          4.1         -
361-LSO     1973   Lesotho          Thaba Bosiu Rural         5.6        0.4
Development Project
497-LSO     1974   Lesotho          Education Development   4.0          1.6
619-LSO     1976   Lesotho          Second Highway            5.5        4.3
702-LSO 1/  1977   Lesotho          DFC                       2.5        2.5
Total                                                   21.7        8.8
of which has been repaid                              0.1
Total now held by IDA 1/                               21.6
Total undisbursed                                       8.8
Note: Lesotho has received no Bank loans.
1/   Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
- 22 -
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
Nil
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION _/
Credit No. 361-LSO    Thaba Bosiu Rural Development Project:
US$5.6 million; March 23, 1973; Effectiveness
Date: August 29, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1979.
The Project is well administered and the number of participating
farmers exceeds the appraisal targets. Crop yields have been disappointing,
partly because soils are exhausted and fertilizer usage has been inadequate.
A high proportion of families in the project area derive their main source
of income from employment in the mines in South Africa. This, combined
with the low agricultural potential in the project area, has caused people
to be uninterested in farming. In the last few years the proportion of
fallow land has increased significantly. The Project has initiated a com-
prehensive series of crop trials aimed at identification of more profitable
crop production methods. The dairy and beef fattening schemes continue to
make good progress. The Project's soil conservation component is progressing
well. Project funds will be exhausted towards the end of 1977 more than 18
months ahead of the appraisal schedule.
Credit No. 497-LSO    Education I Project; US$4.0 million; July 25, 1974:
Effectiveness Date: January 23, 1975; Closing Date:
March 31, 1979.
Project progress continues to be satisfactory. Most of the acade-
mic facilities at all project sites are expected to be ready for occupation
by January 1978, the start of the academic year, about nine months ahead of
the appraisal schedule, and procurement of furniture and equipment is virtually
complete. Several minor building contracts were awarded during June 1977 and
physical completion is expected by July 31, 1978. Educational objectives,
e.g., diversification of secondary school curricula, coordination of adult
and non-formal education programs are being achieved. Bilateral donors in-
volved in the project are all successfully implementing their programs.
1/  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understand-
ing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
- 23 -
Credit No. 619-LSO   Second Highway Project; US$5.5 million; March 10,
1976; Effectiveness Date: July 28, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980
The project is proceeding satisfactorily. The civil works
contract is progressing in accordance with the implementation schedule
agreed at negotiations.  The Labor-Intensive Unit (LCU) component which
started about 4 months behind schedule, mainly due to delay in selection
of consultants, is now operational. Practically all the funds earmarked
for the LCU have been committed.
Credit No. 702-LSO   Development Finance Company Project (DFC): US$2.5
million; May 20, 1977; Effectiveness Date: August
23, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The Credit became effective on August 23, 1977 and so far no
commitments have been made. Because of a recent management change and
delays in recruiting key staff, LNDC has made slow progress in improving
its organization, staffing, procedures, and portfolio. LNDC financial
situation has not yet improved, but it will continue to get financial
support from Government as expected.
.



- 24 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
LESOTHO
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: 10 months (March 1976-
January 1977).
(b) Preparation The project was substantially prepared by
the Project Unit established under the first project.
(c) Initial discussions and identification mission: March
* 1976.
(d) Appraisal Mission departure: January 1977.
(e) Negotiations: October 3-5, 1977.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: February 1978.
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Actions
(a)  IDA and the Lesotho Government have agreed on an imple-
mentation timetable to ensure effective project imple-
mentation.
(b) IDA staff will give particular attention in the coming
months to progress made in arranging the project's
technical assistance requirements.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The Government will establish in the Ministry of Works
an architectural team to support the Project Unit as a
condition of effectiveness (para. 38).
(b) The architect and the quantity surveyor funded under
the project will be selected and appointed on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association
(para. 34).
(c)  The Government will make its best efforts to secure
the required technical assistance for implementing the
project's educational programs from bilateral and/or
multilateral sources (para. 34).
(d)   The Government will establish by March 31, 1978, a Council
for Educational Broadcasting (para. 29).



- 25 -                        ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e) The Government will ensure that permanent Committees
will be formed at Leloaleng and Leribe technical schools
by June 30, 1978 to determine the nature of the adult
programs (para. 30).
(f) The Government will from time to time review the conditions of
service of teachers of pre-vocational subjects (para. 33).
(g) The Government will select and appoint by June 30,
1978, a specialist or specialists to evaluate the
educational programs similar to this project, which
were assisted under the first project on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association (para. 34).
(h) The Government will select and appoint a specialist
in trade-testing on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association (para. 34).-
(i) Consultants to assist the Project Unit with engineering plans
and procurement of furniture and equipment will be appointed
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association (para. 38).






] c / g 5 00 i) / ':'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4                                  E  <HAAANAOLNBOUONkNN
r~~~~~~~~~~~A                                                                                                                                            Kji :: :ii:T  1; :C/(tO04N    sN     L   6N//|    >
,ON~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~      NNN LNAMAN
~~~,                                                                                                                                          I ,;*f., .    l0. ,:r:9i,
j rN \'    4 K                       X                             A; ; , ,                               00  'L.-K                                                    L5                                 ,,
ts  >~~ g t Zl 6C ALiOES- /HL OCKI ,> 
N,NNNONANNA AB e NNIB                                                  __                                                         2     t   C1   S N  I          7                       sDe0C
NAN'\0;;  4 __A> *,AESIOE                                      <(.PK                                                                           SECOND  DUCATION  PROJECT
p j f   t  :;j59    otAY U-5ENC                      t7               /A"NAA                   '  m,          ','N
-AtSWAk NORr-                                                  AJ   j   (   IFLE   5Ff44  2ZLOMOOONON,CN .      TNA                                                    NC' sN
-Efeh7   0  k*:       z                                              \   :          0 li 7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MTX)71AC URWhLTVj. .9YMOPAIMtT *ENTEl INMDY '.                             s3
0                n 0;        .0 \K  ;   i'J;    't         7WKNBF+ 2r   
,ANNALMNNN277;3 N                                   'NN~A            to's~         NNASNAi.>\) m    0                 JAN i;                                 ons.1oTi tN    _25           0
LADONSA"~~~ _I PE    2_A   N                                                           3                =;= =LB= -NA



