Report No. 1628-LSO
Appraisal of a Second Education Project in the
Kingdom of Lesotho                                                        I
November 2, 1977
Education Projects Division
Eastern Africa Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
U
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



The Country:   Lesotho
The People:    Mosotho (singular)
Basotho (plural)
The Language:  Sesotho
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$3.                    0.87 Rand (R)
RI                  =    US$1.15
RI million               US$1,150,000
M-EASURES
1 meter (m)                      3.28 feet
1 foot (ft)      2               0.30 meter
1 square meter (m )              10.76 square feet
1 square foot (sq ft)            0.09 square meter
I kilometer (km)           =     0.62 mile
I mile (mi)            2         1.6093 kilometers
1 square kilometer (km )         0.3861 square mile
1 square mile (sq mi)            2.59 square kilometers
1 hectare (ha)             =     2.47 acres
I acre (ac)                =     0.4047 hectare
1 kilogram (kg)            =     2.2046 pounds
1 pound (lb)               =     0.45 kilogram
1 metric ton               =     2,205 pounds
GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 through March 31



FOl OFFICLAL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ...........           .............  i - vi
I.   INTRODUCTION ..........................................    I
II.   ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND HUMAN RESOURCES .1
Geographic and Socio-Economic Situation              .I
Development Trends.                                                 2
Manpower Requirements.                                              4
III.  THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR.                                    6
Evaluation of the Sector.                                           6
Education Policy, Strategy, and Plans.                              9
Investment Programs ...................................   11
IV.   THE PROJECT ...........................................   12
Objectives and Content ................................   12
Project Items .........................................   13
V.   COST ESTIMATES, FINANCIAL PLAN, IIIPLEMENTATION,
PROCUREMENT, AND DISBURSEMENTS ........................   19
Cost Estimates ........................................   19
Financial Plan ........................................   21
Implementation ........................................   22
Procurement ...........................................   23
Disbursements .........................................   24
VI.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ............................   24
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....            ............   27
This report is based on the findings of a mission in January/February 1977
to Lesotho composed of Messrs. D. Klaus (mission leader and economist) and
G. Sinclair (architect) of the Bank and 14r. J. CLesswas (general educator)
of UNESCO. The project was further reviewed in the field by Mr. Sinclair
in June 1977.
This docursret has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official dutierz Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
APPENDICES
1.   Manpower and Employment
2.   The Education and Training Sector
3.   The Construction Industry in Lesotho
ANNEXES
1.   Comparative Education Indicators
2.   The General Education System, 1975
3.   GDP, Government Recurrent Expenditures, and Recurrent
Expenditures on Education, 1969/70-1973/74, and Estimates
to 1985/86
4.   Technical-Assistance
5.   Programs and Institutions benefiting from the Project
6.   Summary of Estimated Project Costs
7.   Implementation Schedule
8.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
CHARTS
1.   Educational Pyramid, 1975                        World Bank 17225
2.   Structure of Education, 1977                     World Bank 17226
3.   Proposed Structure of the Ministry of
Education, Youth, Sports, and Culture            World Bank 17477
MAP                                                         IBRD 12858



LESOTHO
BASIC DATA - 1975
Population                                                  1,200,000
(includes an estimated 200,000 temporarily
absent in the Republic of South Africa)
Population growth rate                                      2.2% p.a.
Modern-sector wage employment within Lesotho                27,500
GDP per capita (1975/76)                                    US$120 equivalent
GNP per capita (1975/76)                                   US$180 equivalent
Education
Primary education (grades 1-7):
- enrollments                                         221,900
- ratio of enrolled to theoretical
age group (6-12)                                    110%
Lower-secondary education 1/ (grades 8-10):
- enrollments                                         13,700
- ratio of enrolled to theoretical
age group (13-15)                                   18%
Higher-secondary education 1/ (grades 11-13):
- enrollments                                         2,800
- ratio of enrolled to theoretical
age group (16-17)                                   6%
Higher education (National University of
Lesotho):
- enrollments                                         502
- ratio of enrolled to theoretical
age group (18-22)                                   0.5%
Education Exenditures
Recurrent expenditures of the Ministry of
Education, Youth, Sports, and Culture as
a percentage of total Government recurrent
expenditures (1975/76)                              25%
Recurrent expenditures of the Ministry of
Education, Youth, Sports, and Culture as a
percentage of GDP                                   5.5%
Recurrent expenditures of the Ministry of
Education, Youth, Sports, and Culture as a
percentage of GNP                                   3.6%
1/   Includes general-secondary education, teacher training, and vocational
and technical education.






GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
COsC            Cambridge Overseas School Certificate
CTI             Commercial Training Institute
DANIDA          Danish International Development Agency
JC              Junior Certificate
LAC             Lesotho Agricultural College
LDTC            Lesotho Distance Teaching Center
LIPA            Lesotho Institute of Public Administration
LTI             Lerotholi Technical Institute
'IINEDUC        Ministry of Education Youth, Sports, and Culture
NCDC            National Curriculum Development Center
NTTC            National Teacher Training College
NUL             National University of Lesotho
0DM             Overseas Development Ministry (United Kingdom)
RSA             Republic of South Africa
TSRP            Training for Self-Reliance Project
TSU             Teaching Service Unit
USAID           United States Agency for International Development






LESOTHO
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a second education project in Lesotho for
which an IDA credit of US$7.5 million equivalent is proposed.
ii.       The IDA-assisted first education project (Credit 497-LSO of July
25, 1974) provided US$4.0 million equivalent to assist the Government in ex-
panding technical, commercial, and vocational education, establishing a
distance teaching center (extension college) for adult education, and aiding
the introduction of a new and more practical curriculum in several secondary
schools. Implementation is currently about nine months ahead of the schedule
elaborated at the time of appraisal, and the project is expected to be sub-
stantially completed in January 1978. As of September 30, 1977, over 60% of
the Credit had been disbursed.
iii.      Because of a long history of missionary activity in basic educa-
tion, Lesotho has a comparatively high adult literacy rate (an estimated
40% of the adult population), and the country's primary schools have enough
places to allow virtually every child to enter primary school. Almost every
girl does so; boys, however, traditionally are busy herding cattle, sheep, and
goats at the age when they otherwise would be in primary school, so that in
fact only 60% of the boys enter primary school. Nevertheless, Lesotho is
well on the way to achieving universal entry to primary education. Universal
primary education per se cannot be achieved until ways and means are devised
to reduce the high dropout rates: at present, two thirds of the boys and
half of the girls who begin first grade drop out before they reach the seventh
grade. The Government is increasing its efforts to provide more better-
trained teachers, and a new Department of Curriculum Development has been
established to review curricula.
iv.       The expansion of general secondary education is being carefully
controlled in order not to exceed the country's financial capabilities.
Emphasis is instead being given to quality improvement and to the gradual
localization of the teaching force. Quality improvement is being brought
about mainly through the introduction of a new, diversified curriculum more
appropriate to the country's development situation. Specifically, courses
such as agriculture, elementary technology, home economics, commercial
subjects, and development studies are being introduced alongside the tradi-
tional mathematics, science, and humanities. A number of secondary schools
have already incorporated some of these subjects into their curriculum on
their own, and the IDA-assisted first project financed the introduction of
such subjects into six others. The new Department of Curriculum Development
is also intended to monitor and evaluate these changes in secondary education.
V.        One of Lesotho's three technical schools, the Lerotholi Technical
Institute in Maseru, is being expanded under the IDA-assisted first educa-
tion project. Yet this school and the country's two other technical schools,



- ii -
at Lerile a-,d T.eioaleng, respectively, do not produce enough trained person-
nel to meet thie demands of the country's development, primarily because so
many of the graduates seek more remunerative employment in the Republic of
South AErica.  The be-eits of such training, however, are not entirely lost
to Lesotho, since the migrants send back a large part of their wages in the
form of remittances to t_eir families, and as skilled workers they earn (and
send back) much more t`han dc unskiilled migrant workers.  The Government hopes
to expand the facilities at both Leribe and Leloaleng, not only in terms of
formal courses for young people, but also in terms of short courses for
adults.
vi.       Planned expansi-ons and qualitative improvements in Lesotho's edu-
cational system are expected to cause recurrent costs for education to grow
at an estimated 12% p.a. in real terms over the next nine years or so.  Gov-
ernment current revenues, which depend largely on the Southern Africa Cus-
toms Union Agreement, are conservatively estimated to grow at about 10% p.a.
over that Deriod. Education's share in total Government recurrent expendi-
tures will thus increase, from an estimated 24% of the total in the Govern-
ment of Lesotho's Fiscal Year 1975/76 to an estimated 29% of the total in
1985/86. This percentage would be quite high in most other countries, but
given Lesotho's unique set of circumstances, it need not be cause for alarm.
In the first place, the Ministry of Education's recurrent expenditures in
1985/86 would represenr- less than 5% of Lesotho's GNP in that year, a rea-
sonable proportion, and if in --he interim the Government can find an effec-
tive means of tapping the migrant workers' resources, overall Government
revenues and hence expenditures cculd grow more rapidly than projected.  In
the second place, Lesotho has no external-defense budget, such that funds
which in other countries would be expended on defense may in Lesotho be
diverted to other sectors. Finally, the opportunities for high-productivity
investment in Lesotho are limited; it is quite possible that the highest mar-
ginal returns to investment are in human-resource development. Given these
various factors, the projected levels of recurrent expenditure on education
do not seem unreasonably high.
vii.      The proposed project would assist an investment program aimed
at (a) establishing a curriculum-development service, including strengthened
career-guidance and educational-radio services; (b) expanding the facili-
ties for technical education, making it possible to expand enrollments and to
introduce courses for adults; (c) establishing a new, permanent Trade-Testing
System; (d) expanding the curriculum-diversification program at the level of
secondary education by introducing pre-vocational subjects into the curricula
of additional general-secondary schools; 5'e) strengthening the institutions
which will be responsible for trainirtg teachers of pre-vocational subjects;
(f) providing the human resources necessary for the successful functioning of
the above services and institutions as well as for the implementation of the
project and for formative evaluation of the secondary-level pre-vocational
subjects; and (g) preparation of future programs and projects. Specifically,
the project would consist of the foll wing:
(a)  The construction. furnishing, and equipping of a Na-
tional Curriculum De-velopment Center;



- iii -
(b) Extensions, furniture, and equipment for the technical
schools at Leribe and Leloaleng;
(c) Office, trade-testing equipment, and a vehicle, for a new
Trade-Testing System;
(d) Extensions, furniture, and equipment for eleven general-
secondary schools;
(e) Minor improvements in teacher-education workshop facilities,
limited staff housing, and a bus for the institutions (the
National Teacher Training College, the Lesotho Agricultural
College, and the Lerotholi Technical Institute) which
together will train the teachers of pre-vocational subjects;
(f) Technical assistance for the training of Basotho teacher-
educators, for the Trade-Testing System, for project imple-
mentation (an architect, a quantity surveyor, and engineering
and procurement consultants), and for formative educational
evaluation;
(g) Permanent office accommodations, furniture, vehicles,
equipment, and operating expenses for project adminis-
tration; and
(h) Pre-investment activities and studies.
viii.     The proposed project would centralize and strengthen various
curriculum-development activities of the Ministry of Education which are
presently carried out on a haphazard basis in such temporary accommodations
as can be found. The establishment of a National Curriculum Development
Center would enable the country to establish a permanent service for the re-
view and improvement of primary and secondary education and their adaptation
to the country's development situation. Career guidance, already begun
in Lesotho with assistance from Bank staff, would be given permanent facili-
ties and would be better able to make students aware of the employment
opportunities available to them. The educational radio system, soon to re-
ceive a new transmitter, would be strengthened in order to reach great num-
bers of the country's youth and adults who do not have access to the formal-
education system.
ix.       The facilities to be provided under the proposed project at the
technical school at Leloaleng would enable the enrollment of full-time stu-
dents to be increased from 55 to 95 and would also allow the school to in-
troduce a course in construction. The enrollment of the technical school at
Leribe would be increased from 90 to 120, and the school's new course in elec-
trical wiring would be improved. Some 400 adults p.a. would benefit from the
short skill-training courses which the schools would be able to offer with
assistance from the project. Since students terminating technical courses in
Lesotho are not at present adequately evaluated, the project would also pro-
vide technical assistance, equipment, a vehicle, and operational expenses
over the project period for the establishment of a new, permanent Trade-
Testing System.



- iv -
x.        The project would aid the expansion of the secondary-level diver-
sification program by providing the buildings, furniture, and equipment
required to introduce pre-vocational subjects into seven general-secondary
schools (in addition to the six which received such facilities under the
IDA-assisted first education project). Four of the six schools assisted
under the first project would receive limited additional facilities to allow
them to increase the utilization rate of their practical facilities. The
provision of facilities for pre-vocational subjects would free the existing
academic facilities part of the time and would allow all eleven schools to
increase their enrollments. Since most of the schools are located in rural
areas and since most students come from distant areas, a limited amount of
boarding and staff housing would be provided under the project as needed.
Two of the seven new schools which have been selected for inclusion in the
project are located in the hitherto neglected mountain regions of the country.
The teachers of the pre-vocational subjects would be taught in joint programs
involving the National Teacher Training College, the Lesotho Agricultural Col-
lege, and the Lerotholi Technical Institute; minor improvements in teacher-
education workshops, limited staff housing, and a bus would be provided under
the project to contribute to the success of the joint programs.
xi.       Most of the technical assistance (specialists in the short term, and
fellowships for the training of Basotho for the longer term) required for the
successful functioning of the above institutions would be furnished by bilat-
eral aid agencies which have already been contacted. The project would pro-
vide one specialist and a number of fellowships unlikely to be provided from
other sources. Limited technical assistance would also be provided under the
project for project implementation and for formative evaluation of the new
diversified curriculum at the level of secondary education. Since the housing
shortage throughout Lesotho but particularly in Maseru is acute, and since the
availability of housing is a critical factor in the willingness of expatriate
specialists to accept positions in Lesotho, modest staff housing would be
provided for the internationally recruited specialists to be brought in for
the project.
xii.      The independent Project Authority, representing the Ministries of
Education, Finance, Planning, Agriculture, Health, Works, and Community and
Rural Development, which was established for the IDA-assisted first education
project, would be responsible for overall project control. The Project Unit
established under the Project Authority for the first project would perform
all administrative functions for the second project. The Project Unit is
staffed with a director, deputy director, accountant, procurement officer,
and supporting staff, all on a full-time basis. The services of procurement
consultants would be used where necessary to provide additional support. Per-
manent office accommodations for the Project Unit, as well as supplemental
operational salaries, furniture, vehicles, equipment, and general expenses
would be provided under the project. The Ministry of Works has agreed to
establish an architectural team, consisting of two architects, one quantity
surveyor, two architectural technicians, and two construction supervisors,
which would be located within the Ministry but would be assigned on a full-
time basis to the project. Consultants would be appointed to provide engi-
neering services. The team would be responsible for the design, construc-
tion, and supervision of all project facilities. One of the architects
and the quantity surveyor as well as the services of engineering and pro-
curement consultants would be furnished as technical assistance under the



-v
project. The architect and the quantity surveyor to be furnished under the
project, as well as the engineering and procurement consultants, would be
selected and appointed on the basis of terms and conditions acceptable to
the Association. Standard school accommodation units developed for the
first project would be used as extensively as possible for the proposed
second project.
xiii.     The total cost of the project is estimated at US$9.3 million equiv-
alent including taxes and customs duties of US$0.4 million equivalent. The
foreign-exchange component of US$5.1 million equivalent represents 63% of
the total cost including taxes. Construction costs have been estimated as
of October 1977, on the basis of quotations received in the first project
and other similar projects. The estimates are based upon maximum use of
the few local materials and simple building techniques. Recurrent expendi-
tures generated by the project are expected to constitute about 3% of the
Ministry of Education and Culture's estimated recurrent budget in 1985/86.
xiv.      Contracts would be awarded in accordance with the Bank Group's
Guidelines for Procurement. International competitive bidding would be used
except as follows: (a) Construction contracts costing less than US$25,000
equivalent each, which could be negotiated with small unregistered contractors
on the basis of a program to be agreed with the Association (the estimated
total value of contracts that would be awarded in this category is not expected
to exceed US$150,000 equivalent, including contingencies); (b) For the con-
struction at the two schools in the mountain regions, where competitive bids
are not expected, local building teams would be established and supervised by
the Project Unit according to a program to be agreed upon with the Associa-
tion (the estimated total value of contracts that would be awarded in this
category is not expected to exceed US$900,000 equivalent, including contin-
gencies); and (c) Furniture and equipment contracts costing less than US$50,000
equivalent each, which, on the basis of experience with the first education
project, are unlikely to attract foreign bidders, would be awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with local pro-
cedures acceptable to the Association (the estimated total value of contracts
that would be awarded in this category is not expected to exceed US$200,000
equivalent, including contingencies). Architectural sketch designs, draft
tender documents, and master lists of furniture and equipment, indicating
proposed grouping, would be reviewed by the Association. Review of tender
evaluation documents by the Association prior to award would not be required
for contracts for civil works costing less than US$200,000 equivalent and for
contracts for furniture and equipment costing less than US$50,000 equivalent.
Where international competitive bidding procedures are used, (i) domestic
manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be allowed a preference of 15%
or the existing applicable rate of import duties, whichever is lower, over the
c.i.f. price of competing foreign suppliers; and (ii) qualified domestic
civil-works contractors would be allowed a preferential margin of 7-1/2% over
the bid prices of competing foreign contractors.
xv.       The proceeds from the credit account would be disbursed as follows:
(a) 80% of expenditures for civil works; (b) 100% of foreign expenditures for
directly imported furniture, instructional equipment, and vehicles; (c) 100%



- vi -
of the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured furniture; (d) 100% of foreign
and 50% of local expenditures for technical assistance and for project evalua-
tion; (e) 80% of total expenditures for locally procured furniture and equip-
ment bought off the shelves, for professional services, and for project admin-
istration. Disbursements for project administration would be made against a
certificate of expenditure, documentation of which would not be submitted for
review but which would be retained by the Borrower and would be available for
inspection by the Association during the course of project supervision.
xvi.      Subject to the condition of para. 7.02, the proposed project forms
a suitable basis for an IDA credit of US$7.5 million equivalent on standard
IDA terms.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Lesotho became independent in 1966.  Since then the Government has
made considerable progress in gaining administrative and academic control
over the education system, which was previously controlled virtually com-
pletely by the missions. The Government has also made considerable progress
in reforming its educational system to bring it more into line with the de-
velopment needs of the country, and in expanding the system in those areas
critical to the country's development. The Bank Group is presently assist-
ing the Government of Lesotho with an IDA Credit of US$4.0 million equivalent,
signed in July 1974 for a project to (a) expand technical, commercial, and
vocational education, (b) establish a distance teaching center (extension
college) for adult education, and (c) aid the introduction of a new and more
practical curriculum in secondary schools. The project is also providing
technical assistance and funds for project implementation. Implementation
is currently about nine months ahead of the schedule elaborated at the time
of appraisal, and the project is expected to be substantially completed in
January 1978. As of September 30, 1977, over 60% of the Credit had been
disbursed.
1.02      The second education project now proposed would continue the first
project's emphasis on qualitative improvement of the system with limited
quantitative expansion in critical areas. It would benefit both the formal
and non-formal education systems. In order to improve primary- and secondary--
level formal education, particular emphasis would be given to curriculum re-
form through the establishment of curriculum-development services. Technical
education would also receive further assistance. Finally, the new, more
practical secondary curriculum introduced with the IDA-assisted first project
would be extended to a greater number of schools. The proposed project was
identified in March 1976 by a Bank Group Mission and pre-appraised in October
1976 by another Bank Group Mission. Project preparation was done largely
by the Project Unit established under the first project. In January-February
1977, the project was appraised by a mission consisting of Messrs. D. Klaus
(mission leader and economist) and G. Sinclair (architect) of the Bank and
Mr. J. Chesswas (general educator) of UNESCO.
II. ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND HUMAN RESOURCES
Geographic and Socio-Economic Situation
2.01      Slightly smaller than Belgium, Lesotho is a landlocked country sur-
rounded by the Republic of South Africa (RSA) and the Transkei Bantustan.
Over two thirds of the country is mountainous, with peaks rising to 11,000
feet. A narrow crescent of land in the north, west, and south, ranging in
altitude from 5,000 to 6,000 feet, contains most of the 1.2 million popula-
tion. Only about 13% of the land surface is cultivated, mainly in the low-
lands, the foothills, and the Orange River Valley. Apart from scattered
valleys of limited size, the mountain area is suitable only for grazing.
Few roads lead into the mountain regions, and the people of these regions
are effectively isolated physically from the rest of the country. The
mountain areas have also been neglected in terms of schools above the pri-
mary level and other social infrastructure.



2-
2.02      Despite its proximity to vast mineral deposits in the RSA, Lesotho
has few natural resources other than hydroelectric potential, beautiful
scenery, and some diamonds. The country is overwhelmingly rural and agricul-
tural: over 95% of the population live in areas classified as rural, and
subsistence agriculture (including animal husbandry) is the main activity of
85% of the resident population. In spite of the comparatively high literacy
rate (an estimated 40% of the adult population) due to the long history of
missionary activity in the field of basic education, the content of instruc-
tion has only recently begun to include agriculture and other subjects which
are specifically addressed to the needs of rural population. Non-formal
training programs for adults have also been neglected until quite recently.
2.03      Economically, Lesotho is one of the 29 countries designated by the
United Nations as "least developed"; GDP per capita in 1975/76 is estimated
to have been about US$120 equivalent. Agriculture accounts for over one half
of GDP and over 70% of the country's export earnings. Services, of which
the commerce and catering subsector is the most important, account for about
44% of GDP. Secondary activities (manufacturing, mining, and construction)
are of minor importance, accounting for only about 5% of GDP.
2.04      As the dominant feature of Lesotho's geography is its landlocked
situation, so its dominant economic feature is its dependence on the South
African economy. Rural incomes in Lesotho are so low that about one third
of the labor force augments its income by seeking employment in the RSA, where
in the past relatively well-paying jobs have been available to virtually all
who sought them, unskilled as well as skilled. The remittances and transfers
of these migrants, most of whom are unskilled, have become increasingly crit-
ical to Lesotho's economy, helping to offset growing trade deficits and im-
proving the standard of living of a large segment of the population, espe-
cially in rural areas. Many rural families, for example, have transistor
radios and can afford to buy the foodstuffs they cannot grow themselves. The
amount of migrant remittances accounts for a substantial proportion of GNP,
such that GNP per capita in 1975/76 is estimated to have been about US$180
equivalent. In addition to its dependence on the RSA for employment, Lesotho
is a member of the Rand Monetary Area and the Southern Africa Customs Union,
receipts from which presently account for about 60% of total Government rev-
enues. Finally, the rapidly growing tourism sector is based predominantly
on South African traffic, and the bulk of the country's merchandise trade
is carried on with the Republic.
Development Trends
2.05      The Government's long-term socio-economic objectives were first
articulated in the First Five-Year National Development Plan (NDP), for the
period 1970/71-1974/75, and included the following: (a) to increase agricul-
tural output and productivity; (b) to diversify the economy and expand domes-
tic employment, in particular by promoting indigenous industries; (c) to ex-
pand communications, particularly in the less-favored mountain regions; and
(d) to expand technical training and, in general, to reform the education
system so as to make it more responsive to the country's development needs.
Over the First-Plan period, real GDP is estimated to have grown at an average
annual rate of about 5%. This favorable performance was due largely to the
recovery of agricultural production from its low level in 1969/70, resulting



-3-
in a growth rate of agricultural output of almost 5% p.a. over the period.
The fastest-growing sector was commerce and catering, which grew at an average
annual rate of 7.5%, largely in response to the expansion of tourism. Due to
large increases in the earnings of migrant workers, GNP grew faster than GDP,
at about 8% p.a.
2.06      Lesotho continues to face considerable constraints to economic
development. In addition to the lack of natural resources (para. 2.02), the
vagaries of the weather make crop production a risky business. The tradi-
tional land tenure system has adversely affected the efficiency of land use.
Natural tree growth is almost nonexistent because of extensive grazing and
the use of any available timber for firewood. In the absence of trees,
erosion, resulting from rapid runoff after short but heavy rainstorms, has
become a serious problem. These factors and deteriorating soil conditions
have contributed to some of the lowest crop yields in the world. Overstocking
and deterioration of rangelands limit the short- and medium-term prospects
for growth of the livestock sector. Rapid population growth (about 2.2% p.a.)
places increasing pressure on available land, existing job opportunities, and
food supplies. Competition from the South African economy for markets and
labor hinders the growth of local industries. Finally, Lesotho's over-
whelming dependence on the RSA (para 2.04) is worrisome for a number of
reasons. Lesotho is extremely vulnerable to developments affecting migra-
tion in t-he RSA over which the Government of Lesotho has no control, such
as the gradual mechanization of mining operations in the RSA, greater re-
cruitment of native South African workers, or disorders resulting in the
sudden return of thousands of Basotho to Lesotho, such as that which
occurred in 1974. In addition, Lesotho's financial viability will continue
to depend on the Southern Africa Customs Agreement, the terms of which are
largely determined by the RSA.
2.07      Barring an abrupt change in Lesotho's economic relations with the
RSA, the country's growth prospects for the next few years are generally
favorable in spite of the constraints mentioned above. The Second NDP
(1975/76-1979/80) restates and expands the objectives contained in the First
Plan. It represents a considerable improvement in project content and reflects
the increasing knowledge of the country's investment potential as well as the
Government's capacity to implement larger and more varied development programs.
The Plan's main investment allocations are for rural development, industry,
tourism, transportation and communications, and education. With regard to
rural development, integrated rural development projects have shown that a
concerted effort to combat erosion, combined with a package of inputs, can
increase rural productivity and create new jobs. Industry will benefit from
the continued activities of the Lesotho National Development Corporation and
its subsidiary, the Basotho Enterprises Development Corporation, which are in-
creasingly successful in establishing new industrial and handicrafts ventures.
A new diamond mine, the Government's largest single investment, will commence
production in 1977, providing increased employment, exports, and revenues.
Tourism should benefit from a new international-class hotel now being built
in Maseru and from new developments in the scenic mountain areas. Invest-
ments in transportation will be closely integrated with the programs in
rural development and tourism. The program for education will continue the
present emphasis on technical and vocational training and pre-vocational
skills.



- 4 -
2.08      Until 1974, capital investments in all sectors were fully financed
from abroad, but with the recent revision of the customs Agreement in Le-
sotho's favor, the Government should be able increasingly to participate in
the financing of development projects.  In this respect, however, the inter-
national community is taking a special interest in Lesotho and appears dis-
posed to provide substantial financial and technical assistance to the
country over the long term.  All things considered, GDP can be expected to
grow about as fast as during the First Plan period, and since the prospects
(in ths short term at least) are also good for continued increases in migrant
workers' remittances, GNP can be expected to grow even faster.
Manpower Requirements
2.09      Manpower and employment in Lesotho are discussed more fully in
Appendix 1. A more precise picture of Lesotho's employment situation will
emerge as the results of the 1976 Census become available. Current estimates
of the employment situation are based on the 1966 Census, but initial results
of the 1976 Census show that the estimates are quite near the reality. The
most striking feature of Lesotho's employment situation has been mentioned
(para. 2.04): the fact that over one third of the labor force (an estimated
200,000 people in 1975) is employed in the RSA. An estimated 122,000 of the
200,000 were men employed in the mines, another 48,000 were men in other
employment (farms, commerce, industry, South African Railways), and 30,000
were women (most of them domestics). Recent evidence indicates that almost
all such employment is temporary and that most male migrants plan their
arrivals and departures so as to ensure an adequate labor supply on their
rural holdings in Lesotho at peak periods. Nevertheless, the estimated
170,000 men who were employed in the RSA represented about 60% of the male
labor force; the proportion is judged to have remained fairly constant over
the last several years. With so many men absent from the country, women play
a significant role in the economic (farming, marketing, industry, services) as
well as political affairs of the nation. The majority of migrants are con-
sidered unskilled; nevertheless, as Lesotho produces more skilled manpower,
there will inevitably be increased migration of such people due to the sub-
stantial differential between wages in Lesotho and those in the RSA. Most
Basotho would prefer to work in Lesotho rather than in the RSA, but very few
can find employment which is as remunerative as that to be found in the
Republic. In addition, the migrants have at present little opportunity for
self-improvement and therefore have little hope of obtaining a better job
either in Lesotho or in the Republic.
2.10      Only 27,500 people (5% of the labor force) were employed in the
modern sector in Lesotho in 1975; about 22,500 people (4% of the labor force)
wer2 employed in Lesotho in informal activities including handicrafts. The
rest sf the labor force working within the country was employed in traditional
agriculture. Over the last Plan period, only about 6,000 domestic jobs were
created. The annual increase in the labor force far exceeds new domestic job
opportunities; the labor force is expected to increase by some 60,000 people
over the present Plan period, but less than half of these will find modern-
sector jobs in the domestic economy. Given the limitations to the creation
of employment in agriculture, manufacturing and tourism offer the best pros-
pects for increasing employment. The existence until recently of a virtually



- 5 -
inexhaustible demand for Basotho labor, both unskilled and skilled, in the
RSA was useful to Lesotho insofar as it absorbed many thousands of unskilled
workers who would not have been employed in Lesotho except at very low marginal
returns; on the other hand, the demand for skilled workers in the RSA, at wages
much higher than those which employers in Lesotho could afford to pay, caused
shortages within Lesotho in several sectors which were critical for domestic
development. 1/ Pressures for increased employment of South African blacks,
generated in particular by a recession in the South African economy, have
caused the South African Chamber of Mines to consider giving preferential
treatment to South African blacks when hiring, such that the ability of the
RSA's economy to absorb all of the annual increment in Lesotho's labor force
may decline. For the foreseeable future, however, Lesotho will have to
continue to depend on the RSA to absorb a large part of its unskilled labor
force; most of those who cannot find jobs in the RSA will have to be absorbed
in agriculture in Lesotho. Meanwhile, Lesotho should continue to expand its
skill-training facilities, since additional training enhances migrants'
earning capacity and thus increases remittances. The changes in the RSA's
employment market are unlikely to affect its demand for skilled labor.
Lesotho cannot hope to stop the migration of skilled people, nor can it hope
(at least in the short and medium terms) to offer the majority of such people
incentives sufficient to keep them in the country. What it can hope to do is
to train as many skilled people as possible, thus providing some people (those
who earn salaries sufficient to keep them in the country) to implement the
country's own development program as well as maximizing the remittances of its
migrants.
2.11      The long-term perspective on employment is presently being explored
by the Labor-Intensive Construction Unit. This Unit was established on the
recommendation of the Bank's special Migrant Workers' Re-Employment Mission
which visited Lesotho in September 1974 to investigate the emergency situation
caused by the sudden return of thousands of migrant workers in that year. The
goals of the Unit are to (a) increase the Government's administrative capacity
to deal with another such sudden return of substantial numbers of migrants:
(b) assess the feasibility of a long-term labor-intensive employment strategy
through an expanded program of public works (to prepare for the time when the
RSA might no longer absorb most of Lesotho's unskilled workers); and (c)
provide training in supervisory skills. Although one can hope that in the
long term the work of the Unit will allow Lesotho to employ more of its labor
force at home, it is certain that in the short and medium terms the dependence
on the RSA will continue.
2.12      Turning to the manpower needs of the agricultural sector, there
existed, in October 1976, 137 posts for agricultural extension assistants in
Lesotho, of which only 78 were filled, giving a ratio of about one assistant
per 1,000 farm families. On the basis of Lesotho's level of development,
a more appropriate ratio would be one assistant for every 600 farm families.
Under the Basic Agricultural Services Program (BASP) appraised by Bank
1/   Substantial increases in public-sector salaries in recent years must
be seen as justified insofar as they were necessary to keep qualified
people in Lesotho.



-6 -
staff in October 1976, three existing Farmer Training Centers under the
Ministry of Agriculture would be upgraded to produce the required number of
additional extension assistants annually. In addition to the quantitative
deficit, the existing extension service is ineffective, for a variety of
reasons including inadequate research results, poor training of the staff,
inefficient means of transportation, relatively little supervision, and lack
of an adequate incentive system. The Basic Agricultural Services Program
would also address these qualitative problems of the extension service
through a general reorganization of the service and the provision of stra-
tegic inputs.
2.13      In summary, continued economic development in Lesotho will depend
on the extent to which the Government is able to address the country's major
problems: scarcity of resources, an overwhelmingly agricultural base, and
heavy dependence on the RSA. Major emphasis should continue to be given to
expanding the scope of the rural-development projects and to increasing agri-
cultural productivity. Efforts should be made to expand local industry to the
extent possible and to take advantage of the country's beautiful scenery by
promoting tourism. Investments in infrastructure should be closely linked
to the foregoing programs. To guard against the day when migrants might no
longer be welcome in the Republic, the Government should continue to explore
the feasibility of a long-term strategy for labor-intensive employment. Mean-
while, however, since the country's greatest natural resource is its people,
the country should continue its efforts to reform its educational system and
to provide its people with those skills which will bring them the greatest
return, whether they stay in the country or whether they temporarily work
elsewhere.
III. THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR
Evaluation of the Sector
3.01      Lesotho's education and training sector is described in Appendix 2,
and basic data are provided in Annexes 1 and 2 and Charts I and 2. Lesotho's
primary schools have enough places to allow virtually every child to enter
primary school, and almost every girl does so. Boys, however, traditionally
are busy herding cattle, sheep, and goats at the age when they otherwise would
be in primary school, so that in fact only about 60% of the boys enter primary
school. For this reason, girls outnumber boys in the primary cycle at a ratio
of almost three to two. In the last three grades of the primary cycle, the
ratio is almost two to one. Many children entered primary school when they
were much older than the official starting age of six, but nowadays more and
more are beginning school at age six, and the average age of entry is dropping
fast. Lesotho is therefore well on the way to achieving universal entry to
primary education. Universal primary education per se cannot be achieved
until ways and means are devised to reduce the high dropout rates: at pres-
ent, 18% of the boys and 10% of the girls who begin the first grade do not
continue even to the second grade. Only 33% of the boys and 51% of the girls
who begin first grade are likely to reach the seventh grade, and only 15% of



-7-
those who begin the first grade go on to secondary school. Overage students
account for 26% of total primary enrollments. Since there are so many overaga
students in primary schools, a much larger proportion of the 13-18 age group
(the theoretical secondary-level age group) is enrolled in primary schools
(46% of the age group) than in general-secondary schools (10% of the age
group) 1/.
3.02      Most schools in Lesotho are owned by Christian churches and managed
by boards which the churches have established. The large measure of autonomy
enjoyed by the churches (Appendix 2, para. 1) has not favored the development
of education according to a well-conceived plan. The initiative for opening
or closing schools still remains with the local churches and/or communities.
The Government is presently preparing a plan to rationalize the distribution
of primary schools; meanwhile, it would appear that the achievement of satura-
tion has already caused the smaller, more inefficient schools to be closed:
the number of primary schools peaked at 1,350 in 1970 and has since fallen to
1,078 (1976). During the same period, however, the number of general-secondar
schools has risen from 39 to 61, and total general-secondary enrollments have
risen in the six-year period from 6,000 students to 16,700 students (an annual
average rate of increase of over 18%).
3.03      The Government's control over the school curricula is vested in the
Ministry of Education, Youth, Sports, and Culture (MINEDUC) (Chart 3) and
exercised through the examination system, consisting of a national examination
at the end of primary grade seven, the Junior Certificate (JC) examination at
the end of the tenth grade, and the British Cambridge Overseas School Certi-
ficate Examination (COSC) at the end of the twelfth grade. Both of the
general-secondary-school examinations have a detailed syllabus for each
subject, and each school draws up its own work program, choosing its own
textbooks and other learning aids in order to prepare its students for the
examination. Responding to a request from the Government of Lesotho, the
regional tripartite Examination Council 2/ now requires, for the JC, passes in
a choice of such subjects as agriculture, elementary technology 3/, home
economics, and development studies 4/, including practical tests, which are
designed to make the lower-secondary curriculum more appropriate to the
country's development situation and needs. Since the COSC is a worldwide
examination, it is more difficult for the Government to influence its con-
tent. For this reason, the concerned governments plan the takeover of the
COSC examination by the regional tripartite Examination Council; financial
assistance from USAID will soon be available for this purpose.
1/   It is impossible to extract children of Basotho ethnicity who live
in the RSA but regularly attend school in Lesotho from these figures.
They probably represent at least 10% of the enrollments.
2/   Members are Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland.
3/   Elementary woodwork, metalwork, and technical drawing.
4/   A combination of basic economics and social studies emphasizing the
importance of pre-vocational subjects to Lesotho's development.



-8-
3.04      The training of primary and lower-secondary teachers has been con-
solidated in the National Teacher Training College (NTTC) in Maseru; however,
the NTTC is still heavily dependent on expatriate staff. Upper-secondary
teachers are trained at the Faculty of Education at the National University of
Lesotho (NUL). Projections of primary-school enrollments and of future needs
for teachers show that the output of the NTTC will barely maintain the current
70% proportion of qualified teachers within the primary teaching force, even
if there is no change in the present 52:1 pupil-teacher ratio. Projections of
general-secondary-school enrollments, however, and of future needs for general-
secondary teachers show that the combined outputs of the NTTC and the NUL's
Faculty of Education will allow the proportion of qualified national teachers
within the secondary teaching force to increase from 43% in 1976 to 100% in
1984, if the student-teacher ratio is kept constant at 26:1 until then. The
Government is planning to expand the NTTC to meet the additional demand for
primary teachers, and a program is being developed jointly by the NTTC and
the Lesotho Distance Training Center (LDTC) (para. 3.06) for the provision
of in-service teacher education by distance teaching methods.
3.05      Vocational (post-primary) training in industrial arts and home eco-
nomics is offered in eight lower-secondary-level schools. Technical education
is given in three upper-secondary-level schools: The Lerotholi Technical In-
stitute (LTI) in Maseru, the Technical School of Leribe in the north of the
country, and the Leloaleng Trades School in the south. The LTI has been sub-
stantially expanded under the IDA-assisted first education project. Leribe
and Leloaleng are mission schools, buit the salaries of their teachers are
paid by the Government. Both schools have insufficient facilities, equipment,
and teachers for the courses they presently offer, several of which have un-
economically small enrollments in spite of the great demand for places. All
three schools have no difficulty in placing their graduates; indeed, the
demand exceeds the supply. Commercial education will be offered in the
Lesotho Institute of Public Administration (LIPA) under the Prime Minister's
Office and the Commercial Training Institute (CTI) under the MINEDUC which
are currently nearing completion under the IDA-assisted first education proj-
ect. Formal agricultural education is offered by the Lesotho Agricultural
College (LAC) under the Ministry of Agriculture, which provides agricultural
and home economics courses at the upper secondary level. Under a UK-assisted
project, the capacity of the LAC is being expanded.
3.06      The Lesotho Distance Teaching Center (LDTC) established under the
IDA-assisted first education project uses correspondence courses and radio
to provide educational opportunities to target groups, often women, who are
scattered throughout the country and who do not have the opportunity to follow
formal-education courses. Until recently, because of broadcasting limita-
tions, the LDTC radio courses have been able to reach only about 10% of the
country's population; however, with the arrival of the new transmitter to be
furnished by the UK, the LDTC radio broadcasts should reach all but the most
remote mountain valleys. The LDTC presently lacks a studio and equipment of
its own and uses the facilities of Radio Lesotho, but these arrangements are
not optimal.



-9-
Education Policy, Strategy, and Plans
3.07      The Government intends to continue to increase its influence and
control over the school system. There is as yet no plan to acquire direct
ownership of schools, and the MINEDUC follows a policy of involving the school
owners, boards and staff in educational development efforts.  Although the
teachers are employed by the school boards, they are paid (with the exception
of untrained general-secondary teachers and those expatriates who are provided
under bilateral and multilateral agreements) by the Government through a
Teaching Service Unit (TSU) in the MINEDUC. In addition, the Government is
increasingly able to influence school programs through the examination system
(para. 3.03). The MINEDUC now intends to supplement these measures of control
by gathering together the various scattered curriculum-development efforts
into a central curriculum-development service, and the MINEDUC has created a
new Department of Curriculum Development within the Ministry for this purpose
(Chart 3).
3.08      The innovations in curricula which the MINEDUC is undertaking are
intended to contribute to the Government's long-term policy of reducing the
country's economic dependence on the RSA. The Government calls the IDA-
assisted first education project the Training for Self-Reliance Project
(TSRP). It intends to continue spreading the diversified secondary-school
curriculum to more general-secondary schools until all are covered. There
are already a number of schools which are trying to incorporate some of the
new pre-vocational subjects (para. 3.03) into their curricula without the
Governmernt's help. By aiding schools with capital investment in facilities
for the changed curriculum, the Government is, at the same time, exercising
some control over the quantitative development of general-secondary educa-
tion, as all such schools are being expanded to have three classes at each
grade. The Government is at present projecting general-secondary enroll-
ments on the basis of not raising transition rates, retaining them at 31%
from primary to secondary and 37% from lower to upper secondary. If these
rates are held constant, then total general-secondary enrollments are likely
to rise at an average rate of 5.5% p.a. from 1976 to 1982, and then drop
to an average growth rate of 3.7% p.a. from 1982 to 1985, as compared with an
average growth rate of 25% p.a. from 1967 to 1974, and 6% p.a. from 1974 to
1976.
3.09      Enrollments in primary schools are projected to increase at an
average rate of 4.1% p.a. until 1979/80, when they will peak. Following that
year, the number of overage children in the total should begin to decline,
with the result that overall enrollments in primary schools should remain
virtually constant for the next six years or so. University enrollments are
expected. to reach 800 students by 1979/80, an implied increase of about 65
students per year. If university expansion continues at this rate, enroll-
ments would reach about 1,200 in 1985/86.
3.10      Several factors will influence the recurrent costs of education
(Annex 3). The most dramatic is an across-the-board salary increase of 25%
in early 1977. In the following years, teachers' salaries can, over time, be



10 -
expected to rise about as fast as GDP per capita. 1/ The growing number of
locally paid teachers will also have an effect on recurrent costs. In par-
ticular, at the level of secondary education, only 43% of the general-secondary
teaching force of 621 in 1976 were qualified nationals. By 1985, 100% of
a much larger general-secondary teaching force (estimated at 1065) will be
qualified nationals, and the Government will have to pay almost four times
as many salaries at this level as it presently does. Over the period under
discussion, general-secondary education will thus account for the greatest
increases (in absolute terms and relative to the total) in educational re-
current costs. These increases, however, will be to a limited extent offset
by a pattern of virtually constant recurrent costs (in real terms) at the
university level for five years or so. The levelling-off of costs at the
university level should occur because the costs of increasing enrollments
should be offset by declining unit costs. The decline in unit costs is
expected to occur because university officials plan to increase enrollments
while holding the number of teaching staff virtually constant.
3.11      Early in 1977, the Southern Africa Customs Union Agreement was
renegotiated in Lesotho's favor, and Government current revenues are conser-
vatively expected to grow at a rate of 10% p.a. in real terms. As a result,
recurrent expenditures can be expected to grow by at least 9% p.a. in real
terms in the next eight years or so, since the Government intends progres-
sively to increase its contribution to the capital budget, too.
3.12      The overall pattern of increasing enrollments (paras. 3.08-3.09)
and changing unit costs (para. 3.10) are projected to result in a growth
in the MINEDUC's recurrent expenditures of about 12% p.a. in real terms until
1985, when the completed localization of the secondary teaching force should
result in a slowdown of the increase. Since the MINEDUC's recurrent expendi-
tures are projected to rise more rapidly than the Government's total recur-
rent expenditures over this period, the MINEDUC's share in the total will
rise, from an estimated 24% in 1975/76 to an estimated 29% in 1985/86. This
percentage would be extremely high in most other countries, 2/ but given
Lesotho's unique set of circumstances, they need not be cause for alarm.
In the first place, the MINEDUC's recurrent expenditures in 1985/86 should
represent less than 5% of Lesotho's GNP in that year, a reasonable proportion,
and if in the interim the Government can find an effective means of tapping
the migrant workers' resources, overall Government revenues and hence expendi-
tures may grow even more rapidly than the above projections would indicate.
In the second place, Lesotho has no external-defense budget, such that funds
1/   Salaries are likely to remain constant for several years and then undergo
a dramatic increase, as has been the case in the past, rather than being
adjusted upwards in regular annual increments, A deterioration in
employment prospects for skilled people in the RSA, for whatever reasons,
would make it easier for the Government of Lesotho to resist the pressures
for large increases in teachers' salaries.
2/   Although not in all: Burundi reached 30% in 1971; the Ivory Coast
reached 34% in 1973 and 40% in 1976, and initial projections for 1977
show that the figure may reach 46%; and the Congo (Brazzaville) reached
50% in 1976.



- 11 -
which in other countries would be expended on defense may in Lesotho be
diverted to other sectors. Finally, the opportunities for high-productivity
investment in Lesotho are limited; it is quite possible that the highest
marginal returns are to investment in human-resource development. Given
these various factors, the projected levels of recurrent expenditure on
education do not seem unreasonably high.
Investment Programs
3.13      The Second NDP (para. 2.07) allocates R 11.9 million (US$13.7
million equivalent) for capital expenditures in education over the five-
year period 1975/76-1979/80. The priority areas for investment are general-
secondary education (41% of the total), teacher training (20%), vocational
and technical education (17%), and higher education (13%). The major items
to be financed in general-secondary education are facilities for practical
studies and laboratories, plus a limited number of new classrooms and hostels
for the gradual expansion of secondary education (para. 3.08). The amount
allocated for teacher training is for the expansion of the NTTC. The
assistance to vocational and technical education will take the form of ex-
pansion of existing technical schools at Leribe and Leloaleng and the Bishop
Allard Vocational Training School as well as expansion of the Lerotholi
Technical Institute being completed under the IDA-assisted first education
project. In higher education, the principal need will be for new hostels
for the expanding enrollment; eventually, new classrooms and other facili-
ties will be needed as well.
3.14      The Second NDP's investment plan for education is well-balanced.
Planned expansions at all levels and in all areas have been geared to the
country's perceived manpower needs and financial possibilities. The Gov-
ernment recognizes that it will have to seek external financing for about
two thirds of its total second-plan investment program, but the availability
of such financing should be no problem. The only problem will be the coun-
try's absorptive capacity; in education, however, even this should not be
a problem, given the successful implementation of the IDA-assisted first
education project and other ongoing projects.
3.15      In the longer term (after the second-plan period) Lesotho will
need continued external assistance for the expansion of its secondary di-
versification program. In addition, it faces a unique opportunity to con-
solidate and strengthen its primary-education system. In the period 1979/80
to 1985/86, primary enrollments will remain virtually constant (para. 3.09),
such that expenditures in primary education may be concentrated in order to
improve the quality of primary education and increase its internal efficiency
and external productivity. In particular, in a possible third education
project, the Bank Group might wish to aid the Government in (i) completing the
ongoing school-mapping exercise and using it to rationalize the distribution
of primary schools; (ii) completing the good start of the reform of primary-
teacher education made with the establishment of the NTTC, with a view to
providing all schools with well-trained, competent teachers; (iii) providing
buildings and furniture as needed for the new rationalized system; and



- 12 -
(iv) supplying all schools with the books and other equipment necessary for
effective learning of the new curricula being developed by the new Department
of Curriculum Development (para. 3.07).
IV.  THE PROJECT
Objec^fJes and Content
4.01      The project is designed to contribute towards increasing the Govern-
ment's ability to deal with the two main elements which at present sustain
the country's economy: (1) the agricultural sector, and (2) migrant employ-
ment in the RSA. The project would help to increase the focus of primary,
secondary, and adult education on rural development as a means of attaining,
over the long term, increased self reliance and reduced dependence on the
RSA. In the medium term, the project would provide the country with addi-
tional skill training designed to maximize the earnings of migrant workers
and also to increase the pool of skilled people who might remain in Lesotho.
To these ends, the project would assist an investment program aimed at (a)
establishing a curriculum-development service, including strengthened career-
guidance and educational-radio services; (b) expanding the facilities for
technical education, making it possible to expand enrollments and to introduce
courses for adults; (c) establishing a new, permanent Trade-Testing System;
(d) expanding the curriculum-diversification program at the level of secon-
dary education by introducing pre-vocational subjects in agriculture, ele-
mentary technology, home economics, and commerce, together with associated
development studies, into the curricula of additional general-secondary
schools; (e) strengthening the institutions which will be responsible for
training teachers of pre-vocational subjects; (f) providing the human re-
sources necessary for the successful functioning of the above services and
institutions as well as for the implementation of the project and for forma-
tive evaluation of the secondary-level pre-vocational subjects; and (g)
preparation of future programs and projects. Specifically, the project
would consist of the following:
(a) The construction, furnishing, and equipping of a National
Curriculum Development Center (NCDC);
(b) Extensions, furniture, and equipment for two existing
technical schools;
(c) Office and trade-testing equipment, a vehicle, and
operational expenses over the project period for a new
Trade-Testing System;
(d) Extensions, furniture, and equipment for eleven general-
secondary schools;



- 13 -
(e) Minor improvements in teacher-education workshop facilities,
limited staff housing, and a bus for the institutions (the
National Teacher Training College, the Lesotho Agricultural
College, and the Lerotholi Technical Institute) which together
will train the teachers of pre-vocational subjects;
(f) Technical assistance for the training of Basotho teacher-educa-
tors, for the Trade-Testing System, for project implementation
(an architect, a quantity surveyor, and engineering and procure-
ment consultants), and for formative educational evaluation;
(g) Permanent office accommodations, furniture, vehicles, equip-
ment, and operating expenses for project administration; and
(h) Pre-investment activities and studies.
Project Items
4.02      The National Curriculum Development Center (NCDC).  The proposed
project would centralize and strengthen various curriculum-development
activities of the MINEDUC which are presently carried out on a haphazard
basis in such temporary accommodations as can be found. The MINEDUC has
created a new Department of Curriculum Development (para. 3.07) with its
own Director, who is responsible to the Chief Education Officer. This De-
partment would be accommodated in the proposed new National Curriculum
Development Center. The project would thereby enable the country to estab-
lish a permanent service which would conduct integrated curriculum-devel-
opment activities for the constant review and improvement of primary and
general-secondary education and their adaptation to the country's develop-
ment situation. Given the importance of women in the country's economic
and political affairs (para. 2.09) and in the country's education system
(para. 3.01), special effort should be made to ensure that curricula are
geared to the needs of women as well as men. The NCDC would also include
accommodation for a service for career guidance, including employment coun-
seling, the need for which was made even greater as a result of the Gcovern-
ment's decision to diversify the curriculum at the level of secondary edu-
cation. The Center would also strengthen the educational radio service
through the provision of a recording studio, an office for the MINEDUC' s
Broadcasting Officer, and a library for tapes and other materials, all to
be used by the MINEDUC and by other agencies which prepare educational radio
programs. To ensure that the Center is properly launched, considerable
technical assistance would be required as is detailed in Annex 4. Various
bilateral aid agencies, including ODM, USAID, the Peace Corps, and the British
Council, have indicated their interest in providing the required specialists
as well as the needed fellowships for the training of nationals. The Gov-
ernment is making all necessary efforts to secure the required technical
assistance from bilateral sources and has presented a list of probable sources
of the various specialists, together with a schedule indicating the timing and
the phasing of the technical-assistance program. Since the housing shortage
throughout Lesotho but particularly in Maseru is acute, and since the avail-
ability of housing is a critical factor in the willingness of internationally



-  4 
recruited specialists to accept positions in Lesotho, modest staff housing
would be provided for the specialists to be furnished by bilateral agencies
(Annex 5).
4.03      A career-guidance service has already been established in Lesotho
with the assistance of Bank staff. The MINEDUC is in the process of estab-
lishing a Careers Education and Guidance Program in all secondary schools with
the ultimate aim of extending the program to all educational levels. There is
close liaison with related agencies to ensure that the program is responsive
to national manpower needs. Career information is collected, compiled, and
disseminated in the form of monthly bulletins and pamphlets sent to schools
and through a weekly radio program. Career guidance is to be offered as a
subject to all NTTC students. The results of an initial battery of question-
naires, sent to graduates of secondary schools, the LTI, the NTTC, and the
NUL, are currently being compiled and evaluated and will form the basis for an
ongoing tracer study. Accommodation for the career-guidance service would be
included in the proposed NCDC. The Government is in the process of obtaining
a Peace Corps Volunteer to serve as a specialist in guidance and counseling
and expects to receive assistance from the British Council for the profes-
sional training of a Mosotho to serve as the MINEDUC's Counseling Officer.
4.04      The Government recognizes the need to make the fullest use possible
of radio for educational purposes, since receiving sets are widespread (para.
2.04). The 19-1/2 hours of educational broadcasting time available weekly at
present are utilized as follows: the MINEDUTC--12 hours weekly when schools
are in session; the Ministry of Agriculture--two 15-minute broadcasts daily
(including weekends); the Ministry of Health--two 15-minute broadcasts weekly;
and the Distance Teaching Center--two 15-minute broadcasts daily. The broad-
casts are transmitted by the Lesotho Broadcasting Corporation, but each agency
is responsible for its own program preparation. The Ministry of Agriculture
has its own recording studio, but the Ministry of Education and the Distance
Teaching Center are without such a facility and difficulties are often ex-
perienced in getting programs recorded. The recording studio to be provided
under the proposed project would overcome this obstacle. In order to improve
the effectiveness of educational broadcasting in Lesotho, the Government has
agreed to establish, by March 31, 1978, a Council for Educational Broadcasting
under the Lesotho Broadcasting Corporation, with representatives from all
agencies providing educational programs, to advise the Corporation on the use
of radio for educational purposes and to allocate among the agencies the air
time made available by the Corporation for educational broadcasts.   The
Government expects to receive assistance from the British Council for the
professional training of a Mosotho to serve as the MINEDUG's Broadcasting
Officer.
4.05      Expansion of Technical Education.  Additional facilities would be
provided at two upper-secondary-level technical schools, the Leloaleng Trades
School and the Technical School of Leribe, enabling them to increase their
enrollments to a more economical size. Leloaleng presently offers three-year
courses in carpentry, leatherworking, and motor mechanics. The existing
outmoded facilities limit class size to an average of 7 students per class,
and the school's total enrollment is only 55. The classroom facilities and



- 15 -
equipment to be provided under the project would enable the enrollment of
full-time students to be increased from 55 to 95 and would also allow the
school to introduce a course in construction. Dormitory space already exists
for 95 students, but a limited amount of staff housing (Annex 5) would be
needed to accommodate the additional teachers for the construction course,
since Leloaleng is not located near a town. Leribe presently offers courses
in motor mechanics and metalwork, masonry, and carpentry, and is introducing a
course in electrical wiring.   With 12 to 16 students per class, the total
enrollment is presently 90. The facilities to be provided by the project
would enable about 30 more students to be enrolled, 15 males and 15 females.
Dormitory space already exists for 120 students but a girl's ablution block
would be needed, as well as a limited amount of staff housing (Annex 5), since
the housing shortage is acute in the nearby town of Leribe. At present, all
teachers at Leloaleng are Basotho except for the director of the school,
whereas at Leribe, only about half the staff are Basotho. The training needs
for complete localization of both staffs are presented in Annex 4. In the
short term, expatriate teachers would continue to be needed. Several bilat-
eral agencies, including ODM, the Peace Corps, DANIDA, the Government of
Ireland, and the British Council, have expressed considerable interest in
providing the technical assistance required, in terms of fellowships for the
training of Basotho staff as well as short-term expatriate teachers. The
Government is in the process of confirming these arrangements for technical
assistance.
4.06      The proposed expansions would enable both schools to provide oppor-
tunities for adults (both men and women) to obtain skill training in the
trades for which the institutions are equipped. At Leloaleng these additional
classes would take place mainly during school holidays, and the adult students
would occupy the boarding places vacated by the full-time students. Such
arrangements would be necessary because the immediate vicinity is sparsely
populated and thus unable to provide an economical number of day students.
The vacation classes for adults would be nationally recruited and would
include many returned miners as well as the wives of male migrants and em-
ployees of the Government and of private concerns. Since the school has
earned a good reputation, there would be little difficulty in recruiting
students. The present staff of the school is willing to provide such vacation
courses and would be remunerated by the adult students themselves or by their
employers. The school at Leribe is situated in a prosperous and populous part
of the country, near the town of Leribe and the growing industrial complex of
Ficksburg (just across the border in the RSA). There is already a steady
demand from the region's adults for short courses not requiring boarding
facilities on weekends and during school vacations.  Some of the teaching for
these courses could be provided by the school staff, who would be remunerated
by the adult students directly. Much of the teaching, however, would be
provided by full-time students in the last year of their training, who would
be paid a fee for such teaching in the same way as they are presently paid
for the production and repair work they do outside school hours. The Gov-
ernment has agreed that permanent committees would be formed at both Leloaleng
and Leribe to determine the content, form, and frequency of adult programs.
The Government has agreed that these committees will be established by June
30, 1978, and that they will include both school staff and interested local
personnel.



- 16 -
4.07      Trade Testing.  Those students terminating technical courses in
Lesotho are at present not adequately evaluated. A Trade-Testing Committee
exists under the Ministry of Commerce, Industry, Geology and Mines, and Labor,
but it has no permanent facilities and must rely on the use of facilities in
the schools where students are taught. Furthermore, the people who actually
do the trade testing are unpaid volunteers, and several of them are teachers
at the Lerotholi Technical Institute. Some applicants for trade certificates
thus have an unfair advantage in that they are tested by their former teachers
on the-a very equipment on which they learned. Under the proposed project,
a new permanent Trade-Testing System would be established under the aegis
of a recent amendment which has been proposed to the Industrial and Commer-
cial Training Act of 1975, which will establish the legal basis for the
system. An internationally recruited specialist in trade testing would be
provided under the project for a period of two years. The Government has
agreed that the specialist will be selected and appointed on the basis of
terms and conditions acceptable to the Association. The specialist would be
expected to establish the new trade-testing system, train local trade testers,
and devise, approve, and publish standardized trade tests. The project would
also provide office and trade-testing equipment, a vehicle, and operational
expenses over the project period for the Trade-Testing System; space is
already available within the Labor Department. A house of modest proportions
(Annex 5) would also be provided for the specialist, for the reasons given in
para. 4.02. The project would also include about two man-months of fellow-
ships for local counterpart trade-testing specialists, to enable them to visit
other East African countries such as Malawi, Swaziland, or Kenya, in order
that they might familiarize themselves with the successful management of
existing trade-testing systems in those countries. Upon the departure of the
internationally recruited specialist, one of the local counterparts would
become responsible for the Trade-Testing System, which would continue to
function at Government expense as a part of the Labor Department (Ministry of
Commerce and Industry).
4.08      Improvement of Secondary Education.  The project would provide the
buildings, furniture, and equipment required to introduce pre-vocational
subjects into seven additional general-secondary schools (above the six which
received such facilifies under the IDA-assisted first education project) to
contribute further to the improvement of the quality of secondary education
and the bringing of the curriculum more into line with Lesotho's environment.
Emphasis on science and mathematics is being increased, and agriculture,
elementary technology, home economics, commercial subjects, and development
studies are being introduced as regular subjects in the secondary-school
program. The provision of pre-vocational facilities would free the existing
-zademic facilities part of the time and would allow the seven schools to
z=easc  their enrollments.  Moreover, limited additional facilities would be
r id_i at four of the six schools assisted under the first project to allow
them to increase the utilization rate of their practical facilities and
thereby increase th-eir enrollments. Since the schools are located in rural
areas and since suL-:icient staff housing is unavailable nearby, a number of
staff houses (Anne: 5) would be provided to accommodate those of the addi-
tional teachers of pre-vocational subjects required for the diversified
curricuIum who could not otherwise be reasonably expected to find suitable



- 17 -
housing. Similarly, since most students come from distant areas and are
unable to find housing near the schools, a limited number of boarding places
would be provided under the project for those students who at present are
inadequately housed and for the additional students whom the project would
enable the schools to enroll.
4.09      Because of limitations in terms of available funds and appropriate
teachers, the Government plans to limit this second phase of investment in
the improvement of secondary education to seven new schools, which would bring
the total for the two projects to 13, or 20% of the total of 65 secondary
schools reported in early 1977. Since the schools chosen for the first and
second projects are among the largest, however, their combined enrollments
will represent about 40% of total general-secondary enrollments. In addition,
there are some schools which are introducing some of the new subjects without
Government investment (para. 3.08). The seven new schools have been selected
to insure widespread geographical distribution. In particular, two mountain
schools serving remote populations were selected for inclusion in the project.
Each of the seven schools would offer those pre-vocational subjects most
relevant to the needs of the surrounding region. All seven schools are
located in rural areas or at the edges of rural towns. The expansion of the
total enrollment of the eleven project schools to about 8,000 is in accordance
with the Government's policy of controlling growth in secondary education by
expanding existing schools rather than opening new ones.
4.10      With only a 37% transition rate from lower secondary to upper,
many of the students completing lower-secondary school would join the rural or
urban labor market or go to the RSA to seek employment. Similarly, those who
complete upper-secondary school but do not go to the University also need an
educational base designed to help them seek suitable job opportunities. The
proposed changes in the curriculum are intended to provide this base. The
syllabi for the new pre-vocational subjects are being prepared in association
with the first project and will be fully introduced in the 1978 school year in
the six schools of the first project. It is proposed that the continued
elaboration of these syllabi, as well as curriculum development for primary-
level education, be carried out in the proposed NCDC (paras. 4.02-4.04).
4.11      The project schools will require additional teachers of pre-voca-
tional subjects (para. 4.08). The Government of Ghana has agreed to post
eight senior teachers of pre-vocational studies in Lesotho, to be paid local
salaries from Lesotho's existing budget for these positions, and to make
available training places for Basotho counterparts of the Ghanaian teachers.
The Federal Republic of Germany has agreed to make third-country training
fellowships available to support this training program, which will begin in
September 1978. For the longer term, however, the Government of Lesotho
intends to develop a permanent capacity to train teachers of pre-vocational
subjects. With DANIDA aid, a home-economics department is being built at the
NTTC, which also has a development-studies department, supported by UNDP and
UNESCO, and a small commercial-studies department. For the training of
elementary-technology and agricultural teachers, the Government is arranging
for joint programs between the NTTC, on the one hand, and the Lerotholi



- 18 -
Technical Institute (LTI) or the Lesotho Agricultural College (LAC), re-
spectively, on the other. For this purpose the LTI, which is being assisted
in the first project, will require a minor improvement in its teacher-
education workshop facilities; the LAC needs to increase its staff by two
agricultural educators, which will necessitate staff housing (Annex 5) for the
reasons mentioned in para. 4.02; and the NTTC will require a bus for the
movement of its students between institutions. These items would be provided
under the project as a contribution to strengthening teacher-education facili-
ties for the new pre-vocational subjects. The Government is in the process of
obtaining DANIDA assistance for the two new positions at the LAC. In order to
minimize the loss of trained teachers of pre-vocational subjects to other
employment in the RSA, the Government has agreed that it will review the
conditions of service of teachers of pre-vocational subjects from time to
time, to ensure that schools offering the diversified secondary curriculum
will be adequately staffed.
4.12      The ability of the NTTC to supervise and carry out the training of
new teachers of pre-vocational subjects of course depends on its own staffing
requirements. By 1978, the NTTC will have a total enrollment of 600 students
on campus and 300 interns in the field and will require a staff of 40 teachers
on campus and 30 field supervisors. At present it continues to rely heavily
on expatriate staff, and only 15 Basotho teachers on the staff are currently
undertaking a part-time B. Ed. program at the Faculty of Education of the NUL.
There is need for recruitment and in-service training for a further 55 Basotho
teacher-educators, and the project proposes to provide fellowships for this
purpose.
4.13      Project Administration, Evaluation, and Pre-Investment Activities
and Studies. The Project Unit established for the IDA-assisted first educa-
tion project would also be responsible for the implementation of the second
project. As part of the implementation, the Project Unit would conduct an
evaluation of overall project implementation; the Government has agreed
that within three months of the Closing Date, a report will be prepared and
sent to the Association with a preliminary assessment of the project's opera-
tional results and benefits, of the lessons learned during implementation, and
of the Association's role in connection with the project. Among other things,
the report will compare the project and its original expected benefits with
its results as they are seen when the project is nearly completed.
4.14      A comprehensive understanding of the educational results of the
proposed second project would of course be apparent only long after the
construction of the buildings and the training of the teachers, when a com-
plete student cohort would have benefited from an education in the new
facilities and under the new progressive programs. Complete evaluation of the
educational programs to be assisted under the proposed second project would
thus be impossible during the proposed four-year implementation period.
Institutions similar to those to be assisted under the proposed second project
are being assisted under the first project, however, and still other in-
stitutions have introduced the diversified lower-secondary curriculum on their
own (paras. 3.08 and 4.09). In order to evaluate these programs, two man-
years of technical assistance for formative evaluation would be included in



- 19 -
the second project. The Government has agreed that such specialist(s) will be
selected and appointed by June 30, 1978, on the basis of terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association. This evaluation will be formative in that
its results will be used by the curriculum-development specialists in the NCDC
to modify and improve the secondary curriculum.
4.15      Funds have been included in the cost estimates, under the category
of Project Administration, for activities and studies leading to a possible
IDA-assisted third education project in Lesotho. These funds could be used
for the preparation of architectural sketch plans and equipment lists as well
as any studies which might prove valuable in the preparation of a third
project. In particular, a study of Lesotho's construction industry (Appendix
3) would be undertaken in order to assist, among other things, the development
of low-cost school-construction methods, particularly in remote mountain areas.
V. COST ESTIMATES, FINANCIAL PLAN, IMPLEMENTATION,
PROCUREMENT, AND DISBURSEMENTS
Cost Estimates
5.01      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$9.3 million equiv-
alent (Annex 6). Estimated costs by project item are summarized below:



-19a-
Rand Millions                 US$  Millions             % of
Lc,,a.   Foreign   Total      Local   Foreign   Total    Base Cost
1) Construction, Furniture,
and Equipment for:
(a) National Curriculum
Development Center      0.19      0.27      0.46       0.22      0.31     0.53          8
(b) Technical Schools       0.19      0.25      0.44       0.22      0.29     0.51           7
(c) Secondary Schools       1.68      2.21      3.89       1.93      2.54     4.47          64
(d) Consolidation of
Secondary Teacher
Education, Trade
Testing, Technical
Assistance, and Pro-
ject Administration    0.10       0.14      0.24       0.11      0.17     0.28          4
2) Technical Assistance         0.06      0.25     0.31       0.07      0.29      0.36          5
3)
and Preinvestment
Activities and Studies       0.40      0.10     0.50       0.46      0.11      0.57          8
4) Architectural, Engi-
neering, and Procure-
ment Services 1/             0.09      0.06     0.15       0.10      0.07      0.17          2
5) Formative Evaluation         0.02      0.08     0.10       0.02      0.10      0.12          2
Total Base Cost
(October 1977)                  2.73     3.36      6.09       3.13      3.88      7.01        100
6) Contingencies
(a) Physical Increases
(9%)                    0.23      0.29      0.52       0.27     0.33      0.60
(b) Price Increases (22%)  0.66       0.80      1.46       0.76      0.92      1.68
Sub Total                       0.89      1.09      1.98      1.03      1.25      2.28
TOTAL PROJECT COST 2            3.62      4.45      8.07       4.16     5.13      9.29
1/ Represents about 6 man-years at US$30,000 equivalent.
2/ Includes customs duties and taxes estr-ated at US$0.40 million equivalent.



- 20 -
5.02      Cc-struction, furniture, and equipment costs provided by the
Government and reviewed by Bank staff were based upon quotations received
in the first education project and other similar projects. The construction
costs vary according to location and distance from sources of materials
supply.  October 1977 building costs (Maseru prices) Por the proposed facil-
ities are estimated to be US$160-175 equivalent per m for new gchool con-
struction. These compare with costs ol US$140 equivalent per m in Botswana
(August 1976), US$162 e2uivalent per m in Swaziland (February 1977), and
US$270 equivalent per m in Zambia (September 1976) for similar facilities.
The estimates are based upon maximum use of the few local materials and simple
building techniques. The cost of new boarding and staff-housing facilities is
equivalent to approximately 30% of the total project cost; the provision of
these facilities is necessary for the reasons given in paras. 4.02, 4.05, and
4.08. The total area and approximate number of housing units included in the
project were agreed with the Government; however, the actual area of each
accommodation unit will vary according to the type of institution and local
requirements. The housing for the 13 secondary and technical schools proposed
in the project is comparable in area to existing accommodations, and about 68
houses, principally for locel teaching staff, will be provided at an average
area per unit of about 60 m . A further 15 houses will be provided princi-
pally for internationally recrui ed personnel required for the project and
would range in area from 60-95 m per unit. These areas are minimal in
comparison with existing accommodations of this type. Furniture and equipment
costs are reasonable.
5.03      Customs Duties and Taxes.  Lesotho forms part of a customs union
with Botswana, the Republic of South Africa, and Swaziland (para. 2.04).
Items imported for the project would be exempt from direct customs duties
and taxes. Reimbursement percentages have been calculated to take into
account duties and taxes on civil works and on limited amounts of locally
procured furniture, equipment and vehicles. These taxes are estimated at
US$0.4 million equivalent.
5.04      Contingency allowances provide 10% for physical increases in the
base costs of construction, furniture, equipment, and architectural, engineer-
ing, and procurement services. 1/ Estimated price increases are based upon
the application of the following annual percentage rates of price escalation
from the base-cost date (October 1977) in accordance with the implementation
schedule (Annex 7).
Construction and
Architectural,              Furniture      Technical Assistance
Engineering, and                 and          Evaluation, and
Year       Procurement Services            Equipment      Project Administration
1977               16                        7.5                   5
1978               12                        7.5                   5
1979-81             8                        7.5                   5
1/   No physical contingencies have been provided for technical assistance
and project administration, with the result that total physical contin-
gencies are only about 9% of the total base cost of the project.






- 21 -
The estimated price-escalation rates for construction take into account the
present high rate of building-cost increases in Lesotho and recent substantial
increases in the prices of steel, cement, and other materials. While these
relatively high rates are expected to continue for some time, a weakening of
the demand for new construction in the RSA is expected to reduce the annual
rate of cost increases in the construction sector during project implementa-
tion. To offset these cost increases, the Government plans a rapid start of
the project by making extensive use of standard accommodation units (para.
5.10) developed for the first education project.
5.05      The Foreign-Exchange Component of US$5.1 million equivalent has been
calculated as follows: (a) construction, 52%; (b) equipment, 85%; (c) furni-
ture, technical assistance, and evaluation, 80%; (d) architectural, engineer-
ing, and procurement services, 40%; and (e) project administration, 20%.
Financial Plan
5.06      The total project cost of US$9.3 million equivalent would be
financed as follows:
Lesotho
Govt.          IDA       Total
----US$ Million Equivalent----
1.   Construction                        0.96           3.82       4.78
2.   Furniture                           0.03           0.44       0.47
3.   Equipment                           0.01           0.53       0.54
4.   Architectural, Engineering,
and Procurement Services            0.03           0.14       0.17
5.   Technical Assistance                0.07           0.28       0.35
6.   Formative Evaluation                0.01           0.11       0.12
7.   Project Administration              0.11           0.47       0.58
8.   Unallocated                         0.57           1.71       2.28
Total                          1.79           7.50      9.29
of which taxes                      0.40            -        0.40
A credit of US$7.5 million equivalent would represent 81% of the total project
cost of US$9.3 million equivalent or 84% of the total project cost net of
taxes. It would meet all foreign exchange costs and 63% of local costs net
of taxes.
5.07      In any year during project implementation the maximum government
contribution to the project inclusive of taxation is not expected to exceed
US$800,000 equivalent. Recurrent expenditures generated by the project are
expected to constitute about 3% of the MINEDUC's estimated recurrent budget
in 1985/86.



- 22 -
Implementation
5.08      The project would be implemented over a period of four years
including nine months for completion of payments and withdrawals (Annex 7).
The project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1981, and the proposed
Closing Date would be December 31, 1981.
5.09      <iministration.  An independent Project Authority, representing the
Mini-i   as of Education, Finance, Planning, Agriculture, Health, Works, and
Comma-   y and Rural Development which was established for the IDA-assisted
first .-  ation project to Lesotho, Credit 497-LSO, under the Government of
Lesothos Development Projects Order of 1973 and its Legal Notice No. 40
of September 5, 1975, would be responsible for overall project control.  The
PrCject Tinit established under the Project Authority for the first project
would pe-^form all administrative functions for the second project. The
Project Unit has functioned well, and no difficulties are anticipated in
continuing to use it for the implementation of the second project. The unit
is staffed with a director, deputy director, accountant, procurement officer
and supporting staff, all on a full-time basis. Permanent office accommoda-
tions, supplemental operational salaries, furniture, vehicles, equipment,
and -ene-al expenses would be provided under the project.
5.10      Architectural, Engineering, and Procurement Services,  The Ministry
of Works hsz  agreed to establish an architectural team, consisting of two
architects, one quantity surveyor, two architectural technicians, and two
construction supervisors, which would be located within the Ministry but
,-ould -assigned on a full-time basis to the project.  The team would be
resp,c. s 1 e for the design, construction, and supervision of all project
facili t-_so  The Minissrv of Works has requested that one of the architects
and t.he -uantity surveyor be furnished as technical assistance under the
prc ect. modest staff housing (Annex 5) for these specialists would be
-s n.s     under the project for the reasons given in para. 4.02.  These
specialists would be recruited by the Project Unit; the other positions
would be furnished by the Ministry of Works.  The Government has agreed that
the architect and the quantity surveyor to be provided under the project
be c-l_cted and appointed on the basis of terms and conditions accept-
ab ' e to the Association. Office accommodations and, where necessary, addi-
tional suanpporting staff would also be provided by the Ministry of Works.
The project would, however, provide locally based consultants to be hired
by the 3Ministry of Works to provide engineering services to the team. As far
as noss1.-1e, the procurement of furniture and equipment would be carried out
Dy t-.l P_oject Unit; however, some additional support would be required, and
the -11 cl R609000 (which includes contingencies) has been included in the
p- -t'  the provision of the services of procurement consultants.  The
G-_ m- - has confirmed that the engineering and procurement consultants
will be selected and appointed on the basis of terms and conditions accept-
able to the Association. The establishment and staffing of the architectural
team, including the -pointment of the architect and the quantity surveyor to
be furnished under the project, would be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
In the interests of economy, the detailed standardized classroom and workshop
accommod2tion plans for secondary schools prepared under the IDA-assisted



- 23 -
first education project would be used as far as possible for the second
project as well. Since these plans are subject to architectural copyright,
the Ministry of Works would negotiate for their acquisition, and the sum of
R 30,000 has been included in the project for this purpose. Acquisition of
the copyrights would save several months of implementation time and would
also result in substantial savings, since cost increases for the project are
estimated at about R 90,000 per month.
5.11      Site Selection.  All sites for the proposed expansions to second-
ary and technical schools are available and satisfactory. The site initially
proposed for the NCDC was too small, and the site initially proposed for its
associated staff accommodation was not available. The Government has agreed,
however, that it will take all such action as shall be necessary to acquire,
as and when needed, the land required for the NCDC.
Procurement
5.12      Contracts would be awarded in accordance with the Bank Group's
Guidelines for Procurement. International competitive bidding would be used
except as follows: (a) Construction contracts costing less than US$25,000
equivalent each, which could be negotiated with small unregistered contractors
on the basis of a program to be agreed with the Association (the estimated
total value of contracts that would be awarded in this category is not ex-
pected to exceed US$150,000 equivalent, including contingencies); (b) For the
construction of the two schools in the mountain regions, where competitive
bids are not expected, local teams consisting of a few skilled workers fur-
nished by the Project Unit or by the Ministry of Works plus local unskilled
labor would be established and supervised by the Project Unit according to a
program to be agreed upon with the Association (the estimated total value of
contracts that would be awarded in this category is not expected to exceed
US$900,000 equivalent, including contingencies); and (c) Furniture and equip-
ment contracts costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each, which, on the
basis of experience with the first education project, are unlikely to attract
foreign bidders, would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding adver-
tised locally in accordance with local procedures acceptable to the Associa-
tion (the estimated total value of contracts that would be awarded under this
category is not expected to exceed US$200,000 equivalent, including contin-
gencies). Procurement is expected to be completed by June 1980.
5.13      Architectural sketch designs, draft tender documents, and master
lists of furniture and equipment, indicating proposed grouping, would be re-
viewed by the Association. Items would be grouped to the extent practicable
to encourage competitive bidding and to permit bulk procurement. Review of
tender evaluation documents by the Association prior to award would not be
required for contracts for civil works costing less than US$200,000 equivalent
and for contracts for furniture and equipment costing less than US$50,000
equivalent.
5.14      Where international competitive bidding procedures are used (i)
domestic manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be allowed a prefer-
ence of 15% or the existing applicable rate of import duties, whichever is



- 24 -
lower over the c.i.f. price of competing foreign suppliers; and (ii) qualified
domestic civil works contractors would be allowed a preferential margin of
7-1/2% over the bid prices of competing foreign contractors.
Disbursements
5.15      Disbursements (Annex 8) would be on the basis of:  (a) 80% of ex-
penditures for civil works; (b) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly
imported furniture, instructional equipment and vehicles; (c) 100% of the
ex-factory cost of locally manufactured furniture; (d) 100% of foreign and
50% of local expenditures for technical assistance and for evaluation; and
(e) 80% of total expenditures for locally procured furniture and equipment
bought off the shelves, for professional services, and for project admin-
istration. Disbursements for project administration would be made against
certificates of expenditure, documentation for which would not be submitted
for review but which would be retained by the Borrower and would be available
for inspection by the Association during the course of project supervision.
5.16      Retroactive reimbursement of a sum not exceeding US$150,000 equiva-
lent for approved expenditures incurred from March 1, 1977, to credit signing
is recommended for (i) the acquisition of architectural copyrights (para.
5.10) and (ii) the specialist services of an architect and a quantity sur-
veyor for the architectural team in the Ministry of Works (para. 5.10).
5.17      Procurement is expected to be completed by June 1980, and the
project by March 31, 1981, with a credit closing date of December 31, 1981,
including nine months for the completion of payments and withdrawals.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      Benefits.  The extent of Lesotho's dependence upon the RSA makes it
unique among the Bank Group's member countries. All development policies and
projects must be judged in the light of their contribution towards helping to
decrease this dependence, over the long term, and helping to make the best of
it, in the medium term. The proposed project would contribute to both of
these goals. The existence of an integrated center for continuous curriculum
development would help to ensure that curricula in the formal education system
are brought more into line with the country's realities by increasing their
emphases on agricultural and other pre-vocational skills. The secondary
diversification program, which the proposed project would expand, is a first
step in this direction: through exposure to pre-vocational as well as
academic subjects immediately after basic education, students will be more
aware of the variety of possibilities available to them, will be more likely
to pursue skill training later, either in formal institutions or on the job,
and will be able to appreciate better the usefulness of such skills in na-
tional development. The expansion of technical education would enable many
Basotho to earn better salaries if they decided to migrate, and would make
them more useful to Lesotho itself, if they decided to stay in the country.
Guidance counseling will make students more aware of the employment oppor-
tunities open to them. Those outside the formal-education system would also



- 25 -
not be neglected: many would be reached by the expanded educational radio
system, and others would be able to gain new skills through informal courses
at the two technical schools which the project would expand. Some of these
courses would be particularly directed to women in view of their role in
Lesotho's development.
6.02      In quantitative terms, the project would provide about 1,600 new
student places at the level of lower-secondary education and would enable
over 4,300 lower-secondary students to follow the new diversified curriculum.
The new NCDC would provide facilities for the 23 professional staff needed
for curriculum development activities as well as ancilliary staff for the
guidance-counseling unit and the educational-radio unit. The expansion of
the two technical schools would provide places for an additional 70 full-
time students as well as facilities for the training of some 400 adults p.a.
All secondary-level students would benefit from the establishment of the
guidance-counseling service, and it is estimated that up to 90% of the coun-
try's population could benefit from the expanded educational broadcasting
service.
6.03      Through the project, the MINEDUC would continue to gain valuable
experience in the implementation of school-construction programs. In addi-
tion, the project would increase the government's influence and control over
the country's school system. It is estimated that the activities of construc-
tion would create some 400 man-years of employment during the project period.
In addition, the technical advice and assistance provided through the project
would generally improve the quality of construction at the local level through
on-the-job training of craftsmen and unskilled laborers. After the project
period, the new facilities would provide continuing employment in Lesotho for
some 170 people, mostly teachers and curriculum specialists.
6.04      Risks.  The project has two principal risks.  One is that the suc-
cess of all the new facilities which would be provided under the project
depends upon the availability of expatriate specialists to staff them in the
short term and a successful staff-development program for Basotho in the
medium term. Several bilateral agencies, however, including ODM, USAID, the
Peace Corps, the British Council, the Government of Ireland, the Government
of Ghana, the Federal Republic of Germany and DANIDA, have expressed consid-
erable interest in the project and in supplying supportive technical assis-
tance. The Government has already contacted these agencies and has presented
a list of probable sources of the various specialists, together with a sched-
ule indicating the timing and the phasing of the technical-assistance program
(paras. 4.02, 4.03, 4.04, 4.05, and 4.11). In addition, the Government has
made arrangements with the Governments of Ghana and the Federal Republic of
Germany for the training of the teachers of pre-vocational subjects who will
be needed for the eleven general-secondary schools to be assisted under the
project (para. 4.11). In addition, plans are proceeding for the development
within Lesotho of a permanent capacity for the training of such teachers.
6.05      The other major risk is that concerning the secondary diversifica-
tion program, of which there has not yet been a thorough evaluation in Lesotho.
Facilities for this program are being provided in six schools under the
IDA-assisted first education project. The facilities are expected to be
completed in time for the 1978 school year, which means that the first



- 26 -
student cohort to benefit from them would enter in January 1978 and complete
the lower-secondary cycle (disregarding dro-outs and repeaters) in late 1980.
A thorough evaluation of the benefits gained by these students from the new
curriculum would be possible only some years after that. A large body of
evidence from similar projecCs in other countries, however, plus an analysis
of conditions in Lesotho indicate that the Government may safely proceed with
the exDansion of the diversification program as long as it is careful to avoid
the problems which have occurred elsewhere. In many Bank Group-assisted
education projects in other countries, the introduction of science and pre-
vocational subjects into secondary schools has not always met with the success
expected, usually for these reasons: (i) a lack of appropriately trained
teachers, and (ii) inadequate provision of recurrent resources to support the
teaching of scientific and pre-vocational subjects, resulting in a dearth of
expendable materials (e.g., chemicals for the laboratories and wood and metals
for the workshops) which are essential for the functioning of the new facil-
ities and the successful fulfillment of the educational objectives of the new
curriculum. On point (i), there are reasonable expectations that the arrange-
ments outlined in the preceding paragraph will be successful in providing the
needed teachers, both in the short and long terms. Because of the high wages
offered to personnel trained in commercial and technical skills, there will
be, for some years, a distinct probability that teachers trained to teach the
pre-vocational subjects might instead seek employment in the RSA. In order
to minimize the loss of such trained teachers to other employment in the RSA,
the Government has agreed that it will' review the conditions of service of
teachers of pre-vocational subJects frcm time to time, to ensure that schools
offering the diversified secondary curriculum would be adequately staffed
(para. 4.11). On point (ii), it is reasonably certain that the students
themselves could provide the funds to buy the expendable materials needed
for the successful functioning of the diversified curriculum. Students at the
project institutions already pay school fees, and school directors at all of
the project institutions confirmed that their students would be able to afford
to pay the additional amounts necessary to buy the needed expendable materials.
In this respect, Basotho students enjoy a considerable advantage over students
in most other less-developed countries because almost without exception their
families have an outside source of additional income (employment of a relative
in the RSA).
6.06      The NCDC to be financed under the proposed project would, of course,
closely monitor and evaluate the instruction provided under tne diversified
curriculum at the eight schools to be assisted under the second project as
well as the six being assisted under the first project. Modifications would
be made as necessary. In addition, the prcoect would provide specialist
services for the evaluation of the diversifi ed curriculum (pares. 3.08, 4.08,
and 4.14). That the introduction of the diversified curriculum was needed is
not questioned: graduates who have already benefited from such a curriculum
have been better prepared for their after-school lives, and on the basis of
their experience, the Government has committed itself to the eventual expan-
sion of the program to all lower-secondary schools (para. 3.0S>  There is



- 27 -
already evidence that students are eager to benefit from a more diversified
and relevari~ curriculum: the initial results of a tracer study which covered
secondary-school leavers of all sorts showed that almost all students, many of
whom had already been employed in Lesotho or in the RSA, when asked what
courses they wished they had had in school but which were not then available,
mentioned pre-vocational subjects.
6.07      In spite of the risks, the project is to be recommended.  It would
have a substantial qualitative effect on the whole of Lesotho's formal educa-
tion system below the university level, and its quantitative effect would also
not be negligible. In particular, it would expand the coverage of the new,
more relevant lower-secondary curriculum to more schools, including two in the
heretofore neglected mountain regions, and it would increase the opportunities
for additional technical training for adults, including women. All in all,
the project would provide critical assistance in key areas to Lesotho in the
ongoing development of its education and training system.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      Agreement was reached with the Government on the following prin-
cipal points:
(a) technical assistance and evaluation required for
the project (paras. 4.02, 4.03, 4.05, 4.11, 5.10
and 6.04);
(b) the establishment and composition of a Council for
Educational Broadcasting and the establishment of
permanent committees for the technical schools
assisted by the project (paras. 4.04, 4.07); and
(c) the review of the salaries of pre-vocational sub-
ject teachers (para. 4.11).
7.02      In addition to the customary conditions, the establishment and
staffing of an architectural team within the Ministry of Works for project
implementation would be a condition of Credit effectiveness (para. 5.10).
7.03      Retroactive financing not exceeding US$150,000 equivalent is
recommended for (i) the acquisition of architectural copyrights and (ii)
the specialist services of an architect and a quantity surveyor (para. 5.16).
7.04      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA Credit
of US$7.5 million equivalent to the Kingdom of Lesotho.



I



APPENDIX 1
Page 1 of 12
LESOTHO
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
MANPOWER AND EMPLOYMENT
Population
1.        On the basis of the 1966 Census, the total population of Lesotho
in 1975 was estimated at 1,200,000 and growing at an average annual rate
of 2.2%. The estimate of the total population in 1976 would thus have been
1,226,000. The initial results of the 1976 Census give a total of 1,214,000,
a difference of less than 1%. Since the full results of the 1976 Census
are not yet available, the following analysis has been based on the estimated
figure of 1,200,000 total population in 1975.
2.        The breakdown of the population by age group is estimated to have
been as follows in 1975:
0-14              480,000       40%
15-64              664,000      55%
65 and over         56,000        5%
Total            1,200,000      100%
3.        The breakdown of the 15-64 age group by sex is estimated to have
been as follows in 1975:
Men                319,000       48%
Women              345,000       52%
Total              664,000      100%
4.        The labor force and implied participation rates are estimated to
have been as follows in 1975:
Men                283,000       89%
Women              257,000       74%
Total              540,000       81%
5.        The occupations of the labor force are estimated to have been as
follows in 1975:
Modern Sector in Lesotho            27,500       5%
Informal activities in Lesotho
(including small handicrafts)   22,500        4%
Employed in the RSA                200,000     37%
Employed in Agriculture in
Lesotho (residual)              290,000      54%
Total                              540,000    100%



APPENDIX I
Page 2 of 12
6.        Employment in the RSA is estimated to have been as follows in
1975:
Men in the mines                   122,000
Men in other occupations            48,000
Total men                          170,000 (which is about 60%
of the male labor
force)
Total women                         30,000 (which is over 10%
of the female labor
force)
Total                              200,000
7.        Modern-sector employment in Lesotho is estimated to have been as
follows in 1975: I/
Manufacturing                        2,000       7%
Construction                         2,500       9%
Government                           9,200      34%
Tourism                                 500      2%
Other Services                      13,300      48%
Total                               27,500    100%
8.        The high participation rate (over 80%, para. 4) disguises the high
incidence of underemployment. The first Five-Year Plan (1970/71 - 1974/75)
called for the creation of 10,000 to 15,000 new jobs, but only 6,000 were
created in the non-agricultural sector. It is not known what proportion of
these jobs went to women.   Much of the new employment was generated by the
Governoent. The rest of the additions to the labor force, estimated at 59,000
paople, found jobs either outside the country or in low-productivity internal
activities. The low productivity of agriculture was highlighted in a 1973
rural survey, the results of which indicated that on the average, 80% of the
income earned by farm households was derived from off-farm activities (60%
from migrant remittances, 20% from other off-farm activities), leaving only
20% derived from the farm.
Migrant Labor
9.        The migrant labor force is estimated to have been about 200,000
in 1975, representing 37% of the estimated total labor force in that year.
Few data on the exact size and occupations of the migrant labor force exist;
the little information which is available on migrant labor has been supplied
by the National Recruiting Corporation (NRC), the recruiting agency for the
gold m-ies.  It is estimated that about 122,000 Basotho men were employed in
1/   Source:  Emplo-ment Projections and Manpower Development in Lesotho,
1975-80, Central Planning and Development Office, Maseru,
September 1976. No breakdown of employment by sex is avail-
able.



APPENDIX 1
Page 3 of 12
the mines, with over 70,000 in the gold mines. This latter figure has grown
at an average annual rate of over 6%, which is over twice the growth rate of
the labor force. It is known that most Basotho men seek employment in
the RSA at least once in their lives. Most contracts in the mines are for
a minimum of 6 months up to a maximum of 18 months; contracts may be renewed.
In addition to employment in the mines, a substantial number of men, variously
estimated between 40,000 and 90,000 (we have chosen 48,000, which probably is
on the conservative side), are in other temporary employment in the RSA, on
farms, in commerce and industry, and with the South African Railways.
10.       Basotho tend to work in the RSA to the extent required by the income
needs of their families; a third of the male migrants spend less than 20% of
their working lives in the mines, whereas only 15% spend over 60% of their
working lives there. Roughly 7.5% repatriate each year due to accidents or
occupation-related diseases. New evidence indicates that most male workers
plan their arrivals and departures so as to ensure an adequate labor supply
on their holdings at peak periods. Thus, between January and May, the major-
ity of migrants come from the lowland areas; men in the mountain areas are
engaged at this time in the harvesting of wheat and peas and in the shearing
of sheep and goats. But during the following three months, when it is harvest
time in the lowlands, most recruits come from the mountain regions. In
September, the lowlands again provide most of the recruits because of plough-
ing time in the mountains, while from October to December, the situation is
again reversed with most recruits coming from the mountain areas. The sea-
sonal pattern of migration cast some doubts on the assertion that ploughing
by boys and women has become widespread, and that men increasingly supervise
rather than directly engage in agricultural activity. Since Lesotho is over-
populated relative to available agricultural resources, the marginal produc-
tivity of labor in agriculture approaches zero, and it may be the case in
Lesotho that the absence of migrants does not adversely affect agricultural
output.
11.       Wages in the South African mines (and in other sectors in the RSA
as well) have increased dramatically in recent yeacrs:
Average Mine Wages per Shift
(1968 = 100)
Year               Wage Index
1968                  100
1972                  135
1974                  212
1975                  471
The minimum wage in mid-1975 was R 2.20 per shift, and the average wage was
R 3.20. These wages compared with an average wage for unskilled labor in
Lesotho of about R 1.00.  This wage differential in mining has a counterpart
in almost every other economic sector, and the economic incentive to a



APPENDIX 1
Page 4 of 12
Mosotho for quitting whatever job he or she holds within Lesotho and seeking
employment in the Republic would appear to be almost irresistible. Never-
theless, the reaction of the labor supply to this wage differential indicates
the existence of a backward-bending supply curve: as wage increase, the
supply of labor increases to a certain level and then begins to decrease,
indicating that once they have achieved a certain income level, many Basotho
would prefer spending more time at home to earning ever-higher incomes in
the Republic. The limited data available show that the number of Basotho
going to the mines has increased, but their mean length of stay at the mines
has decreased from 12 months to eight months, and their mean length of stay
in Lesotho between contracts has increased from seven months to ten months.
12.       In spite of this phenomenon at the higher income levels, however,
there is no doubt but that the large wage differential seriously reduces the
supply of available labor of all types in Lesotho. While most of the jobs
done by the migrants do not require literacy, about 60% of the workers were
classified as literate, and 12% had spent some time in secondary school.
Both figures are higher than national averages for the labor force in gen-
eral. At the beginning of his employment in the mines, a prospective worker
takes a series of thorough aptitute tests, the results of which determine his
initial placement and also influence the speed with which he can advance on
the pay scale. Educational background of whatever sort appears to have a
pronounced correlation with one's results on these tests. In sectors outside
mining, there are indications that secondary and post-secondary graduates
migrate to the Republic, attracted by the high remuneration, particularly in
the service sector. The migration of middle-level manpower, particularly of
artisans, semi-skilled, and skilled workers, is accelerating as job reserva-
tion ("whites-only" positions) is declining in the RSA and as it becomes
increasingly possible for Basotho with such skills to profit from the substan-
tial wage differentials as between such employment in the Republic and similar
jobs in Lesotho.
13.       The remittances of: Basotho who work in the mines, estimated at
two thirds of their wages, a8re vital to Lesotho's economy, helping to offset
growing trade deficits and enabling rural Basotho to buy the foodstuffs and
other articles they cannot produce for themselves. In an agreement with mine
employers, the Government of Lesotho has recently initiated a program of
forced repatriation of 60% of each mine worker's wages; this money is de-
posited in an account in the worker's name in the Bank of Lesotho but is
available to him only on his return to Lesotho. Other than this repatriation
scheme, however, the Government of Lesotho has very little control over
migrant employment, and the extent of the country's dependence on the RSA
in terms of both employment and income makes Lesotho extremely vulnerable
to developments in the Republic over which it has no control, or to any
pressures which the RSA might bring to bear on Lesotho. For example, the
number of migrant workers, although increasing in absolute numbers, is
declining as a percentage of the total: whereas migrant laborers composed
75% of the mine work force several years ago, they composed only 57% in



APPENDIX I
Page 5 of 12
1976. In 1973 and 1974, disturbances in the mines and protests over deferred
pay deductions, respectively, precipitated large returns of workers from the
mines. Fortunately, the problems were resolved quickly, and most workers
returned fairly soon to their jobs in the mines. But the possibility always
exists that large numbers of mine workers might suddenly return or be sent
back to Lesotho, where most of them would have to be absorbed into the agri-
cultural sector, where the marginal productivity of labor approaches zero
(para. 10). A Labor-Intensive Construction Unit was established under
the IDA-assisted second highways project which is attempting to advise
short- and long-term solutions to such an emergency, but to date little
progress has been made. In addition to emergency situations, there are other,
long-term trends which threaten to reduce the opportunities of Basotho to work
in the RSA. One is increasing mechanization. Another is the increasing
agitation on the part of native South African workers, who are demanding that
they be given the jobs now held by migrants. Thus, in summary, although at
present migrant labor is vital to Lesotho's economy, the long-term policy
of the Government must be to attempt to reduce the country's dependence
on it.
Modern-Sector Employment
14.       The modern sector in Lesotho provides few employment opportunities.
Employment outside the service sector is only 4,500, or less than 1% of
total employment. The Government is by far the largest modern-sector em-
ployer, with most employment in the Ministries of Agriculture, Education, and
Development Planning. The 1976 vacancy rate of 32% is misleading because the
survey of vacancies was taken immediately after a number of new positions had
been budgeted and few were filled, and because many of the vacancies require
significant technical expertise and are not likely to be filled in the near
future by Basotho. Over 300 expatriates worked in the Government in 1976.
In the private sector, only 25% of diploma-level and 16% of degree-level
employees are citizens of Lesotho; all others are expatriates. In the past,
the education and training system had been inadequate to meet the small
high- and middle-level manpower needs of Lesotho, but this situation has
changed rapidly. A recent study funded by USAID found manpower shortages
at all levels; however, most of these shortages appear to be caused by the
higher wages paid in the RSA. The conclusion is that Lesotho would be pro-
ducing enough middle- and high-level manpower to meet its own needs if
many of these people would stay in the country rather than seeking employment
in the RSA.
The Traditional Sector
15.       Information on employment in the traditional sector in Lesotho
is scanty. It is estimated that 290,000 are employed in subsistence agri-
culture, and 22,500 in small handicrafts and other low-productivity, informal
activities. About 95% of the population is rural. The antequated land



APPENDIX I
Page 6 of 12
tenure system and the high degree of erosion make it very difficult to in-
crease agricultural productivity, and many Basotho watch idly as the little
existing arable land they own erodes a-ay.  Employment opportunities in the
rural areas are few. A study done by USAID which served as a basis for the
identification of the presently proposed project found "shortages" of arti-
sans in the rural areas, but this is most likely caused by the lack of ade-
quate demand to sustain even one of these craftsmen on a fulltime basis.
The population is spread too thin and there is a scarcity of modern equip-
ment; for this reason, few communities can support more than a handful of
carpenters and other general craftsmen. The key blockage to rural develop-
ment is the lack of return to increased activity of any sort, a problem
that is best attacked through institutions such as the Lesotho National
Development Corporation (LNDC), the Basotho Enterprise Development Corpora-
tion (BEDCO), and the Ministry of Agriculture. LNDC must stimulate industry
in rural areas, BEDCO can support small enterprises and handicrafts, and
agricultural projects can make marginal increases in the productivity of
farmers.
Future Manpower Needs
16.       Lesotho has recently completed a survey of the present and future
manpower and training needs, The projected growth of employment by occupation
is as follows:
Sector Employment, 1975-80                 Average
Annual
Rate of
Employment   Employment   Growth    Growth,
Modern Sector                  1975          1980       1975-80   1975-80
Mining                          -           1,100        1,100
Manufacturing                 2,000         8,500        6,500     33.6%
Construction                  2,500         5,000        2,500     14.9%
Government                    9,200        13,300        4,100      7.7%
Tourism                         500         1,000          500     14.9%
Other Services               13,300        16,600        3,300      4.5%
Labor-Intensive Work            -           4,000        4,000
Subtotal                27,500        49,500      22,000      12.5%
Non-Modern Sector
Handicrafts and other In-
formal Activities          22,500        26,000       3,500       2.9%
Agriculture (residual)      290,000       27,500       -12_500     -0.9%
Subtotal               312,500       303,500      -9,000      -0.6%
Migrant Employment          2009000       247,000       47,000      4.3%
TOTAL                  540,000       600,000      60,000       1.6%
Source: Planning Office and Bank staff estimates



APPENDIX 1
Page 7 of 12
Job Creation in the Domestic Modern Sector
17.       The job creation in mining will be the result of a new diamond
mine which should begin production in 1977; job creation in "labor-intensive
work" refers. to puLblic works which will be undertaken with labor-intensive
methods under the supervision of the Labor-Intensive Construction Unit (para.
13). The projected rapid growth (over 33% per year) of the manufacturing
sec-.   s based on some ambitious assumptions of the Lesotho National Devel-
opmen;b Corporation (LNDC).  The expansion plans of the LNDC have already
encountered difficulties, so it is likely that employment growth in manufac-
turing is probably already running somewhat behind the proposed high rate.
The growth projections in other sectors are much more reliable. Overall,
these projections represent 22,000 new jobs, an increase of 80% in modern-
sector employment over the five-year period, or an average annual growth
rate of 12.5%.  If the manufacturing sector does not grow as rapidly as is
hoped, most of the workers who would have gone into the manufacturing sector
can be expected to look for jobs in the RSA. Attrition on the existing stock
of workers in 1975 over the five-year period 1975-80 is estimated at 6,400.
Adding this figure to the 22,000 new jobs to be created, we arrive at an
(optimistically high) total of 28,400 jobs which may be available in the
modern sector over the period in question. Many of the new positions could
be fiiled by either men or women, but no precise analysis of the probable
breakdown by sex of the new jobs has been made.
Job Creation Outside the Domestic Modern Sector
18.       Since te increase in the labor force over the five-year period
1975-80 is estimated at 60,000, fewer than half will be able to find jobs
in the modern sector in Lesotho, even under the most optimistic projections
of job -reation in that sector. If we accept that 28,400 people might find
jobs in the modern sector, then 31,600 will have to find jobs elsewhere.
Of these 31,600, about 3,500 will find jobs in handicrafts and other informal
activities in Lesotho. The remainder will seek employment in the RSA or will
remain on their farms in Lesotho. The increase in migrant employment in the
RSA over the period 1975-80 was estimated as follows:  employment in the mines
would locrease at the rate at which it has been increasing in the past (6%),
and empo yment of males in activities other than mining and employment of
females would increase at the same rate as the increase in the overall Basotho
labor force (1.6% p.a.). These rates would result in an overall increase
in migrant employment of Basotho in the RSA of over 4% p.a.--and would addi-
tionally result in a net decrease in on-farm employment in Lesotho of just
u.nder 1% p.a. These projections are not unreasonable but are highly hypo-
thetical, since many factors will influence the employment opportunities in
the iSa.  About all one can say is that Basotho will continue to seek em-
ployment in the RSA as long as the wage differential is sufficient to attract
them to that country and as long as the RSA permits and encourages them to
come. If for whate.T2-.r reasons employment opportunities for Basotho in the RSA
should not expand as rapidly as is shown in the table in para. 16, then the
residual would have to return to their farms in Lesotho, where they would be
underemployed and where their marginal productivity would approach zero.



APPENDIX 1
Page 8 of 12
Modern-Sector Employment: Job Opportunities by Occupation
19.       Using an optimistic projection of job creation in the modern
sector in Lesotho, we have seen that some 22,000 new jobs will be created
and that 6,400 existing positions will become available through attrition
(para. 17). It is estimated that these 28,400 openings will be distributed
among the various occupational groups as follows:
Attrition
New Jobs         on            Total
to be       Existing          Job
Occupational Group                     Created         Stock      Opportunities
Professional, technical, and related
workers                                    2,885          1,700           4,585
Administrative and Managerial workers          760            235             995
Clerical and related workers                 1,930            565           2,495
Sales workers                                  380            340             720
Service workers                              1,245            525           1,770
Modern-sector agricultural and
forestry workers                             475            160             635
Production and related workers               6,810          1,570           8,380
Transport equipment operators                  540            175             715
Workers in labor-intensive projects          4,000            200           4,200
Modern-sector technical workers,
apprentice artisans, and
unskilled workers not elsewhere
classified                                 2,975            930          3,905
TOTAL                                  22 000         6 400          28,400
of which:  Public Sector                8,100         1,400           9,500
Private Sector             13,900          5,000          18,900
Source: Planning Office
20.       Of the estimated 22,000 new jobs to be created, 8,100 are expected
to be created in the public sector and the remaining 13,900 in the private
sector. Of the estimated 6,400 positions which will become available through
attrition on the existing 1975 stock, 1,400 are expected to become available
in the public sector and 5,000 in the private sector. Attrition was calcu-
lated as follows:
Public Sector                               Private Sector
Skilled craftsmen      8% p.a.          Higher-level staff       5% p.a.
All others             2% p.a.           Skilled craftsmen       8% p.a.
All others              3% p.a.



APPENDIX I
Page 9 of 12
The rate of 2% p.a. for all public-sector employees except skilled craftsmen
was estimated on the basis of an ad hoc review of the salaries  records in
the public sector-  Attrition rates in the private sector are generally
believed to be higher on average than those in the public sector; therefore,
a rate of 3% p.a. was estimated for all public-sector employees except skilled
craftsmen and higher-level staff. Skilled craFtsmen are in very high demand
in the RSA, and it is known that a large proportion of skilled Basotho
leave every year for the RSA; an attrition rate of 8% p-a. was judged not
unreasonable for this occupational group. Alternative opportunities for
highly development-oriented occupations--de.ree and diploma holders--and
for managerial and supervisory personnel are also widespread, although the
salaries which such people can command in Lesotho are often competitive with
those in the RSA.  An attriticn rate of 5% p.a. was estimated for this group.
21.       The above projections were based on a survey of public-sector
employment and future requirements in which considerable detail was obtained.
Data for the private sector were estimated on the basis of information ob-
tained in manpower surveys undertaken in 1971 and 1975; the 1971 survey was
used as a check on the 1975 survey, since it was discovered that the occupa-
tional detail provided by the 1975 survey was inferior to that of the 1971
survey. In general, the projections for the public sector may be considered
more reliable than those for the private sector.
22.       The aggregation of data into large occupational groups in the above
table disguises some rather interesting details. The 4,585 "Professional,
Technical, and related workers," for example, includes 2,960 teachers. Of
the 1,625 remained, 1,105 will be in the public sector and 520 in the private
sector. The largest requirements in the public sector will be in the sub-
categories of agricultural personnel and health personnel; in the private
sector, health personnel and accountants will be in greatest demand. The
projected need for 2,495 "Clerical and related workers" includes an estimated
need of 960 such workers in the public sector and 1,535 in the private sector;
bookkeepers and typists are the largest subcategory.  The largest future
requirements (8,380) are in the occupational group called "Production and
related workers"; of these, the subcategory with the largest projected
need (5,310) is processing workers, reflecting the rapid growth planned
for the manufacturing sector. The 4,200 in the category "Workers in Labor-
Intensive Projects"' represent a goal rather than a projection: during
the current Plan period, the newly established Labor-Intensive Construction
Unit hopes to employ that number of workers in public-financed, labor-inten-
sive construction projects within Lesotho.
23.       The above tabl e gives total job opportunities for each modern-
sector occupational group. An attempt was also made to estimate, within
each occupational group, the requirements in terms of minimum educational
level needed (primary, lower secondary, upper secondary) and course special-
izaticin desired (general, commercial, or scientific and technical). The



APPENDIX i
Page 10 of 12
results are presented in the following table. The totals at each educational
level should be seen as minimum training requirements; additional training
will be needed in many cases, but some of these will be trained on the job,
many in the RSA.
Job Requirements by Kinimtim Educational Level and bG Desirnble Ccurse
Specialization for Entry to Modern Sector Job Porctsunities, 1975-198C
JUNIOR CERTIrI ATE                    C.O. SCHOOL CERTITGATE
Practical                                 Fractizal
Science                                   Science
Occup_tlonal Group                           Primary  General  Curomercial and Technical Ceneral   Commercial  and Technical  Total
Professional, Technical and related wcrkerS                 -        2,390          -              _            425          250          1.520         4,585
Administrarive and  .oragerial workers                     100           20        220             50           515           90            _              995
Clerical and related workers                               230         115       1,415             -              20         715            -           2,495
Sales workers                                              600          -           85             -             -            35            -              720
Service workers                                          1,305         425          -              40            -           -              -           1,770
Modern-suctor Agricultural and Forestry
workers                                                  390          -           -             245            _           -              -             635
Production and related workers                           4,005          -           -          4,015              -           -             360       1 8,380
Transport Equipment Operators                              715          -           -              -             _           _                             715
Workers in Labor-lntensive Proiects                      4,200          -           -              _                                                    4,200
Modern-sect:or technical workers, appren-
tice artisans, and unskilled workers
not el;eewhere class;ried                             2,955           -           -            950                                                    3,905
Tot-a  Demand                                14.500       2,95(       1,720         5,30(0   _       460       I,340           I,388        28.400
Projected Supply cf School
Leavers at Designated Level                  80,000    _---------13,500---___________ ------- ----             - G------------------
Source:   Planning Office. Bank Staff Estimates.



APPENDIX I
Page 11 of 12
24.       Current projections indicate that about 20,000 lower-secondary-
school grad-dates will be generated over the period 1975-1980. Of these
20,000 some 6,500 will continue on to upper-secondary school and the re-
maining 13,500 will enter the labor force. The demand of the domestic
modern sector for workers with at least a lower-secondary education is
optimistically estimated to be about 10,000, although much of this demand
is contingent upon the success of the development plans of LNDC. It would
appear that the supply of lower-secondary-school graduates will surpass
the demand for them, but two factors must be taken into account: (1) there
is a great need to upgrade auch of the present work force (particularly
teachers); and (2) many lower-secondary-school graduates will not remain
in Lesotho but will seek employment in the RSA because of the higher wages
available to them there. The effective demand for lower-secondary-school
graduates is thus much greater than the demand projected in the above table.
25.       At the upper-secondary level, assuming that dropout is minimal,
about 6,500 graduates will be generated over the period 1975-1980. Of
these 6,500, some 1,400 will continue on the higher education and the re-
maining 5,100 will enter the labor force. The demand of the domestic modern
sector for personnel with at least an upper-secondary education has been
estimated at about 4,000. Wages at this level are somewhat more competitive
with those in the RSA, so migration to the Republic should be somewhat less
than at the lower-secondary level, and the supply should be roughly com-
mensurate with the aggregate demand. Still, there will undoubtedly be short-
ages of graduates at both levels with scientific, commercial, and technical
backgrounds and surpluses of graduates with literary backgrounds. In essence,
however, it is unlikely that surpluses of secondary graduates of whatever
type or level could be generated at present, due to the extensive migration
to the Republic, although one should also remember that there would be no
shortages of these workers inside Lesotho if competitive wages were offered.
26.       Estimates of the needs for university graduates project a required
intake of 60 non-science-degree candidates and 140 science-degree candidates
per year. Supply data indicate that the actual intake of non-science-degree
students is much above 60 and of science-degree students is much below
140 but that the aggregate total is roughly correct (keeping in mind that
some graduates, too, migrate). The Government of Lesotho should act to
correct this structural imbalance as soon as possible through entry quotas,
scholarship policies and the continued upgrading of science programs in
secondary schools.
27.       Manpower survey data in Lesotho are much less valuable for planning
purposes than are similar data in other countries due to the unusual nature
of Lesotho's employment situation. At present, unemployment cannot exist for
skilled and semi-skilled workers, or even for unskilled workers, because they
find jobs in the RSA. Employers have difficulty finding skilled labor only
because they are generally unable to offer wages competitive with those in



APPENDIX I
Page 12 of 12
the RSA.  A bonding rule for all scholarship recipients exiJS_s ou- is never
enforced.  At present, the migrant-labor situation is qujile beneficial, even
critical, to the country economically, and the Government's policy should be
to attempt to exploit the situation to the extent possible- 1/ The future
of the migrant-labor situatioa is uncertain, however, and is completely
outside the Government's control.  Therefore, in order to avoid future crises,
it is important that Lesotho try to decrease its reliance upor this source of
income and employment to the extent possible.
1/   For example, thle Government might consider the feasibility of recovering
a part of the training costs of skilled migrants by taxffig such migrants
earnings.



APPENDIX 2
Page 1 of 12
LESOTHO
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR
Historical Background
1.        Formal education in the Western sense started in Lesotho shortly
after the arrival of the first missionaries of the French Evangelical Society
in 1833. They were followed by Roman Catholic missionaries in 1862 and by
Anglican missionaries in 1876. Some 90% of the existing primary schools are
still operated by the churches of these three denominations, and all but 18
of the total of 1,078 primary schools in 1976 were operated by religious
organizations. As the result of over a century of educational efforts, the
population of Lesotho now has a comparatively high literacy rate, estimated at
about 40% of the adult population. Yet curricula at all levels have remained
overly literary and deficient in manual-skill subjects. Prior to 1966, when
Lesotho achieved Independence, the mission schools were largely free of Govern-
ment control. This situation is rapidly changing with the award of Government
grants-in-aid and the payment by the Government of both primary and qualified
secondary-school teachers' salaries. As a result of its participation in
the cost of operating the schools, the Government is beginning to establish
academic and administrative control over curricula, teaching standards, and
examination procedures for all schools at primary and junior secondary
levels.
Administration
2.        Administrative, financial, and academic control of Lesotho's
general education system is vested in the Ministry of Education, Youth,
Sports, and Culture (MINEDUC). The MINEDUC administers the educational
programs of primary schools, secondary schools, the National Teacher Training
College (NTTC), the Lerotholi Technical Institute (LTI), the Commercial
Training Institute (CTI), and the National University of Lesotho (NUL).
3.        In addition to these general educational institutions administered
by the MINEDUC, a number of education and training programs are operated
by other Ministries. *These include: (a) the Lesotho Agricultural College
(LAC), the Farmer Training Centers, the Agricultural Extension Service,
the Farmer Training and Nutrition Centers, and the Young Farmers' Clubs,
all administered by the Ministry of Agriculture; (b) the Lesotho Institute
of Public Administration (LIPA) under the Prime Minister's Office; (c) the
Nurse Training Projects and Nurses' Orientation Courses under the Ministry
of Health; and (d) training courses for chiefs and for community and rural
development under the Ministry of the Interior.



APPENDIX 2
Page 2 of 12
4.        Of the 4,856 primary- and general-secondary-school teachers in 1976,
most were employed by the missioni schools but paid directly by the MINEDUC.
The total establishment of the Ministry is 163, organized as in Chart 3.
5.        Th existing Inspectorate Division operates at the primary-school
level with a ratio in excess of 450 teachers per inspector. The Division
is to be strengthened to a ratio of less than 200 primary teachers per
insp-    'oy increasing the number of inspectors from 9 to 22.  There is also
a neec -o establish a cadre of secondary-school inspectors; the Faculty of
Education of NUL is expected to help meet these needs.
6.        The Planning and Statistics Division has three professional staff
members.  The MINEDUC now plans to eliminate one UNDP adviser position and add
four DANIDA volunteers. The Division still needs further strengthening and
staff development, although the collection and summarizing of statistics
is very efficient. The relative planning respQnsibilities of this Division
and its counterpart in the Ministry of Planning and Statistics need to be
defined.
7.        The Research and Curriculum Development Division is operating
satisfactorily in science and mathematics and has begun to improve the
home-econeimics curriculum. Difficulties with the development-studies curri-
culum are be^.ng tackled, and a satisfactory outcome is expected.  New syllabi
for agrzculture and elementary technology have been incorporated into the 1977
Junior Certificate (JC) Regulations, such that the JC examination now includes
practical examinations in both subjects. In addition, a students' score on
the agricultura2- p.-r of the examination will also depend in part on his
or her performance on agricultural courses as monitored and assessed on a
continuous basis throughout the school year.
Structure
8.        The school year runs from January to December, divided into two
sessions ;chich together total 190 days for primary schools and 180 for post-
pri-' ary. Primary education officially begins at the age of six and extends
over se,ez years (grades 1-7).  There are still large numbers of overage
pupils (26% of all primary-level pupils are over 12 years of age) and pupils
from the Republic of South Africa (estimated at at least 10% of enrollments
in the primary schools). Only one of the 1,078 primary schools in 1976 was
directly controlled by the Government, and only 17 others by committee with
Government representation.
9.        The general-secondary course of five years comprises three years in
lowea-sk>->ndary schools (grades 8-10) and two years in upper-secondary schools
(grades 11-12). Entrance to both levels is by competitive examination. At
the end of the lowe-:-secondary course (grade 10), students take the Junior
Certificate (JC) exaL-:nation.  At the end of the upper-secondary course
(grade 12), students take the Cambridge Overseas School Certificate (COSC)



APPENDIX 2
Page 3 of 12
examination. The JC examination is written and controlled by an Examinations
Council controlled jointly by the Ministries of Education of Botswana, Lesotho,
and Swaziland; the COSC is still controlled from Cambridge University in the
United Kingdom, although a progressive take-over by the tripartite Council is
being planned.
10.       Practical courses follow primary and lower-secondary education and
are of up to three years' duration. Post-lower-secondary education includes
the LTI, the LAC, the NTTC, the LIPA, the CTI, and nurse's training, while
post-upper-secondary education includes diploma (two-year) and degree (four-
year) courses at the NUL. Entry to the university is by examination and
selection by a Scholarship Committee. About 130 students are enrolled in
post-secondary institutions outside the country.
General Education
11.       Primary education (grades 1-7) is conducted in Sesotho (the national
language) for the first four years, but schools use English as the language
of instruction in grades 5-7. In 1975, total enrollments were 221,932, equiv-
alent to 130% of the female population and 89% of the male population aged
6 to 12 1/. When fees were abolished in 1974, new female entrants to the
first grade jumped to twice a population cohort; new male entrants numbered
1.6 times a cohort. By 1976, these coefficients had dropped to 1.5 and 1.3
respectively. The high figures are explained by the fact that many children
more than six years old were entering school for the first time and that
many children from the RSA migrated into Lesotho to take advantage of the
educational possibilities there. The average age of entry to primary school
is dropping rapidly, and it is possible that all girls in Lesotho now are
entering primary school at some age between 5 and 14; for boys, the figure
is probably only a little over 60% since boys are traditionally employed at
that age as herdboys. Girls outnumber boys in the primary cycle at a ratio
of almost three to two. In the last three grades of the primary cycle, the
ratio is almost two to one. All schools, whether mission-controlled or not,
are subsidized by the Government through the payment of teachers' salaries.
The system of automatic promotion has been in effect for several years, but is
not working well and there is some resistance to it. When it was introduced,
reported repeater rates dropped dramatically but have since crept up; dropout
rates have increased. About 40% of a cohort (group of pupils who begin first
grade together) complete the seven grades and sit for the final examination,
but less than 30% of the cohort pass the examination. About 15% of the cohort
enter secondary school. Nearly 8% of the 1975 primary enrollment repeated,
and nearly 18% dropped out. A teaching force of 4,228 in 1975 gave a teacher-
pupil ratio of 1:52. About 30% of the teachers were regarded as unqualified
by Government standards; a few are undergoing in-service training at the
NTTC, and plans are being made to train still others using the facilities
and methods of the Distance Teaching Center.
1/   Net enrollment ratios for the 6-12 age group in 1975 were as follows:
girls, 89%, boys, 59%, including students from the RSA.



APPENDIX 2
Page 4 of 12
12.       Providing universal access to primary education is a particularly
difficult problem in Lesotho. The topography of Lesotho, particularly the
eastern half, is quite mountainous, and the population in these areas is
sparse. Providing education to these children is costly and implies an
inefficient school size in a country that already has too many small, in-
efficient primary schools. The difficult task facing Lesotho is to
consolidate schools, particularly in areas where several different mission
schools operate virtually next door to one another, without reducing access
to school. The MINEDUC is presently engaged in the process of mapping
all existing schools in relation to school-age populations, with a view to
reorganizing and rationalizing the distribution of primary schools, but this
goal will be difficult to achieve because distance is not the only barrier
to access. The topography of an area can prevent a child from walking to
a school only a few miles away. Another impediment to the achievement of
universal access is the difficulty in recruiting teachers for remote areas.
In spite of these problems, with such a high proportion of the age group
enrolled in primary school, Lesotho has achieved a considerable degree
of equity at this level of education compared to other African countries.
13.       The primary-school curriculum includes Sesotho, social studies,
mathematics, general knowledge, science, and English. A new program for
training teachers in mathematics and science is operating under UNESCO
guidance. A proposal has been made to begin using Sesotho as the language
of instruction for the entire primary course, but no decision on this pro-
posal has yet been made.
14.       General-secondary education (grades 8-12) had a total enrollment of
15,611 in 1975, the equivalent of 11% of the male population and 14% of the
female population aged 13-18. 1/ Of all general-secondary enrollments, 84%
were in lower-secondary courses and 16% in upper-secondary courses. Boys
accounted for 45% of those enrolled; girls outnumbered boys in every grade
except the last. The average annual fee was R 75 per day student, and R 126
per boarding student. 2/
15.       The language of instruction throughout the general-secondary cycle
is English. In 1975, there were 605 teachers, 185 of whom were expatriates.
The student-teacher ratio was 26:1. There were 193 unqualified teachers
and, as in primary education, a program is underway to improve teacher
qualifications and skills. There were 60 general-secondary schools with
430 classrooms, 83 science laboratories and 29 workshops. The schools were
fairly widely dispersed; yet only 31% of the students were boarders. 3/ It is
1/   Net enrollment ratios age 13-18 in 1975 were:  boys, 38% in primary, 9%
in general-secondary; girls, 54% in primary, 12% in general-secondary;
students from RSA included.
2/   1975 figures.
3/   Many students hire lodging in inadequate premises in towns near their
schools, often with no school meals provided.



APPENDIX 2
Page 5 of 12
very difficult to attract secondary teachers to rural schools, so the quality
of the secondary education in remote areas is poor. Since the Government pays
the salaries of only qualified teachers, the rural schools with fewer quali-
fied teachers are at a comparative disadvantage.
16.       The curriculum is overly literary, and a curriculum-reform program
is being introduced which emphasizes agriculture, elementary technology,
home economics, commercial studies, and development studies. In addition,
major revisions of the science and mathematics courses and of the related
teacher-training courses are being made. The planned National Curriculum
Development Center will add force and direction to these efforts.
17.       Vocational (post-primary) training in industrial arts and home
economics is offered in eight lower-secondary-level schools. Technical
education is offered in three upper-secondary-level schools: the Lerotholi
Technical Institute (LTI) in Maseru, the Technical School of Leribe in the
north of the country, and the Leloaleng Trades School in the south. The
LTI operates directly under the Permanent Secretary of the MINEDUC; Leribe
and Leloaleng are mission schools, but the salaries of their teachers are
paid by the Government. In 1975, total enrollments in vocational and tech-
nical education together were 549, of which 355 were enrolled in home-eco-
nomics courses and the rest were enrolled in masonry, carpentry, electricity,
engineering crafts, motor mechanics, leatherworking, and weaving courses.
The LTI has been substantially expanded under the IDA-assisted first educa-
tion project (from 120 to 360 student places) and is partially staffed with
assistance from the Federal Republic of Germany, the United Kingdom, and the
ILO. The school now offers, in addition to its upper-secondary-level courses,
a three-year post-secondary technician course in civil, mechanical, or elec-
trical engineering, of which one year is supervised industrial experience.
Training for Government employees in business, administration, and clerical
and commercial skills had been offered by the Civil Service Training Center
under the Prime Minister's office, which was housed in inadequate facilities
and poorly equipped. The Lesotho Institute of Public Administration under
the Prime Minister's Office and the Commercial Training Institute under the
MINEDUC being constructed under the IDA-assisted first education project will
replace the Civil Service Training Center and will provide 200 student places
for the training of clerical, commercial, and administrative personnel for
both the public and private sectors.
18.       Agricultural education is offered by the Lesotho Agricultural Col-
lege (LAC) under the Ministry of Agriculture, which provides two-and-a-half-
year upper-secondary-level agricultural courses for both men and women and
a home-economics course for women only. The first half year of the course
is a pre-entry period in which the students prove whether they have chosen
the right career. In 1975, 94 students were enrolled in the agricultural
course and 62 were enrolled in the home-economics course. In November 1975,
44 additional students were returned from Swaziland with the withdrawal of
Lesotho from the tripartite University of Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland.
Under a project assisted by the United Kingdom, the total enrollment of the
LAC is being expanded to 250.



APPENDIX 2
Page 6 of 12
19.       The Lesotho Distance Teaching Center (LDTC), established under
the IDA-assisted first education project, uses correspondence courses and
radio to provide educational opporturities to target groups scattered through-
out the country who do not have the opportunity to follow formal education
courses. In the short time that it has existed, the LDTC has gained valuable
experience and is now undertaking a development program for national staff
which is due to be completed in June 1978. Until recently, because of broad-
casting limitations, the LDTC radio courses have been able to reach only about
10% of the country's population; however, with the arrival of a new trans-
mitter to be furnished by the United Kingdom, the LDTC radio broadcasts
should reach all but the most remote mountain valleys. The LTDC presently
lacks a studio and equipment of its own and uses the facilities of Radio
Lesotho, but these arrangements are not optimal.
20.       Primary- and secondary-school teacher education is provided by the
NTTC and the Faculty of Education at the NUL. The NTTC's entry requirement
to primary-teacher education is the JC, and to junior-secondary-teacher
education, the COSC. The NLTL's Faculty of Education is collaborating with
the Faculty of Science in a new proposal which would allow students to obtain
a joint Bachelor of Science Education degree; negotiations with the Faculties
of Humanities and Social Studies may result in other similar degrees. The
Faculty of Education also conducts part-time courses for heads of schools,
teacher educators, and educational administrators which result in a Bachelor
of Education degree. The NTTC's first output of 48 primary teachers and
30 secondary teachers is expected at the end of 1977, with subsequent annual
outputs of about 180 primary teachers and 90 secondary teachers. (These
estimates assume a 10% dropout from the 300 admitted annually to the three-
year course, of which the second year is an internship in a school.) The
NTTC is also conducting an in-service course for 110 untrained primary teach-
ers, consisting of six two-week residential vacation sessions over a period
of three years. The University's projections foresee a total output of
about 130 B.A. and 30 B.Sc. teachers from 1976 to 1980. Projections of
primary-school enrollments and of future needs for teachers show that the
output of the NTTC will barely maintain the current 70% proportion of qualified
teachers within the primary teaching force, even if there is no change in the
present 52:1 pupil-teacher ratio. Projections of general-secondary-school
enrollments, however, and of future needs for teachers show that the combined
outputs of the NTTC and the NUL's Faculty of Education will allow the propor-
tion of qualified national teachers within the secondary teaching force to
increase from 43% in 1976 to 100% in 1984, if the student-teacher ratio is
kept constant at 26:1 until then. The Governiaent is planning to expand the
NTTC to meet the additional demand for primary teachers, and a program is
being developed jointly by the NTTC and the LDTC for the provision of in-
service teacher education by distance teaching methods.
21.       Until 1975, university facilities in Lesotho were Dart of the tri-
partite University of Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland (UBLS')  In October



APPENDIX 2
Page 7 of 12
of t!iat year, however, the Government of Lesotho established the independent
National University of Lesotho (NUL). The NUL presently has four faculties:
Education, Humanities, Science, and Social Sciences. The Faculty of Agri-
culture of the UBLS was in Swaziland; the Government of Lesotho plans to
improve the secondary-level Lesotho Agricultural College (para. 18) before
establishing a new Faculty of Agriculture in Lesotho. When the NUL was
separated from the UBLS, Lesotho was left with a large number of staff rela-
tive to the number of students, with the result that some departments are
overstaffed at present and the student-professor ratio is under 7:1. By the
end of the present plan period, the Government plans to increase university
enrollments from 610 in 1976 to 1,060 in 1980/81, with little increase in the
teaching force. The Government also plans to increase the percentage of
national staff in the total to 70% by 1980/81 and progressively to revise
curricula in order to give them a greater rural and developmental orienta-
tion. Substantial efforts are already being devoted to defining the NUL's
future role in the country's development. Men presently outnumber women in
the university at a ratio of three to two, but the Government is trying to
increase the proportion of qualified female students.
Education Finance
22.       Sources.  Education and training activities in Lesotho are financed
by the Government, by substantial foreign assistance, and by private sources
(primarily the churches and the parents). School fees at the level of primary
education were abolished in 1974 in order to increase access to primary
schools, yet in most primary schools, small fees on the order of RI to R2
are charged to defray maintenance expenditures. At the level of secondary
education, the average annual fee per day student is R75 per year (ranging
from R40 to R150) and R126 for boarders (ranging from R90 to R180). The
Government receives R20 per student from these secondary fees to help pay
teachers' salaries. The fee at the NTTC is R200 per year, but since many
students receive bursaries or remission of the fee, the average collection is
R75. Government general tax revenues are augmented by an education tax of
R2.50 per year on every able-bodied male. The Government pays the salaries of
all primary teachers and of all qualified secondary teachers; most unqualified
secondary teachers are paid by the missions. Foreign financial assistance
takes the form both of general budgetary grants (from the United Kingdom,
primarily) and of grants and loans for specific projects (U.K., U.S., Canada,
Germany, Denmark, Sweden, Iran, UNDP, UNICEF, IDA, Oxfam, etc.).
23.       The most recent statement of actual Government revenues and ex-
penditures is for the Lesotho fiscal year 1973/74. In that year, total ex-
penditures for education and training are estimated to have been as follows:



APPENDIX 2
Page 8 of 12
(thousands        (thousands
of R)            of US$) I/   %
Recurrent expenditures by the MINEDUC 2/    3,842.5               5,734.8     45.1
Recurrent expenditures by other
Ministries 2/                                 368.0               549.2      4.3
Capital expenditures by the MINEDUC 2/          372.1               555.4      4.4
Capital expenditures by other Ministries 2/   379.9                 567.0      4.5
School fees (excluding R20 per student
which is included above under Recurrent
expenditures by the MINEDUC)                1,359.2             2,028.7     15.9
Other private expenditures on education
(mainly missions)                          2,200.0             3,283.6      25.8
TOTAL                         8,521.5            12,718.7    100.0
1/   At exchange rate of 1974, US$1.00 = RO.67.
2/   Including external aid to education.
24.       Based on the revised estimates for the Lesotho fiscal year 1975/76,
total expenditures for education and training are estimated to have been as
follows:



APPENDIX 2
Page 9 of 12
(thousands         (thousands
of R)             of US$) 1/   %
Recurrent expenditures by the MINEDUC 2/    6,382.9               8,392.0      36.9
Recurrent expenditures by other
Ministries 2/                                 679.3               893.1       3.9
Capital expenditures by the MINDEUC 2/        4,988.5 3/          6,558.6      28.8
Capital expenditures by other Ministries 2/   713.4                  938.0      4.1
School fees (excluding R20 per student
which is included above under Recurrent
expenditures by the MINEDUC)                1,645.6             2,163.5       9.5
Other private expenditures on education
(mainly missions)                           2,900.0             3,812.8      16.8
TOTAL                         17,309.7            22,758.0    100.0
1/   At exchange rate of US$1.00 = RO.73 for the nine months of the calendar
year 1975 (three fourths of the total) and US$1.00 = RO.87 for the three
months of the calendar year 1976 (one fourth of the total).
2/   Including external aid to education.
3/   Including directly funded (non-budgetary) capital expenditures super-
vised by the MINEDUC.
25.       Until 1973/74, Lesotho depended upon budgetary grants from the
United Kingdom to finance the deficits in its recurrent account, and all
capital expenditures were financed by external assistance or by private
donors. The Government's financial situation had been gradually getting
better, however, due mainly to the revision in 1969 of the Southern Africa
Customs Union Agreement in Lesotho's favor. The Agreement was renegotiated
early in 1977, with the result that the country's financial situation has
been improving dramatically. The Government has been able to increase civil-
service salaries twice in two years (after they had remained static for over
a decade, with the result that increasing numbers of trained people were
deserting Government service for more remunerative employment in the RSA).



APPENDIX 2
Page 10 of 12
In addition to the new funds available for higher salaries, ever-larger
amounts should be available for capital investments. Evidence of the Gov-
ernment's increasing control over the education sector is given by the fact
that in 1973/74 over 40% of total expenditures on education were estimated
to have been financed by private sources (school fees and missions), whereas
in 1975/76, this percentage had dropped to about 25%.
26.       Considering only the expenditures of the MINEDUC, recurrent expendi-
tures on education by level are estimated to have been as follows in 1973/74
and 1975/76:
1973/74                      1975/76
(millions of R)      %        (millions of R)         %
Primary                   1.932          50.3          3.575              52.8
Secondary                 1.013          26.4          1.568              23.1
Higher                     .772          20.1          1.397              20.6
Administration             .125           3.2           .239               3.5
TOTAL               3.842         100.0          6.779              100.0
The percentages are seen to have remained remarkably stable.
27.       Considering only the expenditures of the MINEDUC, recurrent expendi-
tures on education by type are estimated to have been as follows in 1973/74
and 1975/76:
1973/74                      1975/76
(millions of R)      %        (millions of R)         %
Salaries, etc.            3.349          87.2          6.198              91.4
Maintenance and           1.013          26.4          1.568              23.1
Equipment                .207           5.4           .228               3.4
Bursaries                  .286           7.4           .353               5.2
TOTAL               3.842         100.0          6.779              100.0
28.       Considering only the expenditures of the MINEDUC, unit recurrent
costs in 1973/74 were about US$15 equivalent per student-year at the primary
level, US$87 equivalent at the secondary level, and US$2,527 equivalent at
the higher level. The last figure (for higher education) must be interpreted
with great care. In 1973/74, Lesotho was still a member of the tripartite
University of Botswana, Lesotho and Swaziland; it contributed money in the
form of "Grants and Subscriptions" to the operation of the university, wel-
comed students from the other two countries to its campus at Roma, and sent
some of its students to campuses in the other two countries. The unit cost
figure was derived by dividing the total amount of money Lesotho contributed
to the university's operation by the number of students from whatever coun-
try who studied in Lesotho in that year, but in fact the two figures may not
have been comparable.



APPENDIX 2
Page 11 of 12
29.        --_t cost figures for Lesotho and four other countries in the
Region with comparable levels of GDP per capita are given in the following
table:
Primary          Secondary         Higher
--US$ equivalent--
Burundi (1974)                    29               291            1,122
Lesotho (1973/74)                 15                87            2,527
Rwanda (1973)                     13               117            1,275
Tanzania (1973/74)                22               248            1,242
Zaire (1973)                      18                86            1,620
External assistance is not reflected in the figures for any of the countries
in the above table. At the primary and secondary levels, the units costs for
Lesotho are among the lowest in the table, probably reflecting the fact that
in 1973/74 teachers' salaries in Lesotho had been held constant for almost a
decade. At the level of higher education, the unit cost for Lesotho is the
highest in the table, but in fact the figures are not strictly comparable,
as explained in the preceding paragraph.
30.       Over the period 1969/70 to 1973/74, the recurrent expenditures
of the MINEDUC grew at an average rate of about 14.4% per year, in current
terms. Given the high rates of inflation in this period, it is possible
that they decreased in real terms; teachers' salaries certainly did. In
1973/74, Government revenues began to grow rapidly as a result of the
renegotiation of the Customs Union Agreement (para. 25), and in 1975/76,
as the result of an across-the-board Government salary increase, the
MINEDUC's recurrent expenditures jumped by almost 58% (in current terms).
A similar jump is likely to occur in 1977/78 as the result of a recent
across-the-board Government salary increase of 25%. The Government is well
aware of the dangers of such general salary increases; on the other hand, it
is aware that unless salaries in the Government are competitive with those
private-sector jobs in the RSA, it will lose many of its best people.
31.       In the period 1969/70 to 1973/74, the MINEDUC's recurrent expendi-
tures remained at about 4-5% of GDP and varied from 17% to 24% of the central
Government's total recurrent expenditures. In the future, these percentages
can be expected to grow at over 12% p.a. (in real terms), to perhaps 8% of
GDP and 29% of total recurrent expenditures. 1/ These percentages would be
extremely high in most other countries, but given Lesotho's unique set of
circumstances, they need not be cause for alarm. In the first place, because
of the size of the migrants' remittances, GNP is almost twice GDP, such that
a figure which is 8% of GDP is less than 5% of GNP, a more relevant measure
in this case.  In the second place, Lesotho's Government,revenues and hence
I/   The mast expensive factor In this rapid increase will be the rapid lo-
calization and concurrent upgrading of the general-secondary teaching
force over the npxt nine years or so; the Government will increasingly
have to pay salaries which heretofore have been paid by the churches or
by foreign bilateral assistance. The rapid increase should level off,
once these processes have been completed.



APPENDIX 2
Page 12 of 12
its expenditures depend not so much on GDP as on the receipts from the Cus-
toms Union Agreement, which are projected to grow at an average annual rate
of about 10% in real terms over the next several years. The Government will
use part of these rapidly growing revenues for investment, but it will also
be able to support rapid increases in expenditures, perhaps 9% p.a. on average
over the next several years. In the third place, Lesotho has no external-
defense budget, such that funds which in other countries would be expended
on defense may in Lesotho be diverted to other sectors. The opportunities
for high-productivity investment in Lesotho are limited; it is quite possible
that the highest marginal returns are to investment in human-resource develop-
ment. Given these factors, the projected levels of expenditure do not seem
unreasonably high.



APPENDIX 3
LESOTHO
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
THE CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY IN LESOTHO
1.        To the present time, all large construction projects (most of them
hotels) in Lesotho have been carried out by contractors from outside Lesotho,
since there is an insufficient number of such projects to encourage and sus-
tain the expansion of Lesotho-based firms that would be required to build
them. The fledgling construction industry in Lesotho is still largely domi-
nated by contracting firms owned by non-citizens; however, these firms oper-
ate exclusively within Lesotho. Firms owned by citizens are slowly emerging
as Basotho gain sufficient experience to establish themselves as contractors.
This trend is expected to continue.
2.        There is considerable competition for contracts up to about
R 700,000 in value, and nine local firms are able to tender for contracts
of this magnitude. At the bottom of the scale, small entrepreneurs face
numerous difficulties when entering the constructional contract system, in
particular, a lack of accounting skills, an inability to estimate and quote
realistically for jobs, and a lack of basic contract-management knowledge.
In addition, these small enterprises are undercapitalized. They lack basic
plant and find credit for the purchase of construction materials hard to
obtain. Without exception, they are unable to obtain performance bonds,
and consequently, when they tender for public works, they must provide a
cash bond of 5% to 10% of the value of the contract or other security in-
stead. Moreover, after the award of the contract, these small contractors
are subject to normal retention procedures, and a further 10% of each pay-
ment certificate is deducted for the duration of the contract. This prac-
tice poses a considerable additional financial burden.
3.        To help the small unregistered contractor, certain minor works
at each construction site in the proposed project would be negotiated between
the Ministry of Works and the Project Unit, on the one hand, and these con-
tractors, on the other, on the basis of a program to be agreed upon with
the Association. The project would include the sum of US$50,000 equivalent
for a detailed study of the contracting industry in Lesotho, the situation as
regards the supply of construction materials, and the manpower and training
needs of the sector. This study would be undertaken by the Project Unit in
conjunction with the Ministry of Works, using the services of consultants as
required. In addition to providing an analysis of the sector, the consultants
would be expected to develop recommendations for the development of the
indigenous contracting industry.






COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS                                                           ANNEX I
f 2
OCT. 11,1977
.2axammusaxons..w
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GNP/ I % GNP    21 TOTALIX    OF PUBLIC t                   I         t           3PRI, tAV.PRI.    t                           $SEC
I        fCAPITAI DEVOTf-OtPUBLIC j EDUCATZON    tLITER- tPRI. rCOMPLE- tSTu- :SCH.TFACHtPROGRESS-i SEC. ISTU- I                                              t
9        :   Al   : Til EDU.:  EXP, : RECURRENT    eACY                 :ENROLLiTION          IDENTStSALARY INIJON RATE  IENROLL:DENTSIHIGHER:
I        INARKErg (PUBLICIDEVOTEDsEXP ALLOCATEDs   RATE iRATIO iRATE FOR:PER    sRELATION ?FROM PRI.3RATIO :PER    sENROLLi
IPIp. iPRICES: EXP,    i   TO    I               TOt        :(% OF   t NET   tPRI.SCH,:TEACM: TO %NP/ tTO SEC.                      NET   iTEACH- RATIOI
YRIMI.LS.z (USS)i ONLY)   I  FOU, :PRI, SEC. Hl,tADULTS): (Z)   :CYCLE(l):ER                                CAPITA   t                         tER        M      3
3        t      .     I        t          I
: (1) 1:   (2) 1   (3)    1   (4)   :             (S)        1 (6)         (7) t   (8)           (9)       (to)        (IIY        t(12)   t(13) :(14)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ADVANCED
;U-;7R-7;          Tlt   T.SC 11,410C         4.3       9.9      470   zsa   209    99           919        93         26         2,0          99         St        19       6.00
CANADA             72   22.5L 6,19OF          7.7    19.4        30    38    19        98        89         98         24         2,0          99         82        17       9.00
GERMANY F.REP.7e   62.OL 6,26*E               4,2    14.2         ...   74** 26        99        91         99         33         ...          99         91        22      17,00CY
JAPAN              71 109,7L 4,070E           4.3    20.7        3q    38    12        99        99D        99C        25C        2,0          99C        91AD      20C    28.00D
NETMERLANDS    IZ   13.5f 5,290E              a's    IQ.IG    32    45    19           99        95         95         29         3,Q          97         73        20      11.00
NEW ZEALAND    73    3.OL 4,3t*E              S.2    ...         39    24    29        99        99         99         26         ...          99         67        19      24 . 00
NORWAY             12    4.OL 5,864E          7,0    19.2        sh    23    13        99        99         98         20         1.9          99         7h        14      11,00
SWEDEN             73    8.2E 7,240E          8,9    t6.0        36    t4    13        99        99         9q         17         ...          go         85        10      3 0 . 0 0
U.K.               TZ   S5.9E 3,599E          6.3    12.7        26    19    22        98        99         ...        26         2.(                     63        17      11.00
U.S.A.             74 211.9E 6,679E           6.0    1S.4        ...   73k* 27         99        99         99         2su        2.0                     93        lqu    29. 0 0
EUR(JPC
:T           7 -    9.0E 2,090E          2,2    11.1        54Y  29Y   14Y    82A           95Y                   32Y                     70A        58Y      43Y    11.00
:REE
IRELAND            T    3,1L 2,3261          5,1    13.9D    43Y   4ty   14Y    98              q7         99A        3                       95A        75        19       7.OOA
PORTUGAL           74    q.6   1,b3O          3.4    17.8        50    25    25        70        98         55         21        3,U           70         29        14       8.00
ROMANIA            75   21.3   1,300          4,0       6.4      36    19    13        98        toix       ...        21        ...           98         49        ?2      1 0 . 0 0
SPATN              71  3S. It: 2,49oE         2.48   19.2A    49Y   22Y   15Y    94A             91A        ...        35A       ...           -          29A       30       6.OUA
AFRICA
ZZN7;              7-   15.7       779        7,5       ...      4IG   32G   ISG    30           76         62E        42E        6.OG         49E        17        25       4.00
SENIN              73    3,OL    120E         S.3    32.o        47    23    to         It       Sexa       TOR        908       ?9.ofi       1438         76       39B      0.44CY
BOTSWANA           74    0.7       '190       5,0    20.0        38    20    15        25        7OX        7S         39         S. 0         24         13X       18       0.30Y
BURI)NDI           III   1.6         90       2.5    19,90    47R   4IR   12R    10              2OX        10?        38        1 1),         14          2x       18       1.0
CAMERLIUN          7t    7. 1 C    arOE       5.9    20.0        3gy   29Y   IIY    ...          74         ...        51DY    -                           9        23CY    0.90cy
C.A.R.             7 L,   1.7f    ZitE        4,ON   20.0        56    19    ...    ...          64CY       25         65cy    ...             18          5cy    27BY    0. 07Y
CHAD               75    (4,0E    tooF        I I)   10.0        79    22        -      is       29XBY    30           650Y    1-,.(            8          2XBY   30         0.01BY
CONGO(s)           14    1.3       470        6,0    19.3        40    32    21        So?    133X          63         63         6,U          48         33X      22        3.40
EGYPT              14   36.4       zoo        5,3       ...      29    36    24        410       74X        45         40        ...           64         39X       28      11.00
ETHIOPIA           16   -R.0       too        2.8    19,A        2fl   25    to          7       21        ...         90                      63          8        34
73    0,5   1,96oE         5.0    20.6        25      9     it      ...    184XBY    25C            46C        S. 1)        18A        20C      21C         :40CY
GABON                                                                                                                                                                        I
GAMBIA             76    O'S       170        3.3    11.5        46    25        6      to       27         90         33                      92         13       25
GMANA              71    9.6L    930E         4.7    24.40R   399   150   23G    . I .           56XCY    62           30CY    . . .           14         1 1 x     16cy    o:;;By
IVORY COAST    72    6. 4L    460E            6,3    24.7        27BY 33BY 13Y           9A      S2         S7A        46                                  0       25           20BY
KENYA              73   12.9E    200E         6.41N   27.0       63    it    ti        40        73                    14(i
LESLITHI)                                                                                                                                                112       ?3        1:038Y
75    1 .2      140E    1 2. OP   23.0        49    1 8     2o      40        85         so         VI 2       7.ON         8 1        1 0      2 6       1. 0 0
LIBERIA            75    1 . r,    410        2. 4    1 3. 2     27    t 5     20      7 3       S8         . . .      3 r,       2. 0         . . .      1 2       26       I.IVAY
MADAGASCAR         74    8.6       180        3,2    22. 1       5 1    24    25       4 0       68X        30         63        1 5, 0        4 8         9x       26       1. 0 0
MALAWI             74    4. 9      f30        3. t    20. 9       ...    ...   I . .    25       56X        60         r, 0       7. (         4 0         41 X     2t)      0.26CY
MALI               IS    5.7F        9OF      4.2M   33.OF    45F   37F   18F    IOF             22XF       ...        48F       9 . SF        5OF         6 X      2 I        . . .
MAURITANIA         70    1.3l:   Z90E         4.5    Z1.0        . I .    ...    ...    I 0      15X        ...        22                                  3       24
t). 9L    58*E      3.7    1 1 .7DG   7 I    I 0       4     80        86         99         3 1                                3 1       'SO        :Z7CY
MAURITIUS          72
MOROCCO            74   16, 3      340        r,,OC   16.5       44    III      9      26?       94X        21         37                       t         13X       21       2. 00
NIGCRIA            It  73,OL    3Z7F          3.2N   . . .       40A   24A   20A    ...          39)(CY    ...         34CY        ...                     4        20CY    0.37cy
RWANDA             73    4.oE       SOE       3,2C   ?R.OD    ...    ...    ...    23            52         , . .      Si          ...                     2        13       0.23cy
SENEGAL            7t    1,9L    33DE         4.ON   22.5DR   38A   42A    SA    10              38X        ...        46                                 I Ix      25       1 71CY
SIERRA LICINE   73    , 9L    t9oE           3 14   23.4        3 1    36    3 0       15?      34X        45         3 2        ;:OE                    13X       2 I      0:53BY
SOMALIA            75    3. 2      100        3. To   fo.RQ    499   16G   19G    50T            34X        86         35        1 II . U      60          3        1 5      0 . I fi
SUDAN              7 z 15. 21    23oE         4.5    13.2        4 3    29    28        1 5      38         7 5        4 5        II. 0        2 r,       I 1       2 0       1.23Y
SWAZILAND          7s    1). 5     470        3. 8      ---      38    3 1     1 9     so        73         7 1        38         3,8          5 1        e4        22       1 .00
TANZANIA           74   14.4L    16CE         S. I N   1 7,0     36    ...   1 2       63        44X        ...        49         ...           7          2        21C      0 . 3 0
TUNISIA            73    S. SL:   6SOE        6. 3    Z3. 4      37    43    1 8       55        72         9 I        III        6,u          3 1        1 4      2 1       3, 0 0
UGANDA             70   1 1 .2E    24of       5.2N   I 7.6CR   400   220   250    25A            48XCY    ...          36          ...         14A         4xcy   21          0.58gy
UPPER VOLTA    72    S.8L           90E       4 . o    23.9      65    1 0       6       5       I 0        ...        45        18,U          20          2        23       0.0loy
ZAIRE              73   24. 1E    irleE       5.2CN 2i .3C    54C   IIC   29C    is              63         38         44A        6.0          43          a        24       0.96BY
ZAMBIA             14    4,8       520        5.3    1 4 .2      34    ta    i6        43        Be         80         47         9 , 0        20         1 3       22        1. 0 0
CENTRAL AMERICA AWD THE CARIBSEAN
1.9       4         5,2    2Z.7        13 7    25    1 2     99        86CY       65         29         3,0          58         22CY    25        12.11CY
DOMINICAN REP.72    I .6c    650E             3. 0    1 3.9      42    e4    22         51       80          1 7       541        3. (D        63         13. 5     24        7. 00
EL SALVADOR    75    3.aL    410E             3.6    23. 8       6 1      5    22       60B      65C         ...       39CY        ...         39         13XC    21CY    4.3say
GUATEMALA          13    5.3E    SW           j,Q    1 6. 0      55    23    1 4        41       64         26         35          3. o        t19         8        25        4.0gy
HAITI              16    4.bF    175F         I .0      I . 1    61    21    1 1        208      25F         1 3       9bu        3, 0         b2          4        ...
HONDURAS           75    2.9       3150       4 , I G   III . 4G    62    15    22    6iE        76         30         3r,         3, (        80           I       1 7       z:;o
JAMAICA            7 -    2. 0 E 1, 190E      6,5Y   19.7        33Y   22Y    7y    86          106XY        .1 I      92                                 32XY    1 9         4.79Y
MEXICO             70   ST,9E I , 090E        2.6       9. 3     54    24    1 a        76       7 1        3 1        46          ;:u                    t 9       23        6.32CY
NICARAGUA          7 4    2,OE    670E        2.5    1 4.2       6 t    1 3    1 3      57       69         2 1        3 7        2 , 0        93         1 7       24        7. 00
TRINIDAD & T. 76    1.00 I 87SE               1,1N   10.90    SOE   ZSE   I SE    90C              Al       93          34         2.(Q        119        44        ?5         ...
3OUTH AMERICA
;;L-i;7;           16    5'.       315F       S,O    17.51'    ... ...                  39        170       29D         24         SF                       4B      18D
BRAZIL             75 107, 0   1 Ole          5.0    12.14        42E   20E    37E   64A         86G         ...       27CY                               264       15cy    6.008
CHILE              7 - I 0 . 4L    83CE       4.6Y   10.6AY   36Y   14Y   36Y    . I .    I I I XDY    . . .            37BY                              48XDY   ...
COLUMBIA           79   23,IE    SCOE         4 , 0    10,9       35    1 8     20      73        67         20         36                                1 7       1 4
ECUADOR            7z    6,gr    48oE         3. 7    27.7C    45gy 1120Y IOGY   69              72          ...        38                                18        1 4       4 .970Y
GUYANA             74    0.8       Soo        S.SN   14 .70    47    35    1 4          93A      92X         39         33         6.0         19         62X       24        1. 00
PARAGUAY           74    2.S       %to         1,8    11.0        515   13    2a        81       82          26         30         1,9         65         17        12        5.00
PERiJ              71   14.9t:   740E         4.5    24.tD    so    22    Is            72       80          36         39DY       3. 0        70         30        23DY   12. 0 0
VENCZUELA          71   11,6C 1,9boE          q.6    19.9         soa   26a   399    77A         el          ...        33         2.4         ...        33        ...    12.63CY



COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS   (CaNTO)                                       ANNEX I
u:`s:.sts.su m23u.Suwa3sSss3.                                              Page 2 of 2
OCT. 17,1977 1   I
G NP/ 2    GNP  2  TOTALIX   OF PUBLIC a                   z        I          tPRI,  gAV,PRI.I    I           2        gOEC 2
I       :CAPITA:  DEVOTED:PUBLIC : EDUCATION    gLITER- I PRI,  SCOMPLE- :STU- tSCH.TEACH$PROGRESS-2  SEC.  3STU- 
:Al  I TO EDU.:   EYE., I RECURRENT    sACY           2ENROLLSTION        *DENTS:SALARY INsInN RATE 3ENROLLIDENTSIMIGNER2
IMARKEr2  (P'URLIC2DEVOTEDtEXP ALLOCATED:   RATE ZRATID gRATE FOR:PER   :RELATION aFROM PRI,1RATIO :PER   JENROLL:
PrIM, :PRICES: EXP.   :  TO LI            TI):      1(1 OF   a NET   sPRI.SCH,sTEACM2  TO SNP/ :T0 SEE,   t NET   ITEACH'. RATIO$
YT':MILLS.: (US5)t ONIY)  2  EDU. 2PRI. SEC. HI41,ADULTS)t  (5    tCYCLE(ZisER    I CAPITA   2  (5                     I (1)  tSR    :  1
(1) 2: (2)  :   3)    2   4                5           (6)    :(7)  *  (8)    2 (91)  2 I(0 )    2 (II            212)   Ct(1) 2 14) 
ASIA AND OCEANIA
AFGHANISTAN    70; 4  1 6.  110o                      348   23P   168    1 0      26X       24        4 1       5,0        78         ax     2 1      1,0 0
BANGLADESH       73  76 .2L    2001      2.2    20 .2...I.-... 23                     56X       *...      48        I,,,       ,.,       231      ?        I8 .,
CHINA(TAL WAN) 73   l 5. 7C    AlIOE     3. 2     /4, 0   20    VI1   22      82      9OC       91        10      1 4 .0      84        61C      26     20.00C
INDIA            721 595,6L    1401      2.6vy   .2I9 a                               79X                 4 gA                           2 ,, XI  2010     VOATy
INDONESIA        704 t16F      22CG      3,29F  ItI.OF    662010              bB      791       4         36        2,0G       52        191      IA      2 ,0
IRAN             73 133.I1L 1,250E       3. 3        22o  5oB   tRB  128    50        77        74A       32        5,08       BOA       24       32      4,32CY
IRAQ             72   20.VL  tI ,IBIE    6.7    16A,SDR....... 26                     61CY      *...      22        ,.         ..         6XCY  26        6,28CY
JORDAN           73    2,04    VinE      7 ,0     0,0     52    I s    21    521      91K       76        38        5so84                50       22      4,00
KOREA           7TN  35,3~  530          2.Vi   1 6,0R   65    331      2     92D    041       98        92        3. 5       77        551      38      7,8
LEBANON          7      5.IL 2I, 0704    3,Is    10.0     39   140    1 0     60      86        65        1 9       2.0u       63        26U      25     23 0 0
RALAYT1A         7]   21 .7    (,VV      o.4I   2A.0    'I4   32     II       6OC     9AF       90        32        4.oD)      83F       44F      27F     3.OoF
NE PAL           TA 6  I2.oT        1O IIE  .,jE    9.0   29    20    41      14      45        28        31        2.3        54        to       23     1,00
OMAN             7 1     .TIL I , uuV    il,71N   3,8     96      -   I       20      24X       99        33        7.0        .*        0,41      9
PAKISTAN         75  eR.0       2 301    2.6    2 6.2     45    25    1 8     21      471       50        39        2.0                  17,Xl    1 8     6,00
PAPHA N.G.       75    2. 6    410o      9,6    1O,I.     38    16    24      52      57?       738       31       1 1,0       90        121?    221      0.90?
PHILIPPINES    74  AI . 3L    330E       2. 5    111I. 9  73    195    1 2    07     004X        ...      34       15,0        . .,      216X    ,..    21 .00
SI NGAPORE       72    2,2L 2, 240E      3.21   26,2      44    31    2 5     75A     96Y       72A       33        ...        99A       57Y      24      8.250
SYRIA            75    7.41    660       35.6    6,9      34    25    26      53      89        70        35        2, 0       92        215      21     12. 00
THAILAND         73  AA.71L   3101    AV.ONF 20.7E'   69         V    i 5     02      871       93C       32        3, 0 U     SIC       215      221     2,00
TURKEY           72  17,VD   6000        . ..    1 3. gR .....0..51EVISXY     *,                          34DV       .          .        22XY    27DY   5,31B0
YEMFN           .73    6.IL    1801      0.5    It.       AS4P  ? IP  23P    10        151      28        36        9,          520               19      0O5BsY
YEMEN P.1,1),  72    2 ,6L    2201       2, 3A   12.6     79    2 2     -     I20     701       3 1       29       Io,o        99        121      20      0,OBAY
SUMMAR  FnR  LV[L-['PINGCTNIES
NUMBER UF COUNTRIIES:                    77     75       73    72    72      741     91        58        81          55       98        81      76        74
RANGE:                                (0,5-   (3,0-   (25- (0-   (0-    (5-        (10-      (17-      ( 19-      (2.8 -    (17-     I(.4-    (9-      (,.o I-
12.00  1  32,3 )  46 1 52)  40)    98)         t84X)    99 1       65         2-5 0 1    99)      75 0 )  43)      23, 0
UIHARTILLS:UPI')'N                     % .?    22.2     55    31   22      79       87        75        46          A        80        29      26       6,0
MEDIAN):                  4.0    18,0       45    29    15     50       72        50        38          5       63         16      23       2,00
['rACK                    3,0    2 3.9      30    16    12     21       52        30        33          3       25          9      20        .9
-MAGNiTUIDE NIL OIR NEGLIGIBLE 8=1?)7                            NZGDP----
3  QULSTI,INAALE                     L:1472                        P=INCLUDING FOREIGN AID                     COILUMNS:t  AND 2 WORLD BANK ATLAS
*IRN) ODES PART-TIME STUDENTS Drl9T3                             Q:CENTRAL GOVT. ONLY                                            OR 18RD MISSIONS
**CIMHRI!JFT wITH IPRiMARY          [:19741                       RzMINISTRY OF EDUCAIION ERTnE) ONLY                   3 TO 14 IORD MISSIONS
1C )'rEO)? IEVIE.                    F=197S                       SeMDE AND STATE GOVT. ONLY                                      AND/DR UNESCO
G=1476                       T=CXCLUDING CENTRAL GOVT,                                       STATISTICAL
U:PU8LIC ONLY                                                  YEARBOOK
V~INCLUDING PRIVATE EXPENDITURE
XCINCLUDING OVERAGED STUDENTS
YIUNESCO SOUREES
COMPARArIVE [ROtATIOIN DATA ARE 051 FUL IN THE EVALUATION OF VARIOUS EDUCATION SYSTEMS ANT) ANALYSIS OF RELATIVE STAGES Of EDUCATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT AETALEN VArIOoUS EOUNT'TIES, 4IJ:EVET,ON THE BASIS oF THE PRESENT DATA,CROSS-NATIONAL COMPARISON SHOULD BE APPROACHED WITH
GREAT CAUTION. DATA PRESENTED IN THE ABOVE TABLE HAVE BEEN COLLECTED LARGELY BY THE BANK MISSIONS FROM GOVERNMENT SOURCES: THE
REMAINDER ARE STAFF LSTIMATES OIT DATA FROM UNESEO, EFFORTS RAVE BEEN MADE TO STANDARDIZE DEFINITIONS AND WITHIN LIMITS, TO CHECK THE
ACC[JRACY OF THE DATA, NEVER)HELESS,SUCH DATA ARE STILL IMPERFECT IN SEVERAL RESPECTS AND THE BANK IS WORKING TO IMPROVE THEM
PROGRESSIVELY IN THE OEUCASION OIF ITS OPERAIITJNAL WORK, IN THE USE (IF THESE DATA, TWE FOLLOWING QIUALIFICATIONS SHOULD BE BORNE IN
RIND:
(I)EDUCATION' AS DEFINED IN 1THE TAB) C INCIODES ALL EDUCATION AND TRAINING, FORMAL AND NON-FORMAL:
(2)'F'RIMATY EDUCATIOIN REFERS Toi LDUCATILON AT THE FIRST LEVEL AND 'SECONDARY' EDUCATION REFERs To ALL EDUCATION AT THE SECONDARY
LEVEL REGATDL.CSS OIF lYRE (E-.G. GENERAL, TECHNIEAL, AGRICULTURAL) 
13)'LITERALY RATES"(COL.61 ARE IFTFTN OIBTAINED FROM COUNTRY CENSUSES. IN MANYCOUNTRIES THEY ARE ONLY APPROXIMATIONS AND IT IS
DOUBTFUL THAT ANY UiNIFOIRM DEFINITION OIF "LITERATE" HAS BEEN FOLLOWED CONSISTENTLYs
TV)PFUALIC EXPENDITURE IN EDOCATION"(CI)LS,3,4 AND 5) REFER TO ALL CAPITAL AND RECURRENT EXPENDITURES DEVOTED TO EDUCATION BY
PUALIC AND QUASI-PUBLIE AGENCIES?
IS)'ENAOLLMENT RATIIOS'(COLS 7, 12 AND 14) RFFR TO SCHOOL YEAR AND MEAN THE PERCENTAGE OF ELIGIBLE CHILDREN ENROLLED FULL-TIME
IN THL APPROIPRIATE SCHOOIl , PUOLIC AND PRIVATE I3Y LEVEL, THEY ARE OFTEN SUBJECT TO A AIDE MARGIN OF ERROR IN THE DEVELOPING
COUNTRIES 'RING TI) VARIATION IN THE AECURVACY OF BASIC DATA(I.E. AGE-SPECIFIC POPULATION AND ENROLLMENTS), ENROLLMENT FIGURES
FREQUENTLY ARE HIGHER THAN THE NUMBER OF STUDENTS ACTUALLY IN  scMOnL, OVERAGET  STUJDENTS WHOSE INCLUSION IS INDICATED  BY
FUiITNOTET ALSOI CAN INFL-ATE T$E: RATIOS,



ANNEX 2
Pag, 1 of 6
LESOTHO
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
THE GENERAL EDUCATION SYSTEM, 1975
PRIMARY EDUCATION
Number of Schools:                                           1,065
Total Enrollment:                         Males:            90,915
Females:        131,017
Total:          221,932
Percentage of the 6-12 age                Males:           59%
group enrolled                         Females:        89%
Total:          74%
Enrollment by Grade:
Dropout rate
Grade           Enrollment       (% of total enrollment in 1974)
Males           Females
1                50,216            18.4            10.2
2                44,008            16.1             8.9
3                36,814            20.8            10.6
4                29,205            21.0            12.2
5                23,972            20.1            15.6
6                19,124            19.6            19.2
7                18,593            43.8            54.8
Number passing the examination at
the end of Grade Seven (1975):         12,482 (equal to 75% of the
candidates and 69% of
the enrollment in the
first session of
Grade Seven)
Transition rate to secondary
education:                             31.4%  of enrollment in Grade
Seven



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 6
Primary Teachers:
Total number                                         4,228
Number without teaching certificates                 1,280
Annual wastage rate of trained teachers               2.7%
Pupil-teacher ratio                                   52.5:1
Salary range (annual)                                 R 480 - R 1752
Weekly school hours                                   30
Weekly teaching (contact) hours                       26
Length of school year (weeks):                             38
GENERAL-SECONDARY EDUCATION
Number of Schools:                                         60
Total Enrollment:                          Males:          7,059
Females:        8,552
Total:         15,611
Percentage of the 13-18 age                                        Both
group enrolled:                     Males        Females        Sexes
- in primary schools                 38.3          54.4         46.3
- in general-secondary schools        8.7          12.0         10.4
- in schools of both types           47.0          66.4         56.7
Enrollment by Grade:
Dropout rate
Grade   (Form)   Enrollment    (% of total enrollment in 1974)
Males           Females
8      (A)        5,044            14.0             16.4
9      (B)        4,570             9.9             12.4
10      (C)        3,553            64.9             66.7
11      (D)        1,137             6.0              5.9
12      (E)        1,307
Number passing 1975JC examination          2,076 Cequal to 60% of the candidates
and 47% of initial intake
to Form A)



ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 6
School                   2/
Certificates      GCE only -
Number passing 1975 COSC examination           418             516
Proportion of candidates who passed            31%             38%
Proportion of initial intake
(Form D) who passed                          30%             37%
General-Secondary Teachers:
Total number                                             605
Number of expatriate  teachers                       185
Number of national trained teachers                  229
Student-teacher ratio                                    25.8:1
Salary range (annual)                                    R 1560 - R 5004
Weekly school hours                                       35
Weekly teaching (contact) hours                          28
Length of School Year (weeks)                                 36
Availability of secondary facilities (1976)
Science laboratories                                     83
Workshops                                                29
3/
VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION
Number of Schools:                                            11
Total Enrollment:                               Males:        168
Females:     381
Total        549
1/ Five passes, of which two necessarily in English and mathematics.
2/ General Certificate of Education; at least one pass in any subject.
3/ Masonry, carpentry, electricity, engineering crafts, motor mechanics,
leatherworking, home economics, weaving.



ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 6
1/
Enrollment by Grade:
Grade                   Enrollment
8                        153
9                        136
10                         93
11                        105
12                         14
13                         48
Teachers:
Total number                                             66
Student-teacher ratio                                    8.3:1
Weekly school hours                                      40
Weekly teaching (contact) hours                           35
Length of School Year (weeks)                                  40
TEACHER TRAINING
2/
Number of Schools:                                             8
Total Enrollment:                         Males:               107
Females:            238
Total               345
1/ Most courses are three-year courses requiring a J.C. diploma for entry
(i.e., students enter after successfully completing the lower-secondary
general course). Two courses (home economics and weaving) commence
immediately after primary school and one (leatherworking) after the
first year of the general-secondary course.
2/ All except the N.T.T.C. have now (1977) been phased out.



ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 6
EArollment by Grade:
1/
Grade                Enrollment
8                       64
9                      127
11                      113
12                       14
13                       27
Number passing 1975 Primary Higher-                       102 (equal to
Teacher's Certificate Examination                       67% of the candidates)
Partial passes                                            51 (equal to
33% of the candidates)
Teachers:
Total number                                         57
Number qualified                                     52
Student-teacher ratio                               6.1:1
NATIONAL UNIVERSITY OF LESOTHO (1975-76)
Total Enrollment:                      Males:             290
Females:          212
Total             502
Enrollment by Year of Study:
Year            Enrollment
1st                201
2st                180
3rd                 70
4th                 50
5th                  1
1/ Enrollments in Grades 8 and 9 are in courses immediately following
the primary cycle. Enrollments in Grades 11, 12, and 13 are in
courses which require a J.C. for entry.



ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 6
Teaching Staff:
Total number                                        73
Number qualified                                    68
Student-teacher ratio                               6.9:1
Salary range (annual)                               R2,748 - R7,200
SOURCE: Bank Group staff estimates on the basis of data furnished
by the Ministry of Education, Youth, Sports, and Culture.
August 1977



LESO-THD
SEOOND EDUCATION PROJECT
GDP, GOVERNMENT RECURRENT EXPENDITURES. AND RECURRENT EXPENDITURES ON EDUCATION, 1969-1973/74. AND ESTIMATES TO 1985/86
I/
ACTUAL FIGURES (except as lodicaled)                                                                                        ESTIMATES
<____________________          _ Icorreot prices) ..                                                                                         (_onsta_t 1976/77 prIces)..
aooraamect of Lasotho
Fis-al Tear               1969/70      1970/71      1971/72      1972/73       1973/74      1974/75      1975/76      1976/77      1977/78      1978/79      1979/80      1980/81      1981/82      1982/83       1983/84      1984/85      1985/86
2f                                                                                                                           3/          3/
1.  GDP                                                      43.43        42.46        48.45        62.22        84.14        104.33       124.15      149          155           163          171          179          188          200          212          224           238
2/                                                                                                    4/
II.  Central G-oeron-ot C.ersot REeveou                       11.6         11.4          12.4         12.9         21.4         20.8         26.6         29,3         32.2         35.5         39.0         42.9         47.2          51.9         57.1         62.8         69.1
- o  per-e.tago of I                                   27           27            26           21           25           28           21           20           21           22           23           24            25           26           27           28           29
2/
T1l.  Central Goveroneot Rec- -reot Epso...dioes               11.4         12.3          12.4         13.9         16.0         18.4         28.5         29.3         31.9         34.8         37.9         41.4          45.1        49.1          53.6         58.4         6386
-as prceotagotf 1                                      26           29            26           22           19           10           23           20           21           21           22           23           24            25           25           26           27
- as per-e-sege of 71                                  98           108          100          100           75           64          107          100           99           98           97            97           96           95           94           93           92
2//                                                                                                         4/
IV.  MINEDEC Rerarreont  opeodirurca                           2.244        2.000        2.225         2.786        3.842        4.295        6.779        6.571        8.580        9,706       10.708        11.625       12,516       13.861       15.310       16.774       18.350
-aspercen- as ot I                                      5             5            5            4            5            4            5            4            6            6             7            6            7            7            7            7            8
p s  .centge of 11                                19           18           18            22          10            15           25           22          27            27           27           27           27           27           27            27           27
-a -prr.estage of 100                                  20            17           18           20           24           23           24           22           27           28            28          28            28           28           29           29           29
VU   Reoreeot Expendit-rea on Prtiaty-L.ooel                                                                                         4/           4/
Edoretiox 2/, 5/                                          1.358        1.301        1.219        1.531        1.932        2.401        3.575         3.554        4.626        4.971        5.242        5.423        5.405        5.665        5.966         6.258        6.622
- as per-.a.age of IV                                  61           62            55           55           50           56           53           54           34           51            49           47           43           41           39           37           36
Pri-aay-L-otl E-to 1en.s                           180,903      183,395       171.454      175,355      187,459      218,038      221,932      221,400      231,300      236,700      249,600       246,500      245 700      246.300      248,600      250,300      254,700
UCit Cost (ERd)                                           8            7            7            9           10           11           16            16          20            21           21           22           22           23           24            25           26
VI.  Esrresot Eopeoditares 00 Geottal Secondary                                                                                       4/           4/
Edu..c.tlo2/                                              0.279        0.268        0.328        0.357        0.779        0.691        1.234         1.176        1.648        2.253        2.926        3.588        4.257         5.031        5.846        6.671        7.513
- as psr-e-ttgs of IV                                  12            13           15           13           20           I6           18           18           19            23           27           31           34           36           38           40           41
G-oeral Socood-ry Enrolloeots                        5,011         6,028        7.816       11,936       13,412       14,908       15,611       16,720       17,350        18,070       18,880       20,270       21,720       23,080       23,960       24,890       25,730
UOit Cost (Rad)                                          56           44           42           30           58           46           79           70           95           124          155          177          196          218          244           268          292
VII.  Reoorresn  Eopooditres. for Eigher-levol                                                                                         4/           4/
Ed-catlo  2/                                             0.375        0.305        0.426        0.598        0.772         0.916        1.397        1.247        1.534        1.511        1.469        1,450         1.602        1.779        1.967        2.168        2,380
- as perceotago of IV                                  17            15           19           21           20           21           21            19          18            16           14           12           13           13            13           13           13
Higher Enrollmcoto  (Roos coop.   only)                 386          402          368          342          456          536           502         610           670          735          800          865          930          995        1,060         1,125        1,190
Uoil Cost (Raod)                                        972          759        1,158        1 749        1,693        1,707         2,783       2,044         2,289        2,056        1,836        1,676        1,723         1,788        1,836        1,927        2,000
VII.  Other MNTNDUC R-correot Eopsoditlre-                      0.232        0.20b         0.252        0.300        0.359        0.287        0.573        0.594        0.772         0,971        1.071        1.162        1.252        1.386         1.531        1.677        1.835
- o   p-r--oagr  f IV                                  1o            10           II           11           10            7            8             9            9           10           [0           10           10            10           10           10           10
1/  Hypo-h.ies foo ostloa--s are 7 loo"xaod in the Workiog Paprso.
2/  In eilli-oo  of Eaod.
3/  Eftinated figore.
4/  R-sood bodgot ait bate.
5/   -IOood-s Prloory Edoc-tio, Ioxp- -toratt, aod T-ashofg Soroice IJi..
6/  loolode- Adntoistrai-o. L-erotholl Teohnical -otIt'ie. sod Teacher - ealosog.
So-r-:  Minioltry of Fioance, Beok atoff sttnatta
ACCOST 1977



LESOTHO                            ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 2
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
THE TECHNICAL-ASSISTANCE NEEDS
NOT PROVIDED UNDER THE PROJECT
Experts/Consultants                Fellowships
Approxi-                      Approxi-
mate     Approxi-             mate      Approxi-
man-months    mate            man-months    mate
No. of    per      aggregated No. of      per    aggregated
Institutions  Specialization  people individual man-months people individual man-months
National      Languages           1        24         24         3         6         18
Curriculum
Development   Mathematics         1        24         24         2        6          12
Center
Science             1       24          24        3         6         18
Social and
Development
Studies            1        24          24        2         6         12
Agriculture)        1       24          24        1         6          6
Elementary)                                       1         6          6
Technology )
Health/Home
Economics           1       24          24        2         6         12
Cultural Subject   1        24          24
Music and Drama                                   1         6          6
Arts and Crafts                                   1         6          6
Accounting and
Commerce            1       24         .24        1         6          6
Textbook
Writing             1       24          24        1         6          6
Instructional
Design              1       24          24        1         6          6
Guidance and
Counseling                                        1         6          6



ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2
Experts/Consultants                Fellowships
Approxi-                       Approxi-
mate     Approxi-              mate      Approxi-
man-months    mate             man-months    mate
No. of    per      aggregated No. of       per    aggregated
Institutions  Specialization  people individual man-months people individual man-months
National       Educational                                        2         6          12
Curriculum    Radio
Development
Center         Radio
(Continued)   Technician                                          1         6           6
Total         10                  240        23                  138
Technical      Teachers
Schools
Building
Construction        4       24          96         4        24          96
Motor
Mechanics           3        24          72        3        24          72
Leather
working             1        24          24        1        24          24
Carpentry           3        24         72         3        24          72
Mechanical
Drawing             2        24         48         2        24          48
Electricity         2        24         48         2        24          48
Total         15                  360        15 1/               360
Lesotho        Agricultural
Agricultural Teacher
College        Education           2        24          48        2        24          48
1/   In addition, there are the following existing untrained teachers who need up-
grading to qualified teacher status: 2 teachers of motor mechanics, 1 teacher
of building construction, and 3 teachers of leatherworking.



ANNEX 5
LESOTHO
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
PROGRAMS AND INSTITUTIONS BENEFITING FROM THE PROJECT
Estimated   Estimated  Additional    Approximate
Additional    Total        Staff        Area of New
Institutions                   Places        Places      Houses    Construction (m2)
Curriculum Development, Career
Guidance, and Educational Radio
National Curriculum
Development Center                          -            -          10            1,600
Technical Education and Training
Technical School of Leribe                  30          120          3            1,100
Leloaleng Trades School                     40           95          3            1,330
Diversification of Secondary Education
1.  Hlotse H.S.                            309          800          6            2,400
2.  St. Agnes H.S.                        376           800          6            2,350
3.  Bereng H.S.                            380          800          6            2,400
4.  Masitise H.S.                         535           800         13            2,960
5.  Pary J.S.S.                            230          360         11            2,500
6.  St. James J.S.S.                        99          360          4            1,250
7.  Christ the King H.S.                  500           800          6            1,400
8.  Butha-Buthe H.S.                       340          800          1               310
9.  St. Stephens H.S.                      340          800          1               180
10.  Sacred Heart H.S.                      340          800          1               400
11.  Lesotho H.S.                           340          800          1               230
Sub-total                       3,789        7,920         62            16,320
Teacher Education
Lerotholi Technical Institute               -            -           -               200
Lesotho Agricultural College                -            -           2               200
National Teacher Training College           -            -           -                -
Trade Testing
Trade-Testing System                        -            -           1               100
Project Implementation
/2
Project Unit                                -            -           2               400
Total                           3,859        8,135         83            21,110
/1 Renovation
/2  Including 2 T.A. houses.



AIO4EX 6
0                                               o                                      0 0 C    0
000                                                        0                        C-  - - 0CC. 0
2                              0            2                       2    000:2:00                          0
4                       -              -C
0.   0                                                                                         -j
CCC                                                              0 0   0 0                  0  00 0 0   0
CC C                                                             0 0       0                0  0   0       -
001                                         0    0       0          0    0                 0  Co  - 04  0
C C                 ''''''''''''    .                                                                 0
C C                                        0    0       0          0    0                 0000004
-                                          0    0       0          0    0                 0  -CO 000
0 - C 0                ,,,,,,,,,)**            , ,                ,,,,,*                                 . -C
C-C.                                                                            00  0       0000  0 0   0
C-CC   0    00  -    000000000000               0 0       0    0    0    0                  0 000  0       0
00    0    0C -    00000000000  0              0 0        0    0   0    0                 0000  0        0
0    00  0    o0000000000  0             0 0        0    0    0    -                 0 000  0       C-
C-   4    00 -    00000000000  0              0 0        0    0          0                 0 000  0 0 4 0
0    000400000000               - -        0    0'   '    0    '            00000-  0 0
0    00 0    0-000000000  0              0 0        -    0       0 0                  - 000  0  0 4
.       .    .       .                               0
0  040   000000000000                    00    0  0  )00                             00000400
C  0    00 0    00.COOOO          '                                                     4  0   o
C    0    000       0000000 00000              --        -             --                  0
3.)    0 0CC   -                  0           0
00          '9
CO            j        ' ' ,    *.*..*****.            , ,           ,     *)***          , ,
0-C          C  0    00  0    400000000000                 0 0             0         0    '
C)             0    .oO       4000..00        0                                                      0
C3C   0    00 o    ooooooooo-o-o  0             0 0        0    0    0    0                 o00  a 0
0    00  0    30000000000  0             0 0        0    0    0    0                  0 400  0 0 0
0                                                                                          0  0   0       ,
1            2 2L7w;A;                                0400
1 0 oo  444000    *00                                              0
2                   .CIOOOI)''10           *  2              *''''*          ,,        0
C0   0      00      000000000000               00              0I,    0
-    -                                             -    -                               C               2
C                    0 C   C C C    CC                    .    C  -C   *o   C         C   -
*                             CC         C         C 0         C
0                              00 0      .0        C CO   0    C          C    C       C   C    C
C C                  C      C  0 C                 -C CC   C    0   C    1-  -                  C
0                                                          4     C)  00         -          C
C                    3  C.3'   0             CO  C-C)         C        C-C  C       CCC      0
C 4 . C 000 C C 0 4 C) 0 C -CC C C C
CC C 0 C 001)0 C 0 COOCO C 00 0 C C
I OCO  CC      C C       C C C CO C-C  C. C C
CC      C C      C C   COCO.
-    CC)    C   0        COOC        C   CCC                I                        C   -C   C  C C. C  C)  C)  C
7                                    C)  CC-C               I                       4    C   C  C    C  C
I                                        'CCC              I                        C C C) C+C     0CC-C
I                      CC) CCCO         00CC)       C-COOl           C                          3         C
C                                    COICOC-COC    rf
C COO-C  CCICCO      CC  00 C    C oCI  0 COCCOOC         C-C
CC  C CO    0 COCCOC) CC-CCC    CC  0   C    C C-CC    OCO-COC?                                            C
COCC .   C   CCOC)          C.) C                         OCOC-OC.
C CO    C C C-CC -0  CC    00   C00C                                         -CO  00CC
C   CCC              C   CCC.)    CCO3          C CO   C COC. 04        C <C.
CO    C         ooC-000C-ooc.C    :oo.o          C-SC- j                  CCC
Coo  -C                 000CC        CoO       CC-C        C  CCC3
8
C     C)                                                   C.              0        0



LESOTHO
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Calendar Year:            1977                  1978                   1979                   1980                  1981
1:  2        ,3     4    1      2      3    4     1>     2     3     4     1    2    3     4    1    2     3    4
Vocational & Secondary Schools
(Lowland) and Project Office
Prep. sketch plans & IDA review
Working drawings & pre-tender
Tender & contract award                                       Fe dr/Aw rd
Construction                                                                     -    -    -  onst ucti ni                   <    Guarantee
Secondary Schools (Mountain)
Prep. sketch plans & IDA review                                                                                                                        o
Working drawings & pre-tender
Contract negotiations & IDA
Review
Construction                                           Cctior 
Curriculum Center
Prep. sketch plans & IDA review
Working drawings & pre-tender                                                                                                                           co
Tender & contract award                                                                =A
Construction                                                                                                  Con                         Cuc !ant_
Equipment & Furniture
Preparation of lists
Tender & award                                                                      TjA
Delivery period                                                                               De. iver   =                                     |
Technical Assistance
Quantity Surveyor                                    ecrit)_
Architect                                          (Racr it >                     - _                                                      -
Disbursement Quarter    1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9   10   11   12   13   14   15   16
SOURCE: Bank Group staff estimates.



ANNEX 8
LESOTHO
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
/1
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ '000)
Accumulated                 Undisbursed
Quarter               Disbursements              Disbursements                  Balance
1                        -                          -                         7,500
2                       100                        100                        7,400
3                       100                        200                        7,300
4                       200                        400                        7,100
5                       300                        700                        6,800
6                       300                      1,000                        6,500
7                       400                      1,400                        6,100
8                       900                      2,300                        5,200
9                     1,000                      3,300                        4,200
10                     1,000                      4,300                        3,200
11                       900                      5,200                        2,300
12                       700                      5,900                        1,600
13                       600                      6,500                        1,000
14                       400                      6,900                          600
15                       400                      7,300                          200
16                       200                      7,500
/1  From date of Credit effectiveness
Source: Bank Group staff estimates
July 1977



CHART 1
LESOTHO
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
EDUCATIONAL PYRAMID, 1975                                                                                           u
0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~0 
U                                                                                                                                                                     H      <
17  22   .0,290                                                                          1                                                                                         Z      ,,,
-                                                      ~~~~              ~           ~~~~~~~~~~~~MALE  FEMALE
E     16  21   10,580                                                                         22 28                                                                                            10,48
T     15  20   1 0,580      352      0.6%                                                      3930.6                                                                                  25 10,7
R     1 4   19    11,190                                                                           78                                                                                          11,00
13' 1 8 11,510                                                                        188||88                                                                                           11,370
127 12   11,820                                                                      706      629                                                                                        11,670
E   l 11 16 12,130                                                                     674    |681                                                                                        11,970
-                                                                                             1
N     10' 1 5 12,430    7,272   11.7%                                                  1,667 [_       979                                                                    14.9%    9,158    12,280
A         2 14   12,750                                                                2,11            2,714                                                                                   12,590
R
T
3' 1 3   13,090                                                                2,106  _         3,155                                                                                   12 920
7   1 2   13,430                                                     6, 2721                                             112,321                                                        13,260
6  1 1   13,760                                                     6.674                                                 12,450                                                        13,590
R     5  1 0   14,100                                                809|15,163                                                                                                                13,940
9    14,470   90,915    89.%                            110751                                                                         18130                        130.4%   131,017   14,300
A
1 3   8   14,880                                    15,403                                                                                            21,411                                  14,700
2   7   15,310                        18,919                                                                                                                89                          15,120
1   6   15,790            23,7663                                                                 I  I   I                                                 |26,453                      15,580
25         20           195         1            5           0           5           1%0 151 20                           25
THO(JSANDS
Note x Grades 8 th-ogh 13 Mnclde -noflrets in geera-se-condarycore
t-aher-trimmq couse, and  -oainlad tcnclcuss
So-re: A-.1a Statistiral Abstrac, 1975
World 6ark-17225



LESOTHO                                                                                               CHART 2
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
STRUCTURE OF EDUCATION, 1977
Ag               7                      9         10          11         12          163 14                 15         1          17          1 8        19          20          21
Grade  1   2          3          4           5          6           7          8           9          10         11         12          13         14          15          16
FIRST LEVEL                                                      SECOND LEVEL                                        THIRD LEVEL
I      LOVVER              I        UPPER 
Primary Teacher Education
Lower Secondary Teacher Educat-on
P--mary Sch..(                                                               Secondary/Junior High Sero Se      Senior High School      Unversity
Study
Abroad
V ...tion-l-T.chnical Technic-a
Agr-icultue        Cemtfiwae              Deg ...2
*   Selection point
-7        Entry point to labor Force
o         1 year Intern-hip/work experience                                                                                                  4       m-7
1   Otion fr Pubhc Health Training
2   Joint program between LAC and NUL
World Bank-17226






LESOTHO
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
PROPOSED STRUCTURE OF THE
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION.
YOUTH, SPORTS, AND CULTURE
EECUCT VE
                    SETIOSEC7I
__ PLANNINL                                                                                                                                                  _ s Profeulona | SE N CT ION   DE
= 5 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~500, HOLHE         _    SCIL AD                                           
i t i t  EDUCATION                            -T-  C LTUPAL                                I \
~~~~L- -3 - -t -3 ----                    E
_______                                                     __  M_________-  C -\
.ElTI r'                                                                           I RI CUU
DEIELOPMEN         -C -+ -+                                                                                                                                              A -                ---III"
[               W                  b                                         mt;SXweti )E
-'E                  L     Efi                                                                                    A 
SCHOOL  l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. .... 






.    N ECTEEACtE                                                         '0 EREEC                                                 AS'ES'nfSWhZL"s,\  ieO.:    
',  v    57UTH AFReCA     .   ,,@                                        /  /      5    4A  . (9\   B TH      
370351>   ;e'                                        '    \        t ' .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
hitI
1524-.2133 MAT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E   R  I ~+.   
7!                      K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
-)., _  ^ECC~~C.                                                  J T...
MASERURCC AC
EN:~~~~~~~~~N
(~~~~~~~~~~~70                                                                              Woo   **805,.ET.50*               or.               G            ~ SirNON q/ NG SHASNK
A SEZHFeOS O    R4 MOR2NS 9    >  \st  /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1
> .T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L                                                                                      S O  T  >AHAKETDON  L<   
IS) ~~~~~~MAHLNS TUOHALESD HOI3K                                             J                                       1r SECON D EDUCATION PRCIJECT
HSTKON                                                                  ,C     =FOAID FROGR.AM -CESG TDACK
J    X   S H   \.<sH//3            SE     OU THINGn2N-USNKMTYlL                                                          RU          T LCTO
H -   \\   <       /eK\~~lE MAlE W    > *LEO LN    ...S  J,GC#                                                        /E    I  -AIW
X < </ X a U T H I N G _3 OSSTNICT DOUNARS
7AI/WAT~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~m cJRH - V TL RGM >,%,OMaMN  _*{A8SU.,wLCURRULm VRIGT _wo  _w  INDuAmOA TOUOAm
#   3  w                       CR            * TrCNNrACL 3CHIOOLF7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                 2



