                         Document of
                      The World Bank




                                              Report No:ICR000045




  IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
            ( BELG-24242 IDA-32870 IDA-H0330 )

                           ON A

                   CREDIT AND A GRANT

                 IN THE TOTAL AMOUNT OF
                     SDR 19.3 MILLION

             (US$ MILLION 26.2 EQUIVALENT)

                             TO

                THE REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI

                           FOR A

             SECOND SOCIAL ACTION PROJECT

                       January 26, 2007




AFT: Human Development 3
AFC09
AFRICA REGION

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                            ( Exchange Rate Effective 06/30/2006 )
                                 Currency Unit = BIF
                                       BIF 1.00 = US$ 0.001019
                                      US$ 1.00 = BIF 980

                                          Fiscal Year
                                    January 1- December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AfDB    African Development Bank
BURSAP
I      First Burundi Social Action Project

BURSAP
II     Second Burundi Social Action Project

CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
CDC     Community Development Committee
CURDES Centre Universitaire de Recherche pour le Développement Economique et Social
CWIQ    Core Welfare Indicators Questionnaire
ECD     Early Child Development
EU      European Union
GOB     Government of Burundi
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
IDA     International Development Association
IEC     Information, Education and Communication
IFAD    International Fund for Agricultural Development
ISTEEBU Institut de Statistiques et d'Etudes Economiques du Burundi
NCB    National Competitive Bidding
NGO    Non-governmental Organization
PAD    Project Appraisal Document
PMR    Project Management Report
PMU    Project Management Unit
QBCS    Quality-Based and Cost Selection
QUIBB   Questionnaire Unifié pour les Indicateurs de Base du Bien-être
QUID    Questionnaire Unifié pour les Indicateurs de Développement
SOE     Statement of Expenditures
UNDP    United Nations Development Program




                               Vice President: Gobind T. Nankani
                             Country Director: Pedro Alba
                              Sector Manager: Laura Frigenti
                        Project Team Leader: Pamphile Kantabaze

                                                      Burundi
                                     Second Social Action Project




                                                    CONTENTS




1. Basic Information........................................................................................................ 1
2. Key Dates.................................................................................................................... 1
3. Ratings Summary........................................................................................................ 1
4. Sector and Theme Codes ............................................................................................ 2
5. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... 2
6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 3
7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 9
8. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 12
9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 15
10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................... 16
11. Lessons Learned...................................................................................................... 19
12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners......... 20
Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis......................................................................... 21
Annex 2. Restructuring (if any) .................................................................................... 26
Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 27
Annex 4. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 29
Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis).. 41
Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 42
Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance.................................. 44
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any) .............................................................. 45
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)...................................... 46
Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR................... 47
Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders..................... 60
Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................... 61
MAP.............................................................................................................................. 62

1. Basic Information

Country:                Burundi               Project Name:           Second Social Action
                                                                      Project

Project ID:             P064510               L/C/TF Number(s):       BELG-24242,IDA-
                                                                      32870,IDA-H0330
ICR Date:               01/26/2007            ICR Type:               Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:               GOVT OF BURUNDI
Original Total
Commitment:             XDR 19.3M             Disbursed Amount:       XDR 19.1M

Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies

TWITEZIMBERE
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners


2. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process         Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review: 01/26/1999           Effectiveness:     12/23/1999        12/23/1999
Appraisal:         05/17/1999        Restructuring(s):
Approval:          10/05/1999        Mid-term Review:                     10/30/2002
                                     Closing:           12/31/2003        06/30/2006


3. Ratings Summary
3.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory


3.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
 Implementation Performance       Indicators     QAG Assessments (if any)        Rating:
Potential Problem Project at any
time (Yes/No):                  No            Quality at Entry (QEA):         Satisfactory

Problem Project at any time
(Yes/No):                       No            Quality of Supervision (QSA):   None

DO rating before
Closing/Inactive status:        Satisfactory




                                             1

4. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                        Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                 8                8
General education sector                                         20              20
Other social services                                            34              34
Roads and highways                                               19              19
Water supply                                                     19              19
                                                   Original Priority Actual Priority
Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Other social protection and risk management         Primary          Primary
Participation and civic engagement                  Primary          Primary
Child health                                        Secondary        Secondary
Other rural development                             Secondary        Secondary
Other environment and natural resources management  Secondary        Secondary


5. Bank Staff
                         Positions                      At ICR        At Approval

Vice President:                                    Gobind T.        Callisto E.
                                                   Nankani          Madavo
Country Director:                                  Pedro Alba       Emmanuel Mbi
Sector Manager:                                    Laura Frigenti   Arvil Van Adams

Project Team Leader:                               Pamphile         Menahem M.
                                                   Kantabaze        Prywes

ICR Team Leader:                                   Pamphile
                                                   Kantabaze
ICR Primary Author:                                Paul Geli




                                             2

6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)
6.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country macroeconomic and structural/sector background, rationale
for Bank assistance)


Since independence in 1962, Burundi has suffered from recurrent social and political
conflict, which reached crisis proportions in 1993 with the assassination of the President.
Following a military coup in 1996 an international embargo was imposed, and the Bank
suspended its disbursements from October 1996 to May 1997. In 1998, the Government
began peace discussions with political parties and armed groups. As the peace process
progressed, the embargo was suspended. The Bank prepared and discussed with
Government an interim strategy of assistance, whose broad objectives were, inter alia, to
support the ongoing peace process and to provide urgent support for the recovery of poor
communities and the rural economy.

From the beginning of the crisis in 1993, poverty worsened rapidly and considerably. In
terms of household expenditures, rural poverty was estimated to have increased by 80
percent and urban poverty to have doubled. Social indicators, related to health,
education, and nutrition, also fell.

BURSAP II consists entirely of a social fund that targets the poor and conflict-damaged
regions of rural Burundi. Its approach is to significantly decentralize power to rural
communities. The Project was well aligned with the objectives of the Interim Strategy. It
would provide employment and wage income in poor rural communities, restore
community infrastructure, and expand delivery of social services. The Project would
further bolster recovery by increasing community capacity to participate in the selection,
financing and operation of local investments. Moreover, it would help provide a social
foundation for peace at the local level by bringing people together to select and to
contribute to a project for their mutual benefit. The resulting improvement in local
economic conditions and organizational capacity would then underpin and reinforce the
peace process.


6.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

Schedule 2 of the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) objectives were to assist
the Borrower in : (i)strengthening the capacities of local community groups to work
together in selecting, implementing, financing, monitoring and maintaining priority
community services; and (ii) alleviating poverty through the creation of employment
opportunities and the improvement of social services.

The Section A of the PAD objectives were to ensure that : (i) Diverse groups work
together to select, partly finance, monitor and evaluate, use, and maintain their priority
community investments; and (ii) the poorest and most vulnerable groups benefit from



                                              3

improved social and economic services and improved social protection -- through
transitory wages and social services that limit the risks of poverty.

The key performance indicators for the realization of the Project's objectives were:

    · For Objective 1: (i) Qualitative assessment of cooperation of diverse groups in
        selected projects; (ii) % of women on community development committees
        (CDC) reflects m/f ratio in the commune; (iii) % of projects that reflect
        community priorities; (iv) % contribution of the community to the project in
        material, labor and money; (v) % of CDC that are still functioning one year after
        completion of the infrastructure sub-project; and (vi) % of infrastructure
        adequately maintained one year after completion.

    · For Objective 2: (i) Days of employment created; (ii) number of beneficiaries of
        infrastructure by type: Education, Health, Water supply, Economic infrastructure
        (markets,roads, forestry); (iii) capacity utilization rate of the infrastructure one
        year after construction; (iv) prevalence of wasting, stunting, and underweight
        among pre-school aged children; and (v) qualitative assessment of adult-child
        interaction.

6.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority),
and reasons/justification

The original project development objectives (PDO) were not revised.

6.4 Main Beneficiaries, original and revised
(briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as captured in the
PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from the
project)

The target population was the inhabitants of unusually poor communes that are areas of
return for refugees and internally displaced persons (IDP), usually harboring children and
other dependents with high rates of malnutrition. Using a poverty index that was
calculated by ISTEEBU - the National Institute of Statistics and Economic Studies,
Twitezimbere (meaning "let us develop ourselves" in the local language) selected 73
priority communes. The poverty index was based on results from the 1998 priority
survey that was financed under BURSAP I and publicized in 2000.

6.5 Original Components (as approved)

The Project had three components (referred to as "parts" in the DCA):

Component I (or Part A in the DCA): Community investments / activities (US$10.75
million)
The component consisted of the carrying out and monitoring of sub-projects for the
construction and rehabilitation of social and economic infrastructure, for early childhood


                                              4

development services, and for other community activities submitted by beneficiaries.
Component I had three sub-components:

Sub-component 1 -- Community participation. Mobilization and strengthening of
community capacity (and in particular of representative development committees) to
participate in the selection, financing, and continued operation of the infrastructure.

The Executive Committee (in which the Government and civil society are represented)
and the Director of Twitezimbere were to decide each year which communes would
benefit from project-financed activities, using well-defined criteria (see Section 7.1 on
design and quality at entry). To increase participation, the Project would work with the
local populations to ensure that they actually choose the infrastructure sub-projects to be
financed, subject to a threshold earmaked amount of US$75,000 per commune.
Communes would be allowed to choose a mix of investments, within the financial
envelop. Moreover, the Project would reinforce community institutions that maintained
the infrastructure.

Multi-disciplinary teams, composed of personnel from Twitezimbere and qualified
NGOs (Agences d'Encadrement), were to work with the communities to determine
their priorities. The teams were to apply a methodology using community meetings along
with graphics, thematic maps, calendar of the seasons, and activity profiles. This
procedure was to be used to identify the poorest populations, in consultation with key
sources, such as the "Bashingantahe" (elders) and other social or religious leaders. To
ensure that the development committees were representative, the teams were to add
members after consulting with the beneficiaries and the local administration; the aim was
to have a better representation of women, young people and other groups. Specifically, at
least 30 percent of the members of each development committee were to be women.

The teams were to work with each develpment committee to produce a participatory
assessment report. The report was to include: (i) a brief description of the community and
the social and economic conditions in the commune; (ii) a map of public facilities and of
the concentration of the population along with the economic activity in the commune;
(iii) a list of priority investments with a brief explanation and justification; and (iv) the
responsibilities of the committee and the community during and after construction. The
report was to receive the approval of the local Authority or Administrateur de Commune.

Sub-component 2 -- Infrastructure rehabilitation and construction. Contracting for the
rehabilitation and construction of small-scale community infrastructure, such as
classrooms, health centers, rural water supply, short roads, public markets, swamp
drainage, and planting of forests.

The roles of Twitezimbere and the Agences d'Encadrement were to remain the same as in
the BURSAP I: that is either one would be able to prepare the technical and financial
proposals, procure construction of civil works following the Manual of Procedures
(Manuel d'Opérations Techniques), and supervise construction of the works.




                                                5

Sub-component 3 -- Investments in young children and mothers -- early childhood
development (ECD).
During the participatory assessment process, the sub-component was to start by
delivering a basic package of information, education and communication (IEC) to
promote early childhood development activities (ECD) for a sub-set of the communes
with infrastructure sub-projects. All collines from these communes would be eligible to
participate. Through the participatory process, each community was to produce a brief
assessment of the needs of young children and mothers, ranked in order of priority.
Options could include micro-nutrition, gardens to provide nutrition, monitoring of the
growth of infants and children, and trauma counseling. The identified activities were
to be prepared for each commune and implemented with support from contracted
Agences d'Encadrement. Training of community mobilizers, health workers and
educators was to back these activities. Twitezimbere was to provide monitoring and
evaluation.

Component I on community investments/activities also included the provision of training
and technical advisory services for: (i) the design and implementation of a
communications program to strengthen Twitezimbere's capacity to communicate
information about the project to the public; and (ii) assistance to local small
entrepreneurs, civil servants in the relevant Ministries and Non Governmental
Organizations (NGO) to improve their community activity skills.

Component II (or Part B in the DCA): Poverty Monitoring (US$1.20 million)
Strengthening the capacity of ISTEEBU and other statistical survey organizations
inBurundi to undertake poverty monitoring and analysis activities through the provision
of technical advisory services, training, and the acquisition of equipment.

BURSAP I financed a relatively large-scale survey to produce detailed baseline
information on poverty. BURSAP II, on the other hand, was to finance less expensive
surveys that could be repeated in order to provide up-to-date follow-up information on
the evolution of poverty. Furthermore, those surveys were to be oriented towards action
to reduce poverty rather than simply gathering analytical information about poverty. To
that end, the surveys were to provide the information on the condition of roads, water
supply, health and education services, and local institutions, necessary for planning
reconstruction programs. The relevant indicators were to be selected through a survey of
statistics users in the Government, donor, and NGO sectors.

Component III (or Part C in the DCA): Administration / capacity building (US$1.25
million)
The Project was to be executed by Twitezimbere, an NGO, under an agreement
(Convention) with the Government. Twitezimbere means "let's develop ourselves" in the
Kirundi language. Twitezimbere is governed by an Executive Committee that represents
a cross-section of Burundian society: the Ministries of Finance, Planning and
Agriculture, NGOs, and individual members including the Legal Representative of
Twitezimbere who chairs the Committee. Component III included:




                                              6

    · Strengthening Twitezimbere's capacity to implement, coordinate, supervise, and
        monitor the execution of the Project, through limited recruitment, the provision of
        training of its personnel, studies, technical advisory services, and the acquisition
        of required logistical means. A specialist in participation was to be recruited to
        reinforce and advance participation activities. Twitezimbere was also to launch a
        training program for its staff and for the staff of the Ministries concerned, NGO
        partners, UN organizations and consultants.
    · Establishment of a monitoring and evaluation system (M & E) to monitor overall
        project implementation, the implementation of the sub-projects, and the design of
        a program to overcome any constraints encountered during the implementation of
        the project, through the provision of technical advisory services.

6.6 Revised Components

The original components were not revised but, upon Government request during
implementation, the Project has benefited from a Belgian parallel grant (US$ 0.88
million), and an IDA Supplemental Grant (US$14.2 million). Thus, financial
allocations per component have increased substantially, as described in section 6.7
below.

6.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

There were two significant additions in funding for the Project: (1) in 2001, the
Government of Belgium made a grant for early childhood development (ECD); and (2) in
2003, the Bank provided supplemental financing (in the form of a grant) for the Project.

The Belgian Grant

On November 6, 2001, the Bank, as Administrator of grant funds provided by the
Belgium Directorate General for International Cooperation (DHIC), extended a grant of
US$882,000 to Burundi for parallel financing of the early childhood development (ECD)
sub-component of the project. The purpose of the Belgian Grant was to carry out and
monitor ECD services.
The Grant was given for the implementation by Twitezimbere of the following activities:

    a) Mobilization and training of women's groups to maintain essential services for
        child health, nutrition, psycho-social development and learning for children ages
        0 to 6.
    b) Carrying out IEC campaigns to community groups and mothers in order to
        promote ECD.
    c) Distribution of basic packages of goods for child health care.
    d) Strengthening communities' capacity in child care, including child nutrition
        through the provision of training and advisory technical assistance.



                                               7

    e) Providing technical assistance services for monitoring children's growth and
        evaluating project outcomes.
    f) Training of trainers and capacity building for women's groups to set up informal
        pre-school education circles and other psycho-social interventions through
        technical advisory services and the acquisition of small educational equipment.

Supplemental financing from the Bank

The Bank's Transitional Support Strategy for FY02 and FY03 (February 12, 2002)
supported national reconciliation and reconstruction through a lending program that
included a Social Action Project along with an Emergency Recovery Credit, Emergency
Road Rehabilitation Credit, and a Demobilization Project. The peace accord of 2000 and
the swearing in of a transitional Government in November 2001 triggered an unexpected
increase in the cost of the BURSAP II Project because its objective had to be realized
over a larger territorial expanse (regions added in the far south and eastern frontier) and
for a larger population (newly returned internally displaced persons and refugees). The
integration of the returning refugees and IDPs required the rehabilitation of additional
community facilities, such as schools and health centers.

At the time of the Mid-term Review (MTR) in October 2002, the Project had already
disbursed or committed 92% of its resources, so that its implementation momentum was
satisfactory. The indicators of project outputs and outcomes demonstrated the positive
results of the Project. The Government demonstrated its commitment to the project by
paying its counterpart contributions despite its tight fiscal budget. The executing agency,
Twitezimbere, was fully competent, as demonstrated by the indicators of Project
outcomes and outputs, as well as by the independent financial audits for 2000 and 2001
and by the technical and social audit of project activities for 2000/2001. The reviews
carried out by the Bank procurement and financial management specialists confirmed
this favorable assessment. All other requirements of OP13.20 which governs
supplemental financing were being met. The urgency of meeting the Bank's
commitments to support national reconciliation and economic reconstruction also
justified supplemental financing since the preparation of a new project would be more
time-consuming.
On April 14, 2003, IDA made a grant of SDR10.3 million (US$14.2 million) to
supplement the ongoing IDA Credit for BURSAP II, following the initial project design
(to decentralize powers to local communities) and for the same original project
components and sub-components. Seventy-three communes, which were the most
vulnerable ones, were selected to benefit from the grant. The highest priority use of the
grant was to rehabilitate war-damaged areas and ease the reintegration of returning
refugees and displaced persons. More specifically, it was agreed with Government that
the supplement would finance the following:

    a) Community mobilization (US$1.0 million). The supplement would support
        community mobilization and the production of new or updated community
        development plans in 65 communes.
    b) Infrastructure sub-projects (US$8.4 million). The majority of the supplement



                                             8

        would support delivery of small-scale community infrastructure sub-projects to
        65 communes, with priority targeting of the provinces of Ruyigi and Makamba.
        The sub-project financing limit for each commune would increase from
        US$75,000 to US$100,000 so that communities could decide to build short-rural
        access roads and other economic infrastructure.
    c) Early childhood development (US$3.0 million). The supplement would allow the
        Project to continue to support delivery of social services to pre-school children in
        34 communes. Moreover, it would support construction of 150 shelters for
        informal pre-school circles. It was agreed that, over the medium-term,
        management and monitoring would be shifted to the Ministry of Education, while
        delivery of services would remain a community responsibility. Therefore, the
        supplement would support training to prepare for the integration of policy-making
        and monitoring aspects of the component into the Ministry of Education.
    d) Poverty monitoring (US$0.8 million). The supplement would support a rapid
        statistical survey of social and economic conditions (a Core Welfare Indicators
        Questionnaire -CWIQ) for use in monitoringBurundi 's progress in recovering
        from severe poverty. Moreover, the component would support training of
        candidates for the entry exams for the African statistical institutes.
    e) e) Administration (US$1.0 million). The cost of administration was about 7% of
        project costs. This covered Twitezimbere's costs for executing the Project as well
        as audits and special studies.

7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

7.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

Overall, the quality at entry was satisfactory. The project risks were well identified, with
appropriate risk minimization measures proposed in the project appraisal document
(PAD). The lessons learned through the implementation of BURSAP I were used in the
preparation of BURSAP II.

The most important lesson from BURSAP I was that, in a country in a state of crisis and
where insecurity is rampant, this type of demand-driven project to rehabilitate
infrastructure at the village level could still be implemented. The process helps build up
community solidarity, contributes to national reconciliation, and helps the country
graduate to a "post-conflict" status.

Another lesson was the importance of true community participation, including timely
contribution by beneficiaries to sub-project costs, so that they would own the sub-
projects and be very much involved in their maintenance and continued operation.
Whereas under BURSAP I the priorities of the population may have been influenced by
commune administrators or NGOs, the design of BURSAP II included a strengthening of
community participation, particularly in the selection, financing, and management of
infrastructure sub-projects and social services delivery. Therefore, in addition to an



                                                9

improvement in the targeting of poor communities, the main change in BURSAP II,
relative to BURSAP I, was to empower residents of communities to choose and maintain
their own project investments. The specific changes were to:

    a) Use participatory assessments to establish local needs and investment priorities in
        each commune;
    b) If necessary, modify the community development committees through
        consultation with the public to assure that they are representative;
    c) Allocate a financial envelope of US$75,000 to the residents of each commune to
        finance their priority infrastructure sub-projects (but not including ECD
        activities); and
    d) Increase the choice available to communities by allowing them to choose a mix of
        infrastructure investments, within the financial envelope.

The project design was kept simple: inBurundi 's emergency and civil conflict context,
this was very appropriate for delivering urgently needed support quickly, taking into
account the limited local capacity for project execution.

The weak point in the design of BURSAP II was Component II on poverty monitoring
which, in fact, was never really fully developed. The PAD did not include much
information on its intended contents, but the project execution plan scheduled one
statistical survey per year which turned out to be too ambitious (in any event, the need
for such frequent surveys is questionable). Overall, this component would not have
proven relevant within the design of this CDD-type operation but a macroeconomic
management support operation would have been a more appropriate context. However,
the Government was concerned about strengthening capacities of ISTEEBU for
monitoring poverty and human development indicators during the very early period of
post-conflict socio-economic recovery.

7.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status,
and actions taken, as applicable)

The major factors affecting implementation were the security situation and the instability
of the administration. With the evolution of the political situation (regime change, peace
agreement, cease fire, elections), there were many changes in the administration, at the
central level as well as at the level of the provinces and communes. Over the life of the
project, the Minister of National Reconstruction and Planning (MPDRN) changed six
times, while many provincial governors and commune administrators also changed
repeatedly. Despite all these fluctuations, and maybe because it was apolitical,
Twitezimbere managed to keep the support of the administration at both the central and
provincial and commune levels.
Because of the lack of security and the extreme poverty that prevailed in certain areas,
the execution of sub-projects was at times very difficult. Work sites had to be abandoned,
and then started again, to be abandoned once more, depending on the security situation.
Many other government entities gave up and left, but not Twitezimbere. No



                                               10

Twitezimbere staff lost their life in this endeavor, but it was certainly a daunting
experience. Needless to say, these conditions affected the supervision of activities.

On the positive side, Twitezimbere was able to continue to operate because it had gained
the confidence of the communities. Also, the population was already used to mobilizing
itself to participate and contribute to the execution of sub-projects in cooperation with
NGOs. Finally, the availability of a detailed and precise implementation manual helped.
On the negative side, there were some technical issues which made the execution of sub-
projects difficult, such as difficulties in finding seasoned wood for construction and a
shortage of skilled construction contractors.

7.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

According to the PAD, Twitezimbere would recruit a local consulting firm or contract
with the ISTEEBU to monitor project performance. Actually, there was no need for such
sub-contracting; the M&E function was carried out satisfactorily by a Twitezimbere's
dedicated project management team, led by a deputy director for M&E.

7.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

In April 1999, an environmental analysis was conducted for the Project. The report
identified both positive and negative environmental and social impacts of future sub-
projects, and presented mitigation measures for the negative impacts for the various types
of sub-projects. Based on the report, environmental guidelines were included in
Twitezimbere's manual of procedures.

In 2003, in connection with the supplemental financing, Twitezimbere adopted a Social
and Environmental Risk Management Framework to prevent or mitigate any damage to
the environment resulting from Project works. Twitezimbere followed the policies and
procedures set forth in the Framework. The Framework also defined the legal status of
land used by the project, which is nearly all public, and assured fair compensation in case
of displacement of people or expropriation of property. It should be noted that the project
never displaced anyone from their homes or expropriated any land.

Various audits and procurement post-reviews documented a continual improvement in
fiduciary management. No major fiduciary problems have been associated with the
implementation of BURSAP II. Indeed, the Project had the highest performance rating
among 10 projects in the review of the fiduciary management of the IDA portfolio in
February 2006.

7.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed
by present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and
institutional capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)




                                               11

Because of the participatory process, communities developed a strong sense of ownership
of their sub-projects. As the target rate of 95% may have been met with ease in most
communes of the Project, the maintenance and utilization record of completed sub-
projects is expected to be satisfactory. The Government is also working on its
decentralization policy and is committed to take into consideration local development
institutions such as the CDC set up under BURSAP II prior to the issuance of 2005
Communal Law. A new IDA-financed project, namely Community and Social
Development Support Project, is already under preparation and is aimed at - inter alia -
ensuring that communities and population have access to basic services and are
supportive of the peace process and economic reform agenda... The new Project will
draw on Bank's previous experience in implementing community driven projects in the
country such as BURSAP I and II. The Bank's involvement will foster cooperation and
coordination among bilateral and multilateral donors and will help government leverage
further funding from them for the implementation of the decentralization strategy and
will deepen the support to communes. With the implementation of the new communal
law, strengthening the relatively strong NGOS that have become active on other ongoing
projects, Twitezimbere and some of its peers seem likely to get definitely involved in a
more visible leadership role in promoting and implementing participatory approaches of
community development. Experience with Twitezimbere has provided a good example of
a model for institutional strengthening at the community and civil society levels, which
the new Government has somehow adopted in the context of preparation of a
decentralization policy. BURSAP has done a lot to feed into the preparation of the new
project.

8. Assessment of Outcomes

8.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The project's original development objectives are still consistent with current
development priorities and both country and sectoral strategies. Such continuous
consistency has been evidenced through (a) the supplemental financing that was
approved in 2003; (b) the April 11, 2005 Interim Strategy Note for FY 2006-2009; and
(c) the full Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) that had been approved by the
Government and the Parliament and sent to the Bank and IMF at the time of this
Implementation Completion Report (ICR).

The Project's design and implementation arrangements are even more relevant now than
they were at the time of project approval.

8.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details
on outputs in Annex 4)

The project development objectives have been reached. By using the results of the 1998
priority survey, the Project was able to target the poorest communes; it also made


                                              12

extraordinary progress in empowering communities. This is an extraordinary
achievement considering the on-going civil conflict and the absence of any elected local
government.

Annex 1 presents the outcome, output and process indicators, and Annex 4 discusses in
great detail the outputs by component. The following are some of the Project
achievements:

   a) BURSAP II arranged for the election of community development committees
        (CDC), which decided how funds will be used. This is undoubtedly the most
        important achievement of the Project.
   b) The beneficiary participation has been real: all the sub-projects financed by
        Twitezimbere have been selected based on the population priorities, and on
        average beneficiaries contributed about 8.5 percent of the costs of the sub-
        projects.
   c) During the whole project period, Twitezimbere completed 1,219 sub-projects:
        657 for water supply, 278 for education, 94 for health, 178 for pre-school circles,
        10 for rural roads and bridges, and 2 for social centers (for details by type and by
        year, see the table in Annex 4).
   d) More than 1.4 million person/days of temporary employment were created under
        the project, about four times the target of 350,000.
   e) Technical and social audits were generally positive regarding the quality of
        community mobilization and participation, as well as the quality of the
        infrastructure.
   f) The participatory process brought the major ethnic groups together to work on
        investments that are in their common interest and, in this way, supported national
        reconciliation.
   g) The ECD sub-component, which had been suggested by the Bank as a response to
        extreme conditions (poor nutrition, poor health care and poor preparedness of
        young children for primary school) was a success. It led to improved nutrition and
        health among children at low cost. Compared to the target rate of 15%, the
        Project achieved a severe malnutrition rate of children 0-6 of 13.3%. Also,
        according to school directors and teachers, the best students in the first years of
        primary schools are often those that participated in the program.

The 2006 social audit indicates that the population is satisfied with the Project and are
asking for more facilities. It was commented by some of the people that: "Only
Twitezimbere has not abandoned us. Twitezimbere stayed with us and helped us very
much."

For all infrastructure sub-projects, the main benefit for the population was improved
access, such as the reduction in the time and effort required to go to a school or a health
center or to fetch drinking water. Infrastructure-specific benefits included an increase in
school enrollment as a result of the construction of additional classrooms and an
improvement in the health status of the population due to the health centers and water
supply sub-projects.



                                             13

The component on poverty monitoring has been much less successful, mostly because of
I|STEEBU's weak management and lack of qualified statisticians. There has been
basically no progress in building the capacity of the ISTEEBU. The results of the 1998
priority survey have been used by Twitezimbere for the selection of the poorest
communes, but the usefulness of the two rapid surveys that have been carried out was
jeopardized by the delays in their completion.

8.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms,
least cost, and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

As discussed in somewhat more detail in Annex 5 on Economic and Financial Analysis,
Twitezimbere has been very efficient. With a low ratio of disbursements for operating
expenses to total disbursements of less than 10% for the whole project period,
Twitezimbere's performance has been highly satisfactory. Also, the costs of the facilities
built by Twitezimbere are less than those of similar investments carried out by other
organizations (Annex 5).

8.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Satisfactory

The project design and implementation arrangements are, if anything, even more relevant
now than at the time of project approval. The project development objectives have been
achieved and, with the exception of the poverty monitoring component, the outputs have
been substantial. The population is satisfied with the Project, which Twitezimbere
implemented very efficiently. In recognition of its experience in community
participation, Twitezimbere has been given a leadership role in the design and
implementation of the process of PRSP community consultations.

8.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The Project encouraged the full participation of women. However, the elections of the
members of the CDCs were free without any quotas for women. The target of 50% of
women in CDCs has not been reached. On average, the percentage of women in CDCs is
41%, but there are variations between provinces and communes. In a very few
communes, there are no women at all, whereas in others the percentage of women is
about 70%.
Although the Project targeted the poorest communes, at the level of each commune the
participation of the poorest of the poor in the whole process remained low.




                                             14

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional
development)

The Project has been very useful for NGOs working as Agences d'Encadrement. Small
and medium enterprises (SME), individual consultants, and consulting firms have been
established, thanks to the business opportunities provided by the infrastructure sub-
projects. On the other hand, the Project's impact on ministries and government technical
services has been limited, and on ISTEEBU it has been virtually nil.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

In the early years of the Project, Burundi did not have elections or local governments;
"administrateurs de communes" were local representatives of the central government.
Therefore, the election by the people of the CDCs was a very positive initiative; it
created an electoral basis for representative local government. Thus, BURSAP outcomes
have paved the way for the government policy for decentralization.
The quality of the participatory rural appraisals (PRA) carried out under the Project has
been good. The social audit noted that the populations liked to be consulted, and that the
local administration was also very satisfied that the populations were consulted since
their involvement facilitated the implementation of sub-projects.

8.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

Since this is a Core ICR, no beneficiary survey or stakeholder workshop was held at the
end of the Project. However, in early 2006 an individual consultant carried out a social
audit of BURSAP II. The report, issued in April 2006, indicates that the populations are
satisfied with the Project. Annex 8 provides a summary of the report.

9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial

The evaluation of the risk that the development outcome will not be maintained has to be
done at several levels: at the level of Twitezimbere and the project approach in terms of
community participation, and at the level of the completed sub-projects (to the extent that
the achievements of the component for poverty monitoring are limited, the question of its
sustainability does not arise).
Regarding completed sub-projects, the evaluation is favorable. Despite the conflict and
insecurity in the country, none of the facilities built or rehabilitated by Twitezimbere has
been destroyed. The populations -- proud of their role in creating these facilities --
appear to be doing their best to protect them, a clear benefit of community participation.
The facilities are operated and maintained, albeit perhaps minimally at present. The
notion of maintenance is not yet fully understood or accepted by beneficiaries, but it is
expected that they will provide routine maintenance at a minimum.
The sustainability of the ECD sub-component was supposed to arise from its low cost,


                                              15

due in part to the volunteer work by coordinators and local mothers. Despite the strong
demands of communities, the sustainability of all the aspects of this sub-component
(health, nutrition, psycho-social development) is unlikely. There are many other priorities
that require huge amounts of money, and public resources are limited.
Regarding Twitezimbere and the community participation approach, the situation is
somewhat mixed. Twitezimbere has become a key partner of the Government on
community development and a key contributor to government decentralization policy. In
the past, Twitezimbere has demonstrated a capacity to survive and to raise money from
donors and, capitalizing on its community participation expertise and experience,
Twitezimbere should be able to be awarded contracts and work as a NGO. However, in
the absence of a BURSAP III, the scope of activities is bound to be much reduced, and
many staff have already left Twitezimbere looking for other employment opportunities.
The community participation approach promoted by Twitezimbere has been followed by
other projects and organizations, but it is uncertain whether government ministries will
be as eager as an apolitical organization as Twitezimbere to adopt it and use it in future
projects. Actually, Government's policy is unlikely to contract Twitezimbere's services
for the purpose of implementation of new projects. Instead, new projects will be run
by Government Ministries that may sub-contract some services to private entities like
Twitezimbere. In this context, despite the proven track record of Twitezimbere and the
unfinished agenda (in terms of all the education and health facilities, etc. that need to be
constructed or rehabilitated), the Government and the Bank will not be continuing to
provide direct support to Twitezimbere.
On balance, the risk to development outcome is rated as substantial.

10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

10.1 Bank

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Satisfactory

The performance of the Bank through the lending phase has been satisfactory, ensuring
quality at entry. The design of BURSAP II took into account the lessons from BURSAP
I. It included a strengthening of community participation, but was still kept simple.
There is an area where the Bank's position is somewhat difficult to justify. This relates to
the reliance on ISTEEBU for the poverty monitoring component, considering that
ISTEEBU had already a poor track record under BURSAP I. Why was it included in
BURSAP II in the first place? The position most often quoted cited in response that the
ISTEEBU is the only agency permitted to conduct official government surveys in
Burundi and, therefore, the Bank had no choice other than to work with them is not a
very strong argument.




                                             16

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory

The quality of supervision has also been satisfactory. The implementation support
provided by the Bank was affected by the security situation. During its life, the Project
had two different task team leaders, first a Headquarters-based staff and then a country
office-based staff. The Bank country office provided a continuous presence in the field
and maintained good working relations with Government, Twitezimbere and other
partners involved in the Project. Following the ceasefire (signed in November 2004)
between the Government and the main rebel groups, security improved. Fighting ceased
in 16 out of 17 provinces of Burundi . For the first time since 1996, field missions were
cleared by the UN Security Field Office, allowing the use of ground transportation
instead of humanitarian aircrafts. Therefore, supervision became easier.
To facilitate supervision and also to ensure that Twitezimbere benefit from good
professional advice, the Bank saw to it that technical and social audits as well as
procurement and financial reviews were carried out at reasonable intervals, in addition to
the usual financial audits.
The Bank's role has been very positive for mobilizing additional resources for the project
(such as the Belgian Grant) and for processing quickly a very substantial supplemental
financing in the form of a grant.
Another positive aspect of the Bank involvement is the flexibility that it showed to adapt
to Burundi 's changing circumstances. Examples of this flexibility are the increases in the
financing ceiling (from US$75,000 to US$100,000, and then to US$125,000 per
commune) and the reduction (from 12% to 7%) in the required community contribution
to the costs of sub-projects. Following the 2003-2004 great famine, particularly in the
northern regions, the community contribution had become impossible; the Bank agreed to
finance 100% of sub-project costs in the provinces of Kirundo and Muyinga which have
been officially declared "disaster areas."
On the other hand, with respect to the poverty monitoring component, it seems that the
Bank was too flexible. In view of the continuing poor performance of the ISTEEBU
throughout the Project, it would have been more appropriate for the Bank to cancel the
component on poverty monitoring. Instead, the Bank team agreed to support
Government request to conduct 2002 and 2005 CWIQ surveys which could not be
financed otherwise.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank ensured good project design. It played a positive role by securing additional
resources for project implementation and it displayed flexibility to adapt to Burundi 's
changing circumstances. The overall Bank Performance is satisfactory.




                                             17

10.2 Borrower

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Government was committed to the objectives of the Project and supportive of
Twitezimbere. Central Ministries were closely involved either by sitting on Twitezimbere
Executive Committee (Finance and Planning) or by providing technical support at the
sectoral and decentralized levels (Health, Education, Communal Infrastructure,
Agriculture & Livestock). Government paid its counterpart contribution in a regular and
timely manner. Local Governments, namely Provincial and Communal Authorities, were
more involved, by providing administrative and logistical support in various aspects of
the project implementation at community levels.
On the other hand, ISTEEBU's performance was unsatisfactory due to weak institutional
capacity. The project execution plan scheduled one statistical survey per year, but after
much delay the ISTEEBU delivered only two surveys in all. One reason for the initial
delay was that ISTEEBU could not start a new survey when it had not yet published the
results of the 1998 priority survey that had been financed under BURSAP I. The results
of the priority survey were finally published in February 2001 (under BURSAPII
funding) and this delay severely limited its usefulness. More generally, there were delays
in the production of routine statistics and complaints from several donors. Furthermore,
the project execution plan included the training of Burundian statisticians. Unfortunately,
this training was not provided despite more than two years of effort by Twitezimbere and
the Bank to work with the ISTEEBU and then the Faculty of Economics
and Administration at theUniversity of Burundi. Finally, the Government allocated an
appropriate mix of resources from BURSAP II and mostly from a different Bank-
financed project - Economic Management Support Project - to start the training program
at the University of Burundi. Contribution from BURSAP II consisted in delivering
training on data collection and processing (using 2005 CWIQ/QUIBB Consultant
services and providing computers and software).

In balance, the Government's performance rating is moderately satisfactory.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

Implementing
Agency              Performance

TWITEZIMBERE        Twitezimbere, a not-for-profit association, has been responsible for
                    the execution of the project. Despite the civil war and the insecurity,
                    its staff has continued to execute the Project, often traveling through
                    contested areas. The staff displayed personal courage and
                    commitment to the rural population, and was in many respects heroic.
                    They carried out missions in dangerous regions with on-going guerilla
                    warfare. The leadership of Twitezimbere was particularly good at



                                             18

                    diplomacy, both with Government and local populations. It
                    illustrates the importance of recruiting the right staff who can
                    establish good relations with the Government and the beneficiary
                    population during a civil conflict. The staff has been stable.

                    Overall, project execution by Twitezimbere has been highly
                    satisfactory, with low administrative costs. A series of audits showed
                    a constant improvement in performance, with respect to both the
                    technical expertise for community development and the project's
                    fiduciary management. The Project had the highest performance
                    rating among 10 projects in the review of the fiduciary management
                    of the IDA portfolio in February 2006.

                    The only weakness was in statistical work. Twitezimbere which sub-
                    contracted the execution of the second component (poverty
                    monitoring) to the national statistical institute, the ISTEEBU, was not
                    qualified to take over responsibilities from the ISTEEBU.
                    Twitezimbere cannot be held responsible for the failure of the
                    ISTEEBU.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

With a "moderately satisfactory" Government performance, and a "highly satisfactory"
Twitezimbere performance, the overall Borrower's performance is rated "satisfactory."

11. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

The Project was a key to providing community access to basic services in the context of a
conflict situation, and was an excellent preparation for the upcoming Community-Driven
Development (CDD) Project. The risk to the outcomes were significant given the
unpredictability of the situation at the time of effectiveness but the successful
participatory approach has become an effective contribution to community reconciliation
and thus far the Project has been able to implement the community development
component that was the cement for Project activities.

The following lessons of wide and general application can be drawn from the successful
implementation of BURSAP II:

    a) Community participation can ensure ownership by the communities of the whole
       approach and process, including community mobilization and the selection of
       sub-projects, the monitoring of construction and the subsequent operation and
       maintenance of infrastructure.
    b) In an emergency and civil conflict context, there is a need for simplicity of
       project design for delivering urgently needed support quickly, taking into account



                                              19

       the limited local capacity for project execution.
    c) During a civil conflict, it is essential for the implementing agency to maintain
       good relations with all stakeholders in order to implement sub-projects.
    d) In a post conflict phase, there is the potential to work with local governments, if
       these are established.
    e) A social fund can mobilize communities to work with the formal health and
       education structures to supply social services, rather than limit itself to bricks and
       mortar.
    f) The following are some project-specific lessons:
    g) The use of qualified NGOs and other entities to work as Agences d'Encadrement
       has enabled Twitezimbere to carry out the community mobilization in almost the
       whole country in a relatively short period of time. However, Twitezimbere still
       needed to have sufficient technical staff to closely monitor the execution of sub-
       projects in order to ensure that their quality is satisfactory.
    h) ECD activities can be undertaken in rural areas at a low cost provided that
       implementation arrangements are based on community participation and
       emphasize proximity aspects.
    i) The design of a monitoring component for a social fund project should ensure
       that only competent organizations are recruited for implementation.
    j) Subcontracting was a challenge due to limited NGO capacity and administrative
       requirements.
    k) The Bank should have taken early action to design proper indicator to monitor
       poverty.
    l) 11) This type of project could be a key contributor to improved development
       outcomes in a difficult situation.

12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The ICR team has had ad hoc exchanges with Twitezimbere especially on the data
provided. The team has formally requested the Government's comments which were
expected until the last minute. However, a summary of the Borrower's completion report
is provided in Annex 10 of this ICR.

(b) Cofinanciers

Comments have been requested from the Office for Belgian Technical Cooperation but
we have not received any reaction.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                              20

Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

Schedule 2 of the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) objectives were to assist
the Borrower in : (i)strengthening the capacities of local community groups to work
together in selecting, implementing, financing, monitoring and maintaining priority
community services; and (ii) alleviating poverty through the creation of employment
opportunities and the improvement of social services.

The Section A of the PAD objectives were to ensure that : (i) Diverse groups work
together to select, partly finance, monitor and evaluate, use, and maintain their priority
community investments; and (ii) the poorest and most vulnerable groups benefit from
improved social and economic services and improved social protection -- through
transitory wages and social services that limit the risks of poverty.

The key performance indicators for the realization of the Project's objectives were:

   · For Objective 1: (i) Qualitative assessment of cooperation of diverse groups in
        selected projects; (ii) % of women on community development committees
        (CDC) reflects m/f ratio in the commune; (iii) % of projects that reflect
        community priorities; (iv) % contribution of the community to the project in
        material, labor and money; (v) % of CDC that are still functioning one year after
       completion of the infrastructure sub-project; and (vi) % of infrastructure
       adequately maintained one year after completion.

   · For Objective 2: (i) Days of employment created; (ii) number of beneficiaries of
        infrastructure by type: Education, Health, Water supply, Economic infrastructure
        (markets,roads, forestry); (iii) capacity utilization rate of the infrastructure one
        year after construction; (iv) prevalence of wasting, stunting, and underweight
        among pre-school aged children; and (v) qualitative assessment of adult-child
        interaction.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving
authority)

The original project development objectives (PDO) were not revised.




                                              21

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                                                         Actual Value Achieved
  Indicator     Baseline         Original Target          Formally

                  Value      Values (from approval Revised Target           at Completion or
                                   documents)              Values             Target Years
Indicator 1 : Evaluation of the cooperation of diverse groups in the choice of infrastructure
Value
(quantitative Not
or            Available      positive                 Not Applicable    positive

Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/07/1999     12/31/2005               12/31/2005        06/30/2006
Comments      No baseline info was available at appraisal. Based on the previous project's ICR
(incl. %      (positive), this qualitative indicator was monitored through supervision missions,
achievement) MTR and in the end of project (EOP) social audit.
Indicator 2 : Percent of women in CDCs
Value
(quantitative Not
or            Available      30%                      Not Applicable    41%

Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/07/1999     12/31/2005               12/31/2005        06/30/2006

Comments      No baseline info was available at appraisal. The project performance at MTR

(incl. %      (40%) and at completion (41%) is documented in the final social audit. Arusha

achievement)  Peace Agreement and strong political commitment have resulted in 30% m/f ratio
              after 2005 elections.
Indicator 3 : Subprojects that reflect community priorities
Value
(quantitative Not
or            Available      100%                     Not Applicable    100%

Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/07/1999     12/31/2005               12/31/2005        06/30/2006
Comments      Documented through Implementation Status Reports (ISRs), MTR, final social
(incl. %      and technical audits. All Sub-projects were identified through 'participatory rural
achievement) appraisal' methodology.
Indicator 4 : Percentage of community contribution to projects (in kind or in cash)
Value
(quantitative
or            15%            12%                      7%                8.5%

Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000     12/31/2003               12/31/2005        06/30/2006
Comments      Initial target was 12% vs 15% achieved at completion of BURSAP I. The Bank
(incl. %      agreed to a reduction of the target to 7% because of extreme poverty, famine and
achievement) drought. The project performance was 11.6% at MTR vs 8.5% at completion.
              Source:Technical audit.




                                                 22

Indicator 5 : Percentage of Community Development Committees that are operational one year
              after completion of their infrastructure sub-project
Value
(quantitative 0              80%                       Not Applicable     80% - see comment
or                                                                        below
Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/07/1999     12/31/2005                12/31/2005         06/30/2006
Comments      Based on sites visits and ISRs, both Technical and Social Audits have concluded
(incl. %      on significant achievements. Though no specific analytical work was done, the
achievement) estimated achievement is as high as 80%.

Indicator 6 : Percentage of infrastructure sub-projects adequately maintained one year after
              completion
Value
(quantitative Not                                                         90% - see comment
or            Applicable     95%                       Not Applicable     below
Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/07/1999     12/31/2005                12/31/2005         06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %      Technical and Social audits were much positive but no specific analytical work

achievement)  was done. Estimated achievement is 90%.

Indicator 7 : Number of days of (temporary) employment created
Value
(quantitative Not
or            Applicable     350,000                   Not Applicable     1,431,250

Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/07/1999     12/31/2005                12/31/2005         06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %      Source: Reports prepared by Twitezimbere
achievement)
Indicator 8 : Infrastructure Utilization Rate one year after completion
Value
(quantitative Not                                                         95% - see comment
or            Applicable     95%                       Not Applicable     below
Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/07/1999     12/31/2005                12/31/2005         06/30/2006

Comments      Estimated achievement at MTR was 95%. Nationwide, occupation of classrooms

(incl. %      is at least 200%. Health facilities that are 100% functioning receive 20% of

achievement)  expected patients but this is a health sector issue. Pre-school circles have been
              overcrowded.
Indicator 9 : Malnutrition Rate (weight/age) of children under 6
Value
(quantitative Not                                                         18.35% (not measured at
or            Available      Not available             15%                completion)
Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/07/1999     12/31/2003                12/31/2005         09/30/2002
Comments      The rate of 18.35% resulted from a national MICS survey that was made in 2002.
(incl. %      The target of 15% was therefore proposed for the supplemental financing during
achievement) 2003-2005. No survey was conducted at completion.



                                                23

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                             Original Target                                   Actual Value

  Indicator    Baseline        Values (from          Formally Revised           Achieved at
                 Value           approval              Target Values          Completion or
                                documents)                                     Target Years

Indicator 1 : Number of participatory assessments to prepare community development sub-
              projects and plans (number of communes)
Value
(quantitative
or            0            73                    Not Applicable            93

Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/07/1999 12/31/2003              12/31/2005                06/30/2006

Comments      Twitezimbere had targeted the 73 poorest communes based on a poverty index

(incl. %      calculated by ISTEEBU at the time of appraisal. At completion 100% or 116 rural

achievement)  communes had been covered by diverse sources, 93 of which were covered by
              Twitezimbere.

Indicator 2 : Community infrastructure sub-projects completed (average number of sub-
              projects per year)
Value
(quantitative                                    100 (was the proposed

or            0            Not Determined        target for 2003-2005      203

Qualitative)                                     supplemental financing)

Date achieved 10/31/2002 12/31/2005              12/31/2005                06/30/2006
Comments      At MTR, the Project average performance amounted to 123 infrastructure sub-
(incl. %      projects per year. At completion, a total of 1,219 sub-projects were completed.
achievement) See table in Annex 4 for details.

Indicator 3 : Number of Agreements/Contracts signed with intermediary NGOs, community
              based organizations (CBOs), and SMEs
Value
(quantitative
or            0            Not Determined        Not Applicable            1519

Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/07/1999 12/31/2005              12/31/2005                03/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %      At mid-term Twitezimbere had signed 193 contracts.
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Number of Members of CDCs trained in Child Health and Nutrition
Value
(quantitative
or            0            Not Determined        Not Applicable            740

Qualitative)
Date achieved 10/31/2002 12/31/2005              12/31/2005                06/30/2006
Comments      Twitezimbere had trained 340 participants at MTR.
(incl. %
achievement)




                                              24

Indicator 5 : People receiving IEC on ECD
Value
(quantitative
or            0             Not determined        Not Applicable           112,240

Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1999 12/31/2005               12/31/2005               06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %      Achievement at MTR (2002) was 74,085 participants
achievement)
Indicator 6 : Quality of infrastructure
Value
(quantitative Not
or            measured      favorable             Not Applicable           favorable

Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/07/1999 12/31/2005               12/31/2005               06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %      Qualitative value, as observed during ICR mission and reported by social and

achievement)  technical audits.

Indicator 7 : Cost of administration as a percentage of total disbursements
Value
(quantitative Not
or            Available     10%                   Not Applicable           9.77%

Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/07/1999 12/31/2005               12/31/2005               06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %      Twiteximbere claimed spending less than 2% overhead as a percentage of total

achievement)  infrastructure investment.

Indicator 8 : Mean length of the sub-project cycle, from identification to completion (in
              months)
Value
(quantitative Not
or            Applicable    3.0                   Not Applicable           4.5 months

Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/07/1999 12/31/2005               12/31/2005               06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %      Based on 11 months average length at MTR, The target of 8 months was therefore

achievement)  proposed for 2003-2005 supplemental financing, which has been widely achieved.

Indicator 9 : Statistical surveys undertaken
Value
(quantitative
or            0             4                     2                        2

Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/07/1999 12/31/2003               12/31/2005               06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %      The initial target of one survey per year has proven unachievable, even not

achievement)  relevant. By MTR the target was reduced from 4 to 2 surveys in all.




                                               25

Annex 2. Restructuring (if any)

Not Applicable




                                   26

Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


            Components                 Appraisal        Actual/Latest     Percentage of
                                   Estimate (USD M) Estimate (USD M)       Appraisal
COMMUNITY INVESTMENTS --
PARTICIPATION                                  1.80                 1.30          72.22

COMMUNITY INVESTMENTS:
INFRASTRUCTURE                                14.40               18.80          130.56

COMMUNITY INVESTMENTS:
EARLY CHILD DEV.                               4.50                 6.60         146.67

POVERTY MONITORING                             1.70                 1.00          58.82
ADMINISTRATION                                 2.00                 3.00         150.00
                Total Baseline Cost           24.40               30.70
Physical Contingencies                         2.60
Price Contingencies                            1.10
                Total Project Costs           28.10
Front-end fee PPF                              0.00                 0.00           0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                             0.00                 0.00           0.00
         Total Financing Required             28.10               30.70



(b) Financing


                                             Appraisal
       Source of Funds           Type of                   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                               Cofinancing Estimate (USD
                                                 M)     Estimate (USD M)    Appraisal

 Borrower                                           1.10              0.90        81.82
 INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT                                        26.20             27.20       103.82
ASSOCIATION




                                          27

(c) Disbursement Profile




                            28

Annex 4. Outputs by Component

Part A or Component 1. Community activities and investments

Sub-component 1 -- Mobilization and strengthening of community capacity

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

The process
1.1. 1     The process starts with the choice of communes to be served, that will be
included in each annual work program approved by the Executive Committee of
Twitezimbere. The selection criteria are the poorest communes or the communes with the
least economic or social infrastructure based on the poverty index developed by the
ISTEEBU, and the communes with the highest proportion of returnees in the population.
Twitezimbere selects and recruits qualified NGOs or other entities that will work as
Agences d'Encadrement for project implementation.

1.1. 2 The process of community mobilization can be summarized as follows.
Twitezimbere and/or the Agence d'Encadrement organize public meetings to inform the
population about the project and to seek their views on development of their commune. On
the basis of these consultations, the population elects a community development committee
(CDC). Twitezimbere and/or the Agence d'Encadrement then work with the committee to
produce a community development plan that lists their priority investments. The
community development plan is then validated through a public meeting, and approved by
the local Authority or Administrateur de Commune. The CDC mobilizes the population's
contribution in labor and materials, monitors construction and maintains their investments.
The participatory process brings the major ethnic and social groups together to work on
investments that are in their common interest and, in this way, supports national
reconciliation.

Activities

1.1. 3 At the beginning of the project, an issue was that Twitezimbere staff seemed more
interested in building infrastructure, and in particular water supply sub-projects, rather than
in getting the community mobilization started. The Bank approved only a small amount of
such infrastructure to respond to government requests for provision of water supply to
some health centers built under BURSAP I. There was clearly a trade-off, over the medium
term, between delivery of community infrastructure in the field and deepening of
community participation. In 2000, Twitezimbere started to build capacity for community
mobilization and decision making through intensive training of mobilizers (Agences
d'Encadrement). The aim was to increase capacity of community mobilization in 2000 so
that the project could accelerate delivery of infrastructure in later years.

1.1. 4 In 2000, Twitezimbere successfully launched the community mobilization process
in rural areas. First, Twitezimbere formed 5 teams of mobilizers and trained them through a
learning-by-doing exercise in the field. Then, the teams mobilized the population in 8



                                              29

communes, by organizing community meetings where they encouraged community
members to articulate their problems and identify alternative solutions.
Fortunately, Twitezimbere was able to persuade people from all ethnic groups to
participate in the meetings. The process concluded with agreement on community
development plans that list sub-projects by order of priority and on community
development committees to guide execution and maintenance. Twitezimbere took
community participation further than originally planned by direct election of the
development committees, a very desirable step. Twitezimbere formalized this innovation
within the manual of procedures and sought the approval of Government for this change.
Twitezimbere was able to integrate local administration, and in particular the
Administrateurs de Commune, into the participatory process. Moreover, early on the
Ministry of Plan decided that all community projects should be identified through a
participatory process. Twitezimbere was also able to persuade the UNDP and the UNHCR
to accept the identification of sub-projects selected through this participative process.
Coordination efforts with other donors have led to agreement with the UNDP to finance
several sub-projects that appear on the plans but could not be financed through the IDA
credit, including a half million dollar potable water project in Kirundo province. In 2000,
the participatory process was completed in 16 communes and begun in a further 3
communes, nearing the objective of 20 communes for the calendar year.

1.1. 5 In 2001, Twitezimbere contracted individuals for undertaking rapid rural
appraisals, establishing 15 fully operational teams. The project supported 41 rural
appraisals (for 41 communes) from its launch in January 2000 to end-February 2001. This
means that the project had already begun to serve about a third of the communes inBurundi
and was running well ahead of schedule. By June 2001, Twitezimbere had achieved a
striking success by mobilizing 68 communes, more than half the communes in the country,
during the first 18 months of project execution. The magnitude of this achievement should
not be underestimated, considering that the country was engaged in a complex civil and
ethnic conflict. The project contributed to peace building as well as development by
engaging all groups in activities that serve their common interest. Projects supported by the
IFAD, Action Aid and others have also mobilized a sizeable number of communes and
established community development committees. Therefore, by the end of 2001, most of
the communes in the country had been mobilized, with only the most unsecured communes
remaining un-mobilized. The completion of so many plans was a major success because
Twitezimbere could now finance the priority investments chosen by the population.

1.1. 6 Impressively, by the end of 2002, Twitezimbere had completed the community
mobilization process. Out of 116 communes, 93 CDCs had submitted their Community
Development Plans. IFAD and other donors, using the same methods, had mobilized nearly
all other communes. Only a few (4) particularly conflict-stricken communes have not been
mobilized. The completed plans have formed a basis for financing of small scale-
community investments by Twitezimbere and by other donors, such as IFAD, the UNDP
and the European Community.

1.1. 7 In connection with the supplemental financing signed in April 2003, the project
had initially targeted the 65 communes containing the poorest and most vulnerable groups.



                                              30

The number of supported communes was later increased to 73 including the remaining 4
war-affected communes that were finally mobilized in 2005.
1.1. 8 Twitezimbere assisted CDCs to update development action plans. The project
developed or updated community development plans in 93 communes to reintegrate the
relatively important numbers of war-affected persons, including returnees and internally
displaced people. In the communes, CDCs were restructured to integrate returnees,
internally displaced persons, as well as demobilized ex-combatants.

A few comments

1.1. 9 The updated action plans were validated by multiple partners such as: beneficiary
representatives, CBOs, local and international NGOs as well as churches, members of
Parliament and Senate, local administrations, etc.

1.1. 10 The Bank showed flexibility in adapting to changed circumstances. In December
2001, the Bank agreed to a request from Twitezimbere to reduce the minimum contribution
from the beneficiary population from 12% to 7% of sub-project cost because of the
drought, the conflict situation and the population movements; the reduction was to be for
one year, up to the end of 2002. With the supplemental financing, the financing ceiling was
increased from US$75,000 to US$100,000 per commune to take into account increases in
costs and to allow for the financing of small rural roads. At the end of 2005, the ceiling was
further increased to US$125,000 for the poorest communes that could not mobilize the
additional financing necessary to carry out their priority sub-projects.

1.1. 11 Participatory exercises were organized in close collaboration with other partners
involved in the community development area, including the IDA-financed Public Works
and Employment Creation Project and the IFAD-financed Rural Development Recovery
Project.

1.1. 12 In connection with the community mobilization and participation, Twitezimbere
carried out many different activities, including: (i) information meetings with beneficiaries
on community sub-projects in the priority communes; (ii) sensitization meetings with
partners at the level of the provinces; (iii) follow up workshops with Agences
d'Encadrement; (iv) training of members of the CDCs; (v) workshops for self-evaluation
by CDCs; and (vi) inter-province visits for exchange of experience between CDCs. In this
context, number of provinces have set up provincial action plans based on the outcome of
Twitezimbere-led participatory processes in respective communes.

1.1. 13 Technical and social audits were generally positive regarding the quality of
community mobilization and participation, but they did point out a few weaknesses. For
example, in 2002 the technical and engineering audit reported that Commune
Administrators were not as engaged in the sub-projects as intended in project design, and
that this should become an area for improvement over the next year. The technical and
social audit found that the share of women in the highest (commune level) CDCs was
smaller than in the lower (colline and sous-colline level) committees.




                                               31

1.1. 14 With regard to community participation, the Mid-term Review Report prepared by
Government (October 2002), which favorably reviews project performance and reserves
particular praise for its participatory approach, recommended that Twitezimbere conduct
participative evaluations -through public meetings- at the completion of each infrastructure
sub-project. The aim would be to gather quick feedback on the quality of the sub-projects.

Achievements

1.1. 15 The election by the populations of the communes of community development
committees was quite an achievement, since at the time Burundi did not have elections or
local government but rather a highly centralized administration (administrateurs de
communes were local representatives of the central government).

1.1. 16 Twitezimbere prepared methodology and terms of reference, and was the leader,
for community consultation for the preparation of the PRSP.

1.1. 17 Twitezimbere contributed to exchange of experience on community participation in
connection with other projects financed by IDA or other donors in agriculture, rural
development, education, roads and public works.

Conclusions

1.1. 18 Most related project development objective (PDO)'s indicators have been achieved.
In particular, the project has succeeded in implementing Community Development
Committees and Community Development Plans in all the communes in Burundi.
Twitezimbere has been involved and has taken a leadership role in the design and
implementation of the process of PRSP community consultations. BURSAP outcomes have
paved the way for the Government policy for decentralization. Lessons learned have
proven useful for the preparation of a new IDA follow-up operation (social and community
development project under preparation). Moreover, the recently approved legal framework
(Loi Communale) includes Community Development Committees (Comité Communal de
Développement Communautaire) which will be put in place shortly, integrating former
CDCs elected under BURSAPII.

Sub-component 2 -- Contracting for infrastructure

Rating: Satisfactory

1.2. 1 Rapid progress in community mobilization paved the way for future progress in
realization of infrastructure sub-projects, since the mobilized communes have selected sub-
projects for project financing. Twitezimbere finances the priority investments that appear in
the community development plans, up to a maximum cost of US$75,000 per commune (the
investments in each commune are referred to as a single sub-project).

1.2. 2 In 2000, Twitezimbere started work in 3 communes on 15 sub-projects that were
identified as priorities in their community development plans, but the process accelerated



                                              32

quickly. As shown in the table below, the project has completed a large number of
relatively small water sub-projects but only a few larger sub-projects such as schools and
health centers. During the whole BURSAP II, Twitezimbere financed and completed 1,219
sub-projects, as follows:

Table: number of completed sub-projects by type and by year

     Type of sub-        2000     2001    2002    2003 2004 2005  2006     Total     Cost /
       project                                                                        sub-
                                                                                    project
                                                                                    US$ (1)
 Water spring               10      121     416     72    0    0              619        485
 Water supply                3        4       5      4    9    8      5        38     18,984
 Community college           1        9      32     16   25   27      4       114     37,164
 Primary school              0        9      43     21   22   34     12       141     47,149
 Housing for                 0        2       8      4    2    3      4        23     26,841
 teachers
 Health center               0        6      13     37   11   10     17        94     35,920
 Shelter for pre-
 school circle               0        0      16     21   17   38     86       178     14,934
 Rural roads &
 small bridges               0        1       0      0    0    9      0        10        890
 Social center               1        0       0      0    0    1      0         2      6,633
 Total                      15      152    533     175   86  130   128      1,219     15,308
(1) Average cost per sub-project in US$ equivalent

1.2. 3 The main constraint on execution has been the difficulty of raising community
contribution of 12 percent of sub-project costs in labor, local materials or cash. The
constraint arose from the project mandate to serve the poorest communes first, especially
since these were suffering from a drought and subsequent shortage of food. There was
clearly a tension between the requirement of a 12 percent community contribution as a
means of assuring that the community truly wants and will maintain the sub-project, and
the objective of targeting the poorest communes. This tension has been worsened by
drought, severe malnutrition, and even famine in several of the poorest communes,
especially in the northern provinces. To ease this tension, Twitezimbere and the Bank
agreed to reduce the community contribution to 7 percent for regions where the World
Food Program had formally declared a famine. Furthermore, the Bank agreed that
Twitezimbere could pay for transport of materials (bricks, gravel, sand, wood) contributed
by the community. Actually, communities contributed on average about 8 percent of the
costs of sub-projects, mostly in labor and raw materials such as bricks, gravel and sand,
compared to the objective of 7 percent.

1.2. 4 Another constraint which manifested itself in recent years was the sizeable increase
in construction costs, with many communities unable to fill the gaps between the sub-
project costs and the allocation of US$75,000 per commune. To address this issue, the
Bank agreed to increase the financing ceiling per commune to US$100,000, and later on to
US$125,000.



                                                  33

1.2. 5 Technical and social audit reports commented that the engineering and physical
quality of sub-project works was generally good. The weaknesses in construction resulted
from the absence of sufficient supplies of dry wood for construction (mainly because of the
disappearance of mature forests) and from problems with tile roofs. The technical
specifications were modified to include metal frameworks and sheet-metal roofs. The
audits recommended a doubling of the number of Twitezimbere engineers so that
Twitezimbere could better supervise construction without having to rely on the assistance
of a consulting firm. The audits also found several occasions where there was disagreement
between the Community Development Committees (CDCs) and construction contractors
over payment of workers and the speed of construction; they suggested that these
disagreements could be resolved by increasing the number of site visits by Twitezimbere
engineers. It should be noted that delays in beneficiary contributions were often the reason
why contractors did not respect the implementation schedules. The social component of the
audit also suggested that Twitezimbere will need to work with communities to organize a
greater effort to maintain the works.

1.2. 6 The Mid-Term Review report prepared by the Ministry of Planning with help from
a consultant favorably reviewed project performance and suggested some technical
improvements in execution. Turning to the physical quality of the infrastructure, the report
recommended that Twitezimbere train artisans in construction skills, and especially in tile
and brick production. Finally the report recommended that Twitezimbere complete its
preparation of maintenance manuals of infrastructure (manuals in Kirundi language were
actually prepared) and train maintenance volunteers named by the community development
committees.

1.2. 7 Beneficiary communities are generally quite satisfied with the infrastructure. They
would have liked to be associated with bid evaluation and contract awards but, because the
work was done in Bujumbura, they were not always involved. Also, in some cases the
financing ceiling was not high enough to include in the sub-projects all the items that the
beneficiaries would have liked to have, such as water, or beds and mattresses in health
centers, or housing for teachers. The lack of water in many health centers and pre-school
circles is certainly a major problem.

1.2. 8 Senior officials of the Ministry of Education claimed that they were not consulted
by Twitezimbere on the selection of primary schools and community colleges to be
rehabilitated or reconstructed, and they criticized the quality of the infrastructure works as
being below standards (they mentioned the poor quality of the materials used, and
contractors cheating on quantities). Those comments are rather surprising. The Ministry of
Education, like other ministries, has a focal point for BURSAP that is kept fully informed
by Twitezimbere of its activities in the education sector. Also, the Provincial Education
Directorates and the Bureau de la Carte Scolaire have always approved the selection of
education sub-projects. The Directorates have been associated in the supervision of the
execution of sub-projects; in particular, the Provincial Directors or their representatives
have always signed the minutes of the "checking and acceptance of work upon
completion", an indication that they did not have major problems with the quality of the
works.



                                             34

Sub-component 3 -- Early Childhood Development

Rating: Satisfactory
The process

1.3. 1 The sub-component consists of investments in early child development (ECD) by
supporting services to pre-school children in the areas of nutrition, prevention of infectious
diseases such as malaria, and informal pre-school education. As part of its community
participation effort, Twitezimbere holds community meetings to identify the main
problems of children under 6 and to identify solutions. Then, the communities choose
committees of mothers to act on several of the proposed solutions with support from the
project. Twitezimbere mobilizes and trains groups of mothers that provide basic social
services to pre-school children with the assistance of volunteer coordinators (encadreurs).

The Belgian Grant

1.3. 2 One important characteristic of the sub-component is that it attracted additional
financing. In November 2001, the government of Belgium made available US$882,000 for
parallel financing of the early child development (ECD). The Bank was administrator of
the grant funds provided by the Belgium Directorate General for International Cooperation
(DHIC).

Activities
1.3. 3 Twitezimbere first started pilot ECD programs in 4 communes, and by the end of
the project had extended these activities to 30 additional communes. In total, 34 communes
located in 9 out of the 17 provinces of the country, or about one-third of the number of
communes in Burundi, have been served. The sub-component reached about 450,000
children under age 6.

1.3. 4 The implementation of the sub-component included:

Regarding nutrition

    a) The monitoring of children's nutrition and the recording of their baseline
       information on monitoring cards.
    b) The promotion of production and preparation of micronutrients at community level
       in the 9 ECD provinces. Twitezimbere distributed seeds for vegetable gardens to
       the zone leaders (who, in turn, distributed them to every family in their zone with a
       child under age 6). Twitezimbere promoted household gardens as a means of
       supplementing the nutrition of pre-school children. It supplied seeds and instruction
       for growing carrots, mushrooms, cabbage and soybeans, which have been well
       accepted and were produced in all 34 ECD communes and beyond. About 3,700
       local trainers have been trained in nutrition.




                                             35

Regarding health

  c) The preparation and distribution to all the health centers and chefs de zone and
     members of the committees at the colline level of an educational booklet on health.
  d) The distribution of de-worming medicines (which, incidentally, was effective in
     persuading parents to bring their children to the health centers).
  e) IEC activities and the promotion and distribution of about 266,000 mosquito nets to
     140,000 households in 20 communes.
  f) The start of a supply chain providing 83 rural health centers with essential drugs to
     prevent morbidity and mortality due to malaria, acute respiratory infections, worms,
     and diarrhea.
  g) The implementation at the commune level of community drugstores and elected
     health committees.

Regarding the development of children's cognitive abilities

  h) The establishment of informal pre-school circles to support development of the
     children's cognitive abilities. A total of 196 informal pre-school circles (including
     small shelters for 178 of them) hosting 16,450 children have been built and are
     functioning in the 34 ECD communes, with members of mothers' committees (2-4
     per circle) elected, trained and appointed as trainers.

Regarding training

  i) The preparation of training manuals for the health, nutrition and psycho-social
     activities (and in particular the preschool circles).
  j) With technical support from the Ministries of Agriculture and Health, about
     110,000 persons in 34 communes have benefited from training/IEC workshops in
     nutrition and health.
  k) The training in health and nutrition of community leaders, civil society members
     and local supervisors; over 12,500 kits of training materials have been distributed.
  l) The organization of a workshop on ECD for medical doctors, social workers and
     local administrators.

Regarding mainstreaming

  m) The design of a national integrated ECD policy, with the objective of adapting and
     diffusing at the country level the first pre-school model developed in the country by
     Twitezimbere.
  n) The strengthening of the capacities of the ECD unit at the Ministry of Education.

Regarding other aspects

  o) The preparation of an M&E framework and tools for the ECD sub-component.
  p) The procurement of the goods necessary for execution of health and nutrition
     activities, in particular, medicines, seeds and fertilizer.



                                            36

    q) The purchase of 30 minutes of national radio per week for delivery of messages for
       health, nutrition and other community activities, and for further training of the
       mothers' committees.
    r) The financing of baseline studies on health, nutrition and psycho-social
       development for children under 6 in the 34 ECD communes, and the setting of
       baseline indicators.

1.3. 5 There were implementation delays, particularly regarding the psycho-social
services (preparation of curriculum for training trainers and of a guidebook for activities)
and the distribution of mosquito netting. The delays can be explained by the demands that
rapid execution of community mobilization put on staff. To address the issue, and in order
to increase its supervision efforts, Twitezimbere recruited a staff member with skills in
psycho-social development whose primary responsibility was implementation of the ECD
sub-component. That staff has been posted in Ngozi, a province with many ECD
communes.

1.3. 6 Senior staff of the Ministry of Education commented that Twitezimbere did not
work closely enough with the Ministry and did not properly supervise activities. They also
claimed that the mothers have not shown much appreciation for the work of the volunteer
coordinators, who are now asking the Ministry for some form of compensation for their
work. UNICEF has supported similar activities in neighboring communes, using young
trainers with small wages.Their contention is that a program that relies so much on
voluntarism is not sustainable.

Achievements

1.3. 7 The ECD sub-component served a substantial number of children at a relatively
low cost. According to school directors and teachers, the best students in the lower
classes of primary school are often those that participated in the program. The approach
was well accepted and the program was much in high demand. In a sense, the Government
adopted it when it decided that health care for pregnant women and children of less than 5
years would be free. The ECD sub-component was an important innovation in the project, a
move away from the focus on social and economic infrastructure toward delivery of social
services. It showed that a social fund can mobilize communities to work with the formal
health and education structures to supply social services, rather than limit itself to bricks
and mortar.
1.3. 8 Based on the increasing demand and with technical support from UNICEF and
from Twitezimbere, Government has launched a planning process aimed at extending an
integrated ECD program at the national level. The curricula developed by Twitezimbere's
consultants has been approved by the Ministry of Education and is now being used in the
ECD pre-school circles as well as other private and public pre-school classes in the
country. However, the Government is confronted with the challenge of resource
mobilization. With the government decision for universal access to a free primary
education, the government's commitment to pre-school education may be reduced.




                                            37

Part B or Component 2 -- Poverty Monitoring

Rating: Unsatisfactory

2.1     This component consists of poverty monitoring, through statistics collection,
execution of surveys, and training of statisticians. The major strategic choice made was for
smaller-scale statistical monitoring. BURSAP I had financed a relatively large-scale survey
to produce detailed baseline information on poverty. In contrast, BURSAP II will finance
less expensive surveys that can be repeated to provide up-to-date follow-up information on
the evolution of poverty. Furthermore, those surveys will be oriented towards action to
reduce poverty rather than simply gathering analytical information about poverty. To that
end, the surveys will provide information on the condition of roads, water supply, health
and education services, and local institutions that is necessary for planning reconstruction
programs. The relevant indicators will be selected through a survey of statistics users in the
Government among Donors and NGOs.

The process

2.2     The PAD did not include much information about the content of the component.
However, the project execution plan scheduled one statistical survey per year, and the
training of Burundian statisticians. There have been significant delays, and actual outputs
are quite disappointing. In addition to the completion of the 1998 priority survey, they
consist of only two rapid surveys that were undertaken (over a period of five and a half
years) and, with the exception of some short-term training, no Burundian benefited from
comprehensive training as a statistician.

2.3     One reason for the delay in starting the first rapid survey is that the ISTEEBU
could not start a new survey when it had not yet published the results of the 1998 priority
survey that had been financed under BURSAP I. The 1998 priority survey was to form a
basis for future surveys by providing a basis for comparison. The results of the priority
survey were finally published in February 2001; this delay severely limited its usefulness.
More generally, there have been delays in production of routine statistics and complaints
from several donors.

Activities

2.4     Following the visit to the Bank of two ISTEEBU staff members to make final
correction to the data, the results of the 1998 priority survey were published (in CD-Rom
and through posting on the Bank's internet site) in February 2001.

2.5     Consultants from AFRISTAT visited Burundi to advise the Bank on the underlying
reasons for the near paralysis of the ISTEEBU, carry out an evaluation of the ISTEEBU's
training and institutional needs, and to clarify the reasons for the lack of progress and
propose solutions and ways to build capacity. An AFRISTAT staff produced a report
evaluating the statistical system of Burundi. The report noted that the ISTEEBU budget
was clearly insufficient and that salaries were rather low so that staff had no incentive to



                                              38

stay with ISTEEBU. Its recommendations to increase budget and salaries were beyond the
scope of BURSAP II. Instead, the Bank recommended a retraining program for statisticians
by the Faculty of Economics at the University of Burundi, in consultation with the
ISTEEBU.

2.6      Starting in June 2001, the Bank asked the ISTEEBU to launch a short and rapid
survey (Questionnaire Unifié pour les Indicateurs de Développement -- QUID) to update
the main indicators on living conditions and poverty. The survey agents conducted their
field work from January 20 through April 20, 2002 and all of them returned safely to
Bujumbura. Late delivery of electronic scanners and training of staff in the QUID
methodology were responsible for some delays. The ISTEEBU entered the data into a
computer memory through scanning and ran quality checks. Finally, the ISTEEBU issued
its report on the results of the survey in 2003.

2.7      In 2005/2006, another survey (Questionnaire Unifié pour les Indicateurs de Base
du Bien-être -- QUIBB) was carried out, using the expertise of the Centre Universitaire
d'Etudes Economiques et Sociales (CURDES) ­ a research center of the University of
Burundi­ with the assistance of AFRISTAT's consultants and under the supervision and
control of ISTEEBU. A final report on the QUIBB, together with the results of a
complementary survey on prices, were issued in June 2006.

2.8      The training of Burundian statisticians never began, despite years of effort by
Twitezimbere to work with the ISTEEBU and then the Faculty of Economics and Statistics
at the University of Burundi. There was no progress in launching a training program for
statisticians because of misunderstanding between ISTEEBU and the Faculty of Economics
at the University of Burundi, which was pressing for an overly ambitious program.

Comments

2.9      Like most public institutions, ISTEEBU was severely hit by the longlasting civil
unrest; it had a very weak management and a lack of qualified statisticians. It was very
difficult for Twitezimbere to undertake proper monitoring of the statistical component by
directly contracting ISTEEBU's consultant services. One of the constraints to
improvement was that the Bank budget for supervision did not allow adequate supervision
of the component. It turned out to be difficult to find and fund a statistician to supervise the
component and to provide technical advice to the ISTEEBU.

2. 10    Although there was general agreement that BURSAP resources could be used to
update social indicators and the poverty profile as required by the PRSP process, the
ISTEEBU failed to deliver. To some extent, this component's objectives overlap with other
donor-funded operations (UNDP, European Union (EU), and the African Development
Bank (AfDB)) as well as one recently approved IDA Project (Economic Management
Support Project). The resulting lack of hard data on economic and social conditions is
impeding project monitoring, government fiscal planning, and preparation of projects by
donors.




                                              39

Conclusions

2. 11    The results of the 1998 priority survey have been used by Twitezimbere for the
selection of communes. Although results of 2002 QUID survey have been used with delay,
they have proven useful for other Bank supported analytical work such as preparation of
the interim PRSP (2005) and poverty assessment (2005), Education Country status Report
(2006); Health Sector Note (2006). As for the QUIBB 2005 survey, the report was
delivered in June 2006 and the results have not been used so far.

2. 12    There has been basically no progress in building the capacity of the ISTEEBU.
Over the years, the ISTEEBU has not been very diligent to prepare a program for training
of its staff or any technical proposals for future surveys as had been agreed.

Part C or Component 3 ­ Administration

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

3.1      Overall, the management of the project by Twitezimbere has been highly
satisfactory. Twitezimbere has handled the community investments component very
efficiently; its management of the poverty monitoring component has not been a great
success, but this was probably something beyond its control.

3.2      The Executive Committee and the General Assembly of Twitezimbere met
regularly to approve the programs of work and activity reports for the project.

3.3      To carry out activities, Twitezimbere contracted with qualified NGOs or other
entities to work as coordinating agencies (Agences d'Encadrement), with small and
medium enterprises for the construction of infrastructure and with consulting firms for the
design and the supervision of works.

3.4      Various audits have documented a constant improvement in performance in
technical expertise in community development and in fiduciary management. The external
financial audits of the accounts have been unqualified. Procurement reviews did not find
any significant problems, and the technical and social audit concluded that procurement
rules have been respected. Technical audit reports assessed the quality of the infrastructure
as generally good.

3.5      The project had the highest performance rating among 10 projects in the review of
the fiduciary management of the IDA portfolio in February 2006.

3.6      The IDA credit and supplemental grant as well as the Belgian Grant have been
fully disbursed.




                                              40

Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis)

A cost-benefit analysis of the Project is not feasible because of the difficulty of measuring
benefits in a rural economy where data are scarce and where goods, services and labor are
often not traded and, therefore, are difficult to value in money terms. However, a summary
analysis of a few costs shows that Twitezimbere has achieved a low cost of administration,
and that unit costs of construction are lower than for other projects. The figures show that
BURSAP II has been a cost efficient project.

Costs of Administration

Annex 3 on "Project Costs and Financing" shows that the actual/latest estimate of the cost
of component 3 on "Administration" is about 10% of the total cost of the Project. The cost
of administration includes operating expenses and many other expenditures such as audits
and capacity building, so that operating expenses are less than 10% of the total project
costs. There are no recent comparative figures readily available for social funds in Africa ,
but usually ratios of 10-12% are considered an indication of good performance.
Twitezimbere claims that operating expenses are equal to about 2% of the amount
disbursed for the infrastructure, and about 1.4% of total disbursements, but Twitezimbere
has not provided satisfactory evidence of such low percentages. Nevertheless, there is no
question that Twitezimbere is an efficient organization.

Construction Costs

The table below shows that, as was already the case for BURSAP I, unit costs of
construction, per square meter, of primary schools, community colleges and health centers
are lower than for other projects.

 Type of                                         Cost per square meter - in FBU
 Infrastructure
                                 Twitezimbere                  ABUTIP              Belgian-Burundian
                                                                                            Fund
 Primary school                     110,993                    162,427                       n.a.
 Community college                  116,591                       n.a.                     168,800
 Health center                      184,564                    300,255                       n.a.
Note: The areas are the same for primary schools (646.2 square meters) and health centers (666.1 square
meters), but not for community colleges (544.1 square meters for a community college by Twitezimbere and
1,022 square meters for a community college by the Belgian-Burundian Fund).




                                                   41

Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

          Names                           Title                 Unit     Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Agnes Albert-Loth       Senior Finance Officer                LOAG2   FMS
Anne Anglio             Senior Program Assistant              AFTH3   Program Assistant
Siaka Bakayoko          Senior Financial Management Specialist MNAFM  FMS
Pascale Helene Dubois   Senior Institutional Integrity        INT     Lawyer
Pamphile Kantabaze      Senior Operations Officer              AFTH3  Health/Education/ECD/CDD
Anne Kielland           Consultant                            AFTH2   ECD
Markus Kostner          Country Program Coordinator           MNCA4   Community Development
Essimi Menye            Consultant                            AFTQK   Statistics
T. Mpoy-Kamulayi        Lead Counsel                          LEGAF   Lawyer
Susan Opper             Senior Education Specialist            AFTH3  Education/ECD
Christine Lao Pena      Senior Human Development Economist    LCSHH   ECD
Menahem M. Prywes       Senior Economist                      ECSHD   TTL/Poverty
Rene E. Welter          Consultant                            AFTPC   Procurement
Supervision/ICR
Diane Coury             Consultant                            AFTH2   Operations, ECD
Jacinthe Desmarais      Consultant                            AFTH3   Early Childhood Development
Bella Lelouma Diallo    Senior Financial Management Specialist AFTFM  FMS
Yvette Laure Djachechi  Senior Social Development Specialist   AFTS3  Environment & CDD
Michael P. Fowler       Senior Finance Officer                LOAG2   Disbursement
Pamphile Kantabaze      Senior Operations Officer              AFTH3  Health, Education, CDD
Eric Mabushi            Economist                             AFTP3   Community Development
Myrina D. McCullough    Consultant                            AFTH3   Operations
Isabella Micali Drossos Senior Counsel                        LEGLA   Counsel
Joseph Kizito Mubiru    Senior Financial Management Specialist AFTFM  FMS
Prosper Nindorera       Senior Procurement Specialist          AFTPC  Procurement
Deo-Marcel Niyungeko    Municipal Engineer                    AFTU2   Community Infrastructure
Seraphine Nsabimana     Program Assistant                     AFMBI   Program Assistant
Susan Opper             Senior Education Specialist            AFTH3  ECD, Education
Menahem M. Prywes       Senior Economist                      ECSHD   Poverty Economist
Emmanuel Tchoukou       Financial Management Specialist        AFTFM  FMS
Jean-Paul Zoyem         Consultant                            AFTPM   Poverty Monitoring




                                                    42

(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

No.     Date ISR Archived            DO               IP            Actual Disbursements (USD M)
1    03/13/2000                 Satisfactory   Satisfactory                    0.50
2    09/13/2000                 Satisfactory   Satisfactory                    0.50
3    12/21/2000                 Satisfactory   Satisfactory                    0.84
4    03/30/2001                 Satisfactory   Satisfactory                    1.06
5    06/25/2001                 Satisfactory   Satisfactory                    1.53
6    12/26/2001                 Satisfactory   Satisfactory                    3.09
7    05/09/2002                 Satisfactory   Satisfactory                    4.85
8    06/03/2002                 Satisfactory   Satisfactory                    5.38
9    11/07/2002                 Satisfactory   Satisfactory                    7.39
10   06/10/2003                 Satisfactory   Satisfactory                    9.86
11   12/23/2003                 Satisfactory   Satisfactory                  11.82
12   06/29/2004                 Satisfactory   Satisfactory                  13.76
13   12/21/2004                 Satisfactory   Satisfactory                  16.35
14   05/16/2005                 Satisfactory   Satisfactory                  19.21
15   12/13/2005                 Satisfactory   Satisfactory                  25.12
16   06/29/2006                 Satisfactory   Satisfactory                  27.84

(c) Staff Time and Cost
                                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
          Stage of Project Cycle
                                             No. of staff weeks     USD Thousands (including travel and
                                                                             consultant costs)
Lending
                  FY99                                                           87.44
                  FY00                              24                           45.88
                  FY01                                                            0.00
                  FY02                                                            0.00
                  FY03                                                            0.00
                  FY04                                                            0.00
                                   Total:           24                          133.32
Supervision/ICR
                  FY99                                                            8.02
                  FY00                              15                           27.50
                  FY01                              26                           61.29
                  FY02                              26                           82.80
                  FY03                              28                           81.77
                  FY04                              18                            0.00
                  FY05                              18                           12.71
                  FY06                              13                           19.47
                  FY07                                5                          31.64
                                   Total:          149                          325.20




                                                 43

Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

        Bank                    Ratings        Borrower             Ratings
Ensuring Quality at
Entry:                  Satisfactory      Government:       Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory      Implementing
                                          Agency/Agencies:  Highly Satisfactory

Overall Bank                              Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory      Performance:      Satisfactory




                                         44

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)

Since this is a Core ICR, there has not been any beneficiary survey at the end of the
Project. However, in early 2006 an individual consultant carried out a social audit of
BURSAP II.
The final report of the social audit issued in April 2006, indicates that the communities
are satisfied with the Project. The populations had the following comment: "Only
Twitezimbere has not abandoned us. Twitezimbere stayed with us and helped us very
much".
The following are some of the findings of the social audit:

    a) The process of community participation, with the establishment of community
        development committees (CDC) in all the communes, is a great achievement,
        considering the country circumstances and the socio-political situation.
    b) The CDC could be used by all donors that want to rely on community
        participation. However, the functioning of the CDC is sometimes difficult,
        particularly in cases where they are not fully accepted by local authorities. The
        beneficiaries commented on the fact that there are many committees, but they
        prefer the CDC because of their concrete realizations. In some cases, the lack of
        diversity with an insufficient representation of women and youth was cited as a
        problem. Another problem was the workload and lack of resources of
        community leaders who volunteer their time for the benefit of the community.
    c) All infrastructure financed by Twitezimbere are priorities of the populations,
        which contributed on average about 8.5% of the sub-project costs in the form of
        local construction materials or in cash. However, because of the lack of
        resources, the completed sub-projects are not sufficient; there is a need for more
        infrastructures in view of the increase in population. The beneficiaries criticize
        the absence of water, particularly in health facilities and the pre-school circles.
        The communities would like to be better informed of the day-to-day monitoring
        of construction done by the Agences d'Encadrement; they would also like to see
        a greater field supervision done by Twitezimbere staff.
    d) Efforts have been made by the beneficiaries to maintain the completed sub-
        projects, through the establishment of a maintenance sub-committee (of the
        CDC) and a maintenance fund to pay for small repairs, or through the
        recruitment of a guard paid by the community. Also, communities have tried to
        establish the principle that "whoever destroys or breaks should pay". However,
        the importance of maintenance is not understood and appreciated by everybody.

The early child development activities are greatly appreciated by the populations for the
obvious reasons that they contribute to a satisfactory physical and intellectual
development of children and for the few advantages that they provide to families
(drugs, vaccines, and agricultural inputs). The pre-school circles are overpopulated;
there is a need for more circles and more encadreurs. Questions related to the
"compensation" to be given to the volunteer coordinators (encadreurs ) and provision
of snacks for the children have been recurring problems because of the extreme
poverty.



                                             45

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)

Not applicable - Since this is a Core ICR, no stakeholder workshop was held at the end of
the project.




                                            46

Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


                        REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI

       MINISTRY OF DEVELOPMENT PLANNING AND NATIONAL
                          RECONSTRUCTION

            MANAGEMENT UNIT OF TWITEZIMBERE ASBL
                      (A Not-For-Profit Organization)




                  SECOND SOCIAL ACTION PROJECT
                  COMPLETION REPORT SUMMARY



                            FINAL VERSION




                                 JUNE 2006




                                    47

                         SECOND SOCIAL ACTION PROJECT
                        SUMMARY OF COMPLETION REPORT

I. INTRODUCTION

I.1. Mission framework

The Government of the Republic of Burundi has benefited primarily from IDA financing
for the implementation of its Second Social Action Project (BURSAP II), which is
governed by the following financing agreements: (i) IDA credit agreement No. 3287-BU
of October 28, 1999 in the amount of SDR 9 million; and (ii) IDA grant agreement No.
H033-BU of April 14, 2004 in the amount of SDR 10.3 million.
The project seeks to: (i) encourage the various community groups to work together,
within the context of crisis recovery, for the selection, partial financing, monitoring and
evaluation, and conduct and sustainability of priority and common interest activities, and
(ii) help the poorest and most vulnerable groups gain access to better economic and
social services, including social welfare, through incomes, regular employment, and
social facilities, thereby reducing the risk of being condemned to poverty.
 The credit agreement signed between the World Bank and the Government stipulates
that the borrower draft the completion report in order to evaluate the project's
performance and learn lessons from its implementation.

I.2. Work methodology

The consultant worked closely with the management team and technical departments of
Twitezimbere ASBL [association sans but lucratif--nonprofit association]. He first
consulted the main project-related documents in order to compare their content, at the
appropriate time, with what had been observed on the ground. This was followed by
thematic discussions and interviews with the various partners involved in the project's
design and implementation with a view to supplementing, confirming, or refuting the
findings of the project documentation.

II. PRESENTATION OF THE SECOND SOCIAL ACTION PROJECT

II.1. Project components

The social action program itself has three components:

     · Social mobilization and community participation based on the design and
        implementation of a participatory approach for the selection, financing,
        execution, monitoring, and maintenance of community activities and facilities;
     · Monitoring of poverty, which includes capacity-building of the Institut de
        statistiques et d'études économiques du Burundi (ISTEEBU) [Burundi Institute of
        Statistics and Economic Research] and other statistics organizations to enable
        them to monitor and analyze poverty; and
     · Administration and management, which includes capacity-building of the entity



                                              48

        responsible for implementing BURSAP II and of the partners (authorities,
        community organizations, NGOs, and supervisory agencies) for the execution,
        coordination, oversight, and monitoring of project implementation.

II.2. Project financing

Project financing came from two primary sources: (i) IDA credit No. 3287 BU in the
amount of SDR 9 million, and (ii) the IDA grant in the amount of US$14.2 million as
supplementary financing.

II.3. Project implementation strategies

The participatory approach, which involves consultation, mobilization, and capacity-
building through discussions with the people first and then with their elected
representatives, will be used throughout the life of the project. This process aims at
identifying development problems experienced at the grassroots level (collines), selecting
the priority activities, prioritizing them, designing projects to be implemented, and
delegating the responsibilities of the various partners regarding the execution,
monitoring, and maintenance of the resulting subprojects.

II. ACHIEVEMENTS OF BURSAP II

III.1. Social mobilization

Twitezimbere ASBL intervention helped to establish Community Development
Committees (CDCs) and to build awareness among the people for effective participation
in the planning, implementation, and sustainability of the socioeconomic infrastructure.

III. 2. Rehabilitation and construction of social infrastructure

Construction of infrastructure focused in particular on social sectors such as education,
health, and drinking water. During the period covered by BURSAP II, the following
infrastructure was constructed: (i) 159 preschool circles, (ii) 141 schools, (iii) 131
communal schools (schools designed to improve local access to secondary education),
(iv) 23 apartment buildings (homes), (v) 94 health centers, (vi) 619 rehabilitated springs,
(vii) 37 water supply systems, and (viii) seven trails and small bridges.

II. 3. Early child development program (ECD)

The ECD covers 34 communes chosen from among the poorest communes and includes
activities to combat poverty by:

    · sensitizing people to the importance of balanced nutrition, hygiene, maternal and
        infant health, and child cognitive development; and
    · providing material and organizational support to set up mothers' committees and




                                               49

        health committees.

To achieve these objectives, Twitezimbere ASBL carried out the following activities:

     · Construction of preschool circles;
     · Training of supervisors at the preschool circles;
     · Distribution of agricultural inputs (1,250 kg of cabbage, 1,250 kg of carrots, 125
        metric tons of KCl, 125 metric tons of urea, and 500 liters of Dursban insecticide)
        to households with children attending the preschool circles, to supervisors, and to
        households with children under six from communes benefiting from ECD
        activities;
     · Distribution of medicines for the most common diseases among young children
        (0 to 6 years);
     · Distribution of 266,608 mosquito nets; and
     · Establishment of mothers' committees and health committees.

III.4. Monitoring changes in poverty

During implementation of BURSAP II, the project financed the finalization of the
priority survey launched during the 1998-1999 period, the 2002 QUID survey
(development indicators survey), the 2005-2006 CWIQ survey (Core Welfare Indicators
Questionnaire), and the price survey supplementing the CWIQ survey.

III.5. Administration and management

(i) Administrative management

The Government of Burundi, in agreement with the World Bank, has entrusted the
execution of the social action project to Twitezimbere ASBL with which it signed an
agreement outlining the corresponding administrative, financial, and managerial
procedures.
To implement BURSAP II activities, Twitezimbere sought assistance from NGOs and
supervisory agencies to mobilize the people and monitor execution of the projects, and
from SMEs to construct infrastructure. Twitezimbere also called on consulting firms to
conduct various studies. With respect to the functioning of the entities, the executive
committee and the general assembly met regularly to approve programs and activity
reports.

(ii) Financial management

Generally speaking, the audits concluded that there was sound financial management of
the project. The technical improvements proposed by the auditor were implemented and
Twitezimbere was able to obtain disbursements without any major difficulties. There
were no financing-related problems of note. The Government counterpart funds were
disbursed on a regular basis.
The social and technical audit confirmed that contracts were awarded on a regular basis,



                                            50

despite a number of delays in the timetable owing to the difficulties people experienced
in gathering the local materials that represented their contribution. Agreements with
supervisory agencies were also signed regularly.
The initial project financing, which primarily included IDA credit No.3287 (EUR 12
million), was fully disbursed, and the disbursement ratio for supplementary financing,
IDA grant No. H 033 in the amount of US$14.2 million, was 94 percent. As of April 30,
2006, disbursements and pledges accounted for 98 percent of the grant. The undisbursed
balance is estimated to be US$575,000. World Bank aide-mémoires and reports from
various external appraisals conducted indicate that the Twitezimbere management unit
achieved a relatively high level of performance. According to the World Bank
assessment, the project obtained the highest performance rating of the ten projects
evaluated during the latest review in February 2006 of the fiduciary management of the
IDA portfolio in Burundi.

IV. END OF PROJECT EVALUATION

IV.1. Evaluation of the initial objectives regarding project development, design, and
quality

i. Initial objectives. The objectives were not modified during the project period.

ii. Initial components. The components were not modified during implementation of the
project.

iii. Initial quality. The social action project responds to needs and is based on the
participation of beneficiaries supported by liaison entities such as NGOs and local
governments. An agreement was concluded between the Government and Twitezimbere
ASBL, an independent organization tasked with managing the project in accordance with
the criteria and procedures set out in an operational manual. The second social action
project was launched under favorable conditions:
The people were already accustomed to mobilizing in order to participate in and help
execute the subprojects in collaboration with NGOs;

     · The project operational manual provided specific details on the implementation
         methods for subprojects to be financed by Twitezimbere; and
     · The monitoring system of the first social action project was improved, with the
         implementation of surveys to define reference situations.

2. Achievement of the objectives and outcomes

(i) Achievement of the objectives

Objective No. 1, which sought to encourage the various community groups to work
together, within the context of crisis recovery, for the selection, partial financing,
monitoring and evaluation, and conduct and sustainability of priority and common
interest activities, was achieved.



                                               51

Objective No. 2, which sought to help the poorest and most vulnerable groups gain
access to better economic and social services, including social welfare, through incomes,
regular employment, and social facilities, thereby reducing the risk of being condemned
to poverty, was also achieved.

(ii) Results by component

1. Results achieved in the community development process


(a) Consideration of community priorities in selecting the projects to be implemented


Decisions regarding the consideration of community priorities were made by
triangulating the information sources. According to these sources, all projects executed
were selected from among the priorities identified by the people.


(b) Participation of beneficiaries in project implementation and maintenance of
infrastructure constructed under the project

Beneficiaries participate meaningfully in the implementation of the activities, accounting
on average for 8 percent of the cost of the subprojects. This includes site development
for the construction of infrastructure, the provision of local construction materials, and
cash contributions.
The sustainability of the projects' achievements depends largely on how the infrastructure
is used and maintained. According to the economic and social audit report, 85 percent of
the infrastructure is well maintained. Maintenance is either carried out by the people
themselves (construction and maintenance of drains around schools) or with a monetary
contribution to pay workers hired for this purpose.

(c) Participation of women in the community development process


The project encourages the full participation of women in the community development
process. The participation of women is essential, be it at the level of meetings of the
collines or the sectors.

(d) Establishment and functioning of community development committees


During participatory rural evaluations, the people elected community development
committees for the different levels of their communes. These committees function
relatively well, because they mobilize the people for community development activities
and convene meetings to provide information and updates on the progress of the projects
being executed.

However, the mission of the community development committees should be expanded to
include the other projects financed by other donors in the commune, provided all these



                                              52

projects have the same objectives. Moreover, the new communal law stipulates that
CDC members shall be designated by the communal authorities. This could hinder the
participatory approach process which has already achieved results at the grassroots level.

(e) Quality of the participatory rural evaluations


The people greatly appreciate the opportunity to participate in making decisions
pertaining to their development. The local government is also pleased, because
participation by the people in the selection of projects to be executed facilitates their
mobilization for building infrastructure.


2. Improvement of the quality of the infrastructure in place


The technical audit was designed to review the quality of the infrastructure constructed
under the project. It concluded that the quality was good and noted a number of
improvements: sheet metal replaced tiles for roofing and steel frames replaced timber
frames. Water supply systems and rehabilitated springs were well constructed. Although
works are monitored by supervisory agencies, oversight must be strengthened to provide
more support to enterprises building the infrastructure. Finally, it bears noting that the
cost of the infrastructure constructed under the project is much lower than that of other
stakeholders.

3. Evaluation of the ECD component

ECD activities were launched in four pilot communes in the north of the country with the
establishment of mothers' committees, the training of supervisors, the distribution of
mosquito nets, vermifuges, and other medicines, as well as the provision of seeds and the
launch of preschool circles.

4. Monitoring poverty and the living standards of the people

During implementation of BURSAP II, the project financed the finalization of the
priority survey launched during the 1998-1999 period, the 2002 QUID survey, the 2005-
2006 CWIQ survey, and the price survey supplementing the CWIQ survey.

5. Project management

Twitezimbere ASBL efficiently managed the resources made available under BURSAP
II. The various audits noted steady improvements with regard to technical expertise in
community development and the fiduciary management of the project. Before closing
the project, a grace period will be granted to settle all invoices pertaining to the goods,
services, and works that will have been delivered or received by June 30, 2006, with the
exception being the financial audit.




                                             53

(iii) Impact on institutional development

The project proved useful to NGOs and associations. It also had a significant impact on
the Ministry of Development Planning and National Reconstruction as it provided
assistance to ISTEEBU, training for statisticians at the University of Burundi, as well as
training abroad for central administration officials from the ministry.

(iv) Impact of the project on the beneficiary populations

Health centers: Health centers were constructed using the health care map published by
the Ministry of Public Health. This was a response to the concern regarding close
contact with patients at the shelters, as it reduced distances covered by persons seeking
health care services, and thus increased access to basic health services for the people, and
the most vulnerable in particular.
Primary schools: The construction of primary schools contributes to the effort to achieve
universal education, a goal the country hopes to accomplish by 2010. The construction
of schools in the poorest communes has helped to increase enrollment rates among
children in disadvantaged areas. Shorter distances, upgraded facilities, and smaller class
sizes have also helped to increase school attendance and improve success rates.
According to the findings of the social audit, parents and local authorities are satisfied
with the achievements in the education sector and are requesting more primary schools.
Water supply systems and rehabilitated springs: Rehabilitated springs and water supply
systems help to reduce the distance covered by people seeking drinking water. An
increase in the number of springs reduces the time spent waiting to collect water, and,
according to users, the rehabilitation of springs has improved the quality of the water,
thereby considerably reducing the incidence of diseases caused by water pollution (e.g.,
verminoses and dysentery).
Communal schools: The communal schools have helped to facilitate the move from
primary to secondary schools. By constructing these schools in the most disadvantaged
regions, Twitezimbere encouraged parents to send their children to school, thanks to
shorter distances and lower school fees.
Homes for teachers: The construction of homes for teachers established the permanent
presence of teachers, thereby providing these teachers with improved working conditions
to better prepare the subjects to be taught.


(v) Impact on the poorest and most vulnerable groups


By focusing on the poorest and most ill-equipped communities, as well as on those with
the highest number of repatriated and displaced persons, the second social action project
is having a positive impact on poverty reduction. Young children are also included in the
category of most vulnerable persons and ECD activities are having a positive effect on
their health and psychosocial development. However, the poorest people still have great
difficulty accessing social welfare services, owing to their low incomes and to the fact
that the cost of essential services is still high. Actions should be specifically carried out
to provide social welfare services directly to the poorest and most vulnerable persons.



                                                54

(vi) Impact on the partners

In addition to the grassroots communities, the beneficiaries of this project, the main
project partners are the Government, the technical departments, the authorities, the
supervisory agencies, and the NGOs. All these partners welcome the participatory
approach retained for mobilizing the people. The technical departments have also
received support for capacity-building. The supervisory agencies have gained experience
in promoting and mobilizing development, and have benefited from training sessions
specifically organized for them.
Small- and medium-sized enterprises have been established and have strengthened their
capacity to construct social infrastructure. Considerable funds have been allocated to
associations of local artisans and producers.

3. Main factors affecting project implementation and outcomes

The second social action project launched its activities amid widespread insecurity in the
country. Generally speaking, this situation slowed the pace of the implementation of
activities at the grassroots level. In spite of these difficult circumstances, Twitezimbere
ASBL staff endeavored to maintain contact with the grassroots communities.

4. Sustainability of Twitezimbere's activities

The project's sustainability can be analyzed objectively at two levels: at the level of
Twitezimbere ASBL and at the level of the completed subprojects. It should be recalled
that during the period covered by BURSAP I, Twitezimbere continued to function during
the long period of suspension of IDA credit disbursements and of funding from donors
such as the HCR and the African Development Fund (ADF). The viability of
Twitezimbere ASBL was therefore tested, and there was no reason why Twitezimbere
should not continue to function as an NGO responsible for collecting funds from donors.
With respect to the subprojects, it bears noting that none of the infrastructure constructed
or restored by Twitezimbere was damaged or destroyed. This speaks volumes about the
people's feeling of ownership toward the facilities they helped to build and have gone to
great lengths to protect. The contribution made by the people and supported by the
NGOs and local associations is a key factor for the sustained use and maintenance of the
infrastructure.

5. Performance of the World Bank

During the first three years of the project, the climate of insecurity adversely affected the
frequency and scope of the oversight activities of Bank headquarters staff. However, the
Bank's country office in Bujumbura established an ongoing presence on the ground and
maintained good working relations with the Government, Twitezimbere, and the other
partners.
 On a whole, the Bank has demonstrated its readiness to help Burundi during this
difficult period, believing that it would be wise to essentially use the social action project
as a means of providing assistance to the poorest people affected by the crisis. During



                                               55

the remainder of BURSAP II, the Bank increased the number of oversight missions
which helped the project achieve its objectives.

6. Performance of the Government

The Government demonstrated its strong commitment to BURSAP II and Twitezimbere
ASBL by not intervening in the project's daily operations as it does with certain projects,
and specifically, by disbursing the agreed counterpart funds in a timely manner.
Twitezimbere ASBL, the implementing entity for BURSAP II, carried out the activities
for this project in a very efficient manner.
With respect to the functioning of the entities, the Twitezimbere ASBL management unit
produced programs and activity reports in a timely manner, and the executive committee
met regularly to approve them. These documents were submitted to the Government and
the donors. The general assembly also met annually to provide guidelines for the
Twitezimbere ASBL management unit.

With regard to compliance with the project's management procedures, the technical audit
concluded that the selection procedures for the intervention zones as well as the
monitoring procedures for the eligibility criteria had been followed. Selection of project
infrastructure and the awarding of contracts were carried out on a regular basis.
Independent auditors concluded that the project's financial management was good, as
evidenced by the content of audit reports for the entire project period.

In the area of oversight of project activities, Twitezimbere ASBL monitored the quality
of the project's achievements. To that end, this entity called on NGOs and supervisory
agencies to spearhead the participatory process and provide technical oversight of the
projects. In light of the large number of projects implemented, it can be concluded that
the intermediary agencies were well chosen.


7. Lessons learned

The first lesson learned is that by responding to the needs of communities in a country in
crisis, the BURSAP II project contributed to community solidarity, and thus to national
reconciliation. Second, the implementation of BURSAP II contributed to the effective
construction of infrastructure (schools, health centers, and water supply systems), to
increased access to essential social services, and to job creation. Finally, it is essential
that effective community participation not only ensures the timely participation of
beneficiaries in the costs of the subprojects, but also the maintenance and proper
functioning of Bank-financed infrastructure.

8. Observations of the partners

(i) The Government and Twitezimbere ASBL

On a whole, the Government is satisfied with the BURSAP II project and with the
performance of Twitezimbere ASBL. This latter entity is also pleased with the role it
played in increasing people's access to basic infrastructure. However, it regrets not being



                                              56

able to consider and finance all the requests that it received.

(ii) The beneficiary population

Beneficiaries are in general satisfied with the implementation of BURSAP II. In terms of
its performance, persons interviewed found that the various partners, namely the World
Bank, Twitezimbere, and the Government, pooled their efforts to set up many essential
community facilities.
The lack of equipment for certain infrastructure that had been put in place by
Twitezimbere ASBL, such as the lack of desk seats in schools, and of beds and
mattresses at health centers, was cited by persons interviewed as the main weakness of
the project. They also cited the existence of incomplete infrastructure such as health
centers without morgues or incinerators, and schools without teacher housing or latrines.
In this case, the resources made available to Twitezimbere ASBL for implementing
BURSAP II were inadequate to construct these additional facilities. The persons
interviewed also cited contractor noncompliance with the timetables for the construction
of community infrastructure. Extensions of the agreed deadlines were due primarily to
the delay in collecting the beneficiaries' contribution. The last negative point raised was
that the representatives of associations were not always involved in the contract awarding
process. In this instance, the participation of beneficiaries in the awarding of contracts
was affected not only by the unavailability of a number of the representatives of the
beneficiaries, but also by a lack of resources and the long distances between their
locations and Twitezimbere's head office. All agreements were, however, signed by the
representatives of the beneficiaries. It is nevertheless important to improve this process
through decentralization and capacity-building of the community representatives.


(iii) Other partners (NGOs, private sector)


Overall, NGOs and associations that worked together to implement BURSAP II gave a
positive evaluation of Twitezimbere's work, and expressed the wish that the Government
continue to use the participatory approach in the selection, execution, and monitoring of
investment actions in the country. They also commented on the standardization of
grassroots development approaches used by the various stakeholders. This would be a
part of the Government's general policy on grassroots community development. For
example, the level of community participation should be the same for all stakeholders.
The last observation made concerned the current relationship between the CDCs and the
communal administrative entities established after the last political elections. According
to the prevailing communal law, CDC members must be designated by the communal
authority even though they had been elected using nonpolitical criteria based primarily
on integrity, dedication, and competence. The NGOs and associations are asking the
Government to recognize the importance of these CDCs in promoting grassroots
development, to comply with procedures for their establishment, and to accord legal
status to this entity.




                                              57

V. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS

1. Capitalize on the achievements of BURSAP II

In preparing future development projects, and in particular, PRADECS (Community and
social development project), it is desirable to adopt the participatory and decentralized
approach to development. This project should specifically reintroduce the components
related to social infrastructure, reinsertion of vulnerable persons, and capacity-building in
order to meet the needs of the communities in these areas.

2. Design a common grassroots development policy

The various interventions carried out in grassroots communities are not harmonized and
confuse the people about the need to contribute to the financing of social facilities being
constructed for them.

3. Give legal status to the community development committees

Pursuant to the prevailing communal law, the CDCs face an increasingly precarious
future, despite their importance in spearheading development within the communes.
These committees should be independent and provide technical support to the communal
authorities. To date, there is no legislation that recognizes them as independent,
nonpolitical entities established by communities to initiate development at the
decentralized level of the commune. The CDCs should play a role in all development
sectors and no similar entity established as a committee should be set up in a commune.

4. Promote rural microcredit

There is a great demand by the people for microcredit to finance income-generating and
job-creating activities. This component, for which Twitezimbere is responsible, is
financed by the AfDB. In order to decentralize development at the grassroots level, the
Government should develop a package of interventions to promote microcredit in order
to increase access for households to credit.

5. Build the capacity of partners at the decentralized level

Discussions with partners revealed their desire to strengthen in particular the training
activities for the CDCs, the SMEs, the health committees, and the educators at preschool
circles. There is also the possibility of including the grassroots administrators. The
projects to be launched in rural areas should include in its priorities capacity-building
activities at the grassroots level which focus on simplified modules for managing,
monitoring, and evaluating projects.




                                              58

6. Strengthen ISTEEBU departments


It is desirable for ISTEEBU to be strengthened so that it can produce, on an ongoing
basis, databases necessary for drafting development and poverty reduction policies. For
future projects, it would be important to be able to determine, over a period to be agreed
upon, the impact of the project on poverty reduction.




                                             59

Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not Applicable.




                                     60

Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents

1) Project Concept Note, [month year]
2) Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet
3) Project Information Document (PID) ­ July 28, 1998
4) Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Credit in the Amount of SDRs 9 Million (US$ 12
Million Equivalent) to the Repu blic of Burundi for the Second Social Action Project - July 7
1999
5) Development Credit Agreement (Second Social Action Project) between Republic of Burundi
and IDA ­ October 28, 1999
6) Project Agreement (Second Social Action Project) between IDA and Twitezimbere ­ October
28, 1999
7) Manuel d'Opérations Techniques ­ Octobre 1999
8) Analyse Environnementale des Activités Futures du Second Projet D'Actions Sociales ­ Avril
1999 ­ Damas Nduwumwami
9) Implementation Completion Report (24940) on a Credit in the amount of SDRs7.5 million
(US$10.4 million equivalent) to t he Republic of Burundi for a Social Action Project ­ June 20,
2000
10) Belgian Grant for co-financing for BURSAP II (Cr. IDA 3287-BU) ­ Early Childhood
Development - Grant No. TF 024242 ­ O ctober 2001
11) Audit technique et Social ­ 2000/2001 ­ Mars 2002 ­ Bernd Dobberstein
12) Unité de gestion de Twitezimbere ­ Deuxième Projet d'Actions Sociales ­ Rapport
d'évaluation à mi-parcours ­ Octobre 2 002
13) IDA ­ Proposed Supplemental Financing (In Grant) of SDR 10.3 Million (US$ 14.2 Million
Equivalent) to the Republic of Burundi for the Second Social Action Project (Credit 3287-BU) ­
March 14, 2003
14) Development Grant Agreement (Second Social Action Project ­ Supplemental Financing) ­
April 14, 2003
15) Agreement Amending Agreement (Second Social Action Project ­ Supplemental Financing)
between IDA and Project Twitezimb ere ­ April 14, 2003 ­ Credit No. 3287-BU & Grant No.
H033-BU
16) BURSAP II ­ Financement Supplémentaire ­ Plan de Gestion des Risques
Environnementaux pour les Sous-Projets du BURSAP ­ Mars 2003
17) BURSAP II ­ Financement Supplémentaire ­ Cadre d'Acquisition de Terres pour les Sous-
Projets du BURSAP ­ Mars 2003
18) Rapport d'Audit Technique ­ Juillet 2003 à Août 2005 ­ 24 novembre 2005 ­ Eddy Bynens
19) Ministère de la Planification du Développement et de la Reconstruction Nationale ­ Unité de
Gestion de l'ASBL Twitezim bere - Deuxième Projet d'Actions Sociales ­ Rapport
d'Achèvement ­ Version Définitive ­ Juin 2006
20) Rapport Annuel d'Activités ­ 2000
21) Rapport Annuel d'Activités ­ 2001
22) Rapport Annuel d'Activités ­ 2002
23) Rapport Annuel d'Activités ­ 2003
24) Rapport Annuel d'Activités ­ 2004
25) Rapport Annuel d'Activités ­ 2005
26) PSR/ISR ­ Numbers 1 to 16
27) Back-to-office reports (BTO) and aide-mémoires of supervision / implementation support
missions
28) Rapport Final d'Audit Social ­ Avril 2006 ­ Ms. Scholas Murebwayire



                                               61

MAP




62

