Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19484 BU
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 9 MILLION
(US$ 12 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
FOR THE
SECOND SOCIAL ACTION PROJECT
July 7, 1999
Human Development 4
Country Department 9
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective July 7, 1999)
Currency Unit  Burundi Franc (FBu)
FBu 1 = US$ 0.00182
US$ 1 = FBu 550
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB         African Development Bank
AGETIP       Agence Generale d'ExEcution de Travaux d'Interet Public
BURSAP I    First Burundi Social Action Project
BURSAP II   Second Burundi Social Action Project
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
ECD          Early Childhood Development
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
IDA          International Development Association
IEC          Information, Education, and Communication Programs
IFAD         International Fund for Agricultural Development
ISTEEBU      Burundi histitute of Statistics and Economic Studies (nstitut de Statistiques et
d 'Etudes Economiques du Burundi)
LACI         Loan Administration Change Initiative
LCS          Least Cost Selection
NCB          National Competitive Bidding
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
NS           National Shopping
PMR          Project Management Report
PMU          Project Management Unit
QBCS         Quality-Based and Cost Selection
SOE          Statement of Expenditures
UJNDP        United Nations Development Program
UNHCR        United Nations High Commissioner for Refagees
UNICEF       United Nations Children's Fund
WHO          World Health Organization
Vice President:   Mr. Callisto Madavo
Country Director: Mr. Emmanuel Mbi
Sector Manager:  Mr. Arvil Van Adams
Team Leader:    Mr. Menahem Prywes



Burundi
Second Social Action Project
TABLE OF CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       I
1. Project development objective                                                       1
2. Key perfonnance indicators                                                          1
B. Strategic Context                                                                   2
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  5
C. Project Description Summary                                                         7
1. Project components                                                                  7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       7
3. Benefits and target population                                                      7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       8
D. Project Rationale                                                                   9
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         10
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                10
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   11
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        11
E. Summary Project Analysis                                                           1l
1. Economic                                                                           11
2. Financial                                                                          11
3. Technical                                                                          12
4. Institutional                                                                      12
5. Social                                                                             13
6. Environmental assessment                                                           14
7. Participatory approach                                                             14
F. Sustainability and Risks                                                           15
1. Sustainability                                                                     15
2. Critical Risks                                                                     15
3. Possible Controversial Aspects                                                     16
G. Main Loan Conditions                                                               17



1. Effectiveness Conditions                                                          17
2. Other                                                                             17
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                      17
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                     18
Annexes
Annex 1.     Project Design Summary
Annex 2.     Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.     Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.     Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Annex 5.     Financial Summary
Annex 6.     Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.     Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B.     Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.     Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 7.     Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.     Documents in Project File
Annex 9.      Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10.    Country at a Glance
Map:         Burundi (IBRD 30118)



Burundi
Second Social Action Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
Country Departnent 9
Date: July 7, 1999                          Team Leader: Mr. Menahem Prywes
Country Director: Mr. Emmanuel Mbi          Sector Manager: Mr. Arvil Van Adams
Project ID: 64510                           Sector: SA - Social Funds & Social Assistance
Lending Instrument:                         Theme(s): Community Development, Social Protection, and Post-Conflict
Specific Investment Credit                  Stabilization.
Poverty Targeted Intervention:                    [X] Yes   [] No
Project Financing Data
[ I Loan     [X] Credit        [I Grant        [ ] Guarantee       [ ] Oiler [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$ m): IDA US$ 12 million
Proposed terms:         [ ] To be defmed        [ ] Multi currency      [] Single currency
[X] Standard Variable   [  Fixed                [  LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):                 10
Years to maturity:                    40
Commitment fee:                       0.5%
Service charge:                       0.75%
Front-end fee on Bank loan:        N/A
Government                                                         0.45                                   0.5
IDA                                                                7.00               5.00               12.00
Beneficiary contribution                                           0.75                                   0.75
Total:                                                             8.20               5.00               13.20
Borrower: Government of Burundi
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency: Twitezimbere (a not-for-profit organization)
Estimated disbursements of IDA funds(Bank FY/US$M):
Annual        1.3           3.0           2.8           2.7           2.2
Cumulative        1.3           4.3           7.1           9.8          12.0
Project implementation period: 4 years
Expected effectiveness date: January 1, 2000                 Expected closing date:. December 31, 2003
Implementing agency: Twitezimbere
Contact person: Mr. Pontien Bikebako, Director
Address: B.P. 2415, Bujumbura, Burundi
Tel: (257) 22 18 04                 Fax: (257) 22 84 51              E-mail: none;






Project Appraisal Document                                                        Page 1
Bumndi - Second Social Action Project
A: Project Development Objectives
1. Project development objectives: (see Annex 1)
The development objectives are that:
1. Diverse community groups work together to select, partly finance, monitor and evaluate, use, and
maintain their priority community investments.
II. The poorest and most vulnerable groups benefit from improved social and economic services and
improved social protection -- through transitory wages and social services that limit risks of
poverty.
To best achieve the objectives, the project will target the communes with the poorest and most
vulnerable populations. Therefore, the project would focus some resources on communes attempting
to reintegrate relatively high numbers of refugees and internally displaced persons. The reasoning is
that these groups are often relatively poor and that targeting the corflmunes of return would promote
community cooperation and reintegration. Within each commune, some activities would be targeted
to pre-school children and mothers because they are among the poorest and most vulnerable groups.
In the communes selected, the project would achieve the objectives by supporting the central
community-based activity component, and two supporting components:
1. Community investments.
*  Mobilization and strengthening of community capacity (and in particular, of representative
development committees) to participate in selection, financing, monitoring and evaluation, and
the continued operation of the infrastructure sub-projects,
* Reconstruction and construction of small-scale community infrastructure, such as classrooms,
health centers, rural water supply, short rural roads, public marlcets, swamp drainage, and
planting of forests; and
*  Improvement of early child development: through investments in the health and nutrition of
young children and mothers (information, education and communication, de-worming, and
growth monitoring and promotion). Communities will select additional investments, for
example, in, nutrition education, micro-nutrient supplements, vegetable gardening, child-
development training, trauma counseling; and
2. Strengthening of statistical capacity for monitoring the evolution of poverty, and finally
3. Administration.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1).
The key indicators of realization of the project's objectives are:
For Objective I:
=> Qualitative assessment of cooperation of diverse groups in selected sub-projects.
=> Percentage of women on the communal Development Committees reflects male-female ratio in the
commune.
z> Percentage of projects that reflect community priorities.



Project Appraisal Document                                                       Page 2
Burundi - Second Social Action Project
=> Percentage contribution of the community to the project, in material, labor, and money.
> Percentage of Development Committees that are still functioning one year after completion of the-
infrastructure sub-project.
= Percentage of infrastructure adequately maintained one year after completion.
For Objective II:
r Days of employment created.
z  Number of beneficiaries of infrastructure by type: Education, Health, Water Supply, Economic
Infrastructure (markets, roads, forestry).
=> Capacity utilization rate of the infrastructure one year after construction.
= Prevalence of wasting, stunting, and underweight of pre-school aged children.
= Qualitative assessment of adult-child interaction.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project(see Annex
1)
Document number: 14442-BU                Date of latest CAS discussion: 05/02/1995
The CAS produced in 1995 no longer applies because of the international embargo and economic
deterioration that followed the military coup in 1996 and because the suspension of disbursements
from 10/1/1996 to 5/6/1997 interrupted the execution of Bank-financed projects. After the resumption
of disbursements the Bank reopened pre-existing projects but did not follow the earlier strategy and
did not prepare new credits.
In 1998, the Government began peace discussions with the political parties represented in the elected
national parliament and with armed groups based in neighboring countries and has made progress in
reaching agreements. As the peace process progressed, the boycott was suspended, and the Bank
agreed to review its program of assistance. The Country Team then prepared an Interim Strategy of
Assistance for discussion with the Government. Once Burundi is more fully stabilized the Country
Team would work with the Government to develop a Country Assistance Strategy with a view to long-
term development.
The broad objectives of the Interim Strategy are to (a) support the on-going peace process, (b) provide
urgent support for recovery of poor communities and of the rural economy, and to (c) stabilize the
macro-economy. The Interim Strategy starts with the BURSAP II and follows with an AGETIP that
would reconstruct or build larger scale infrastructure, and with other actions. Inportantly, the Interim
Strategy would provide for a macro-economic credit to permit freer import of goods and services for
critical sectors. Finally, it would support a private investment guarantee scheme.
The project is part of the Strategy because it fits well with the objectives. It provides employment and
wage income in poor rural communities, restores community infrastructure, and expands delivery of
social services. The project further bolsters recovery by increasing community capacity to participate
in the selection, financing, and operation of local investments. Moreover, the project helps build a
social basis for peace at the local level by bringing people together to seleclt and contribute to a project
for their mutual benefit. The resulting improvement in local economic conditions and organizational
capacity should then underpin and reinforce the peace process.



Project Appraisal Document                                                       Page 3
Burundi - Second Social Action Project
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Sources. The assessment of issues is based on the Bank's recent sector work on Burundi: theBurundi
Poverty Note, Reversing the slide into crisis: prospects for social protection in a period of great
uncertainty, January 1999, and the draft Economic Update of late 1997.
Poverty. The profile of poverty, measured in terms of household expenditure, has worsened rapidly
since the beginning of the current crisis in 1993. Based on survey evidence, the incidence of rural
poverty is estimated to have increased by 80% since 1993, with a doubling of urban poverty incidence.
Poverty depth is estimated to be among the highest in sub-Saharan Africa.
Social indicators also fell, reversing the steady improvement of the years preceding the crisis. Before
the crisis of 1993, Burundi had undertaken a major program of infrastructure for health, surpassing the
WHO norm of one health center per 20,000 inhabitants. In 1997, this had fallen to one center per
25,000 in rural areas because of the complete or partial destruction of 60 centers. Large numbers of
medical personnel have also been lost to death or exile since the start of the 1993 crisis. The number
of centers with at least.the WHO minimum of three trained auxiliaries dropped from 59% before the
crisis to 41% in 1997. Reported cases of major endemic diseases have increased, and reported case of
Malaria in 1995 and 1996 were four times higher than in 1988 and 1989. Respiratory infections are
2.5% higher and diarrhea 50% higher. Furthermore, HTV prevalence is rising rapidly, and the
infection rate is estimated at 21% in urban areas and 6% in rural areas.
Poverty among refugees and displaced persons. Conflict related population movements have led to
poverty that is not adequately measured by conventional household surveys. Approximately 10% of
the population were intemally displaced at any one time in 1997, with at least 14.4% suffering one or
more displacements during the year. This follows previous periods of high population movement in
1993-96.
Agricultural output is affected by the time spent in camps: households lose the savings necessary to
buy inputs and their homes and farms are vulnerable to looting and destruction during their absence. In
addition cultures such as coffee, which have not been maintained during the absence of the population,
require more labor to produce equivalent yield on their retum.
In addition, many refugees and displaced persons contract health and nutrition problems that make it
difficult for them to work at full capacity. According to the UNICEF survey of November 1997, 84%
of the displaced showed symptoms of conjunctivitis, 92% had body lice, 94% had scabies, 96% had
diarrhea, and 96% suffered from worms.
Poverty among children. Infant mortality rates per 1,000 live births have increased from an already
high 110 in 1992 to 136 in 1996. Immunization rates are down from 83% in 1993 to 54% in 1996.
Malnutrition, measured by wasting among children under 5 is estimated to have increased from 6 to
20% since 1993.
Moreover, gross primary school enrollment has fallen from 70% to 40% since the start of the crisis, in
part because about 480 schools required total or partial reconstruction by 1995-96. National social
indicators hide an even worse picture at the regional level: four provinces had primary school
enrollment below 30% in 1996-97, reaching a nadir of 9% in one of the most-violence stricken areas.
Social protection. Given the extent of poverty, there is a near-term need for social protection
measures to preserve Burundi's human capital and to prevent a further deterioration of social
indicators. The most effective way to provide social protection is often through labor-intensive public



Project Appraisal Document                                                        Page 4
Bumrndi - Second Social Action Project
works. A further tactic is to strengthen household incomes through small and micro-credit.
Government can deliver social protection directly to particularly vulnerable groups, such as refugees,
displaced persons, and children and young mothers. The recognized good practice in community
reintegration is to avoid introducing conflict by assisting all groups in the community, rather than just
returnees. The project could also promote reintegration through peace education and cooperative
projects. Young children and mothers will receive some protection against future poverty by
information and education programs to promote early childhood development and nutrition.
Public expenditures on health and education. A long-term resolution of the sources of poverty would
require lasting civil peace and security and redirection of the Government budget. Government choices
for the allocation of public funds have not been strongly oriented to basic services and poverty
reduction. Between 1992 and 1997, the share of military expenditures in GDP rose significantly. And
between 1992 and 1997, education expenditure declined from 4.6 to 2.6% of GDP and health
expenditures declined from 1.2 to 0.5% of GDP. The withdrawal of donor support explains part of the
decline, but part of the decline is also related to Government efforts to retain personnel in all sectors.
Agriculture. A further reason for increased poverty is that the crisis exacerbated structural problems in
the agricultural sector. For, the limits on land available for development, declining soil fertility, low
use of modem inputs, and adverse incentives for investment in the state-controlled cash crop sector
(especially coffee) had already set in motion a slide in yields. The crisis and embargo have worsened
these problems, through looting and destruction of household goods and livestock, population
displacement, and collapse of distribution channels for agricultural inputs.  Populations unsure
whether they will be displaced are planting crops which are fast growing and easy to cultivate, but of
less nutritional value than other crops requiring greater upkeep.
Distribution of inputs and seasonal credit to restart agriculture might help in the short-term and
provide some social protection. In the longer term, public investment in agriculture and in particular
on extension and rural roads would help. Moreover agriculture would benefit from decreased reliance
on export taxation, which would improve producer prices of coffee, and from accelerated liberalization
in the pricing and marketing of cash crops.
Participation. The meaning of 'participation,' in practice, is not always clear. In general, participation
in the context of a social fund means ceding control and responsibility for some aspects of project
activities to local residents. The First Social Action Project (BURSAP I) has succeeded in ceding
responsibility for part of the financing of its investments. Communities finance at least 5%, and on
average 15%, of project costs, in terms of local government funds and household contributions of
labor and building materials. The BURSAP I also attempts to cede selection of investments to local
populations by requiring that applications originate with local groups, usually with the sponsorship of
a NGO or a local government official. In practice, applications seem to have been generated by
NGOs, in areas where they happen to be active, and by some local government officials, and to reflect
their own programs rather than local choice.
The policy issue is what extent of community participation is achievable and acceptable to the
Government in the context of a centrally administered system that has experienced civil strife. The
Ministry of Plan and the Ministry of Community Development have declared their interest in finding
ways to improve participation. Moreover, the feasibility of expanding community participation was
successfully tested by Twitezimbere, in the context of the BURSAP I. Community mobilizers were
able to work with existing local development committees, modify committee membership to assure
that it is representative, and obtain the support of local government officials.



Project Appraisal Document                                                        Page 5
Burundi - Second Social Action Project
Poverty monitoring. The final issue is how to assure continued monitoring cf the evolution of poverty
so that poverty reduction efforts can be targeted effectively and to judge tfLe success of development
efforts. The BURSAP I supported a national survey of household expenditures, which can form the
statistical basis for more frequent, smaller surveys.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Social protection. The project would provide social protection to some of the poorest and most
vulnerable Burundians and to some resettled people, over the short-term, by investing in infrastructure
sub-projects that generate wage incomes in the communes where they live and through activities to
promote young children's health, nutrition and social development.
Health and education. The project would support an increase in basic health and education services
by financing the construction of health centers, primary and secondary schools, and rural water supply,
and also simple technologies to improve the health and nutrition of pre-school children and mothers.
Moreover, the project would promote the continued flow of services by organizing community groups
that would maintain the projects and by providing relevant training.
Public expenditures on health and education. The project would not address the relatively low share
of public expenditures on the social sector in the Govemment budget. Inst.ad, the Country Team has
agreed to address the issue in the context of an Emergency Economic Recor,struction Credit.
Agriculture. The project would not directly target agriculture. It would have a positive impact on
agricultural output and productivity since communities can decide to use project funds to build
agricultural infrastructure such as market places, slaughterhouses, small irrigation canals, or seeds for
vegetable gardens. Moreover, the wages generated by project works should, initially, spur local
agricultural production by driving up the prices of local food crops and livestock products. This
should also help promote the reintegration of returnees.
Main strategic choices. The proposed project would resemble the BURSAP I. The major change
would be an improvement in the substance of community participation and in the targeting of
communities.
Participation. In the proposed project, communities would participate more fully by choosing the
infrastructure sub-project, or combination of sub-projects, that the project would finance. To launch
this process in each commune, Twitezimbere would conduct or contract an assessment of needs
applying participatory rural appraisal techniques. This would lead to production of a short list of
priority projects for the commune, and formation (or reformation) of a Development Committee that is
representative and capable of participating in supervision and on-going maintenance of the sub-
project. The project would then finance the community projects, so long as they are qualifying social
or economic infrastructure, up to the limit of US$ 75,000 per commune.
Moreover, communities would contribute at least 10% of project costs compared to a minimum of 5%
in the BURSAP I. This should assure that the infrastructure sub-projects provide the greatest benefit
to poor communities, among alternative uses of the project funds, and provide a greater incentive for
communities to contribute to the maintenance and operation of the infrastructure.
During the participatory assessment, the project would also provide information on early child
development. Groups of adults, usually of mothers, would also be formed at the level of thxolline to
carry out early childhood programs. These would be subject to the appioval and supervision of the



Project Appraisal Document                                                       Page 6
Burundi - Second Social Action Project
Development Committee and would have a lower cost of supervision than the infrastrmcture
component.
Improved participation could eventually extend to the areas of project implementation and
infrastructure management. All these improvements cannot be achieved at once in Burundi because of
limited project management capacity in rural communities, because of the hierarchical tradition of
centralized administration, because of the post-conflict context, and also because the attempt would
delay delivery of urgently needed social infrastructure, services, and incomes. The improvement in
participation in the proposed project should then be viewed as part of a process of dialogue and of
mutual learning through experience.
Targeting. This implies a change from the practice, in the BURSAP I, of letting NGOs implicitly
select the areas for project investments. So instead, Twitezimbere would propose, annually, a list of
communes for project investment according to the following criteria:
(a) Poverty index. The BURSAP II is targeted to the poorest communes, where poverty of a
commune would be measured by an index calculated from information on access to social and
economic services collected by the ISTEEBU. The poverty index will be constructed from data on
use and proximity to potable water, health services, primary schooling, and to a public market.
(b) Return of external refugees and internally displaced persons. Refugees and displaced persons are
often extraordinarily poor. Moreover, support for areas where they return supports the peace
process by helping to stabilize local economies. For this reason the BURSAP II will also target
communes that have a relatively high proportion of extemal refugees and internally displaced
persons that have retumed since 1996. The UNHCR will provide statistical information to
identify areas of retum. The BURSAP II would target all residents in the commune and not only
retumees, in line with good practice for local peace building. Finally, the BURSAP II will not
invest in refugee or displaced persons camps.
(c) Communes already receiving similar assistance. The UTNDP agreed to organize an informal
committee for, among other purposes, the exchange of information, between donors, on
geographic areas of activity of their projects. Twitezimbere would contribute information to the
committee and, to avoid duplication, would target areas not receiving similar infrastructure
investments from other donors.
(d) Security. The BURSAP II would not serve communes where the staff of Twitezimbere cannot
circulate safely and where they cannot work effectively.
The technical process of selection of communes would work as follows. First, the Director of
Twitezimbere would estimate the number of communes that can be covered in the annual work
program. Then, he would select the first three-quarters of the total number of communes for that year
from the poverty (access to infrastructure) index, starting with the poorest. He would then select the
final quarter of the communes from the index of returnees, starting with those with the highest
proportion of returnees in the population. If any of the same communes appears in both lists, or if
other donors are active in those communes, or if any of the communes are insecure, the Director would
repeat this process until he has selected enough communes to fulfill the project's annual capacity,
The Director of Twitezimbere would then submit the list of communes for project investments for
approval by its Executive Committee, with the non-objection of IDA. The Government will have a
role in this decision since the Ministries of Finance, Plan, and Agriculture are represented on the
Executive Committee, along with several NGOs, and other representatives of civil society.



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 7
Burundi - Second Social Action Project
Poverty monitoring. Another strategic choice is for smaller scale statistical monitoring. The
BURSAP I is financing a relatively large-scale survey that will yield detailed baseline information on
poverty. In contrast, the proposed project would finance less expensive surveys that can be repeated to
provide up-to-date follow-up information on the evolution of poverty. Furthermore, these surveys
would be oriented toward action to reduce poverty rather than simply gathering analytical infor:mation
about poverty. To that end, the surveys would provide the information on the conditions of roads,
water supply, health and education services, and local institutions that is necessary for planning
reconstruction programs, and provide information on health and nutrition status. The relevant
indicators would be selected through a survey of statistics users in the Government, donor, and NGO
sectors.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components: (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown)
The following are total costs of the project in current US dollars and include contributions from the
Central Govemment and from beneficiaries.
1. Community investments            Poverty          10.7        81.4      10.0      93.0
Of which                        alleviation
a. Community participation           c;1.00                   7.6       1.0      100.0
b. Infrastructure rehab & construction            7.75       58.7       7.0       90.3
c. Investmentinyoung children&                    2.00       15.1       2.0      100.0
mothers.
2. Poverty monitoring                                 1.20        9.1       1.0       83.3
3. Administration                                     1.25        9.5       1.0       80.0
Total       13.20     100.0       12.0      90.9
Note: Includes a government contribution of US$ 0.45 million, distributed to components 2 and 3, and community
contributions of $ 0.75 million to component lb.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The key policy reform would be to increase the target population's participation in selection and
financing of infrastmcture sub-projects. (See section B3 above).
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits:
The target populations would benefit, in the short-term, from wages generated through intensive
employment on the infrastructure sub-projects. Young children and mothers would benefit from better
nutrition and health. Returnees would benefit from improved social stability from mobilization of the
community around a project that they selected and that are in the common interest of diverse groups.
The inflow of wages and greater social stability would provide poor communes with some social
protection during the transition. Some secondary short-term benefits to local agricultural production,
household investment, and commerce will probably arise from local spencding of project wages.



Project Appraisal Document                                                     Page 8
Burundi - Second Social Action Project
The long-term benefits would be an improvement in the health, education, and economic productivity
of the target population. The improvement would result from the improvement in social and economic
services that flow from the infrastructure, information, education, and other training activities, and the
strengthening of the communal Development Committees, which would become more able to
maintain the infrastructure and manage social services.
Target population. The target population would be the inhabitants of communes that are unusually
poor, that are areas of return for refugees and internally displaced persons, and that have an unusually
high number of children and other dependents, along with poor child nutrition. (See section B3 above
for details).
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementing agency. A local non-profit and non-governmental organization Twitezimbere, has been
executing the BURSAP I. Twitezimbere specializes in the execution of projects for donors, including
the African Development Bank and the UNHCR. Twitezimbere works with the Government under an
agreement (Convention) of April 20, 1993 and is recognized by the Ministry of the Interior as a non
profit organization on the Ordonnance Ministerielle no. 205.01/082/93DU of February 25, 1993
Its capacity was somewhat weak through mid-1997, and then improved steadily and is now
satisfactory. It has received formal opinions from its financial auditors for 1997 and 1998 that were
expressed without reserves, indicating greatly improved financial management. Execution of civil
works has also accelerated markedly, and disbursements have increased in parallel. Judging from the
technical audits for 1997 and 1998-99, the quality of most of the work is satisfactory. Moreover, a
survey of beneficiaries that was conducted alongside the technical audit suggested that the project is
serving their interests and has won their support.
Therefore the BURSAP II would make use of the capacity and experience that is already in place.
Twitezimbere would implement the community infrastructure, community mobilization, and
administration components of the proposed project. It would apply the procedures detailed in the
Manuals of Procedures.
Manuals of Procedures. The Manual of Technical Procedures is based on the one used by the
BURSAP I, with some modifications to increase community participation, protect the environment
and to set procedures for child health, nutrition, and development interventions. The project will also
apply a new Manual of Financial Procedures to improve financial control, financial reporting,
disbursement, and procurement.
Early childhood development. Twitezimbere will contract and train intermediaries to implement the
early child development activities. Early child development will be discussed with groups in the
identified communes during the same community participation process as the community
infrastructure activities. After the communities choose among the available options, the local
intermediaries will develop tailored packages of interventions, including manuals to guide the
implementation of the ECD activities.
Project performance monitoring. Twitezimbere would recruit a local consulting company or contract
with the ISTEEBU to monitor project perfonnance.
Poverty monitoring. The national statistical institute (theISTEEBU would implement monitoring of
national poverty.



Project Appraisal Document                                                      Page 9
Bumndi - Second Social Action Project
Consistency with sector standards and guidelines. To assure consistency with national
development plans for education and health, the project would continue the practice of the BURSAP I
by only building education and health infrastructure when they appear on the ministry national maps
of desired infrastructure. To assure technical consistency, the project woul.d follow the practice of the
BURSAP I by using the standard ministry-approved designs for education and health infrastructure.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The Govermment of Burundi formally asked the Bank to launch a second phase of the BURSAP I.
TIhe Country Team decided to launch the project because of the request and because of the urgent need
to contribute to the stabilization and development of poor rural communities. A further consideration
was that the methods and execution unit needed to provide quick assistance had been established in the
context of the BURSAP I.
The BURSAP I. The BURSAP I became effective in 1994 but execution did not accelerate until the
end of the suspension of disbursement in mid-1997. Furthermore, the execution unit was strengthened
at around the same time. Since then the project has enjoyed increased support from the Government
and from civil society and a wide array of group. Moreover, the project has financed construction of
an impressive and ever increasing volume of social infrastructure.
The number of BURSAP I-financed infrastructure sub-projects completed rose from zero during the
suspension to 23 in the second half of 1997 to 67 in the first three quarters of 1998. The number of
sub-projects begun accelerated even faster from zero during the suspension to 98 during the second
half of 1997 and 268 in the first three quarters of 1998. Furthermore, the quality of the sub-projects
appears to be good, judging from the most recent financial and technical audits.
AGETIP. There was also some discussion of launching an AGETIP that would promote employment
and generate wage incomes through rehabilitation and construction of larger scale infrastructure. The
advantages are that an AGETIP could provide roads necessary to improve access to markets and lower
transport costs, and also agriculture infrastructure (such as water supply) that could improve
productivity. The reason for the decision to proceed with the BURSAP first were the time necessary
to prepare an AGETIP and the need to create a fumctioning execution unit
Micro-credit. The Country Team considered a micro or agricultural credit component, but this was
rejected because of the difficulty experienced by similar social funds in delivering such credit. The
credit component of the social fund in Rwanda achieved a reimbursement rate of only around 50% and
the African Development Bank-funded project in Burundi, executed by Twitezimbere, has not been
particularly successful. Furthermore, the management of Twitezimbere, which would execute the
proposed project, said that it would not be able to manage additional micro-credit. The Country Team
concluded that financing of credit would be best handled through an agriculture or financial sector
operation rather than the BURSAP II.
Extent of community participation. The country team also discussed launching a project with nearly
complete management by elected community groups -including procurement. The team's view was
that rapid progress in decentralization and community participation might not prove possible and that
it would be more effective to improve participation in steps, through a process of dialogue with the
Government and other groups, piloting of participation, and mutual learLing. Moreover, the team felt
that the extensive work needed to prepare a completely new system of participation would delay
delivery of urgently needed development assistance to the poorest communities.



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 10
Burundi - Second Social Action Project
Early child development. There is some support for execution of early child development activities on
the national level and through the formal system of health centers. However experience has shown that_
ECD efforts are most effective when the delivery structure is as close as possible to the community
targeted. The main reason for choosing execution through the BURSAP II is that it facilitates this
approach to ECD: it relies on the same process of community mobilization as the infrastructure sub-
component. Groups of caregivers will be trained and encouraged to organize to find ways to improve
the health of young children. They will select specific ECD activities from a menu of options in order
to realize their identified objectives. Like the infrastructure sub-component, this could also serve to
bring disparate sub-groups together and therefore reinforce the theme of peace education. Neither of
these roles would be well served through execution by civil servants in the formal health system.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies:
Implementation      Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Labor intensive public works,       ABURTIP                 N/A               N/A
especially rural roads (planned for
2000)
Budgetary support (planned for the  Emergency Economic    N/A                  N/A
second half of 1999)                Reconstruction Credit
Refugee reintegration and resettlement  Post-Conflict Fund  N/A               N/A
(approved)                          grant                  __
Health (closes 6/30/2001)           Health/Population II    S                  S
Infrastructure (to be extended)     Water Supply            S                  S
Poverty alleviation (closes 12/31/1999)  Social Action Project    S            S
(BURSAP I)
Other development agencies                                        _   .    _ g
Poverty alleviation (closes 12/31/2000) African Development                          
Bank (executed through 
_____________________________Twitezimbere)                       .,j          .;
Poverty alleviation / Agriculture   IFAD
(effective end-June 1999)
Poverty Alleviation / Umbrella      UTNDP (to be funded 
Program (effective once adequate    through a Trust Fund)
funds are raised).,V~
Belgian-Burundian Fund for          Belgium                                  4. '  z
Employment (ongoing)                Bg                     ,
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Simplicity. The most important lesson from the BURSAP I and from the Rwanda Food Security &
Social Action Project is the importance of simplicity of design for delivering urgently needed support
quickly in a post-conflict country with limited local capacity for project execution. Therefore, the
proposed project focuses on the relatively simple activity of financing community infrastructure.



Project Appraisal Document                                                      Page 11
Burundi - Second Social Action Project
Community participation. A second lesson, drawn from numerous Bank studies, is the importance af
true community participation in assuring the maintenance and continued operation of Bank-financed
infrastructure. Therefore the project seeks to improve community participation in the selection,
financing, and management of the infrastructure sub-projects and in delivery of services that benefit
the health and nutrition of young children and mothers.
Develop and retain project execution capacity. A third lesson, drawn from the health project in
Burundi and the social funds in Rwanda is the importance of retaining skilled personnel to achieve
quick and efficient execution of projects. A similar project in Rwanda has been delayed in part, by the
closing of the operating project unit, and the difficulty of forming a good quality execution unit.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The most substantive evidence of Government commitment is its support for the BURSAP I since the
resumption of disbursement in 1997. For example, the Ministry of Plan supported the appointment of
a project director and accountant, because the use of IDA funds and financial management skill of the
staff of Twitezimbere had been weak. This led to improved financial management of the unit and to
the first financial audit without reserves. With Government urging, the staff rapidly accelerated use of
IDA funds and construction of community infrastructure.
Furthermore, the Minister of Plan wrote the Bank to request the credit and the President requested that
the Bank increase its activity in the social sector. The BURSAP II has the support of the ministries of
Finance, Community Development, and Resettlement and Reintegration of Refugees and Displaced
Persons.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank will bring its experience of social funds in more than 30 countries, as well as country-
specific knowledge gains through the implementation of the BURSAP I Moreover the Bank teams
has accumulated experience with social funds and community development in neighboring Rwanda.
E: Summary Project Analysis: (detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic: (supported by Annex 4)
[ ]Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV= N/A; ERR= N/A
IXj Cost Effectiveness Analysis
See annex 4.
[ ] Other (specify): Beneficiary assessment to determine needs, and fiscal. analysis
2. Financial: (see Annex 5)
Cost sharing and cost recovery
Communities will be expected to contribute at least 10% of the cost of infrastructure sub-projects in
cash, construction materials, and/or labor to provide an incentive for communities to maintain and
operate infrastructure. This has worked well in the BURSAP I, where the average contribution is
15%. In the BURSAP II, the project would work with local administrations and with national and
international NGOs to form community organizations that would maintain the infrastructure and
assure its continued operation to produce social and economic services.



Project Appraisal Document                                                       Page 12
Burundi - Second Social Action Project
Financial controls
Financial System and Audit. There will be a single special account for all components of the project
that will be established and managed by Twitezimbere. The cash advance for three months activities
will be for use by Twitezimbere, as the executing agency.
The financial service at Twitezimbere will maintain financial records in compliance with accepted
accounting principles and will prepare financial statements.
The financial officer will make the necessary arrangements to conduct the annual audit of the project.
The Government will ensure that the external auditors are independent and approved by the World
Bank.
The financial service will not be required to adopt the financial management report-based
disbursement system, but will improve its financial management and reporting and conduct a mid-term
review of its capacity to shift to the system.
To these ends, the Manual of Financial Procedures includes a detailed chapter on accounting practices
and reports and on financial controls.
3. Technical:
The technical quality of infrastructure financed by the BURSAP I was evaluated through technical
audits in 1997 and 1998 and found to be sound. The project's technical design is based on the use of
simple, appropriate, and environmentally sound technologies, corresponding to the populations' needs
and capacity for maintenance and operation. The design of education and health facilities is that of the
government ministries. Labor intensive work is preferred wherever it is proven as technically and
economically efficient and insofar as it generates employment opportunities.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: Twitezimbere
The overall management, coordination, and execution of the project will be entrusted to a not for profit
organization, Twitezimbere. This is a light structure that is already executing the BURSAP I under an
agreement (Convention) with the Government. Twitezimbere will also be responsible for contracting
of intermediaries, liaison, supervision, monitoring, training, and long-term planning and policy
support. In addition, it will assure overall financial management and accounting.
To facilitate the programming, coordination and monitoring of BURSAP II, the Government will
assure that Twitezimbere will continue to be administered by an Executive Committee (Conseil
executij) where the Govenmment and civil society are represented. The Committee will convene
regularly to review the progress of the project, ensure complementary and an efficient coordination of
the activities of the different project components, and consolidate programs, budgets, as well as
quarterly and annual progress reports.
Twitezimbere serves as a secretariat to the Committee, and will therefore be in charge of preparing
biannual activity programs and related annual budget proposals and the annual program. The budget
and program will be submitted to the Committee for approval.
Project oversight and orientation will be the responsibility of the Executive Committee. The



Project Appraisal Document                                                       Page 13
Burundi - Second Social Action Project
Committee will organize at least one annual meeting with Bilateral Donors, Line Ministries
concerned, NGOs, communities, etc. The purpose of the meeting would be to (i) review the proposcd
annual work program, (ii) review the implementation status and progress toward achievement of the
project's objectives, (iii) decide on necessary corrective actions relative to project implementation, and
(iv) coordinate the various projects in different areas.
b. Project management:
Accounting. Accounting and Internal Control Systems are set out in detail in the Manual of Financial
Procedures and are satisfactory for providing reasonable assurances that accounts are properly
recorded and resources safeguarded.
Accounting Systems for the Project Management Unit for the BURSAP I have already been
computerized using TOMPRO software, and the systems for the BIJRSAP II will continue to be
computerized.
The Chart of Accounts for the project is based on the National Chart of Account and in conformity
with the Intemational Accounting Standard satisfactory to IDA.
Financial Reporting. The annual Financial Statements of the project will be prepared in accordance
with accounting principles acceptable to IDA. The Financial Statement will include at least a statement
of sources and uses of funds, a statement of reconciliation of the special account and a balance sheet.
The Financial Statements will be submitted to IDA no later than six months after the end of the fiscal
year.
The project will not be required to adopt the financial management report-based disbursement
procedure at first. However a mid-term review will examine whether the project can move to the
system.
Auditing. An Independent Auditor acceptable to IDA will audit the financial statement of the project.
The selection of the auditor is a condition of effectiveness.
The auditor will provide an opinion on:
a) Adequacy of Accounting and Intemal Control System
b) Financial Management System
c) Project Financial Statements
d) Special Accounts and Statement of Expenditures
e) Project Account
Staffing. A Finance and Administration Director will be appointed in Twitezimbere in accordance
with detailed terms of reference that have been developed. An accountant will be appointed in
Twitezimbere to keep the detailed accounting records. Twitezimbere will contract for the additional
technical expertise necessary to execute ECD activities.
5. Social:
The project is expected to support reconciliation by mobilizing diverse groups to work together for
their common benefit. The aim is not only ethnic reconciliation, but also to create a supportive
environment for the reintegration of retuming extemal refugees and intemally displaced persons. The
project staff is planning to reinforce this aspect of the project by developing and including early child
development services and peace education into the community mobilization process.



Project Appraisal Document                                                       Page 14
Burundi - Second Social Action Project
6. Environmental assessment:  Environmental Category     [    A  [X]  B [ ]  C
An environmental analysis was conducted for this project in April 1999. The report identifies potential
positive environmental and social impacts of future sub-projects (rural water supply, short rural roads,
public markets, health and child care centers, classrooms, swamp drainage, and planting of forests).
These include employment opportunities and income generation, use of local technologies, increased
availability of social services, and stabilization of soils through forest planting. Potential negative
environmental impacts, largely as a result of construction activities, include soil erosion, deforestation,
habitat destruction, as well as water contamination and sedimentation.
The production of bricks by traditional methods inevitably leads to cutting of trees, since the bricks are
baked using local charcoal. The project will pilot the use of the non-energy consuming mechanical
press technique for producing bricks, to reduce the impact of the project on forests.
The report presents mitigation measures for the various types of sub-projects. Furthermore, the report
recommends that Twitezimbere strengthen its envirommental analysis capacity to ensure effective
review, clearance, and implementation of the sub-projects. The Manual of Technical Procedures will
include environmental guidelines for sub-projects that do not require such analysis, as well as
procedures for sub-projects requiring environmental analysis.
7. Participatory approach:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The primary beneficiaries are the residents of unusually poor communes and communes of return of
refugees and displaced persons. (See section B3 above for details).
The main change in the proposed project, relative to the BURSAP I, is therefore to empower residents
of communities to choose and maintain their own project investments. The specific changes are to:
o  Use participatory assessments to establish local needs and investment priorities in each commune;
o  Modify the committees, if necessary, and through consultation with the public, to assure that they
are representative.
o  Allocate a financial envelope of US$ 75,000 to the residents of each commune to finance their
priority infrastructure sub-projects (but not including ECD activities);
o  Increase the choice available to communities by allowing them to chose a mix of infrastructure
investments, within the financial envelope.
b. Other key stakeholders:
At the Central Govemnment level, the key stakeholders are the ministries that work with donors
engaged in communal development: the Ministries of Finance, Plan, Reintegration and Repatriation of
Displaced Persons and Refugees, and Communal Development. The key sector ministries involved in
the project are the Ministries of Health and Education.
At the local Government level, the key stakeholders are the Provincial Govemors4dministrateurs de
commune, and Chefs de secteur. The cooperation of these officials, in partnership with the local
population, is necessary for successful execution of sub-projects in the communes.
The key multi-lateral partners are the African Development Bank (AfDB), the UNHCR, and the
UNDP. The AfDB is executing a social fund through Twitezimbere (the BURSAP execution unit)
using the BURSAP I Manual of Procedures -virtually co-financing with the Bank. The Bank and the



Project Appraisal Docwnent                                                             Page 15
Burundi - Second Social Action Project
AfDB reached an agreement to exchange information and collaborate on supervision of the project.
The United Nations WHgh Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) is aL key partner because of their
activity in resettling refugees, because of their collaboration with the Bank in execution of a Post-
Conflict Fund-financed grant, and because they will provide Twitezimbere with information on areas
of resettlement of refugees and displaced persons.
The UNDP is a key partner because it can provide an effective forum for an exchange of information
and cooperation among the donors involved in community and rural development
Among the bilateral donors, Belgium is important because of its similar and moderate sized
community reconstruction project, le Fonds Belgo-Burundais d 'emploi.
The Agence fran,aise de developpement has opened discussions with Twitezimbere, with the
agreement of the Govemnment, on financing of activities similar to the BURSAP II and also sent a
representative to participate in the appraisal mission. They are now co.nsidering a grant of Euro 1 to 3
million (about US$ 1.1 to 3.2 million). The grant may be made directly to Twitezimbere, and
executed in cooperation with the BURSAP II.
The key non-governmental partners are the domestic and foreign NGOs that execute sub-projects
financed by the BURSAP I. Action Aid may become a more important partner because they run a
school in Burundi to train nationals in participation.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project relies mainly on intensified community participation arLd capacity building to sustain
operations of the project (See section on participation).
2. Critical Risks: (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
From Outputs to Objective
A breakdown in the peace process would probably      H        Use of a participatory approach that
reduce community participation by reducing                    contributes to reconciliation of diverse
cooperation between diverse groups.                           groups by bringing them together for
work that is in their common interest.
The Govemnment does not transfer complementary      M         Country team will work with the Gov.
(recurrent) budget resources for operation of health          on a Public Expenditure Review.
and education infrastructure.                                 Negotiate minimum adequate spending
levels in the context of an emergency
rehabilitation credit.
The Communities are not able to raise local resources  M      Reinforcement and training of
to partly compensate for insufficient Govemment               deve:lopment committees during the
funding.                                                      participatory assessment.
Community development committees do not conduct     M         Same as above
routine maintenance.
The Government does not increase training and does  M         Provide training and incentives for key
not improve incentives for teachers, nurses, doctors,         staff in the context of a public
and other skilled staff of social infrastructure.             expenditure review, preparation of any
education and health credits, and
through coordination with other donors.
Poverty monitoring system is not used by policy     N         Use Df the data in economic and sector
makers to target sub-projects and to design better            workl with the Govemnment and in
policies to reduce poverty.                                   donor coordination.



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 16
Burundi - Second Social Action Project
From Components to Outputs
If the peace process fails, increased physical       H        World Bank and other donor support
insecurity would limit outputs.                               for the peace process through
investment in the human resources of
the poorest and most vulnerable groups,
through stabilization and then
expansion of the rural economy, and
design of projects in ways that promote
reconciliation.
Unavailability of a sufficient number of people      M        The project will support an extensive
trained in participatory assessments, financial               training program in participatory
management, construction, and management of small             methods.
businesses and NGOs would slow the outputs.
Most Central and Local Government officials will     M         Central and local Government officials
cooperate with the participatory approach.                     will be consulted regarding the Manuals
of Procedures. No infrastructure sub-
projects will be launched without
written support from the
Administrateurs de commune.
Government pays its counterpart funds.               N         hifrastructure sub-projects component,
which the Government supports, cannot
be executed without counterpart funds.
Moreover, the planned Emergency
Reconstruction Credit should increase
the availability of funds.
Overall Risk Rating                                  S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:



Project Appraisal Document                                                       Page 17
Burundi - Second Social Action Project
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
a) Twitezimbere has adopted the Manuals of Procedures, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Association;
b) Twitezimbere has established an accounting and financial managemnent system satisfactory to the
Association;
c) Twitezimbere has appointed the independent auditors in accordance with the Association's
Consultant Guidelines;
d) a Project Account has been opened and an initial deposit in the amount of $15,000 has been
deposited therein;
e) a Convention has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and Twitezimbere;
f) standard conditions of effectiveness related to legal opinions.
2. Other:
Assurances obtained at negotiations:
a) The Government will contribute counterpart funds to the Project. Account that are adequate to
execute the project's annual work program.
b) The Government will provide adequate skilled staff (teachers, nurses, doctors) and recurrent
budget to operate community infrastructure financed by the project.
a) Twitezimbere will carry out a work program to improve financial reporting.
H: Readiness for Implementation
[X] 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for
the start of project implementation.
[ ] 1.b) Not applicable.
[ ] 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[X] 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of
satisfactory quality.
[ ] 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):



Project Appraisal Document                                                        Page 18
Burundi - Second Social Action Project
I: Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ] 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project
complies with all other applicable Bank policies.
Team Leader: Mr. M  nahem Prywes
Secto Manaker: Mr. Arvil Van Adams
Country Director Mr. Emmanuel Mbi V



Project Appraisal Document                                                                             Annex I
Bumndi - Second Social Action Project                                                               Page 1 of 4
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
Burundi: Second Social Action Project
Sector-related CAS Goal:    Sector Indicators:         Sector /Country Reports:      (froma Goal to Bank
I1. Support the peace    .  Percentage of poor in total  a  Household surveys of     Mission)
process.                 population.                   consumer expenditt-res and  Continued willingness of
2. Deliver urgent support *  Social indicators.           social conditions.         the Government to support
for recovery of poor                               *  Education and healih       poverty alleviation efforts.
communities and of                                     statistics.
the rural economy.                                 *  Public Expenditure
Reviews.
*  Updates of the Poverty
Note.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                Annex 1
Bumndi - Second Social Action Project                                                                  Page 2 of 4
Project Development        Outcome I lmpact Indicators:    Project Reports:            (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                I1.                           *  Technical Audit reports     *   Improved mianagement
1. Diverse community      * Qualitative assessment of       prepared by independent        of the governiment
groups work together       cooperation of diverse       engineers.                     budget and irmproved
to select, partly          groups in selected sub-  *  Participatory assessments       price stability.
finance, construct, use,  projects.                     of the project by          *  Improved donor
and maintain          *  Percentage of projects that    independent auditors           support and therefore
community                reflect community              (attached to the technical     Improved availability
investments.              priorities.                   audit).                        of foreign exchange for
2. The poorest and most  *  Percentage contribution of                                     vital imports.
vulnerable groups        the community to the                                      *  The embargo is not re-
benefit from improved     project, in material, labor,                                 imposed.
social and economic       and money.
services and improved  *  Percentage of Development
social protection --      Committees that are still
warough transitory       functioning one year after
wage incomes and          completion of the
social services that     infrastructure sub-project.
limit risks of poverty.   Percentage of infrastructure
adequately maintained one
year after completion.
2.
*  Days of employment
created.
*  Number of beneficiaries of
infrastructure by type:
Education, Health, Water
Supply, Economic
Infrastructure (markets,
roads, forestry).
*   Capacity utilization rate of
the infrastructure one year
after construction.
*  Prevalence of wasting,
stunting, and underweight
of pre-school aged
children, in communes
where to project is active.
*   Qualitative assessment of
adult-child interaction.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                          Annex 1
Burundi - Second Social Action Project                                                            Page 3 of 4
S~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ =        @
Output from each         Output Indicators:           Project Reports:             (from Outputs to Objective)
component:               la.                         .  Quarterly and Annual      .  The peace process
la.                     *  Participatory rural           progress reports prepared    advances and physical
.  Comm-unities mobilized    assessments conducted.       by Twitezimnbere.            security is adequate in
for decision making and *  Participatory assessment of .  Technical Audit reports  most provinces.
delivery of community    whether diverse groups       prepared by independent   .  The Government
contributions.           work together.               engineers                    transfers
.  Diverse groups within   lb.                        .  Participatory assessments     complementary
the commune work     .  Number of infrastructure      of the project by            recurrent budget
toward a common goal.    sub-projects started, by     independent auditors         resources for operation
lb.                         type.                        (attached to the technical   of health and education
.  Access to infrastructure *  Quality of the audited     audit).                     infrastructure.
improved to meet         infrastructure.          .  Bank supervision mirssion   .  Communities are able
priority needs.      .  Number of agreements          reports.                     to raise local resources
*  Improved capacity of      signed with NGOs.        a  Financial Audit reports      to compensate for some
private sector: local    *  Number of infrastructure  prepared by indeper dent     of any shortfall in
contractors, consultants  sub-projects completed, by,  auditors.                   Government funding.
and NGOs.                type.                    *  Mid-term review and ICR   .  Community
  A targeted and        .  Days of employment            prepared by Twitezimbere     Development
transitional increase in  created.                    and the Bank.                Committees conduct
wage incomes.         .  Training programs                                         routine maintenance.
lc.                         conducted for NGOs and                                *  The Government
.  Improvement in health     Smal and Medium                                          increases training and
and nutrition of young   Enterprises.                                              imnproves incentives for
children and mothers.   Ic.                                                        teachers, nurses,
2.                      .  Households reached by                                      doctors, and other
.  Recent & relevant data   infonnation, education, and                                skilled staff of social
made available for       communication activities.                                 infrastructure.
policymaking and      *  Persons trained to improve                             *  Poverty monitoring
progress monitoring.     the health and nutrition of                               system is actually used
.  Recent & relevant data    young children.                                           by policy makers to
on progress of the    2.                                                           design better policies to
project is available.  *  Statistical surveys produced                             reduce poverty and
3.                          by the national statistics                                target interventions.
*  Project effectively      institute (ISTEEBU) and
managed and              other local institutions
implemented.             trained by the project
3.
*  Cost of administration as a
percentage of expenditures
on infrastructure sub-
projects and (plus)
community mobilization.
*  Average time for sub-
project cycle (from
identification to hand over).



Project Appraisal Document                                                                             Annex 1
Burndi - Second Social Action Project                                                               Page 4 of 4
Project ComponentslSub-    Iiiputs: (IDA)              Project Reports'.             (from Components to
components:               1. US$ 10.0 miillion         a  Quarterly and Annual       Outputs)
1. Community             la. US$ 1.0 miillion             progress reports prepared   .  If the peace process
investments:          lb. US$ 7.0 mnillion             by Twitezimbere.             fails, increased
a. Community          ic. US$ 2.0 million         *  Financial Audit reports        physical insecurity
participation &    2. US$ 1.0 million               prepared by independent       would limit outputs.
capacity building.    3. US$ 1.0 million            auditors.                 .  Unavailability of a
b. Rehabilitation &                               .  Technical Audit reports        sufficient number of
construction.                                       prepared by independent      people trained in
c. Social services for                                engineers.                    participatory
young children and                               .  Participatory assessments     assessments, financial
mothers.                                            of the project by             management,
2. Poverty and project                                    independent auditors          construction, and
performance                                            (attached to the technical    management of small
monitoring.                                            audit).                      businesses and NGOs,
3. Administration.                                     .  Bank supervision mission      and in early childhood
reports.                     development would
slow the outputs.
a  Most Central and Local
Govemment officials
will cooperate with the
participatory approach.
*  The Govemment of
Burundi pays its
counterpart funds.



Project Appraisal Document                                                      Annex 2
Burundi - Second Social Action Project                                        Page 1 of 3
Annex 2: Project Description
Burundi: Second Social Action Projiect
By Component:
Project Component I - US$ 10.75 million
Community investments
The community investment component consists of:
o  Mobilization and strengthening of community capacity (and in particular, of representative
Development Committees) to participate in selection, financing, and the continued operation of the
infrastructure;
o  Contracting for the reconstruction and constr iction of small-scale community infrastructure, such
as classrooms, health centers, rural water supply, short roads, public markets, swamp drainage,
and planting of forests.
o  Investments in young children and mothers.
The small-scale community infrastructure sub-component will resemble that in the BURSAP I. The
main change aims at making community participation more substantive. This means ceding control
and responsibility for some aspects of project activities to local residents.
The BURSAP I succeeded in ceding responsibility for part of the financing of its investments: local
residents contributed 15 percent, on average, of costs in tenus of materials, labor, and cash. The
BURSAP I also attempted to cede selection of investments to local populations by requiring that
applications originate with local groups, usually with the sponsorshLip of a NGO or a local government
official. In practice, applications seem to have been generated by NGOs, in areas where they happen
to be active, and to reflect their own programs rather than local choice.
To deepen participation, the project will work with the local population to assure that they actually
choose the infrastructure sub-projects that the project will finance, subject to a financial envelope.
Moreover the project will reinforce community institutions that will maintain the infrastructure. The
project will also apply the participatory approach to making the investments in pre-school children and
mothers.
The specific changes in the community activities of the BURSAF' II, relative to the BURSAP I, will
then be to:
> Launch the sub-project cycle through participatory assessments to establish local needs and
investment priorities in each commune;
> Allocate a financial envelope of US$ 75,000 to the residents of each commune to finance their
priority infrastructure sub-projects;
> Allow any commune that completes an infrastructure sub-project successfully to apply for a
furither sub-project of up to US$75,000.
>  Increase the choice available to communes by allowing them to choose a mix of investments,
within the financial envelope.
> Provide a sub-set of targeted communes with the opportunity to strengthen grassroots capability
for basic disease prevention, nutrition and other early child development activities according to
priorities established by the community.



Project Appraisal Document                                                       Annex 2
Burundi - Second Social Action Project                                        Page 2 of 3
To this end, multi-disciplinary teams will work with the communities to determine their choice of
priorities. The teams that conduct the participatory assessments could be composed of personnel from
Twitezimbere, or qualified Agences d'encadrement (NGOs, consulting companies, or individual
consultants). Otherwise, the roles of Twitezimbere and theAgences d'encad'-ement will remain the
same as in the BURSAP I: that is, either can prepare the technical and financial proposals, procure
construction of civil works following the Manual of Technical Procedures, supervise construction of
the works, and implement the ECD activities.
The teams will apply a methodology, in their work with communities that combines community
meetings with use of graphics, thematic maps, calendars of the seasons, and activity profiles. This
procedure will be used to identify the poorest people, in consultation with key sources, such as the
'Bashingantahe' (elders) and other social or religious leaders.
To assure that the Development Committees are representative, the teams will add members after
consulting with the beneficiaries and the local administration. This procedure, judging from the
experience of a pilot, will lead to a better representation of women, young people, and other groups.
Specifically, at least 30% of the members of each Development Committee should be women.
The teams will work with each Development Committee to produce a report on the participatory
assessment. The report will include (i) a brief description of the community and the social and
economic conditions in the commune, (ii) a map of public infrastructure and of concentrations of
population and economic activities in the commune, (iii) a list of priority investments with a brief
explanation and justification, and (iv) the responsibilities of the committee and the community during
and after construction.
The report of the team must receive the approval of theAdministrateur de commune. Twitezimbere,
through its personnel or through contractors, will be responsible for the supervision of the
participatory process, using a standard form.  Moreover, Twitezimbere will confirm  that the
infrastructures investments identified as community priorities are consistent with provincial
development plans. The manual includes a detailed description of the participatory process to be
followed.
This kind of participatory approach implies that NGOs and local governments will no longer decide
where the project will become active. The Director of Twitezimbere and the Executive Committee
(where the Government and civil society are represented) and will decide, each year, in which
communes the project will finance activities using the criteria below, using the criteria and procedures
described in section B3, pages 5-7, of the main document.
To accelerate execution of the project, Twitezimbere will reinforce its capacity by limited recruitment
and by training personnel. A specialist in participation will be recruited to reinforce and advance
participation activities. Moreover, Twitezimbere will launch a training program in participation for its
staff and for the staff of the ministries concerned, NGO partners, UN organizations, and consultants.
The third and final sub-component will start by delivering a basic package of information, education,
and communication to promote early child development during the participatory assessment process
for a sub-set of the communes with infrastructure sub-projects. Allcollines from each of these
communes will be eligible to participate. The participatory process will produce a brief assessment, by
the community, of the needs of young children and mothers, ranked by order of priority. Also as a
result of the participatory process, there will be a simple development plan reflecting the ranking of
ECD sub-projects by order of preference. Options that communes could choose for subsequent



Project Appraisal Document                                                      Annex 2
Burundi - Second Social Action Project                                        Page 3 of 3
activities to meet the identified priorities could include micro-nutrition., gardens to provide nutritio,
monitoring of the growth of infants and children, and trauma counseling. The identified activities will
be prepared for each commune and implemented with support from contracted Agences
d'encadrement. Training of community mobilizers, health workers and educators will back these
activities. Twitezimbere will provide monitoring and evaluation.
Project Component 2 - US$ 1.20 million
Strengthening of statistical capacityfor monitoring the evolution ofpoverty.
Like the BURSAP I, the new project will finance strengthening of the capacity of the ISTEEBU to
monitor the evolution of poverty. To strengthen capacity, the project will support a systematic
program of retraining of statisticians and will supply some equipment.
With regard to monitoring, the BURSAP I financed a relatively lar.ge-scale survey that produced
detailed baseline information on poverty. In contrast, the BURSAP II will finance less expensive
surveys that can be repeated to provide up-to-date follow-up information on the evolution of poverty.
Furthermore, these surveys will be oriented toward aetion to reduce poverty rather than simply
gathering analytical information about poverty. To that end, the surveys will provide the information
on the conditions of roads, water supply, health and education services, and local institutions that is
necessary for planning reconstruction programs. The relevant indicators will be selected through a
survey of statistics users in the Government, donor, and NGO sectors.
Project Component 2 - US$ 1.25 million
Administration.
The project will be executed by Twitezimbere, which is a non-governmental organization that
executes the BURSAP I under an agreement (Convention) with the Government. A board that
represents a cross-section of Burundian society governs Twitezimbere: NGOs, individual members,
and the Ministries of Finance, Plan, and Agriculture.






Project Appraisal Document                                                      Annex 3
Burundi - Second Social Action Project                                       Page I of 1
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
Burundi Second Social Action Project
~~~   ~        ~          0"    *.9013 OUNUM
1. Community investments                                 5.77           3.53           9.30
a. Community participation                             0.54          0.33           0.87
b. Infrastructure rehab & construction                 4.16           2.55          6.71
c. Investment in young children and mothers             1.07          0.65           1.72
2. Poverty monitoring                                    0.65           0.39           1.04
3. Administration                                         0.67          0.41           1.08
Total Baseline Cost                                      7.09           4.33          11.42
Physical Contingencies (10%)                           0.82          0.50           1.32
Price Contingencies (3.5%)                             0.29          0.17           0.46
Total Project Costs                  8.20           5.00         13.20






Project Appraisal Document                                                                                          Annex 4
Burumdi - Second Social Action Project                                                                           Page 1 of 2
Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Burundi Second Social Action Project
The analysis of costs shows that the current social action project, the BURSAP I, has generally
achieved unit costs of construction and lower percentage costs of administration than comparable
projects.   The table below  shows that the BURSAP I achieved lower unit costs of construction, per
square meter, of primary schools, health centers, and secondary schools, than other projects.
A cost-benefit analysis is not feasible because of the difficulty of measuring benefits in a rural
economy where data are scarce and where goods, services, and labor are often not traded and therefore
are difficult to value in money terms.
The BURSAP II will use the same execution unit and sirmilar methods of execution, and especially
procurement. This suggests that the BURSAP II will be a highly cost efficient project.
Comparison of Unit Costs of Construction of Community Infrastructures:
BURSAP l-Twitezimbere versus other Projects
Implementing        Type of       Net Costs (net    Local       r    c      Surface Built Unit Costs FBu  Unit costs
Agency         hIfrastructure    of supervision)  Participation             (sq m.)       (sq m.)     US$ (sq m.)
UNHCR       Primary school         24,000,000              0  24,000,000        403.00         58,824        130.72
ARP       Primary school         23,437,106              0  23,437,106        505.76         46,340        102.98
(AustrianNGO) Health center           13,598,382              0   13,598,382       186.03         73,100        162.44
Secondary school
(first level)         21,710,674              0  21,710,674         466.34         46,555       103.46
BPE       Primary school         25,000,000              0  25,000,000        432.00         57,870        128.60
(Public agency) Communal school       18,000,000              0   18,000,000       328.00         54,878        121.95
CEPBU       Primary school        35,000,000      3,850,000  38,850,000         542.00         71,679       159.29
(Religious NGO) Health center          74,000,000      8,140,000   82,140,000       786.00        104,504       232.23
Twitezimbere* Primary school          10,566,050      1,943,069   12,509,119       432.00         28,956        64.35
Health center         12,401,794       1,445,867   13,847,661       192.00         72,123       160.27
Secondary school
(first level)         11,270,234      2,144,048   13,414,282        520.00         25,797        57.33
The cost comparison assumes the each type of infrastructure is homogeneous and does not vary with the executing agency.
Dollar values have been calculated using the exchange rate FBu 450=$US I for the period covered by the table.
* Net costs and total costs are the average costs of construction cited in the technical audit.
for the social infrastructure mentioned above.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        Annex 4
Burundi - Second Social Action Project                                                         Page 2 of 2
The weighted-average cost of administration (AC) of the BURSAP I, over 1995-97, as a percentage of
project disbursements, was about 8% (see table below). This is significantly lower than the 13% cost_
in Rwanda, the 17% cost in Eritrea and the 30% cost in Zambia. The cost of administration is
probably also below the comparable costs in the social funds in Burkina Faso, Angola, and Mauritania.
Senegal and Malawi appear to have achieved even lower costs of administration.
Some difficulties in comparability arise from differences in what is included in the cost of
administration. In the case of Zambia, the administrative costs include costs for training, capacity
building, micro-project launch workshops, and field appraisals. A better measure of the cost-
effectiveness of the project is obtained when the ratio of administrative expenditures to project
disbursements is computed as the average over the life of the project. A weighted-average has been
calculated in order to take into account the variable level of administrative costs according to the
different phases of the project.
Comparison of Administrative Costs (AC) of Several Social Funds in Africa
Senegal  Malawi Zambia Burundi Rwanda  Burkna   Niger  Angola Eiitrea Mauritania  Mali
Agetip                                      Agetip   Nigetip                   Amextipe
96-99    97-98    92-98   95-97    95-98    92-97    91-97            96-98    93-98    92-98
AC/Total costs, %                                 8.53                        4.84                      10.4
ACIDisbursement, %      4.40     4.50    29.89                       8.89     6.32    18-20   17.15               7.7
AC/Investment costs, %
Average, %                                                 14.21
WeightedAverage, %                                8.04    12.57
AC: Admninistrative costs (project management costs)
Please note that the definition of administrative costs varies between proj ects.
Senegal: the ratio was obtained using estimated disbursements for 1999.
Malawi: Figures were only available for 1997 and 1998.
Zambia: Administrative costs are high because they include capacity building, additional staff for centralized responsibilities,
and task assistants for regional officers.
Bunmdi and Rwanda: Two types of ratios were calculated here. Ihe simple average of administrative / disbursement ratios
for consecutive years and a weighted average across consecutive years to account for the different volume of adminirstrative costs.
Niger. The expenses of the Nigetip have been used as an estimate of operating costs. Total project costs includes non-IDA contributions.
Eritrea:The Community Development Fund Program is a multi-donor project and its admrinistrative costs were fundedby the
Govemment of Eritrea There is no indication of the administrative costs linked to IDA funds



Project Appraisal Document                                                      Annex 5
Burnmdi - Second Social Action Project                                       Page 1 of 1
Annex 5: Financial Summary
Burundi: Second Social Action Project
Years Ending December 31
_~~~~~~Ya I                       ea             Year 3     l     Year 4
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs                  3.00            3.00             3.00            3.00
Recurrent Costs                   0.30            0.30             0.30            0.30
Total Project Costs                  3.30             3.30            3.30             3.30
Interest duning construction
Front-end Fee
Total Financing                      3.30             3.30            3.30             3.30
Financing
IBRD/IDA                          3.09            3.05             2.93            2.93
Govemment
Central                       0.03             0.06            0.18             0.18
Provincial
Co-financiers
User Fees/Beneficiaries           0.18            0.19             0.19            0.19
Total Project Financing           3.30            3.30             3.30            3.30






Project Appraisal Document                                                     Anmex 6
Burundi - Second Social Action Project                                      Page 1 of 6
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Burundi: Second Social Action Project
A. Procurement.
Procurement of goods and works required for the project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
credit shall be govemed by the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credit
published in January 1995, and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997, and January
1999. Procurement of consultants' services shall be governed by theGuidelines for the Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers published by the Bank in January, revised in
September 1997, and January 1999. The following paragraphs describe ihe procurement arrangements
under the project.
Capacity Assessment of Twitezimbere for Procurement
Twitezimbere will be the executing agency for this project: it has been executing the Burundi Social
Action Project (BURSAP I, Cr. 2494-Bu) since 1994. This local NGO took some time to accelerate
execution to a reasonably rapid pace. Since 1996 and furthernore since the second half of 1997,
Twitezimbere has demonstrated impressive progress in the number of sub-projects financed as well as
in the quality of the execution. Technical audits took place in 1997 and 1998 and thoroughly reviewed
selected sub-projects, including the procurement procedures. According to these audits the executing
agencies (Twitezimbere and other NGOs) carried out procurement in accordance with the provisions
of the Manual of Procedures (of the BURSAP I).
The Manual of Technical Procedures for the BURSAP II was built up from the Manual for the
BURSAP 1, and was, in particular, revised to strengthen community participation. In this respect the
following two main changes will be introduced: (i) community participation will be allowed for
smaller works and, (ii) standard bidding documents for civil works costing less than US$ 30,000
equivalent per contract will be incorporated in the Manual. These latter documents will be made
available in Kirundi, the national language of Burundi.
Procurement Methods for Civil Works and Goods (see Table A)
Civil works for infrastructure sub-projects involving the construction, repair, and rehabilitation of
community infrastructure, including primary and secondary schools, health centers, water supply and
sanitation, feeder roads, bridges, limited markets facilities, etc. costing US$ 30,000 or more but less
than US$ 75,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount of US$ 3 million will be procured
through NCB procedures described in the Manual of Technical Procedures of Twitezimbere. Civil
works contracts for sub-projects costing US$ 7,500 equivalent per contract or more but less than US$
30,000, up to an aggregate amount of US$ 3.5 million will be procured through obtaining at least three
bids from small local contractors as described in the Manual of Technical Procedures. Smaller works
costing less than US$ 7,500 equivalent per contract involving full community participation for an
aggregate amount of US$ 0.7 million will be carried out in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank. The procedures are described in details in the Manual of Technical Procedures.
Goods for infrastructure sub-project. Furniture and equipment for community sub-projects costing
US$ 30,000 or more but less than US$ 75,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount of
US$ 200,000 will be procured through NCB procedures described in the Manual of Technical
Procedures. Contracts costing less than US$30,000, equivalent, up to an aggregate amount of US$



Project Appraisal Document                                                      Annex 6
Bunndi - Second Social Action Project                                        Page 2 of 6
350,000 will be obtained through national shopping procedures as described in the Manual of
Technical Procedures.
Goods for Twitezimbere. Vehicles, computer and office equipment for Twitezimbere offices costing
more than US$ 30,000 equivalent but less than US$ 100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed US$ 200,000 may be procured through NCB procedures described in the Manual of
Technical Procedures. Office supplies, equipment and furniture for Twitezimbere estimated to cost
less than US$ 30,000 equivalent per contract will be procured through national shopping based on
price quotations obtained from three reliable suppliers provided that the aggregate amount does not
exceed US$ 100,000.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
IDA financed contracts above the threshold of US$ 75,000 for works and goods will be subject to
IDA's prior review. All other goods and works contracts will be subject to post review. However, a
technical audit will be performed during each year of project implementation. About 10 percent of the
on-going or completed sub-projects (selection will be on a random basis) will be subject to an in-depth
review as part of the annual technical audit. This review will look in detail into compliance with the
procurement procedures utilized to ensure conformity with Twitezimbere's Manual of Technical
Procedures.
Consultants (Technical Assistance and Training)
Consultants Services for infrastructure and capacity building sub-projects. Consultant services will
be procured in accordance with the Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers of January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999. Except for the annual
audits (financial and technical) most of the contracts will be procured locally due to the nature and
scope of consultancy services which will be required. The types of services concerned are the
following: (a) participatory rural assessment; (b) design and supervision of infrastructure sub-projects;
(c) training of beneficiaries in basic skills; and (d) training of Twitezimbere, ISTEEBU and NGO
staff. Competition will be encouraged to the extent possible, mainly through Least Cost Selection
(LCS) for consultants services related to sub-projects and Quality-Based and Cost Selection (QBCS)
for studies or consultants services provided to Twitezimbere and other partners in the implementation
of the project. Single Source Selection will be used for an NGO when it appears that its local
involvement, experience, knowledge and approach offer the best guarantee for the success of the sub-
projects.
Prior Review for Consultants
IDA prior review for consultants' services will required for: (a) all contracts (for any amount) for
Twitezimbere high level personnel, and (b) contracts with individuals with an estimated value of US$
20,000 or more and (c) contracts with consulting firms with an estimated value of US$ 50,000 or
more. The technical evaluation report for recruitment of consulting firms will be subject to prior
review for contracts exceeding US$ 50,000 each and amendments to contracts with consulting firms
lead to substantial modifications of the Terms of Reference and the terms of employment. All
contracts not subject to the above thresholds will be subject to post review.



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Annex 6
Burundi - Second Social Action Project                                                Page 3 of 6
TABLE A: PROJECT COSTS BY PROCUREMENTARRANGEMENTS
(in US$ million equivalent)
1. Works for sub-projects          -         3.00         3.50        0.7            7.20
-         (3.00)      (3.50)       0.70          (7.20)
2. Goods                           -          0.40        0.45          -            0.85
for sub-projects and
equipment, vehicles,               -         (0.40)      (0.45)         -           (0.85)
futniture, materials for ECD
and PIU
2. Consultant's Services           -           -           -          2.20           2.20
-           -           -         (2.20)         (2.20)
3. Training                        -           -            -         0.65           0.65
-  -        -         (0.65)        (0.65)
4. Operating Costs                 -           -            -         1.55           1.55
-  -        -         (1.10)        (1.10)
Total                              -          3.40        3.95        5.10          12.45
(3.40)      (3.95)      (4.65)        (12.00)
Note: The amount in the upper part of each box is the cost of the activity including Government contributions,
but not community contributions, which are made in kind. The amount in parentheses is the cost attributed to the
IDA credit.
'National Competitive Bidding or IAPSO
Z At least 3 Price quotations (Works) or National Shopping (Goods). Figures in parentlhesis are amounts to be financed by
IDA Credit.



Project Appraisal Document                                                      Annex 6
Bunmdi - Second Social Action Project                                        Page 4 of 6
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
1. Works         =/>US$30,000            NCB             >US$75,000/US$ 0.6 million
for sub-projects   =/>US$7,500<US$30,000  Local Shopping  Post Review (samples)
<US$7,500               Community       None
Participation    None
2. Goods         <US$30,000               Local Shopping  None
a/ for sub-projects >US$30,000            NCB            Post Review (samples)
b/ equipment,
vehicles,
furniture, and
materials
3. Services      FiTms                    QCBS, LCS      >US$50,000/US$ 0.2 million
Individuals             Short List      >US$20,000/US$ 0.2 million
NGOs                     Single Source   All / US$ 0.5 million
Twitezimbere High level   Short List    All / $ 0.2 million
Staff                   LCS             All / US$ 0.2 million
Technical Audits        LCS             All / US$ 0.2 million
Financial Audits
4. Miscellaneous  N/A                     N/A            N/A
Total Value of Contracts subject to prior review: US$2.10 or 17.5% of total costs.



Project Appraisal Document                                                     Annex 6
Burundi - Second Social Action Project                                       Page 5 of 6
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
I. Works                   6,340000                   100%
2. Vehicles, Equipment,    730,000                    100%
furniture, goods
3. Consultant Services     2,070,000                  100%
4. Training                600,000                    100%
5. Operating Costs         1,060,000                  90% until 12/3 1/00
80% /util 12/3 1/01
40% thereafter
Unallocated                1,200,000                        __
Total                      12,000,000
B.    Disbursement
Reporting and LACI. The Bank is introducing an initiative to change loan administration in Bank
Group projects, the Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI). This initiative assists projects to
put in place sound Financial Management, Procurement and Output Monitoring Systems. Where
appropriate, if these systems are in place, disbursements may be made on the basis of agreed quarterly
Project Management Reports (PMR) rather than on the basis of individual invoices or statements of
expenditures.
An assessment has been made that the project management unit will not apply LACI for BURSAP II
at first. Instead, the project will begin by establishing a monitoring and evaluation process that
includes output-monitoring reports consistent with the PMR requirements. The financial, procurement
and output monitoring systems will be reviewed as part of the mid-tierm review at the end of the
second year to assess whether it will be appropriate to move to PMR based disbursement at that time.
The quality of general management by Twitezimbere, judging by the cost of execution, is relatively
strong at a bit under 9 percent of project expenditures, which is relatively low for a social fund. The
weakness of the BURSAP I had been in the area of financial management. However, with the
appointment of a new Director and a new accountant, the quality of financial management has
improved steadily, and this is reflected in the financial audits for 1996 and 1997.
The market for people with technical skills to manage a project is tight in Burundi. The difficulty of
finding qualified employees places a limit on the expansion of the project staff and on expansion of
project activities. It is therefore unlikely that Twitezimbere could execute more than US$ 4 to 5
million in high quality activities per year (slightly higher than the current rate).



Project Appraisal Document                                                      Annex 6
Burundi - Second Social Action Project                                       Page 6 of 6
Special Account. The proposed allocation of the credit is shown in Table C. The IDA Credit will be
disbursed over a period of 4 years from 2000 to 2003, with a closing date of December 31, 2003. The
estimated disbursement schedule is shown in Annex 5. All applications to withdraw proceeds from
the Credit will be fully documented for contracts subject to prior review by IDA (contracts valued for
civil works not less than US$ 75,000, for equipment and vehicles not less than US$ 75,000, and for
consultant services not less than US$ 20,000 for individual consultants and US$ 50,000 for firms. For
the contracts not subject to prior review by IDA, disbursements will be made against Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs) certified by the Director of the Project Management Unit (PMU). Supporting
documentation will be retained by Twitezimbere and will be available for review as requested by IDA
supervision missions and program auditors. The accountant of Twitezimbere under the guidance of its
Administrative and Financial Director will provide technical assistance and monitoring.
To expedite disbursements and ensure that project funds will be available when needed, the
Government will open a Special Account in the Central Bank. The authorized balance of the Special
Account will start at US$ 500,000 and then rise to US$ 800,000 once disbursements have reached
SDR 1,500,000. These amounts will represent IDA's anticipated share on the basis of monthly
applications supported by full documentation of SOEs as required and verified by Twitezimbere's
Administrative and Financial Director.
Counterpart Funds - Project Account. The Government will open a Project Account in a commercial
bank to cover its counterpart contribution to the project, to be used exclusively to meet expenditures
under the program. The Borrower will deposit into the Project Account an initial amount of US$
15,000 equivalent in Burundi Francs. The establishment of this account with an initial deposit of US$
15,000 equivalent in Burundi Francs will be a condition of Credit Effectiveness.
Accounting and Auditing. Twitezimbere will maintain accounting records for the project components
that they manage directly. In addition to their financial statements, Twitezimbere agreed to submit a
quarterly report, one month after the end of each quarter, presenting a summary of sources and uses of
funds, procurement/ contracts schedule and statement and summary of expenditures by component and
by category. Assurance has been obtained from the borrower that the Twitezimbere's special accounts,
the financial statements, and the project account will be audited annually in accordance with
international audit standards by experienced and recognized audit firms satisfactory to IDA.
After the end of the fiscal year but no longer than six months after its completion, the Government will
present Audit Reports of the Special Account and the Project Account with the special opinion on the
use of the Special Account and the SOEs.
The contracting of Auditors, for at least the first year, acceptable to IDA, and a certification by
Auditors that Project Accounting System is operational, is a condition of Credit Effectiveness.



Project Appraisal Document                                                Annex 7
Burundi - Second Social Action Project                                  Page 1 of 1
Annex 7: Project Processing Budget and Schedule!
Burundi: Second Social Action Project
Time taken to prepare the project (months)          10                _
First Bank mission (identification)             23102/1999            23/02/1999
Appraisal mission departure                     05/17/l1999           05/l1911999
Negotiations                                    06/01/1999            06/10/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   01/01/2000              I /19
Prepared by: Ministries of Finance, Plan, Community Mobilization, and of Resettlement and
Reinstallation or Refugees and Displaced Persons, and by Twitezimbere.
Financial assistance for preparation was provided by the Norwegian Trust Fund for Early
Child Development, Norwegian Trust Fund for Statistics, and the Spanish Trust Fund (for
Intern).
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Menahem Prywes, AFTH4                  Economist and Task Team Leacler
Essimi Menye, AFTI1I                   Statistician
Markus Kostner, SDVPC                  Economist and Social Scientist (Participation)
Siaka Bakayoko, AFTS2                  Financial Management Specialist
Bertrand de Chazal, AFTS2              Fina-ncial Management Specialist
Abdul Haji, AFTS2                      Financial Management Specialist
Ren6 Welter, AFTS2                     Procurement Specialist
Agnes Albert-Loth, LOAAF               Financial Management Specialist
Pascale Helene Dubois, LEGAF           Lawyer
Mpoy-Kamulyi, LEGAF                    Lawyer
Pamphile Kantabaze, Resident Mission   Operations Officer
Juvenal Nzambimana, Resident Mission    Operations Officer
Prosper Nindorera, Resident Mission    Operations Officer
Inmaculada Montero Luque, Intern       Cost efficiency
Susan Opper, AFTH2                     Education Specialist (Early Child Development)
Christine Pena, AFTH4                  Economist/Early Child Development
Anne Kielland, AFTH2                   Child Development Specialist
Nathalie Lopez-Diouf, AFTH4            Language Team Assistant
Anne Anglio, AFTH4                     Language Team Assistant (Foimatting)






Project Appraisal Document                                                Annex 8
Burundi - Second Social Action Project                                 Page 1 of 1
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File
BURUNDI SECOND SOCIAL ACTION PROJECT
A.    Project Implementation Plan
Manual of Technical Procedures.
Manual of Financial Procedures.
B.    Bank Staff Assessments
C.    Other
Analyse environnementale des activits futures du Second Projet d 'Actions
Sociales (Environmental Analysis of the Expected Activities of the Second
Social Action Project), by Damas Nduwumwami, Consultant, April 1999.






Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                          Annex 9
Burundi - Second Social Action Project                                                                                           Page I of I
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
Status of Bank Group Operations in Burundi
Operations Portfolio
As of 31-May-99
Number of Closed Projects: 43
Active Projects
BI-PE-216   1995      Govemrnment         Health/Population II   0.00  21.30   0.00        14.51        9.26        0.00
BI-PE-227   1993      Government             Social Sector     0.00  10.40     0.00        2.90         2.90       0.00
BI-PE-217   1992      Government          Water Supply Sector   0.00  32.70    24.32       2.64        26.77       2.46
BI-PE-204   1990 Ministry of Public Health    Transport Sector  0.00  43.20    6.59        2.41         6.94       -1.39
Total                                                        0.00 107.60    30.91       22.46        45.87       1.07
Active Projects       Closed Projects      Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA)              :         54.50                 539.58          594.08
of which has been repaid    :          0.00                  36.24           36.24
Totai now held by 1BRD and IDA                        76.69                 485-56          562.25
Amount sold                                            0.00                   8.46           8.46
of which repaid                                        0.00                   8.46            8.46
Total Undisbursed                           :         22.46                  2.94            25.40
Actual disbursements to date minus intended disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note: Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 30-Apr-99.






Project Appraisal Document                                                                                        Annex 10
Burundi - Second Social Action Project                                                                          Page 1 of 3
Burundi at a glance                                                                10/1/98
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Saharan      Low-
Burundi    Africa  Income        Developfnfen: diarnond'
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                        6.6       614     2,048                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                     180       500       350
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                       1.2       309       722
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (%)                                         2.6       2.7       2.1                      X                G
Labor force (%)                                        2.6       2.6       2.3      GNP                              Groaa
per      -                     primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                               capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% ofpopulation belowrnationalpoverlyl/ne)
Urban population (% of total population)                 7        32        28
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       49         52        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               98         90        78
Child malnutrition (% ofchildren under5)                12        ..        61               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                  37        44        71
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                   65         43        47
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)   43         75        91               -Burundi
Male                                                  ..        82       100             -- Low-income group
Female                                               40         67        81         -
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986      1996      1997
EcononmIc ratlos
GDP (US$ billions)                           0.45      1.2       1.1       1.2
Gross domestic investment/GDP                 9.1     11.6       8.8       4.4                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP            13.7     11.7       4.4       8.1
Gross domestic savings/GDP                    6.2      1.1      -0.9      -0.8
Gross national savings/GDP                    4.2      4.9       2.1       2.5
Current account balance/GDP                    ..    -6.7       -6.7       -2.0     Domestic                  i X
Interest payments/GDP                         0.1      1.0       1.1       1.1     SangsInvestment
Total debt/GDP                                5.0     45.7     1002      100.8
Total debt service/exports                    4.5     24.5      97.2      49.5
Present value of debtGDP                        ..      ..      47.1
Present value of debt/exports                  ..       ..    947.4
Indebtedness
197646  1987-97      1996      1997   199842
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  3.7     -1.4     -8.4       0.7       3.9             --Burundi
GNP per capita                       1.1     -3.9    -10.8      -1.5       0.9             --Lo-Income group
Exports of goods and services        5.9      0.1    -49.3      27.1       7.3                                              A
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986      1996      1997      Growth raltes of output and Investment (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                          20
Agriculture                                  64.8     58.5      67.5      46.1
Industry                                     12.8     13.5      16.9      11.5      o                                  0
Manufactunng                                8.9      8.8       10.6       7.7    -20
Services                                     22.4     28.0      25.6      42.4    -40        -
Private consumption                          85.1     89.1      90.8      90.4    -eo
General government consumption                8.7      9.8       10.0     10.5                      GDI       C  GDD
Imports of goods and services                16.7     22.3      14.1      13.3                     G
(average annual growth)                  1976-46  1987-97       1996      1997      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
Agriculture                                   2.4     -1.3        1.5       0.5    40 -
Industry                                      7.3     -4.4     -13.2      -7.9    20 ------
Manufacturing                               5.8      -5.1     -16.4      -0.7                               o' 
Services                                      6.6      0.1     -11.4        3.2             2
Private consumption                           3.2     -0.2     -11.6       13.4    40
General government consumption               -2.9     -0.1     -18.8       9.2                                   V
Gross domestic investment                    13.7     -7.9       0.0    -44.5      d
Imports of goods and services                 6.9     -1.9     -43.8       9.4                  Exports         lmports
Gross national product                        3.9     -1.3       -8.5       1.0                         -
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
*The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared vvith its income-group average. If cata are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                         Annex 10
Burmndi - Second Social Action Project                                                                           Page 2 of 3
Burundi
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976    1986       1996     1997      Inflation (%)
Oomestic prices                                                                   3
(% change)                                                                       30_                                     _
Consumerprices                               6.9      1.7      26.4      21.1    20
Implieit GDP deflator                        8.1    -43        22.4      26.8
10
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes cunent grants)                                                a
Current revenue                                      15.8      12.3       9.8            92    93    94    9S    96    97
Current budget balance                                2.8      -0.8      -3.2                    GDP deflator     CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                              -8.1      -8.2      -6.1 
TRADE
(US$ millions)                             1976    1986        1996     1997      Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                                   129        40       93      300
Coffee                                              106        29        73    250
Tea                                          ..       5         5        13     20
Manufactures                                          5 9       4         4
Total imports (cil                                    207       117      133      150
Food                                                 16        18        23     100
Fuel and energy27                                              17         0
Capital goods63                                                3         37A                             AM          N
Export price index (1995=100)                 ..    122          76      125           91   92   93   94   95   9B   97
Import price index (1995=100)                 ..      71        103       97                H Exports    a Imports
Temisoftrade(1995=100)                                172        73       129
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976    1986       1996     1997      Currentaccount balance to GDP ratio (%)
(USS millions)
Exports of goods and services                 62      141        50      100 o
Imports of goods and services                 75     268        160      165      -2
Resource balance                             -13    -127       -110       -65
Net income                                     0      -21       -14       -11
Net current transfers                                  67        48       52      -6
Current account balance                               -81       -76       -24     -  
Financing items (net)                                 102        Is        -7    -1-
Changes in net reserves                      -15     -21         58       31    -12
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)        49       70       145       60
Conversion rate (DEC, lacalVUSS)            86.3   114.2      302.8    352.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976    1986       1996     1997
(USS millions)                                                                    Compositon of total debt, 1997 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          22      549     1,139    1,247
IBRD                                         0       0          0        0                      G:72
IDA                                          5     191        588      567                  F: 1
I   E: 169    _         
Total debt service                             3       35        55       53
IBRD                                         0       0          0        0
IDA                  .0                              2          7        9                                       B:667
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             21      51        164
Official creditors                           3      88         14       50
Private creditors                            0       -6        -1        0            D: 40
Foreign direct investment                    0        2         1
Portfolio equity                             0        0         0                                      C: 30
World Bank program
Commitments                                  8      32          0        0      A - 1RD                       E - Bilateral
Disbursemends                                1      44         17       12      8 - IDA   D - Oter mutilateral    F - Private
Principal repayments                         0        1         3        4      C - MF                        G - Short-term
Net flows                                    1      43         14        7   1                                             X
Interest payments                            0        2         4        5
Net transfers                                1       42        10        3
Development Economics                                                                                                 10/1/98



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                           Anmex 10
Bumndi - Second Social Action Project                                                                              Page 3 of 3
Burundi
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976    1986       1996      1997     Inflation (%J
Domesdc prices                                                                     3D
(% change)                                                                         .0
Consumer prices                               6.9      1.7      26.4      21.1    20
Implicit GDP deflator                         8.1     -4.3      22.4      25.8
10
Governmentfinance
(% of GDP, includes cunrent grants)
Current revenue                                ..    15.8       12.3       9.8             92    93    94    95   9D    97
Current budget balance                          ..     2.8      -0.8      -3.2                - GDP deflator    *GCPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..    -8.1       -8.2      -6.1
TRADE
1976     1986      1996      1997      Export and import levels (US$ millions)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                             .      129        40        93     300
Coffee                                        ..    106          29       73     250
Tea                                           ..       5         5                      U.3..0.
Manufactures                                           9          4        4
Total imports (cif)                            ..    207         117       133     1     *      .I  * *IE I                _
Food                                         ..       16        18        23    lOt
Fuel and energy                   1         6         27         17       20      s l
Capital goods                                 ..      63        34        37          
91   92   03   94   95  9s   97
Export prce index (1995=100)                    ..    122         76       125
Import price index (1995=100)                          71        103        97               r3 Exports    I Imports
Terms oftrade (1995=100)                       ..    172          73       129
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                              1976    1986        1996     1997       currentaccountbalancetoGDP ratio (/)
Exports of goods and services                 62      141         50       100      0
Imports of goods and services                 75      268        160       165      2
Resource balance                              -13    -127       -110       -65
Net income                                      0      -21       -14       -11
Net current transfers                                  67         48        52     -6
Current account balance                        ..    -81         -76       -24      -8
Financing items (net)                                  102        is        -7    -10
Changes in net reserves                       -15     -21         58        31    -12
Memo:                                                                             -
Reserves including gold (USS millions)        49       70        145        60
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)             86.3   114.2      302.8    352.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976    1986       1996      1997
(US$ millions)                                                                      Compositior of total debt, 1997 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           22     549      1,139     1,247
IBRD                                         0        0          0         0                  F  G.72
IDA                                          5      191        588      567                   F: 1
Total debt service                              3       35        55        53
IBRD                                         0        0          0        0
IDA                                          0        2          7         9                                        :5:67
Composition of net resource flowvs
Official grants                             21       51        164         -
Official creditors                            3      88         14        s0
Private creditors                            0        -6        -1        0            D:400                       :6
Foreign direct investment                    0        2          1
Portfolio equity                             0        0          0         .                             c: 30
World Bank program
Commitments                                   8      32          0         0     A - IBRD                       E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 1      44         17        12     B - IDA    D - Other multilateral    F - Private
Principal repayments                         0         1         3         4     C-IMF                          G - Short-term
Net flows                                     1      43         14         7      1     _                                    1
Interest payments                            0        2          4         5
Net transfers                                 1      42         10         3
Devellopment Economics                                                                                                  10/1/98






280                                                   0e                                                300                                                  310
A             Lake                         W  R        N    D 
Lae
JRwru..
\o   Lak) glvNt
TOav                                                c     Cohoha 
ROADS
BURUNDI,                                                                   6.x                                               T 
a    SELECTED TOWNS AND CITIES                           I                              i     
   NATIONAL CAPITAL                              /' ,                                   >                                   
|  ---"INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                             i,                        ge7r(
~-.-.RIVERS                                          ,'-         
40~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T
   l^   \ Bu6anza                                  >/          %
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC    -;wiwa                                                                 4 
This map was produced by the                                               /  8      ^      tX B R9
Map Design Unit of The World Bank.    OF  CON GO                       )-      T  akec nyikc
The boundaries, colors, denominations                               g     I1Rwnit                       
ana anyoiher information sho-wnon Ithis     ..
map do not imply, on the port of The                                                                                          0           25         50 K.ILOETR
rn     World Bank Group, any iudgment on                                            /* az-N                                                   25          50 KILMTR
c      the legolstatus of any territory,or any                                                                                                         I                  I-               ci 4 S        
9      endorsement or acceptance of such                                         jU;j| t025                                                                              50OMILES     
<      boundaries.                                                               1- . '         '     '           ToO
   280                                             2 90   /              wX          /   Kigoma        3 00<                                               310g
'0,                                                                      ,    ,            .. *   .      -, OAD



