Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3287 BU
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Social Action Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated October 28, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3287 BU 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 28,1999, between REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, 
having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing 
of the Project; 
(B)
the Project will be carried out by Twitezimbere with the Borrower’s 
assistance, and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to 
Twitezimbere the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
and Twitezimbere;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01.  The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Page  2
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“Beneficiary” means any community determined to be eligible for a 
Subproject Grant (as hereinafter defined) in accordance with the eligibility criteria 
specified in Section II of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement and in the MOP (as 
hereinafter defined) and to whom, or for whose benefit, a Subproject Grant is made or 
proposed to be made; 
(b)
“BRB” means Bank of the Republic of Burundi, the Borrower’s central bank; 
(c)
“Convention” means the agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and Twitezimbere (as hereinafter defined) pursuant to Section 6.01 (e) of this 
Agreement, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the 
Convention; 
(d)
“FBU” or “Franc Burundais” mean the currency of the Borrower; 
(e)
“Fiscal Year” means the Borrower’s fiscal year, which runs from January 1 
through December 31 of each calendar year;
(f)
“Initial Deposit” means an amount in FBU equivalent to $15,000 referred 
to in Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement; 
(g)
“ISTEEBU” means l’Institut de Statistiques et d’Etudes Economiques du 
Burundi, the national statistical institute of the Borrower, established and operating 
under the Borrower’s Decret No. 100/033, dated February 23, 1990; 
(h)
“Manual of Procedures” or “MOP” means the Twitezimbere MOP, referred to 
in Section I, paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, containing, inter 
alia, work plans, monitoring and performance indicators and outlining the procurement, 
disbursement, administrative, financial, and other arrangements for the implementation 
of the Project, as the same may be amended from time to time in consultation with the 
Association, and such term includes any schedules to the MOP; 
(i)
“Midterm Review” means the midterm review referred to in paragraph (b) of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement; 
(j)
“NGO” means a nongovernmental organization operating within the 
Borrower’s territory; 
(k)
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of 
this Agreement;
(l)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Association and 
Twitezimbere of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
(m)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement; 
(n)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;  
(o)
“Statutes” means the statutes of Twitezimbere (as hereinafter defined), 
dated February 2, 1993, as amended to the date of this Agreement; 
(p)
“Subproject” means a specific development project financed or to be 
financed in part out of the proceeds of the Credit under Part A.1 of the Project;  
(q)
“Subproject Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made by 
Twitezimbere to Beneficiaries for the purpose of financing a Subproject under Part A.1 
of the Project; and 
Page  3
(r)
“Subproject Grant Agreement” means an agreement between Twitezimbere and 
Beneficiaries setting forth the terms and conditions under which a Subproject Grant 
shall be made available to the Beneficiaries for the purpose of financing a Subproject 
under Part A.1 of the Project;
(s)
“Twitezimbere” means the non-profit NGO, incorporated pursuant to the 
Borrower’s Ordonnance Ministerielle No. 205.01/082/93, dated February 25, 1993; and 
“Fiscal and customs legislation” means the Code général des impôts et taxes 
(legislation mise à jour au 1er octobre 1996) and the Ordonnance No. 030/186 dated 
December 30, 1971 relating to the entry into force of Décret-Loi No. 1/158 dated 
November 12, 1971 modifying the customs legislation of the Borrower. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to nine million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 9,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
(i) expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect 
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and 
(ii) amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be paid) by Twitezimbere 
on account of withdrawals made for the benefit of any Beneficiary under Subproject 
Grant Agreements to meet the reasonable cost of goods, works, and services required 
for Subprojects under Part A.1 of the Project, and in respect of which the withdrawal 
from the Credit Account is requested.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in BRB on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower 
of such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semi-annually on March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
Page  4
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each March 15 and September 15, commencing March 15, 2010 and ending September 15, 
2039. Each installment to, and including the installment payable on, September 15, 
2019 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement, shall cause Twitezimbere to perform in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Agreement all of the obligations of Twitezimbere therein set 
forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services, and other resources necessary or appropriate to enable 
Twitezimbere to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any 
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance. 
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to 
Twitezimbere under the Convention, under terms and conditions which shall have been 
approved by the Association.  
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Convention in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive the Convention or any 
provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the works, goods, and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
Page  5
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement. 
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by 
Twitezimbere pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. Without limitation to its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall, for the purposes of making available its counterpart 
contribution to the financing of the Project:
(a)
cause Twitezimbere to open and maintain in FBU an account (the Project 
Account), in a commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association;
(b)
promptly thereafter, deposit the Initial Deposit into such account to 
finance the Borrower’s contribution to the Project;
(c)
deposit into the Project Account, on the first day of each calendar 
semester, until the completion of the Project, an amount equivalent to (i) $15,000 for 
its Fiscal Year 2000; (ii) $30,000 for its Fiscal Year 2001; and (iii) $90,000 for its 
Fiscal Years 2002 and 2003, respectively; and
(d)
use the Project Account funds exclusively to defray the cost of Project 
expenditures which are not financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure or Project 
Management Reports, the Borrower shall: (i)retain, until at least one year after the 
Association has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts, and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;(iii)ensure that 
such records and accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in paragraph 
(b) of this Section and that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by 
said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure or Project Management 
Reports submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section 
and those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested, including a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request. 
ARTICLE V 
Page  6
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely that: 
(a)
Twitezimbere shall have failed to perform any its obligations under the 
Project Agreement;  
(b)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that Twitezimbere will be able to perform its obligations under the 
Project Agreement; and 
(c)
the Statutes or the Convention shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of 
Twitezimbere to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:  
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and 
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
Twitezimbere has adopted the MOP, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association;
(b)
Twitezimbere has established an accounting and financial management 
system satisfactory to the Association; 
(c)
Twitezimbere has appointed the independent auditors referred to in 
Section 4.01 (b) of the Project Agreement, in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement; 
(d)
the Project Account has been opened and the Initial Deposit referred to 
in Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement has been deposited therein; and 
(e)
the Convention has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and 
Twitezimbere.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association: (a)
that the Project Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by Twitezimbere, and is legally binding upon 
Twitezimbere in accordance with its terms; and (b)
that the Convention has been duly 
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and Twitezimbere and is legally binding upon 
the Borrower and Twitezimbere in accordance with its terms. 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Page  7
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for finance 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 1830
Bujumbura
Republic of Burundi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, DC
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
By /s/ Thomas Ndikumana 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Emmanuel Mbi 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the Credit
Allocatrd
   % of
    (Expressed in
Expenditures
Page  8
Category
   SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed'
(1)
Civil works
    4,750,000
100% of amounts 
disbursed
(2)
Goods and vehicles
      550,000
100%
(3)
Consultants’ services 
    1,550,000
100%
(4)
Training
      450,000
100%
(5)
Operating costs
      800,000
90% until December 
31, 2000; 
80% until 
December 31, 2001; 
and 
40% thereafter
(6)
Unallocated
      900,000
TOTAL
    9,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule,  the term “operating costs” means the 
incremental operating costs incurred on account of Project implementation, including 
office supplies and equipment, rental of office space, vehicle operation and 
maintenance, communication and travel costs related to the execution of the Project, 
but excluding salaries of members of the Borrower’s civil service. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
 
(b)
a Subproject Grant unless such Subproject Grant has been made in 
accordance with the criteria and procedures and under the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in Section II of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement and in the 
MOP.  
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for (i) goods and works under 
contracts costing less than $75,000 equivalent each; (ii) consultants’ services 
(firms) under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent; and (iii) consultants’ 
services (individuals) under contracts not exceeding $20,000 equivalent, all under 
such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
5.
With respect to the disbursements percentages established in the table set forth 
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, it is understood that the said percentages have been 
calculated pursuant to the fiscal and customs legislation of the Borrower under the 
provisions of which works, goods and services required for the Project are exempted 
from any taxation or payment of customs duties in the territory of the Borrower.  
However, if, as a result of any modification to the provisions of the law referred to 
above, any works, goods, or services required for the Project become subject to 
taxation or to payment of customs duties in the territory of the Borrower, then the 
said percentages referred to under paragraph 1 above shall be decreased in accordance 
with the provision of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to (a) strengthen the 
capacities of local community groups to work together in selecting, implementing, 
financing, monitoring, and maintaining priority community services; and (b) alleviate 
poverty through the creation of employment opportunities and the improvement of social 
services.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
Page  9
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Community Activities 
1.
Carrying out and monitoring of Subprojects for the construction and 
rehabilitation of social and economic infrastructure, early childhood development 
services, and other community activities submitted by Beneficiaries. 
2.
Design and implementation of a participatory approach for the selection, 
financing, carrying out, and maintenance of community activities; 
3.
Design and implementation of a communications program to strengthen 
Twitezimbere’s capacity to communicate information about the Project to the public, 
through the provision of technical advisory services and training.  
4.
Assistance to local small entrepreneurs, civil servants in the relevant 
ministries and NGOs to improve their community activity skills, through the provision 
of training and technical advisory services. 
Part B:
Poverty Monitoring  
Strengthening the capacity of ISTEEBU and other statistical survey organizations 
in the Borrower’s territory to undertake poverty monitoring and analysis activities 
through the provision of technical advisory services, training, and the acquisition of 
equipment. 
Part C:
Capacity Building 
1.
Strengthening Twitezimbere’s capacity to implement, coordinate, supervise, and 
monitor the execution of the Project, through the provision of training of its 
personnel, studies, technical advisory services, and the acquisition of required 
logistical means. 
2.
Establishment of a monitoring and evaluation system to monitor overall Project 
implementation, as well as the implementation of the Subprojects,  and the design of a 
program to overcome any constraints encountered during the implementation of the 
Project, through the provision of technical advisory services.  
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3 
Implementation Program 
Performance Indicators and Midterm Review
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the performance indicators agreed 
upon between the Borrower and the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
carry out, jointly with the Association and Twitezimbere, not later than 
June 30, 2002, the Midterm Review. The Midterm Review shall cover, among other things: 
(i) progress made in meeting the Project’s objectives; (ii) overall Project 
performance as measured against Project performance indicators; and (iii) performance 
by Twitezimbere of its obligations under the Project;
(c)
at least three (3) weeks prior to the Midterm Review, furnish to the 
Association a report describing the status of the items listed in paragraph (a) above 
and of Project implementation generally; and
(d)
not later than four (4) weeks after the Midterm Review, prepare an action 
Page  10
program acceptable to the Association for further implementation of the Project having 
regard to the findings of the Midterm Review and, thereafter, implement such action 
program.
SCHEDULE 4 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $800,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule; provided, however that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Condition shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,500,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
Page  11
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures. 
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b), and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions. 
