Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3287 BU
Project Agreement
(Second Social Action Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
TWITEZIMBERE
Dated October 28, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3287 BU
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 28, 1999, between the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and TWITEZIMBERE.
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
the Republic of Burundi (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed 
to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to nine 
million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 9,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth 
in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that Twitezimbere agree to 
undertake such obligations towards the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a Convention to be entered into between the Borrower and Twitezimbere 
(the Convention), the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development Credit 
Agreement will be made available to Twitezimbere on the terms and conditions set forth 
in the Convention; and
WHEREAS Twitezimbere, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Twitezimbere declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this 
end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, and management practices and shall 
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services, 
and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and, except as the Association, the Borrower, and Twitezimbere shall otherwise agree, 
Twitezimbere shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program 
set forth in Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement and the Twitezimbere 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
(c)
Twitezimbere undertakes that, unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, Subproject Grants will be made in accordance with the procedures and on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Section II of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
(d)
Twitezimbere shall exercise its rights under each Subproject Grant 
Agreement in such manner as to (i) protect the interests of the Borrower, the 
Association, and Twitezimbere; (ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement 
and the Convention; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works, and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Twitezimbere shall perform all its obligations under the 
Convention.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, Twitezimbere shall not 
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning, or waiving the Convention or any provision thereof. 
Section 2.04. (a) Twitezimbere shall, at the request of the Association, 
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and the Convention, and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
Twitezimbere shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by Twitezimbere of 
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Convention.
Section 2.05. Twitezimbere shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement 
and the Project.
Section 2.06. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, Twitezimbere shall take steps to: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
submit to the Borrower, for onward transmission to the Association not later than six 
(6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the future operation of the 
Project; and 
Page  3
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower and Twitezimbere on said plan. 
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of Twitezimbere
Section 3.01. Twitezimbere shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs 
in accordance with sound administrative, engineering, financial, and management 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by 
competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. Twitezimbere shall at all times operate and maintain its equipment 
and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary 
repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound administrative, 
engineering, financial, and management practices.
Section 3.03. Twitezimbere shall take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Association for insurance 
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate 
practice. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) Twitezimbere shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, 
all in accordance with sound accounting standards acceptable to the Association and 
consistently applied, adequate to reflect its operations and financial condition and 
to register separately the operations, resources, and expenditures for, and in 
connection with, carrying out the Project.
(b)
Twitezimbere shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts, and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses, and related 
statements) for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing standards acceptable to 
the Association and 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable 
to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year, 
(A) certified copies of 
its financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts, and financial statements, as well as the 
audit thereof, as the 
Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, Twitezimbere shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project 
in order to enable Twitezimbere, not later than June 30, 2002 or such later date as 
the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, 
acceptable to the Association, each of which: 
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said 
report; and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and 
Page  4
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month period following the period covered by said 
report; 
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report; and (B) explains 
variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, 
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report. 
(b) 
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, Twitezimbere shall prepare, in collaboration with the Borrower and in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the Borrower 
for onward transmission to the Association, not later than 45 days after the end of 
each calendar quarter, a Project Management Report for such period. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
Twitezimbere thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in 
accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify Twitezimbere of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.  
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex, or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, DC
64145 (MCI)
Page  5
For Twitezimbere:
B.P. 2415
Bujumbura
Burundi
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Twitezimbere, 
or by Twitezimbere on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, 
may be taken or executed by the Director or such other person or persons as 
Twitezimbere shall designate in writing, and Twitezimbere shall furnish to the 
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Emmanuel Mbi
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
TWITEZEMBERE
By /s/ Thomas Ndikumana
Authorized Representative 
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the 
following Parts of this Section I.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works and goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or more per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,000,000 equivalent for works and 
$400,000 for goods, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
Page  6
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $450,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Procurement of Small Works 
Works estimated to cost $7,500 or more but less than $30,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,500,000 equivalent, may be 
procured, as described in the MOP, under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on 
the basis of quotations obtained from at least three (3) qualified domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully.  Prequalification shall be widely advertised in 
the local press and updated every six months.  Qualification criteria, scope of works 
to be completed during the next twelve months, and their location shall be made known 
to all candidates.
4.
Community Participation 
Goods and works involving community participation and costing less than $7,500 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $700,000, shall be procured in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association and described in the MOP.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $75,000 or 
more for goods and works, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the provisions 
of the following Parts of this Section II.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-Based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
Page  7
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The shortlist of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Least-Cost Selection
Services for financial audits of the Project may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.   
2.
Single-Source Selection
Services supplied by NGOs for Subprojects which are estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 
equivalent, may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for (a) participatory rural assessment, (b) the design and supervision 
of infrastructure projects, and (c) training, estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $800,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Twitezimbere will maintain and 
update a list of qualified firms following advertisement, in order to obtain 
expressions of interest, as described in the MOP.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)), and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more and for all contracts 
relating to the employment of Twitezimbere’s high level staff, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference, and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Page  8
Twitezimbere Implementation Program
Section I:
General 
1.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, Twitezimbere shall (a) carry 
out the Project in accordance with the MOP and the Convention; and (b) not amend or 
waive the MOP or the Convention or any provision thereof, in a manner which, in the 
opinion of the Association, may materially and adversely affect the implementation of 
the Project. 
2.
Twitezimbere shall maintain, until the completion of the Project, competent 
staff in adequate numbers, all with terms of reference, qualifications, and experience 
acceptable to the Association, including (i) an administrative and finance officer; 
(ii) a procurement officer; (iii) a specialist in participatory techniques; (iv) a 
project officer; and (v) an accountant; who shall all be employed in accordance with 
the provisions of Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
3.
Twitezimbere shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association by March 31 of each year, a report integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to subparagraph (a) of 
this paragraph, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; 
(c)
review with the Association, by June 30 of each year, or such later date 
as the Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter;
(d)
carry out, jointly with the Borrower and the Association, no later than 
June 30, 2002, a midterm review of the progress made in carrying out the Project. The 
said midterm review shall cover, among other things, (i) progress in meeting the 
Project’s objectives; and (ii) performance by Twitezimbere of its obligations under 
the Project; and  
(e)
implement the recommendations of the review referred to in subparagraph 
(d) of this paragraph, as agreed with the Borrower and the Association and set out in 
a time-bound action plan satisfactory to the Association.
Section II:
Part A.1 of the Project/ Subprojects 
1.
Eligibility Criteria for Subprojects
No Subproject shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of this Credit 
unless Twitezimbere has determined, on the basis of an appraisal conducted in 
accordance with the guidelines set forth in the MOP, that the Subproject satisfies the 
eligibility criteria specified in the MOP, including, in particular, the following: 
(a)
the Subproject shall be for basic infrastructure services, including 
water supply, roads, sanitation systems, rehabilitation of schools, forestry, health 
centers, markets, and early childhood development services; 
(b)
the Subproject shall be initiated by Beneficiaries; 
(c)
the Subproject shall be targeted at lower income group beneficiaries, as 
determined in the MOP; 
Page  9
(d)
the Subproject shall be designed in such a way that its mode of 
implementation is labor-intensive and provides maximum employment opportunities within 
sound economic parameters; 
(e)
the Subproject shall be designed in such a way that its operation and 
maintenance shall be sustainable; and 
(f)
the Subproject shall be in compliance with the standards set forth in the 
applicable laws of the Borrower relating to health, safety, and environmental 
protection, as well as the Association’s applicable guidelines.
2.
Terms and Conditions Regarding Subprojects
Subprojects shall be carried out pursuant to Subproject Grant Agreements, to be 
concluded between Twitezimbere and the legally established and authorized 
representative or representatives of the Beneficiaries, under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, which shall, inter alia, include the following:
(a)
financing by Twitezimbere to be on a grant basis, except that all 
Beneficiaries shall make a contribution of at least 10% as provided for in the MOP;
(b)
the obligation to carry out the Subproject in accordance with the MOP, 
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial, 
environmental, and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records to reflect, 
in accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources, and 
expenditures in respect of the Subproject;
(c)
the requirement that (i) the goods, works, and services to be financed 
from the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the procedures 
set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods, works, and services 
shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Subproject;
(d)
the right of Twitezimbere to inspect by itself, or jointly with the 
Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods, works, sites, plants, and 
construction included in the Subproject, the operations thereof and any relevant 
records and documents;
(e)
the right of Twitezimbere to obtain all information as Twitezimbere or 
the Association shall reasonably request regarding the administration, operation, and 
financial condition of the Subproject; and
(f)
the right of Twitezimbere to suspend or terminate the right of the 
Beneficiaries to use the proceeds of the Credit for the Subproject upon the failure by 
the Beneficiaries to perform any of their obligations under the relevant agreement.
