Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3287 BU 
GRANT NUMBER H033 BU
 
Development Grant Agreement 
 
(Second Social Action Project 
–
Supplemental Financing) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated April 14, 2003 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3287 BU 
GRANT NUMBER H033 BU
 
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated April 14, 2003, between REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI  
(the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
(the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Recipient and the Association have entered into a 
Development Credit Agreement (Second Social Action Project) dated October 28, 1999, 
as amended from time to time (the Development Credit Agreement), for the purpose of 
assisting in the financing of the project described in Schedule 2 to the Development 
Credit Agreement (the Project); 
 
(B) 
the Project is carried out by Twitezimbere with the Recipient’s 
assistance, and, as part of such assistance, the Recipient has made available to 
Twitezimbere the proceeds of the Credit as provided in the Development Credit 
Agreement; 
 
(C) 
the Recipient has requested the Association to provide further additional 
assistance in support of  the Project by increasing the amount made available under the 
Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various currencies equivalent to ten 
million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 10,300,000); 
 
(D) 
the Association was authorized under Resolution No. 549, adopted by its 
Board of Governors on September 29, 2002, to use the funds transferred to the 
Association out of the Bank’s fiscal year 2002 net income to provide financing in the 
form of grants and the development grant set forth in Section 2.01 of this Agreement (the 
“Grant”) is being financed out of the funds so transferred;  
 
(E) 
the Project supported by the Grant will be carried out by Twitezimbere 
with the Recipient’s assistance, and, as part of such assistance, the Recipient will make 
available to Twitezimbere the proceeds of the Grant as provided in this Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend the Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the “General Conditions Applicable 
to Development Credit Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985  
(as amended through October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) 
of this Section (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement:  
 
(i) 
Article I;  
(ii) Article 
II; 
(iii) Section 
3.01; 
(iv) 
Sections 4.01, 4.02, 4.05 and 4.06; 
(v) Article 
V; 
(vi) 
Sections 6.01, 6.02, 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06; 
(vii) Article 
VIII; 
(viii) Article 
IX; 
(ix) 
Article X;  
(x) 
Article XI; and 
(xi) 
Sections 12.01, 12.02, 12.03, 12.04 and 12.05. 
(b) 
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows: 
(i) 
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient; 
(ii) 
the term “Development Credit Agreement”, wherever used in the 
General Conditions, means this Agreement; 
(iii) 
the term “Credit” and “credit”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Grant; and 
(iv) 
the term “Credit Account”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Grant Account. 
Page  4
-
3
-
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions, in the Preamble to this Agreement and in the Development 
Credit Agreement, as amended, have the respective meanings therein set forth:  
(a) 
“Agreement Amending the Project Agreement” means the agreement 
between the Association and Twitezimbere of even date herewith, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Agreement Amending the Project Agreement; 
(b) 
“Amendment to the Convention” means the amendment modifying the 
Convention to include the proceeds of the supplemental financing through the Grant; 
(c) 
“Development Credit Agreement” means the agreement dated October 
28, 1999 for the Project, between the Recipient and the Association, as such agreement 
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes the “General Conditions 
Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” of the Association, dated 
 
January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 1997); 
(d)  
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement; and  
(e) 
“Social and Environmental Risk Management Plan” means the plan 
providing for mitigation measures for potential negative environmental and social 
impacts of the Project, acceptable to the Association and referred to in paragraph (d) of 
Section 3.01 of this Grant Agreement as the same may be amended from time to time. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Grant 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to ten million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 10,300,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable costs of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient may, for the purpose of the Project,  open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in BRB on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement. 
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of 
such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Recipient shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.05 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of the Recipient; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
 
Section 2.05. Commitment charges shall be payable semiannually on March 15 
and September 15  in each year. 
 
Section 2.06.  The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section,  Sections 3.01, 3.02, 3.03, 
3.04, 4.01, 5.01 and 5.02 of the Development Credit Agreement and Schedules 1 (except 
the table in paragraph 1 thereof and paragraph 4), 2, 3 and 4 thereto are incorporated in 
the Development Grant Agreement, with the following modifications in said Sections and 
Schedules, unless the context otherwise requires: 
 
(a) 
the term “Credit” shall be read as “Grant”; 
 
(b) 
the term “Borrower” shall be read as “Recipient”;  
 
Page  6
-
5
-
(c) 
the term “this Agreement” or “the Development Credit Agreement” shall 
be read as “the Development Grant Agreement”; and 
 
(d) 
A new paragraph (e) is added at the end of Schedule 3 to the 
Development Credit Agreement, to read as follows: 
 
“The Recipient shall: 
 
(e) 
ensure that the Project implementation shall at all times 
be carried out in accordance with the Social and Environmental 
Risk Management Plan, and, except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not amend or waive any 
provision of the Social and Environmental Risk Management 
Plan or any provision thereof, in a manner which, in the opinion 
of the Association, may materially and adversely affect the 
implementation of the Project.” 
 
Section 3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, and except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Recipient shall: (a) maintain, during the Project execution period, the account in FBU 
opened for the Development Credit Agreement; (b) deposit into the Project Account, on a 
quarterly basis starting July 1, 2003, an amount in FBU equivalent to US$71,000; and  
(c) ensure that the amounts deposited into the Project Account are used exclusively to 
finance expenditures under the Project and are included in the Recipient’s public 
expenditure program. 
 
Section 3.03. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of the 
Development Credit Agreement, and the Recipient’s reporting obligations set out in 
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement, the Recipient shall prepare and furnish  
to the Association a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Grant, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Grant through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter.  
ARTICLE IV 
 
Termination 
 
Section 4.01. The following event is specified as additional condition to
 
the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions, namely that the Amendment to the Convention between the Recipient and 
Twitezimbere has been executed on behalf of the Recipient and Twitezimbere. 
 
Section 4.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Association:  
 
(a) 
that the Agreement amending the Project Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by Twitezimbere, and is legally binding upon Twitezimbere in 
accordance with its terms; and  
 
(b) 
that the Amendment to the Convention has been duly authorized or 
ratified by the Borrower and Twitezimbere, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and 
Twitezimbere in accordance with its terms. 
 
Section 4.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  8
-
7
-
ARTICLE V 
 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
 
Section 5.01. The Minister of the Recipient at the time responsible for finance is 
designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
 
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Recipient: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
P.O. Box 1830 
 
Bujumbura 
Republic of Burundi 
 
Cable 
address: 
   Facsimile: 
 
5135 BDI MINFIN 
 
 
(257) 22 38 27   
 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433
 
United States of America
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI 
 
By 
   /s/ 
Athanase 
Gahungu 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
   /s/ 
Emmanuel 
Mbi 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated (Expressed in  
SDR Equivalent)
%
of Expenditures  
to be financed
(1) Civil works 
 
5,160,000 
 
100%  
 
(2) Goods and vehicles 
 
1,170,000 
 
100%  
 
(3) Consultants’ services, 
and audits 
 
1,890,000 
 
100% of foreign  
expenditures and  
95% of local  
expenditures 
 
(4) Training 
 
780,000 
 
100% 
 
(5) Incremental operating 
costs 
 
270,000 
 
40%   
 
(6) Unallocated 
 
1,030,000
TOTAL
10,300,000
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods and works under 
contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (ii) consultants’ services (firms) 
under contracts costing less than $75,000 equivalent; (iii) consultants’ services 
(individuals) under contracts costing less than $25,000 equivalent, (iv) training; and  
(v) operating costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify 
by notice to the Recipient.
 
