INDONESIA
PROPOSED KERINCI-SEBLAT INTEGRATED CONSERVATION AND
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
REGIONAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
EXECuTIVE SUMMARY OF MAJOR CONCLUSIONS AND REcomIhNDATioNs
INTRODUCTION
A Brief Description of the Biodiversity of the Kerinci-Seblat Area
The Kerinci-Seblat ICDP proposal is located in the southern half of Sumatra in the
provinces of Jambi, South Sumatra, Bengkulu and West Sumatra. It extends for a
distance of nearly 350 kan along the spine of the Barisan Mountain Range from Padang in
the north to Bengkulu in the south, and contains Indonesia's second highest mountain,
Mt. Kerinci, at 3,805 m. The natural ecological communities of the Kerinci-Seblat area
are of outstanding biodiversity significance: including species-rich lowland dipterocarp
forests at elevations from 300 m to 1,000 m; unique wetlands, and subalpine communities
at aLmost 4,000 m. These ecological communities support a rich flora and fauna:
-  at least 4,000 species of plants, including Raffelsia, the world's largest flower,
Amorphophallus, the world's tallest flower, and the only natural occurrence of the
genus Pinus in the southem hemisphere;
a  144 mammaan species including several threatened or endangered species such as
Sumatran rhino, tiger, elephant, tapir, and gibbons;
* 180 bird species (2 percent of the world's total), including three species of hornbill,
the rare Kerinci Scop's owl and the great argus pheasant;
*  19 animal species endemic to Sumatra-14 birds and 5 mammals.
Kerinci-Seblat was initiaily proposed as a national park by the Minister of Forests
in 1982. This initial proposal, comprising an area of 1,484,650 ha, was a consolidation of
separate blocks of conservation reserves and protection forests. A series of subsequent
boundary revisions has reduced the park by about a third to its present size of 996,850 ha.
The biodiversity value of the Kerinci-Seblat area is threatened by the reduction in park
area and by a host of development pressures, such as access proposals, encroachment for
shifling cultivation and cinnamon plantations, and logging in the lowland forests.
Regional Impact Assessment: Definition and Purpose
As the name implies, a regional impact assessment (RIA) is an analysis of the
consequences of one or more development projects, where the project or projects are
This doimt s     bee eodoned by hM WorldBn& :- 17. mL. is3   e;i fieiw-:
= i                 |-  weme,9&. -- x.^-.  ..
*-  ---  *-------- *~~~~~~~~~*i.-  -_ anh,m__|_- -_* |fh  ,,|,,W_s   a-|nw.. nsLs;_w..J... 21......n..... -m. ;.b....n.



3
productivity and biodiversity, has risen from 67 percent to 86 percent. Overall, of 27
landscape units (based on differences of climate, topography and lithology) identified as
representative of the original park, 15 have been reduced by 80 percent or more and 8
have been completely eliminated. The boundary is currently the single most critical issue
of project design. The park has lost a significant proportion of its biodiversity and may no
longer contain the habitats necessary for the long-term protection and maintenance of its
"flagship" wildlife species-elephant, tiger, rhinoceros, tapir, gibbon and the wealth of
lowland evergreen rainforest birds. Adjacent lands are being subjected to such serious
disturbance from logging and such rapid deforestation by encroachers that they may loose
much of their biodiversity and buffer zone function. If the situation is to be retrieved, a
number of steps must be taken immediately.
1.    Demarcation of the current boundary should proceed in order to expedite park
gazettment, but there must be a clear statement from the Government of Indonesia
that the boundary is recognized as inadequate and that major boundary
rationalization to improve its biodiversity status will take place progressively over
the next five years.
2.    A rapid environmental appraisal, involving biodiversity and wildlife habitat, must
begin immediately to determine the most important areas for repatriation to the
park, concentrating on the Jambi and Bengkulu park boundaries. Work should
begin immediately, utilizing remaining JGF funding, on two concessions adjacent
to the park, one in Jambi and one in Bengkulu, with the following selection
criteria: high biodiversity; large proportion of protection and limited production
forest; and/or lease expiring within the next two years. Candidates for these first
appraisals are the Sarestra II and Nusa Leases in Jambi and the Bina Samaktha and
Maju Jaya Raya leases in Bengkulu. These two appraisals should be undertaken as
part of the concession reviews, see below, and be completed by December 1996
with firm recommendations for the transfer of low elevation areas of high
biodiversity back to the park.
Enforcement
From even a casual field trip around the park boundary, it is evident that
encroachment by agricultural squatters is now largely uncontrolled, and that greatly
upgraded capability to deal with the problem is needed immediately. In addition it is also
evident that serious wildlife poaching occurs in many areas of the park. The project
design calls for 100 new pack guards to be engaged as "pegawi proyek" at 25 per year
for four years starting in 1996. By the time this force becomes effective it may well be
too late for many areas inside the park boundary, let alone areas of value adjacent to the
park. It is therefore recommended that, prior to project appraisal, the Government of
Indonesia develop an effective bridging enforcement strategy to be implemented in priority
areas; starting in April 1995 and continuing until new project staff are trained and in place.
The strategy should contain: (i) a description of legal enforcement procedures; (ii) staffing
levels and responsibilities; and (iii) a summary of enforcement actions to date.



5
4. Where communities remain in the park they should do so under a formal park use
contract. :Every effort should be made to acconmnodate these communities in park
management programs and to capitalize on the tourism potential of their culture and
way of life.
Impacts of Other Development Activities
Forest Management
As previously noted, many of the areas of the original park proposal excised by the
current boundary were reallocated to timber concessions even though they were classed
as, or met the criteria for, protection forest. The majority of the concessions around the
boundary of Kerinci-Seblat are now wholly or largely within protection forest, and past
enforcement against encroachment has been so inadequate that intact forest on some
concessions now exists only in steep hill systems. Logging in such systems is invariably
extremely destructive both to the forest and to watershed values.  The following
recommendations are made with respect to forest concession management within the
Kerinci-Seblat Buffer zone:
l. A one year moratorium should be in place on the logging of any areas classed by
RePPProT as Protection Forest within the original 1982 park boundary, pending
priority application of the KPHP analysis to forest concessions on both the Jambi and
Bengkulu boundaries of the park; such analysis to be completed by December 1996.
The KPHP analysis should be synchronized with the rapid environmental appraisals
referred to under park boundary recommendations.
2. Upon completion of the KPHP and rapid environmental appraisals, areas of high
biodiversity or conservation value outside the rationalized concession boundaries Will
be repatriated to the park.
3. Areas of intact forest not required for the park and not suitable for industrial logging
techniques should be placed in community forests where local people may harvest
minor forest products or hand log commercial timber species on a sustainable basis
under a buffer zone use contract administered jointly by local govenmment and the park
authorities.
Roads
New roads or even upgrading of existing tracks have potentially significant
implications for both park management and biodiversity conservation, since they provide
access to new settlers and opportnities for the expansion of existing agricultural activities
through access to new markets. There are few if any examples in Indonesia of effective
prevention of encroachment when new roads have been constructed into areas of natural
forest. Current road "proposals" fall into two categories: first, "roads of convenience'
that transect the park linling communities that already have road access; and second,
roads to enclave communities inside the park which do not now have road access. There
.,



7
the subsidized processing of ore belonging to small alluvial gold miners in order to
lessen their dependence on mercury in and adjacent to the park.
The Impact of the ICDP on Regional Development Opportunities
This section of the RIA was impossible to complete with accuracy and technical
rigor because of existing project design uncertainties, such as the boundary, and real
information deficiencies. What is evident is that, in its current form, the ICDP project has
few opportunity costs because the land area has major use limitations. Steep topography
and the poverty of dominant soils are major constraints to sustainable agriculture. Almost
two thirds of the area of existing forest concessions meet the soil, slope and rainfal
intensity criteria for protection forest, and in theory should not be available for commercial
timber production. Continued logging of these areas will have serious implications for
future forest production and watershed stability. Earlier economic analyses (DHV Report
8, 1993) probably significantly overestimated the economic opportunity costs of the ICDP
project to agriculture and forestry because it assumed wrongly that existing land uses and
levels of resource exploitation were largely sustainable.
The impact of the park and ICDP on mineral resource development is expected to
be minimal, though this can not be confirmed until the three existing concessions complete
feasibility studies acconmnodating the restrictions recommended above. Because all three
projects overlap the park boundary or lie outside the park, these restrictions should not
present serious problems to an economically viable precious metal deposit.
The recommended restricti-ns on access development must be placed in the
context that no community outside the park boundary currently lacks road access. Even
the enclaves inside the park, legal and illegal, are serviced by tracks and many have
flourished with such access for decades. The current road access proposals transecting
the park are primarily stimulated by inter-provincial competition for the marketing,
processing and shipment of commodities, primarily cassiavera, from the Kerinci valley.
Such considerations are likely to result in costly duplication of access and should not be
allowed to jeopardize park and biodiversity values.
This report was preparedfor the Government of Indonesia by Sustainable Visions Natural Resource and
Environmental Management Consultants Victoria. British Columbia, Canada, March 1995



ANNEX 14 C
INTEGRATED CONSERVATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ICDP)
A GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY (GEF) PROPOSAL
KERINCI-SEBLAT NATIONAL PARK
.ErI: I.
A     e.i  S. W..
REGIONAL IMPACT A
A REPORT PREPARED FOR BAPPENAS AND THE WORLD BANK
BY
SUSTAINABLE VISIONS
NATURAL RESOURCE AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTANTS  -
VICTORIA, BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA.          e_n
MARCH 1995
-=f



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF MAJOR CONCLUSIONS AND
RECOMMEMDATIONS
I NTRODUCTI ON
A BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE BlODIVERSITY OF THE KERINCI-SEBLAT AREA
The Kerinci-Seblat ICDP proposal is located in the southern half of
Sumatera in the provinces of Jambi, South Sumatra, Bengkulu and West
Sumatera. It extends for a distance of nearly 350 km along the spine of
the Barisan Mountain Range from Padang in the north to Bengkulu in the
south, and contains Indonesia's second highest mountain, Mt. Kerinci, at
3805m. The natural ecological communities of the Kerinci-Seblat area
are of outstanding biodiversity significance: including species-rich
lowland dipterocarp forests at elevations from 300m to 1000m; unique
wetlands, and subalpine communities at almost 4000m. These ecological
communities support a rich flora and fauna:
* at least 4000 species of plants, including Raffelsia, the world's
largest flower, Amorphophallus, the world's tallest flower, and the
only natural occurrence of the genus Pinus in the southern hemisphere;
* 144 mammalian species including several threatened or endangered
species such as Sumatran rhino, tiger, elephant, tapir, and gibbons;
- 180 bird species (two percent of the world's total), including three
species of hornbill, the rare Kerinci Scop's owl and the great argus
pheasant
* 19 animal species endemic to Sumatera - 14 birds and 5 mammals.
Kerinci-Seblat was initially proposed as a national park by the
Minister of Forests in 1982. This initial proposal, comprising an area of
1,484,650 ha, was a consolidation of separate blocks of conservation
reserves and protection forests. A series of subsequent boundary revisions
has reduced the park by about a third to its present size of 996,850 ha.
The biodiversity value of the Kerinci-Seblat area is threatened by the
reduction in park area and by a host of development pressures, such as
access proposals, encroachment for shifting cultivation and cinnamon
plantations, and logging in the lowland forests.



.   '                           2
REGIONAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT: Definition and Puroose
As the name implies, a regional impact assessment (RIA) is an
analysis of the consequences of one or more development projects, where
the project or projects are anticipated to have significant environmental,
social or economic effects far beyond their immediate locality. RIAs are
particularly appropriate where impacts affect a number of different
sectors and require a coordinated management response, or where
effective impact management requires policy or institutional change.
RIAs fall into two broad categories:
1) assessment of the cumulative impacts of a number of development
projects on a geographic region, and the design of a common,
coordinated impact management program to guide the activities of
government and the various project proponents; and
2) assessment of the impacts of single large project with extensive
environmental, land use and socio-economic development
implications, the management of which requires significant policy,
administrative and fiscal responses from national and local
governments.
The Kerinci-Seblat RIA clearly belongs in the second category, and its
purpose has been to evaluate the following:
1  the extent to which the ICDP design meets basic objectives for
natural resource and biodiversity conservation;
2) the potential impacts of adjacent development activities on
biodiversity conservation and park integrity; and
3) the impacts (positive and negative) of the Kerinci-Seblat ICDP design
on opportunities for future economic development.
Reflecting these objectives, the main RIA document contains the following
chapters: a description of the existing environmental and social setting
for the Kerinci-Seblat area; a description of the ICDP proposal; a critical
analysis of project design; and an assessment of the impact of the project
on regional development opportunities.



3
A BRIEF SUMMARY OF MAJOR ISSUES
Project Design
*  THE PARK BOUNDARY
*       The majority of the boundary revisions alluded to above have
excised species-rich lowland and low elevation hill forests. The areas
have been reclassified from nature reserve or protection forest to
production forest, and placed in adjacent logging concessions. A
comparison of the original boundary with the current boundary reveals
that there has been an overall reduction in the area of low elevation
systems of 72%, however, some important systems have suffered much
higher loss: plains systems reduced by 81%, and the larger alluvial
valleys so important to many wildlite species reduced by more than 99%.
The proportion of mountain systems, with lower biological productivity
and biodiversity, has risen from 67% to 86%. Overall, of 27 landscape
units (based on differences of climate, topography and lithology)
identifiad as representative of the original park, 15 have been reduced by
80 % or more and 8 have been completely eliminated. The boundary is
currently the single most critical issue of project design. The park has
lost a significant propc,rtion of its biodiversity and may no longer 'jontain
the habitats necessary for the long-term protection and maintenance of
its 'flagshipw wildlife species - elephant, tiger, rhinoceros, tapir, gibbon
and the wealth of ;owland evergreen rainforest birds. Adjacent lands are
being subjected to such serious disturbance from logging and such rapid
deforestation by encroachers that they may loose much of their
biodiversity and buffer zone function. If the situation is to be retrieved,
a number of steps must be taken immediately:
1. Demarkation of the current boundary should proceed in order to expedite
park gazettment, but there must be a clear statement from the
Government of Indonesia that the boundary is recognized as inadequate
and that major boundary rationalization to improve its biodiversity
status will take place progressively over the next five years.
2. A rapid environmental appraisal, involving biodiversity and wildlife
habitat, must begin immediately to determine the most important areas
for repatriation to the park, concentrating on the Jambi and Bengkulu
park boundaries. Work should begin immediately, utilizing remaining



4
*       JGF funding, on two concessions adjacent to the park, one in Jambi and
one in Bengkulu, with the following selection criteria: high
biodiversity; large proportion of protection and limited production
forest; and/or lease expiring within the next two years. Candidates for
these first appraisals are the Sarestra II and Nusa Leases in Jambi and
I    the Bina Samaktha and Maju Jaya Raya leases in Bengkulu. These two
appraisals should be completed by December 1995. Appraisals of all
other concessions should be undertaken as part of the concession
reviews, see below, and be completed by December 1996 with firm
recommendations for the transfer of low elevation areas of high
biodiversity back to the park.
ENFORCEMENT
From even a causal field trip around the park boundary, it is evident
that encroachment by agricultural squatters is now largely uncontrolled,
and that greatly upgraded capability to deal with the problem is needed
immediately. In addition it is also evident that serious wildlife poaching
occurs in many areas of the park. The project design calls for 100 new
park guards to be en-gaged as "pegawi proyekw at 25 per year for four
years starting in 1996. By the time this force becomes effective it may
well be too late for many areas inside the park boundary, let alone areas
of value adjacent to the park. It is therefore recommended that, prior to
project appraisal, the Government of Indonesia develop an effective
bridging enforcement strategy to be implemented in priority areas;
starting in April 1995 and continuing until new project staff are trained
and in place. The strategy should contain: i) a description of legal
enforcement procedures, ii) staffing levels and responsibilities, and iii) a
summary of enforcement actions to date.
ENCROACHMENT AND RESETTLEMENT.
Generally the tools available to deal with existing park
encroachment are to amend the park boundary, to demarcate and enforce
enclave boundaries, or to resettle/relocate. These will have to be applied
on a case-by-case basis after careful study during the first few years of
project implementation. Decisions should take into consideration criteria
such as the impact on wildlife management and biodiversity conservation,
sustainability of the cropping practice, whether the use is compatible
with park or buffer zone management criteria, and the potential



5
reversibility of the vegetation change. In addition the traditional
attitude of park managers that "people have no place in parks" must
change. Indigenous people who have lived in a region for decades or
centuries should be considered an integral part of the local ecology. Their
customs and the way they relate to natural systems becomes an added
Obiodiversity value". If relocation is the most appropriate and desirable
option, every effort should be made to encourage the persons or
community to relocated voluntarily. This can be accomplished by
providing an acceptable relocation site and adequate compensation tor
shifting, and by allowing continued use of the original site for a set
period through the 'kebun kehidupan' concept of temporary utilization
zones.
It is clear that at present there is neither sufficient information to
assess the impacts of individual encroaching communities nor the staff
capability to plan and manage a ccmmunity resettlement program. For
these reasons the following implementation steps are recommended:
1. lmmed,ate measures must concentrate on the stabilization of the
park and forest concession boundaries to ensure no new
encroachment takes place, through the interim enforcement strategy
recommended above.
2. No further resettlement of established individuals or communities
should occur for three years pending completion of the park
management plan and wildlife-biodiversity studies of encroached
areas, unless the request comes unsolicited from the people. The
wildlife-biodiversity studies should establish objective criteria for
assessing the impacts of communities living and farrniing inside the
park and establish priority areas where resettlement may be
required. Terms of reference for these studies should be sent to the
World Bank for review prior to project appraisal.
3. Resettlement should be contemplated only where communities
jeopardize biodiversity values that are still intact, where there is a
likelihood of permanent human/wildlife conflict or where the
community occupies land with significant potential for the
rehabilitation of habitat values. Wherever possible, resettlement
should be voluntary and carried out in accord with a Resettlement
Action Plan prepared in consultation with the affected people. An



6
objective economic analysis of both the earnings of current
agricultural practice and the potential earnings of the alternatives
available to encroaching communities (i.e. transmigration and pohon
kehidupan) should be prepared and submitted to the World Bank in
year one of project implementation.
4. Where communities remain in the park, they should do so under a
formal park use contract. Every effort should be made to
accommodate these communities in park management programs and
to capitalize on the tourism potential of their culture and way of
life.
Impacts of Other Development Activities
FOREST MAN&AEMENI
As previously noted, many of the areas of the original park proposal
excised by the current boundary were reallocated to timber concessions
even though they were classed as, or met the criteria for, protection
forest. The majority of the concessions around the boundary of Kerinci-
Seblat are now wholly or largely within protection forest, and past
enforcement against encroachment has been so inadequate that intact
forest on some concessions now exists only in steep hill systems.
Logging in such systems is invariably extremely destructive both to the
forest and to watershed values. The following recommendations are made
with respect to forest concession management within the Kerinci-Seblat
Buffer zone:
1. A one year moratorium should be place on the logging of any areas
classed by RePPProT as Protection Forest within the originat 1982 park
boundary, pending priority application of the KPHP analysis to forest
concessions on both the Jambi and Bengkulu boundaries of the park;
such analysis to be completed by December 1996. The KPHP analysis
should be synchronized with the rapid environmental appraisals
referred to under park boundary recommendations.
2. Upon completion of the KPHP and rapid environmental appraisals, areas
of high biodiversity or conservation value outside the rationalized
concession boundaries will be repatriated to the oark.



7
3. Areas of intact forest not required for the park and not suitable for
industrial logging techniques should be placed in community forests
where local people may harvest minor forest products or hand log
commercial timber species on a sustainable basis under a buffer zone
use contract administered jointly by local government and the park
authorities.
RA
New roads or even upgrading of existing tracks have potee-,tially
significant implications for both park management and biodiversity
conservation, since they provide access to new se':;ars and opportunities
for tile expansion of existing agricultural activities through access to
new markets. There are few if any examples in Indonesia of effective
prevention of encroachment when new roads have been constructed into
areas of natural forest. Current road "proposals" fall into two
categories: first, 'roads of convenience" that transect the park, linking
communities that already have road access; and second, roads to enclave
communities inside the park which do not now have road access. There
are about seven proposed roads which fall into the first category. These,
with attendant human encroachment, pose by far the more serious threat
to park integrity; potentially fragmenting the park into isolated blocks,
disrupting animal migration, and preventing the flow of genetic resources.
It recommended that:
1. No new roads will be approved or constructed in or through the park
pending completion of the park management plan and a regional (buffer
zone) land use and transportation plan agreed to by all four provinces.
Road construction should also be predicated on the strengthening of
enforcement capability to prevent encroachment.
2. Any road proposals that may be deemed acceptable in the park and
buffer zone plans must be subject to rigorous environmental
assessment and project justification through a full ANDAL report.
3. The unpaved 3 km of the proposed Muara Labuh-Kambang road should be
stabilized with proper drainage controls and put to bed under a
temporary vegetation cover pending a future decision on its
acceptability.



8
MINERAL RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT.
Only three mining concessions are now said to exist within the park
or surrounding buffer zones. Two of these companies, P.T. Barisan
Tropical Mining (gold) and P.T. Ketahun (gold/copper), are undertaking
feasibility studies and one, P.T. Lusang Mining, is still at the exploration
stage. The following recommendations are made with respect to mining
activity:
1. No further mining concessions should be granted by the Ministry of
Mines and Energy within both the areas included in the original 1982
park boundary and the hatched area shown in Figure 10 until the final
boundary of Kerinci-Seblat is decided.
2. Feasibility studies and controlled mineral exploration on the three
existing concessions should be allowed to continue in the park on the
understanding that if no economically viable mineral potential is
determined within five years, the concessions will be cancelled
without compensation.
3. If mineable mineral deposits are found, the acceptability of mining will
be determined on a case-by-case basis through the AMDAL process. The
following limitations should be considered for any potential mine
projects: 1) no open pit extraction would be allowed inside the park or
a 5 km buffer zone; 2) all mine infrastructure must be located outside
the 5 km buffer; and 3) equipment, worker and ore transport within the
park and buffer must be by a method other than road (i.e. overhead
bucket or rail tram). Where a potentially viable mine is not allowed to
proceed, compensation will be limited to exploration expenses only.
4. Any ore processing in the area should be by a closed-circuit cyanide
process with a built-in cyanide destruction system (e.g. Inco SO2).
Consideration should be given to the subsidized processing of ore
belonging to small alluvial gold miners in order to lessen their
dependence on mercury in and adjacent to the park.



9
THE IMPACT OF THE ICDP ON REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT
OPPORTUNITI ES
This section of the RIA was impossible to complete with accuracy
and technical rigour because of existing project design uncertainties,
such as the boundary, and real information deficiencies. What is evident
is that, in its current form, the ICDP project has few opportunity costs
because the land area has major use limitations. Steep topography and the
poverty of dominant soils are major constraints to sustainable
agriculture. Almost two thirds of the area of existing forest concessions
meet the soil, slope and rainfall intensity criteria for protection forest,
and in theory should not be available for commercial timber production.
Continued logging of these areas will have serious implications for future
forest production and watershed stability. Earlier economic analyses
(DHV Report 8, 1993) probably significantly overestimated the economic
opportunity costs of the ICDP project to agriculture and forestry because
it assumed wrongly that existing land uses and levels of resource
exploitation were largely sustainable.
The impact of the park and ICDP on mineral resource development is
expected to be minimal, though this can not be confirmed until the three
existing concessions complete feasibility studies accommodating the
restrictions recommended above. Because all three projects overlap the
park boundary or lie outside the park, these restrictions should not
present serious problems to an economically viable precious metal
deposit.
The recorrmmended restrictions on access development must be
placed in the context that no community outside the park boundary
currently lacks road access. Even the enclaves inside the park, legal and
illegal, are serviced by tracks and many have flourished with such access
for decades. The current road access proposals transecting the park are
primarily stimulated by inter-provincial competition for the marketing,
processing and shipment of commodities, primarily cassiavera. from the
Kerinci valley. Such considerations are likely to result in costly
duplication of access and should not be allowed to jeopardize park and
biodiversity values.



10
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CHAPTER I    INTRODUCTION
1.1  A BRIEF HISTORY OF THE KERINCI-SEBLAT ICDP PROPOSAL
1.2  TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE REGIONAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
CHAPTER II   THE EXISTING BIOPHYSICAL SETTING FOR KERINCI-
SEBLAT AND VICINITY
2.1  THE NATURAL ENVIRONMENT
2.1.1    Major Physiographic Zones
2.1.2    Vegetation Zones and Important Floristic Species
2.1.3     Faunal Species and Critical Habitats
2.1.4    The Biodiversity Importance of Kerinci-Seblat
2.1.5    Forest Zonation and Land Suitability
2.2  THE HUMAN ENVIRONMENT
2.2.1    Traditional Forest Use
2.2.2     Hunting and Poaching
2.2.3     Human Population and Settlement
2.2.4    Agricultural Practice and Park Encroachment
2.2.5     Forest Concessions
2.2.6    Commercial Plantations
2.2.7    Mining Concessions
2.2.8     Infrastructure and Transportation Development
2.2.9     Park Management and Tourism
2.2.10   Government Administrative Structure
2.2.11    Non-governmental and Community Organizations



11
CHAPTER III  A DESCRIPTION OF THE KERINCI-SEBLAT ICDP
PROPOSAL
3.1 THE GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITY AND INTEGRATED
CONSERVATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
3.1.1    Criteria for Global Environmental Facility Projects
3.1.2    The ICDP Concept in Kerinci-Seblat
3.2  KERINCI-SEBLAT NATIONAL PARK
3.2.1    National Park Objectives
3.2.2    Park Boundary Options and Decisions
3.2.3     Resettlement and Rehabilitation Programs
3.2.4    Compensation for Commercial Resource Tenures
3.2.5     Park Administration, Management and Enforcement
Programs
3.2.6    Community Consultation and Involvement
3.3  BUFFER ZONES
3.3.1     Buffer Zone Management Objectives
3.3.2    Community and Rural Development Programs
3.3.3    Forest Concessions and Community Forests
3.4  INTEGRATED PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT STRUCTURES FOR ICDP
IMPLEMENTATION
3.4.1    National Steering Committee
3.4.2     Interprovincial Coordinating Committee
3.4.3     Planning Secretariat
3.4.4     Inventory, Monitoring and Information Management
Services



12 /
CHAPTER IV   A CRITICAL ANALYSIS OF PROJECT DESIGN: ISSUES
AND RECOMMENDATIONS
4.1 PARK DESIGN AND MANAGEMENT
4.1.1     The Park Boundary
4.1.2     Enforcement Programs
4.1.3     Encroachment and Resettlement
4.2  MANAGING THE IMPACTS OF OTHER LAND USES
4.2.1     Buffer Zone Planning
4.2.2     Forest Management: Concessions and Community Forests
4.2.3     Mineral Resource Development
4.2.4     Road and Access Development
4.2.6     Agriculture
CHAPTER V    THE IMPACT OF THE PROPOSED ICDP ON REGIONAL
DEVELOPMENT OPPORTUNITIES
5.1 THE REGIONAL LAND USE AND DEVELOPMENT PLANNING CONTEXT
5.1.1     Provincial Development Planning and Environmental
Assessment
5.1.2     Regional Values and Potential Benefits of the Proposed
ICDP
5.2  THE IMPACT OF THE PROPOSED ICDP ON SPECIFIC DEVELOPMENT
SECTORS
5.2.1     Agriculture
5.2.2     Timber and Wood Fibre Production
5.2.4     Mining and Mineral Resource Development
5.2.5     Transportation and Infrastructure
REFERENCES
APPENDIX I
APPENDIX II



13
FIGURES
Figure 1.      Physiographic Regions
Figure 2.      Landscape Systems
.
Figure 3.      Major Drainage Systems
Figure 4.      Dominant Soil groups
Figure 5.      Forest Zonation (TGHK) and Land Use
Figure 6.      Land Suitability for Sustainable, Permanent, Agricultural
Cropping
Figure 7.      Environmental Hazards
Figure 8.      Historic Park Boundary Options
Figure 9.      Rapid Environmental Appraisal, KSNP Boundary
Figure 10.     Priorities for Boundary Enforcement and Encroachment
Stabilization



14
TABLES
Table 1        Key Faunal Species of the Kerinci-Seblat Area
Table 2        Land Use and Forest Zonation Designations for Forest
Concessions in the Kerinci-Seblat area.
Table 3        A Summary Comparison of Landscape Diversity Between
the Original and INTAG Boundaries



PHOTOGRAPHS
Photographs 1 a.b&c. Forest concession encroachment and conversion,
Sarestra I Concession.
Photographs 2 a&b.   Major haul road construction, Nusa Lease.
Photographs 3 a&b.   Skid road construction, Nusa Lease.
Photographs 4 a&b.   Residual stand damage, Nusa Lease.
Photographs 5 a,b,c&d. Road-induced park encroachment.



16
KERINCI-SEBLAT NATIONAL PARK
INTEGRATED CONSERVATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROPOSAL
REGIONAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
CHAPTER 1    INTRODUCTION
1.1 A BRIEF HISTORY OF THE KERINCI-SEBLAT ICDP PROPOSAL
1.   The Kerinci-Seblat ICDP proposal is located in the southern half of
Sumatera in the provinces of Jambi, South Sumatra, Bengkulu and West
Sumatera. It extends for a distance of nearly 350 km along the spine of
the Barisan Mountain Range from Padang in the north to Bengkulu in the
south. The area was proposed as a national park after extensive field
surveys by FAO and PHPA in the late 1970s and early 1980s. A
management plan prepared by FAO in 1981 was the basis for the Minister
of Forests' nomination of the area for park status the following year.
This initial proposal, comprising an area of 1,484,650 ha, was a complex
of 17 gazetted and propose-d wildlife and nature reserves, adjacent
protection forests, and connecting areas between these separate blocks.
Though many of the separate reserves have legal protection as
conservation areas, the area as a whole has no legal status as a National
Park; in fact, until 1990 there was no enabling legislation to create such
an entity.
2.   The original park boundary enclosed ecological communities of
outstanding biodiversity significance; ranging from species-rich lowland
dipterocarp forests at elevations around 500m to alpine tundra at almost
4000m. In 1985 the oagreed-to forest function" or TGHK process (see
section 2.1.5 below) revised forest land use zonation for the four
provinces. During this process the Ministry of Forests revised the
designation of certain forest lands in and around the proposed park from
protection forest (Hutan Lindung) to full production (Hutan Produksi) and
limited production (Hutan Produksi Terbetas) forest. Approximately
232,000 ha of lowland and low elevation hill forests were reallocated to
logging concessions, mainly in Jambi province. In 1991 the Directorate



17
General of Forest Protection and Nature Conservation (PHPA) began
preparation of a new park management plan which defined the area of the
park as 1.04 million hectares - 30% smaller than the original proposal.
3.  In 1991 Kerinci-Seblat was nominated for Global Environment
Facility (GEF) funding under the concept of an integrated conservation and
development project (ICDP). It became apparent in preliminary discussions
that the 1985 boundary changes may have reduced the park's biodiversity
to such an extent that its eligibility for GEF funding might be affected. A
government initiative was already underway to revise and rationalize the
Park boundaries and a World Bank mission in October 1991 requc -ted that
this should be done in such a way as to omaximize biodiversity and
minimize resettlement" (DHV Report 2,1993).
4.   Boundary review continued throughout 1991 and 1992. In July 1992
a new 'consensus' boundary was established through discussions between
forest agencies, provincial authorities, and concessionaires. This new
boundary has been mapped by the Directorate General of Forest Inventory
(INTAG). The area of park has been further reduced by the INTAG boundary
to 996,850 ha, only two-thirds of its original size. All of the reduction
has been at the expense of lowland rainforest ecosystems below 1000 m.
Subsequently, Jambi province, concerned about catchment deforestation
and potential worsening of -existing flooding problems, has asked for
major revisions to the Jambi park boundary to include many of the areas
excised in 1985.
5.  In 1991 and 1992 DHV Consultants prepared a project inception
report with 20 background reports containing a wide-ranging set of
recommendations on park establishment and management. Unfortunately
it appears that no mechanism was established by the World Bank and the
Government of Indonesia to review and address these recommendations.
In August 1994 a project preparation process was established which
would lead to formal project appraisal by the Government of Indonesia,
the World Bank and the Global Environmental Facility. This Regional
Impact Assessment is intended to fulfil the World Bank's requirements
under Operational Directives 4.01, 4.20 and 4.30 as part of that project
preparation process.



18
1.2  TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE REGIONAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
Regional Impact Assessment: Definition and Purpose
6.   As the name implies, a regional impact assessment is an analysis of
the consequences of one or more development projects, where the project
or projects are anticipated to have significant environmental, social or
economic effects far beyond their immediate locality. Regional impact
assessments are particularly appropriate where impacts affect a number
of different sectors and require a coordinated management response, or
* where effective impact management requires policy or institutional
change. Regional impact assessments fall into two broad categories:
a) assessment of the cumulative impacts of a number of development
projects on a geographic region, and the design of a common,
coordinated impact management program to guide the activities of
government and the various project proponents; and
b) assessment of the impacts of single large project with extensive
environmental, land use and socio-economic development
implications, the 7nanagement of which requires significant policy,
administrative and fiscal responses from national and local
governments.
7.   The Kerinci-Seblat ICDP Regional Impact Assessment clearly
belongs in the second category. It must be stressed that the assessment
of impacts and identification of management opportunities should not be
undertaken retrospectively after project design, but rather is an integral
part of project development from inception. In other words, initial
impact scoping carried out in the context of overall project objectives
and goals should lead to design criteria that avoid or minimize scoped
impacts. Thus the purpose of this regional assessment was to evaluate
the following:
1) the extent to which the ICDP design meets project objectives for
natural resource and biodiversity conservation;
2) the potential impacts of adjacent development activities on
biodiversity conservation and park integrity; and



19
3) the impacts (positive and negative) of the Kerinci-Seblat ICDP
design on adjacent human communities and on opportunities for
future economic development.
8.   For the purposes of this analysis, the study area chosen for an
assessment of direct impacts is bounded by the road from Pedang to
Solok, the trans-Sumateran Highway from Solok to Lubuk Linggau, the road
from Lubuk Linggau to Bengkulu, and the coastline from Bengkulu to
Padang. In addition, where considered necessary and where adequate
information is available, some assessment will be made of the more
indirect impacts at the provincial levels.
CHAPTER 11   THE EXISTING BIOPHYSICAL SETTING FOR KERINCI-
SEBLAT AND VICINITY
2.1 THE NATURAL ENVIRONMENT
2.1.1     Major Physiographic Zones and Landforms
9.   The study area contains three broad physiographic regions (Figure
1), from west to east: the Western Coastal Foothills; the Barisan
Mountains and associated rift valleys; and the Jambi-Palembang Plains.
Though the whole study area is broadly classed as tropical perhumid
climate, the three regions have somewhat different moisture and
temperature regimes because of their alignment at right angles to
prevailing weather systems and the extreme altitudinal variation.
Generally there is a trend from moister in the west to drier in the east,
with the mountains characterized by great diversity. These climatic
variations have a significant influence on vegetation patterns. Figures 2
and 3 show generalized landscape systems and drainage patterns,
respectively, for the study area.
10. The Western Coastal Foothills vary from steep-sided ridge systems
underlain by acid igneous rocks north of Mukomuko to more moderate hills
and ridges between Mukomuko and Bengkulu developed on sedimentary
strata. These hills and ridges are dissected by about 25 steep-gradient,
youthful rivers flowing short distances from headwaters in the foothills



20
;' ILj
Iri  INt ,   ta_a
*       1Lubuk Mega           bu
I            \NlK -          ,          v t>lOU hom~ .55C
It-~~~~~~~~~IC
L                            -
jL E GE ND                 I9 It -        .
W2S estern Coastal Foothils I - S    f   gj n
@iCentral Barisan flou,itai,ts I.+    , 
MISouiher Earisan Mountains!1s      
IEDjavbi-Pak,nbang Plains:                      ;
a Park boundar3                           7> 
I.                  .
0Kmu 0 220             1  m
FIgu.ral. Ph3sioy-apliic Regions.



21
[Inc;%.G   oir   Siluniung                            cSu0*
L r G ED.afi a
EBa Mountait~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.s.               in            ad  i   .1
Ikai      TonaTurnun Olis
MuOrO Elurgo
of-
I  I Alhviat/Colil)vial Mattals  .:-    Pniali
Moutaisouc                      
__I
Figure Z. LancclSwpa Sg5temo.



22
I  S OSiunjung
PDANG
Allahon Pao n                                   n
i<>ure3   Majo   . rT u,n uKoa5   or
^,oruo
'  <     \K       >    O~~~            ~~~~~~~rk m a
E3   Park Doundary      lgo, Pen
Figure~~                                         Monoo ring   yses



23
straight to the sea. In the study area only two rivers penetrate the
Barisan Range to drain central rift valleys: Air Dikit and its major
tributary Air Langkap; and Air Ketahun. Rainfall varies from 3000-3500
mm/yr on the coast to 3500-4200 mm/yr in the foothills. The dominant
soils of this physiographic region are deep, acidic, very infertile ultisols
and oxisols.
11.  The Barisan Mountains and associated rift valleys are characterized
by great topographic, climatic and lithologic diversity over very short
distances. Mountain peaks commonly reach 2000m and in places exceed
3000m. Geology consists of a complex mix of basic volcanics, acid
igneous rocks, and matamorphic and sedimentary strata. Drainage
patterns are also very complex, with major river systems flowing to all
points of the compass. Rainfall in the mountains to the west of the
central rift valley varies between 3500 and 5500 mm/yr. The rift valleys
experience a significant rainshadow effect, with precipitation ranging
from 1700 to 2300 mm/yr. Rainfall in the eastern mountains is more
moderate than in the western ranges, varying from 2500 to 3000 mm/yr.
Soils are as varied as the geology, ranging from fertile andepts on
basaltic volcanic parent materials to extremely acid, very infertile
podzolic oxisols and ultisols on acid igneous, sedimentary and
metamorphic parent materials.
12.  The Jambi-Palembang Plains consist of longitudinal ridges and
plains of minor relief traversed by slightly-incised river floodplains.
Geology of the region consists of calcareous, carbonaceous or tuffaceous
sedimentary rocks - siltstones, shales, sandstones and lignites. The
entire area is drained by tributaries of two of Sumatera's major river
systems - Batang Hari and Sungai Musi. Rainfall varies from 2500 to
3000 mm/yr. Soils are dominated by very nutrient deficient, acidic to
extremely acidic u:tisols and oxisols.
1 3.  These brief regional descriptions reveal a region of great
topographic, climatic and lithologic diversity. Much more detailed
landform descriptions are provided in Appendix I. These are taken almost
entirely from RePPProT (1988), and RePPProT landform symbols are given
for ease of reference to that study's 1:250,000 land system/suitability
maps. This detailed description is provided as a basis for two important
analyses in later sections of this RIA:



24
1 ) Landforms are the basic building-blocks of biodiversity, determining
both the richness and productivity of primary vegetation and the
form and persistence of seral stages after disturbance. In the
absence of up-to-date information on vegetation associations,
landforms provide the only reliable basis for an assessment of the
effectiveness of park design in biodiversity conservation.
2) Soils and slope are amongst the major determining factors of
capability and suitability for human use. Landform thus provides a
good basis for an analysis of the opportunity costs of reserving land
in park status.
2.1.2     Vegetation Zones and Important Floristic Species
14. The extreme elevational range of Kerinci-Seblat places it in a unique
position in terms of biodiversity conservation, since it is one of the few
areas in Southeast Asia where the full elevational range of tropical
vegetation types can be found in one location. These elevational zones
include Lowland Evergreen Rainforest (up to 500m), Low Elevation
Evergreen Hill Forests (500-1OOm), Lower Montane Forests (1000-
1800m), Upper Montane Forests (1800-2700m), and Subalpine Forests
(>2700m). The evergreen rainforests of low elevation hills and plains are
dominated by the family Dipterocarpaceae, which in Sumatera is
represented by 10 genera and approximately 300 species. No other
rainforest in the world shows such abundance and diversity of a single
family of large trees. Also represented in these low elevation systems, in
particular west of Tapan, are diverse alluvial peat and freshwater swamp
complexes containing open sedge/grass plains, palm swamps, and peat
forests interspersed with lowland dipterocarp forest. The Lower Montane
Forest is a zone of transition between tropical and sub-temperate
vegetation where lowland trees and shrubs of families such as
Diptocarpaceae, Leguminoseae and Datiscaceae give way to trees and
shrubs of the families Fagaceae, Lauraceae, and the order Coniferae.
Major tree species include oaks of the genus Lithocarpus, chestnuts of the
genus Castanopsis, and conifers of the genera Agathus, Phyllocladus,
Podocarpus, Dacrycarpus and Dacrydium. In the Upper Montane these
conifers begin to dominate the tree canopy , with understory vegetation
from the heather family, especially the genera Rhododendron and
Vaccinium, and the myrtle family. The subalpine zones are characterized



25
by dwarf shrublands of conifers and heathers, interspersed with grassy
heaths, boggs, scree/pummice slopes and rock. Herbaceous vegetation
consists of temperate grasses, such as Agrostis and Festuca, and rushes
and sedges, such as Juncus, Carex, Scirpus and Cyperus.
15. The Kerinci-Seblat area has at least 4000 species of flowering
plants alone, and is estimated to contain one-sixth of the total Indonesian
and one-sixtieth of total world floral species (DHV 1993). Approximately
60% of these floral species occur in lowland evergreen forests below
600m which are becoming increasingly rare in Sumatera. Though the
higher elevation vegetation types have much lower biodiversity, they also
contain many endemic species. If it can be successfully established, the
Kerinci-Seblat ICDP proposal could become a major genetic reservoir of
many commercially important species that are rapidly disappearing from
the rest of Indonesia and Southeast Asia: Dipterocarp timber genera such
as Shorea, Parashorea, Dipterocarpus, and Dryobalanops; other commercial
trees such as Agathus damara, gaharu Aquilaria spp., wild cinnamon, wild
citrus and other fruit trees. Other important and noteworthy flora
include: Rafflesia arnoldi, the world's largest flower and two other
Rafflesia species; Amorphophallus titanum, the world's tallest flower;
the star flower Rhizanthes zippelli; an endemic race of Pinus merkusii,
thought to be the only natural occurrence of the genus in the southern
hemisphere; at least 300 species of orchids; pitcher plants of the genus
Nepenthes; the tall edelweiss, Anaphilajavanica; high and low elevation
wetland complexes; and the ferns Gleichenia and Dipteris, whose closest
relatives are fossil ferns from the Cretaceous period. (DHV 1993).
2.1.3     Faunal Species and Critical Habitats
16. As might be expected, this vegetation diversity supports an equally
diverse and impressive wildlife fauna (Table 1). There are 144
mammalian species including nine ungulates, three large predators, eight
* small to medium sized predators, 1 0 primates, three otters, at least
eleven rodents/lagomorphs and numerous bats and small terrestrial
insectivores. aFlagship" species include the Sumateran tiger, elephant
and rhinoceros, siamang and agile gibbons, Malatan tapir, clouded leopard,
Malayan sun bear, long-tailed and pig-tailed macaques, and silvered,
banded and red leaf-monkeys. The region has more than 180 species of
birds that include six species of kingfishers, possibly as many as nine
hornbills, pheasants, woodpeckers, barbets, pigeons, thrushes, and



26
Table 1. Key Faunal Species in the Kerinci-Seblat Area
Mammals
Aeromys tephromelas           Black flying squirrel
Aethalops alecto              Grey fruit-bat
Aonyx cineria                 Oriental small-clawed otter
Arcticus binturong            Bearcat (binturong)
Arctonyx collaris             Hog badger
Callosciuris prevostii        Prevost's squirrel
Capricornis sumatraensis      Mountain goat (serow)
Cervus unicolor               Sambar deer
Cuon alpinus                  Wild dog
Crocidura attenuata           Grey shrew
Cynocephalus variegatus       Flying lemur
Cynogale bennetti             Otter civet
Dicerorhinus sumatrensis      Sumateran rhinoceros
Echinosorex gymnurus          moonrat
Elephas maximus               Sumateran elephant
Felis bengalensis             Leopard cat
Felis planiceps               Flat-headed cat
Felis marmorata               Marbled cat
Felis temmincki               Asian golden cat
Helarctos malayanus           Malayan sun bear
Hylobates agilis              Agile gibbon
Hylobates syndactylus         Siamang
Leopoldamys edwardsi          Edward's rat
Lutra lutra                   Eurasian otter
Lutra sumatrana               Hairy-nosed otter
Macaca fascicularis           Long-tailed macaque
Macaca nemestrina             Pig-tailed macaque
Manis javanica                Pangolin (scaly anteater)
*   Maxomys inflatus              Rat
Maxomys hylomyoides           Rat
Muntiacus munjak              Common barking deer
Mus crociduroides             Volcano mouse
Mustela hamakeri              Sumateran weasel
Mustela lutreolina            Weasel
Mustela nudipes               Malayan weasel
Mydaus javanensis             Malayan badger (teledu)



27
Neofelis nebulosa            Clouded leopard
Nesolagus netscheri          Kerinci hare
Niviventer rapit             Mountain spiney rat
Nycticebus coucang           Slow loris
Panthera tigris              Sumateran tiger
Presbytis cristata           Silvered leaf-monkey
Presbytis melalophorus       Banded leaf-monkey
Presbytis rubicunda          Red leaf-monkey
Rattus baluensis             Kinabalu rat
Rattus korinchi              Kerinci rat
Ratufa affinis               Giant squirrel
Ratufa bicolor               Black giant squirrel
Sundamys infraleutus         Giant Sumateran rat
Sus scrofa                   Bush pig
Tapiris indicus              Malay tapir
Tarsius bancanus             Tarsier
Tragulus javanicus           Lesser mouse deer
Tragulus napu                Greater mouse deer
Birds
Anorrhinus galeritus         Bushy-crested hornbill
Arborophila rubirostris      Red-billed partridge
Argusianus argus             Great argus pheasant
Berenicornis comatus         White-crowned hornbill
Buceros rhinoceros           Rhinoceros hornbill
Chioropsis venusta           Blue-masked leafbird
Cochoa beccarli              Sumateran cochoa
Dendrocitta occipitalis      Short-tailed magpie
Dicrurus sumatranus          Sumateran drongo
Lophura ignata               Crested fireback-pheasant
Lophura inornata             Salvadori's pheasant
Myiophoneus melanurus        Shiny whistling thrush
Nopthera rufipectus          Rusty-breasted wren babbler
Otus stresmanni              Kerinci Scops owl
Pellorneum  buettikofer      Buettikofer's babbler
Pitta venusta                Black-crowned pitta
Polyplectron chalcurum       Sumateran peacock-pheasant
Pycnonotus leucogrammicus    Cream-striped bulbul
Pycnonotus tympanistriga     Spot-necked bulbul



28
- Rhinoplax vigil             Helmeted hornbill
Rhyticeros corrugatus         Wrinkled hornbill
- Rhyticeros undulatus        Wreathed hornbill



29
babblers. The Kerinci-Seblat region contains14 of the endemic
Sumateran birds and 5 of the endemic Sumateran mammals. Much less is
known about reptile, amphibian and invertebrate fauna, however, because
of their relative immobility they are likely to show much greater
incidence of rareness and endemism than the mammals and birds.
17. In an area of great topographic and vegetation diversity such as
Kerinci-Seblat animal species fall generally into the following three
groups:
1. Animals adapted to closed forest as habitat and food source.
Depending on location, this group includes between 70 and 85 percent
of the mammalian species, 70 and 75 per cent of the bird species, and
probably close to 100% of amphibians, reptiles and invertebrates. This
preponderance of forest-dwelling species is not surprising since it is
the most complex vegetation type with the most niches and, until very
recent human intervention, evergreen rainforest dominated the
landscape of Sumatera. Common species in this group include lemurs,
tarsiers, squirrels, gibbons and siamang, the leaf-monkeys, sun bear,
pig-tailed macaque, hornbills, woodpeckers, and a host of smaller
birds. As a general rule, species in this group are less mobile, more
static in their ranges, and often, as with gibbons, very territorial.
Exceptions are the sun bear, banded leaf monkey, and pig-tailed
macaques which all appear to range and forage widely within closed
canopy forest.
2. Terrestrial grazers and browsers, and associated predators.
This group of species is adapted to mixtures of closed-forest,
shrublands and grasslands, utilizing the forest for cover and travel, and
the grass-shrub lands for food. Under original evergreen rainforest
cover, they fed primarily on the lush growth of grasses, forbs and
shrubs in swamps and alluvial valley bottoms, which still probably
constitute critical habitats, and on pioneer regrowth resulting from
landslips and other natural disturbances. Common herbivore and
omnivore species in this group include elephant, tapir, rhinoceros, deer,
bear cat, pig, and long-tailed macaque. All of these species travel long
distances over extended ranges in search of suitable food, though all
the herbivors appear to be very dependent on traditionally-used mineral



30
genera, at about 1300 m within the montane zone (Wells, Hails and
Hails). On Gunung Benom, a 2100 m peak in central Malaya, Medway
(1972) observed that of 191 bird species and 81 mammal species, 30
and 29 respectively were recorded only below 300 m, the first and
minor species disjunction. Both birds and mammals show a major
disjunction at 750 m, the transition between lowland and lower
montane zones, with 74 and 85 percent of species, respectively, not
found any higher. Of the lowland bird species only 3 percent were
found above 1200 m, and there is a small montane avifauna of 46
species not found below that elevation.
18.  The species distributions and habitat requirements described above
have fundamental consequences for park boundary and buffer zone
management considerations, if Kerinci-Seblat National Park is to provide
any significant wildlife conservation function. As Whitmore (1984)
observed, *The general conclusion ....is that the cooler, moister montane
forests support smaller and less diverse faunas. Montane forest carrying
capacity is less and the total animal biomass per hectare is lower.
Beyond this no general picture can yet be formed....except that the
steepland boundary seems usually to be very important. Mountain forests
are at present under less threat of destruction than lowland forests, but
they cannot be regarded as suitable habitat for self-sustaining
populations of the distinctive and rich lowland faunas....".
2.1.4     The Biodiversity Importance of Kerinci-Seblat
19.  The Kerinci-Seblat area has high biodiversity value because it
covers the whole spectrum of vegetation types and wildlife species from
lowland forests to alpine, representing the full floral and faunal diversity
of lowland, hill and mountain tropical rainforests. This is the largest
remaining intact block of tropical rainforest in Southern Sumatera.
Species-rich dipterocarp forests below 600 m and wetland habitats are
particularly valuable since they are the most threatened ecosystems in
Sumatera and are poorly represented elsewhere in the Sumateran reserve
system (DHV 1993). Unless the current rates of deforestation and land
degradation are arrested, it is likely that within ten years Kerinci-Seblat
and Leuser National Parks may be the only significant areas of intact
upland rainforest left in Sumatera. Both of these areas will then become
vital reservoirs of genetic material for any attempts at natural forest re-
establishment. In addition, Kerinci-Seblat may represent one of the last



31
opportunities in Southeast Asia to conserve a diverse and complex large-
mammal predator-prey system.
2.1.5     Land Suitability
20. Three aspects of land suitability will be discusses in this section:
forest zonation; land suitability for sustainable permanent agricultural
cultivation; and environmental hazards.
Forest Function Zonation (Tata Guna Hutan Ke eakatan-TGHKI
21.  The Indonesian forest function classification (TGHK) is a land
zonation tool that attempts to deal with interagency conflicts over the
use of lands under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Forests. it was
initiated in the 1970s under Government Regulation No. 33 of 1970 and
formalized in a set of Minister of Agriculture Decrees in 1980 and 1981.
The deadline set for completing initial TGHK designations in all provinces
was 1985. The process was coordinated by the regional planning boards
(BAPPEDA) with strong involvement by the regional Ministry of Forests
representative (Kanwil Kehutanan).
22. TGHK defined five broad functional land use designations as follows:
Lnd Functioa        Primary P-uroe           Timber Extraction
Nature Reserve      Genetic conservation.    None.
(PPA/HSA)
Protection (HL)     Watershed protection.    None.
Limited production   Timber production and   Selection felling only,
(HPT)               Watershed protection.    with very restrictive
diameter limit.
Regular production    Natural timber production. Selection or clear
(HBT/HNB)                                    felling as determined
by forest type.
Conversion          Potentially convertible   Clear felling if the
(HPK)              to other uses.            area is to be
converted.



32
The distinction between protection, limited production, and regular
production is based on a sirmple erosion index derived from the dominant
soil type, slope and rainfall intensity. Numerical values for each of these
characteristics are summed to determine the functional category. Land is
placed in the protection category regardless of index if: the slope is
steeper than 40%; soils are in the most erodible class (5) and slope is over
15%; altitude is greater than 2000m; or the area is within 200m of a
spring. No attempt has been made to give a numerical distinction between
regular production and conversion designations and the division of land
between these two is largely the function of consensual land use planning
processes. TGHK designations were originally delineated on 1:50.0,000
map sheets and have formed the basis for many subsequent land use
decisions.
23. While the theory behind the TGHK may have been sound, in most
regions the 1985 designations were deeply flawed because adequate
information was not assembled in any organized way to support an
objective classification. Thus the resulting TGHK zoning became highly
subjective, inconsistent and often very inaccurate. In addition, the
decision was made that the designations protection and limited production
would constrain only the timber harvesting system not road design and
construction, which are often the most hydrologically damaging aspects of
logging operations.
24. One of the major activities undertaken by the Regional Physical
Planning Program for Transmigration (RePPProT) was to organize
biophysical, land zonation and land status information for use in regional
land use planning. In reviewing the TGHK designations, RePPProT teams
found that the 1:500,000 map series on which they were plotted was very
inaccurate, with features and category boundaries often not matching
between adjacent map sheets. To correct this the TGHK boundaries were
replotted on new 1:250,000 base maps. The first province on which this
replotting was completed was Central Kalimantan, and it immediately
became obvious that there were fundamental problems with the 1985
functional designations. Not only were there large areas of ounclassified
lands", but there was seldom any consistency between the zones and
either actual biophysical units or present land use/land condition. For all
subsequent provinces the RePPProT teams proposed extensive revisions to
the TGHK designations based on present land use/land condition, a greater



33
degree of ecological consistency within zones, and the application of the
best available and most recent information on soils, topography and
rainfall. These RePPProT maps presently represent the most
accurate and reliable reflection of the TGHK criteria and will be
used in this assessment even though they may not yet have been
accepted by the Ministry of Forests. The RePPProT TGHK zonation
*   for all of the lands within the study area outside the INTAG park boundary
is shown in Figure 5. As can be seen, the overwhelming proportion of land
adjacent to the park falls within the protection forest classification, as
*  do the majority of the lands excised from the park and placed in timber
concessions (see section 2.2.5 below).
Suitability for Sustainable. Permanent AgriculLural Production
25.  Major soils of the study area (see Figure 4) include fertile volcanics
(alfisols and andep!s), acidic and infertile red-yellow podsols (oxisols and
ultisols), wet organic soils (histosols and aquatic entisols) and complexes
of colluvial and alluvial sediments (inceptisols and entisols).
26.  By far the most common soils, on an areal basis, are the ultisols and
oxisols. For practical purposes these two soil orders can be considered
together, and they encompass most of the ured" soils of the humid tropics.
They develop from the long-te.rm weathering of acidic to intermediate
rock types under conditions of constant humidity and high rainfall.
Physical properties are generally good, but chemical properties are very
poor and include: high acidity; aluminum toxicity; deficiencies of
phosphorus, potassium, calcium, magnesium, sulphur, zinc and other
micronutrients; and low effective cation exchange capacity which means
they have a high leaching potential. There appears to be a growing
consensus by soil scientists and agronomists that rainfed dryland annual
cropping on ultisols and oxisols is likely to be neither sustainable nor
profitable except in the short-term. There appears to be no economically
viable way under continuous cropping to neutralize acidity, overcome
aluminum toxicity, and replace nutrients that are constantly being leached
away. In addition, these soils are highly erodible under poor management.
The traditional method of working these fragile soils by shifting
cultivation allows fertility to be regained with at least five year's of
fallow after one year's cropping. This allows the topsoil to regain some
humus and organic matter; both of which are important as stores of
nutrients, in conserving soil moisture and in regulating soil temperature.



34
JL              nI.
r.--=Aid:;c,..e $   ;>                         
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
-I -:                                       ________._! 
IAs 
al (I Atie. -7o,,
~~- -   f -K.i'            ;zs. . aI:aI
Fur4    b"ominm-t 5i Grup
1Az8eviAn- l9i ttl-.         N     <  9
I    CoIkv/!?I (Ivceri 'olso            9        c. 
I Pat/!.1icks(U  (oIlsrIifO!b6, . I9.
___ ___ __ ___ ___ __ ___ ___ __15  Prll):EjaGKULU
F'5ure4. tbomina~nt SoiL Groups.



35
4 AN
Thn~~~~~er Conc.es~ ~ ~~~~ndaf Oea,-n."Pd gI
....... .. S uDu^ss; ll ~~~PROVINCE
(sQ~et~t ji~ &ie5  k
s25    |    \         ~~~~~~~~~Roniciu Pnnici,lg
Fi~~ur ~  B.Frs   o~i0   T         K     n      ang    se
- s\leaN
3uaf o .>knne~~~~qra_ Af        nsuq
iL E GE ND                        iLUDUk 
[I.M   Wc-6-r.5hCd Protecftion.I "gX
L-L- Limnited Prodc6ction.                 X
Full Prod-ionJ/Corsion. 
Nature Reserve.       i                     -
RZM   T'ransrnirahar,/TrzGchps. .-5      t
rl    , rJn6e  Cor5sion5.  !                       NGKULU
(Suto t for Gmp&ng na),'                 o
KIDK      Igo     220     |1 
Figyre 5S. Forest Zontmon (TG IK) and Land Use.



36
Continuous cropping, which is practised by many in-migrants, will
eventually lead to nutrient depletion and permanent site degradation. At
best, the least acidic of these soils may be considered marginally
suitable for aluminum tolerant tree crops (rubber) and dryland food crops
(cassava), but only if the latter are rotated and only if uheroic' measures
are undertaken to maintain soil organic matter.
27.  Volcanic soils include youthful andepts and older alfisols. Most are
deep, very friable and dark-coloured, and are characterized by appreciable
amounts of an amorphous clay mineral called allophane which has a high
cation exchange capacity. The level of organic carbon in the soil is
normally high but base saturation varies considerably. Phosphorus is
commonly deficient for many crops because of a very strong chemical
bonding to the allophane, which renders it unavailable for plant uptake.
While these soils have generally favourable chemical characteristics, they
have the limitation of extreme erodibility, a major consideration given
that there are no really flat-lying volcanics in the study area. Because of
this, these soils probably rate no better than marginally and locally
suitable for dryland crops, anid their main value may be in the cultivation
of cassiavera, particularly if the plantations are not clean-weeded.
28.  It is difficult to generalize about alluvial/colluvial materials, since
inherant productivity will be related to the characteristics of the original
parent rocks. They tend to be younger soils, the product of relatively
recent weathering and erosional processes, and thus are of somewhat
higher productivity that older, more highly-weathered soils derived from
the same parent materials. Acidic podzolic soils under waterlogged
alluvial or irrigated conditions, are not subject to the same limitations as
the upland ultisols and oxisols. The flooding and resultant anaerobic
conditions, whether natural or induced by irrigation, neutralize acidity,
immobilize alumium, release fixed phosphorus, and enhance nitrogen
levels through the nitrogen-fixing abilities of blue-green algae. Fertility
may be even further enhanced, independent of in-situ soil fertility, if
irrigation waters originate from basic volcanic watersheds. Colluvial
materials, particularly those composed of friable volcanic debris, are very
prone to erosion and require a high degree of care under permanent
agriculture. Like most unstable materials, they are probably only suitable
for perennial tree and shrub crops with no undercropping.
29.  Organic soils are subject to two serious limitations: sulphide



37
oxidation under cultivation in coastal wetlands; and subsidence due to
accelerated decomposition in deep peats. The chemical processes leading
to acid generation in coastal wetlands are well understood, but the
distribution of sulphide materials is so complex that mapping to avoid
these problematic materials is very expensive. There is much difference
of opinion over the groundwater regimes and maximum depths of peat that
can be sustainably and economically cultivated without danger of
subsidence and inundation. There are also many failed experiments. For
these reasons, cultivation for the time being should be limited to peat
depths of less than 50 cm that are not subject to sustained flooding. In
the study area this applies both to the coastal peat swamps west of Tapan
and to the high elevation wetlands in the Kerinci Valley.
30.  Under any given climatic regime, analysis of suitability for
sustainable agriculture must consider the relationship between landform,
moisture regime and inherant soil fertility. Figure 6 shows a very
generalized suitability rating for the study area, borrowing heavily on the
RePPProT land suitability analysis. This analysis will form the basis of a
later assessment of the impact of the park on agricultural potential
(section 5.2.1)
Environmental Hazards
31. Figure 7 shows those parts of the study area that are most at risk
from four types of natural hazard: landslides resulting from unstable soil
materials on steep slopes; flooding of major river systems; volcanic
eruptions; and earthquakes along major rift valley fault lines (adapted
from RePPProT 1984).
32. Though landslides are individually neither as spectacular nor as
damaging as earthquakes, volcanic eruptions or floods, they are much more
common and widespread. They thus probably cause more damage than any
other environmental hazard. Throughout the study area there are many
areas of colluvial fans and terraces that are in a state of 'dynamic
equilibrium" under present conditions. Increases in moisture content or,
more commonly, excavations of the toe of the slope for road construction
can alter the stability of the deposit causing it to slip downhill along an
underlying consolidated layer. In other cases, landslides can result from
agriculture or forest harvesting abuse. As illustrated in Figure 7,
landslide-prone landscapes occupy almost 90 per cent of the study area,



38
~~~Sa~Ok    Squngung          &G3U~~~~~      hUMAI Rh:
W 50101s    snua.,.5b       
s    : .  .   :a   S               a~~~~~~~~~~~~naeln ,ln OeaDI  
'   ~>   'I3t  A    elkO          Tonan Tumtoun
ICoDoQ                                               Mucra Bungo
L VP>''     u;          POvI hC E
Ranlou Ponlong
:;           L
s    .   "El.cmull   @n      ~ 
LEGEND                                                    9
Ml nsuitalole (slo e,ferhli9lj  
l) Unsuitable fe3 -h:<
iUlVhr3vialI sultableR- aopS,
1Z  Itagnls,i -               iopi -~ 
igmSu iat2efordy i,Y                                      I,;gK;J
Ogm       too       220Km                     _     -
Figure 6. Land 5uitabi litj for Sustainable, Permnnient
Agricu lturai Croppm3.



39
|  1   w      _    _   L~~~~~~uit tgMelakats  anono Tmbu
,}   +  a _       0            3fl5o~~~~~~~~~~~~ntou Ponjong
tLaridsl,de- prone Areas.                                  1
*  Il  Flood- prone Areas.
Areas ofvoic-arit AdlhlB                   ri
OK.       1l0     2L 0\M
'Fgure. EnviroemebLt hlkarck.



40
which has significant consequences for land use and watershed
management activities.
33. Almost all tributaries of the Batang Hari and Sungai Musi are
subject to regular, serious flooding. In the upper reaches of these river
systems, shown in blue in Figure 7, flooding has been aggravated by the
excessive catchment deforestation and land disturbance that has occurred
in recent years. The resulting accelerated erosion has probably caused
significant riverbed accretion. These floods are of high velocity and
commonly transport a heavy, coarse and very damaging sediment load. In
1992 the Batang Hari flooded, destroying hundreds of hectares of crops,
inundating at least 200 villages and killing 1 0 people. The economy of
Jambi City was paralysed for over a week (DHV Report 6. 1993) Until now
communities on the in the western coastal foothills have been spared
significant flooding, however, increasing deforestation and catchment
degradation, combined with steep-gradient streams and narrow valleys,
may increase the probability of future flooding and debris torrents.
Development in all parts of the study area is proceeding very rapidly,
resulting in accelerated deforestation, soil erosion and sediment
deposition. There is an urgent need to reassess and enforce land use
restrictions and land tenures.
34. Approximately twenty areas most likely to be affected by volcanic
activity have been identified on Sumatera by RePPProT, and four of these
occur in the study area. These include Mts. Malenggok-Kerinci-Tuju north
of the Kerinci Valley, Mts. Sumbing and Masurai near Dusun Tuo, and the
cluster of six volcanoes north of Curup.
35. The two major geological faults flanking the central rift valley in
the Barisan Mountains makes this area extremely prone to seismic
activity and deep-focus earthquakes. Parts of the rift such as Muara
Labuh, Lubuk Gadang, the Kerinci Valley and Muara Aman are densely
populated with significant deforestation and land degradation. In such
areas even minor earthquakes can trigger damaging landslides.
2.2 THE HUMAN ENVIRONMENT
2.2.1    Traditional Forest Use
36.  Ethno-botanical surveys have noted 116 native forest species in



41
Kerinci-Seblat used by indigenous people (DHV Report 17, 1993). Many of
these species have more than one use, which include: timber and
construction wood (59); food sources (25); handicrafts and tool making
(10); resins and glues (7); medicinal (6); binding and roofing materials (5);
spices (5); incense and perfume (5); ceremonial purposes (2); wrapping
material (2); and insecticide (1). The major commercial harvests of minor
botanical products from the park and surrounding forests are incense wood
(gaharu), rattan (Calamus spp), and the resens dammar and Manila copal,
tapped from trees of the Diperocarp family and the coniferous genus
Agathus respectively. The harvest of these resources is entirely
unregulated and some, such as rattan, are now showing signs of serious
over-exploitation.
2.2.2    Hunting and Poaching
37. Some meat hunting takes place adjacent to, and probably within, the
park for deer and, where religion permits, bush pig. Elephant, pig, deer
macaque and some of the predator species are probably killed regularly in
agricultural areas. Poaching of tiger and rhinoceros is reported,
particularly along the western boundary of the park in the Tapan, Pasir
Selatan and Indrapura areas. It is probable that increasing vegetation
clearance adjacent to the park has drawn the rhinoceros (for food) and the
tiger (for prey) outside the park where they are more vulnerable to
poachers. Illicit bird capture is also thought to be increasing, with
noticeable impact in the park on the main target species, the straw-
headed bulbul (Pycnonotus zeylanicus) and the white-rumped shama
(Copsychus malabaricus).
2.2.3     Human Population and Settlement
38. The major original ethnic groups near the Park are the Minang in the
north, their closely related neighbours the Kerinci in the centre, the lpuh
along the coast, and the Rejang in the south. Though maintaining many of
their original customs (i.e. matrilinearity among the Minang and Kerinci),
the cultural patterns of these groups have evolved under the influence of
Islam, colonial rule, wartime Japanese occupation and the modern
Indonesian State (DHV Report 3, 1993). These people are the main
claimants to the traditional or adat uses described above.
39. In-migration of non-indigenous people (mainly from Java but also



42
from other parts of Sumatera and from Sulawesi) began in colonial times
and has continued to the present day. Initially these people came as
contract labourers for tobacco, rubber, coffee and tea estates, and many
opted to settle as small iarmers when their contracts expired. After
independence the Government initiated an official transmigration program
involving the creation of ethnically mixed communities on previously
unoccupied lands. Approximately thirty-two such settlements have been
established in the study area (Figure 5). These settlements have created
foci for another wave of in-migrants, the swakarsa or unassisted
transmigrants, many of whom have recently come to establish cassiavera
plantations for absentee landlords (DHV 1992). Jambi, Bengkulu, and
South Sumatera have been primary destinations for both official and
swakarsa transmigration. As a result the population growth rates ot
these provinces have averaged 1.5 to 2 times the national average. Annual
percentage population growths for the periods 1971-80 and 1980-1985
have average '4.1 and 3.6 for Jambi; 4.5 and 4.0 for Bengkulu; and 3.4 and
3.2 for South Sumatera. By contrast, West Sumatera, which was never a
significant transmigration destination, had annual population growths for
the same periods of only 2.2 and 1.5 per cent. The net effect of
immigration to the former three provinces over this period was the
addition of 1.252 million people. Many authorities now believe that
Sumatera's population has reached or even exceeded agricu'tural carrying
capacity, and view this rapid population growth as the main factor
responsible for many of the serious environmental problems on the island
of Sumatera. In 1991 the Ministry of Transmigration's multi-disciplinary
Transmigration Advisory Group reported to the Ministry uspontaneous in-
migration is one of the greatest environmental hazards faced by Sumatera
and greatly upgraded measures to plan for this movement now seems to be
imperative".
40. By 1990 the four provinces surrounding the park had a total
population of 13.5 million people. The nine Kabupaten overlying the park
have a total population of 3.3 million, and the thirty-six Kecamatan that
effectively contain the park a combined population of 1.75 million. The
population of the 194 villages directly adjacent to the park boundary is
between 230,000 and 250,000 people. The largest population centres in
the viciiity of the park are Sungai Penuh (62,000), Curup (131,000) and
Lubuk Linggau (103,000). Several communities now exist within the park
boundary, some of which are apparently of long standing. It is claimed
that the village of Tanjung Kerasi, on Air Langkap west of Dusun Tuo,



43
dates from the 1920s and has existed for six generations. The enclave of
Renah Pemetik, in the Low Barisans east of the Kerinci Valley, is said to
have been established by escaped conscript labourers during the Japanese
occupation. In all, it is estimated that approximately 45,000 people
currently live within the park boundary, of whom perhaps 3000 to 4000
may reside in areas of critical conservation importance (DHV Report
2,1993).
2.2.4     Agricultural Practice and Park Encroachment
41. True shifting cultivation is much less common now in Sumatera than
in other provinces, probably because of the significant in-migration and
competition for land. It has been replaced by a system of more of less
permanent settlements situated close to home gardens and irrigated or
rainfed rice fields. Perennial cash crops - rubber, coffee, or cassiavera -
are raised in upland gardens (referred to as either ladang or kebun), that
may be up to a two-hour journey from the homesite. This two-hour figure
is very consistent between communities and seems to be the outside limit
of travel time that does not seriously detract from the time spent in crop
cultivation. This travel time has is a significant consideration when
looking at the potential impact of roads on agricultural encroachment.
Annual food crops may be rotated within the cash crop areas, which are
commonly up to 2 ha in extent
42. Agricultural encroachment into the park is estimated at more than
50,000 ha, and falls into three general categories: first, cash and
subsistence crop cultivation along the park boundary, often on steep
slopes, by people living outside the park; second, wetland rice cultivation
and dryland agriculture in community enclaves within the park, usually
associated with rich volcanic soils in the rift and alluvial valleys; and
third, cassiavera plantations on upland slopes along roads that transect
the park, farmed by sharecroppers who usually reside outside the park.
2.2.5     Forest Concessions
43. Seventeen logging concessions belonging to twelve companies border
almost the full length of the park boundary in Jambi and Bengkulu
provinces. Statistics on these concessions differ widely between sources.
In order to develop data that was at least internally consistent,
concession maps were obtained from the office of the Directorate General



44
of Forest Inventory and Forest Use in Jakarta. Boundaries were plotted on
the RePPProT 1:250,000 map bases and all subsequent area calculations
were made from these maps. The result of this exercise is presented
schematically in Figure 5, and in Table 2 which shows total concession
areas and the percent of each concession by TGHK category. Maps were not
available for one block of the Mugitriman concession and for the Bina
Lestari concession, and areas of these have been inferred. The
percentages are probably more reliable than the area figures, but both are
probably as accurate as any data that can be generated from existing
sources.
44. The data shows, not surprisingly, that an overwhelming proportion
of these concession areas, almost 70 per cent, lie in hill systems which
meet the TGHK criteria for protection forest. Observations made in two
field inspections associated with the Kerinci-Seblat project preparation
mission indicate that, in most concessions, few areas of limited
production or full production/conversion designation remain in natural
forest cover. Travelling the main haul road of the Sarestra I lease, for
example, the first 30 km inside the concession are entirely jungle rubber
fadang, a transmigration site consisting of dryland rice and cassava was
encountered at about 32 km and small patches of encroachment were
taking place up to 40 km inside the boundary (see photos la, b and c). The
first intact natural forests occurred at about km 39, which coincided with
the transition from rolling to steep hill systems. It has been estimated
that the proportion of the Jambi concession areas presently deforested
ranges from a low of 31 per cent for Rimba Karya Indah to a high of 58 per
cent for Mugitriman, with an overall decline in forest cover of about 48
per cent.
45. There are probably a number of factors contributing to the high rate
of deforestation, amongst them an apparent total lack of enforcement
against encroachers by Forest officials, concessionaires and local
government. The underlying cause, however, may be the continuing
inappropriate application of the Indonesian selection cut system (TPTI).
As noted by FAO (1990), the TPTI system is designed for Dipterocarp
forests with a supra-normal diameter class distribution; relying on the
small number of large diameter cornmercial stems in such stands to
ensure an appropriately light harvest (usually 6-8 stems per hectare).
Increasingly, it is being realized that many Dipterocarp and most non-
Dipterocarp forest stands do not meet this criterion, and that other



Table 2. Land Use and Forest Zonatlan Deslgnatlons for Forest Concesslons
Map I       Concesslon    * of         Concesslon             % Area by TGHK Zone or Existing Land Use
(Ref.    (Company Name) Blocks         Area (Ha)
Fig. 5)
Protection    Limited     Full      Already     Already      Total
Forest    Production   Production   Converted:  Converted:
Forest       or        Trans-    Tree Crops
Conversion   migration
Forest
1   Tldar Keningl Agung   1             13,950                    61                                  39         100      Z
2    AimbaKaryalndah      2             45,900         61          25                                  14        100      CJ
3    Migitriman           2            101,100        100                                                        100
4    Sarestra I           1             61,000         81          17           2                                100
5    Nusa Lease           3             60,800         78          22                                            100
6    Sarestrall           1             57,300         22          40          38                                100
7    Injapsin             1             50,500         39          50          11                                100
8    Dirgahayu Rlmba      1            115,200         62                      15          23                    100
9    MaJu Jaya Raya       1             83,700         76                       2          22                    100
10   Bina Samaktha         1            68,900         76                      16           8                     100
11   Sari Bauok           1            43,200         44          1 a         26          12                     100
12   Bina Lestarl          1            60,000        100                                                         100
Total Area and Overall %     17           761,450         68          14           9           8           1         100
Total Area (ha) by Category                          517,800     106,600      68,500      60,900       7,650    761,450



48
mechanisms of yield control are required to prevent effective
clearfelling. In a study of a Dipterocarp logging operation in Kalimantan,
Cannon et al 1994) found that, prior to logging, Dipterocarp trees over the
50 cm selection cut diameter limit comprised 70 per cent of stand basal
area. Logging removed 43 percent of total basal area and resulted in such
damage to the residual stand that future yields were likely to be
compromised. Large stand reductions leave the forest very vulnerable to
agricultural encroachment. There is an urgent need to apply TPTI in a
much more discriminating manner and to develop alternatives to apply to
stands of sub-normal diameter class distribution. This is most important
as logging moves into steeper hill catchments where forest degradation
will have even more serious environmental consequences.
46. Yet another factor pushing the pace of deforestation on a regional
scale in Jambi is the great disparity between processing capacity and
sustainable wood supply. Total processing capacity in the province has
remained constant at just under under 2.0 million m3 of round wood since
1 980. Over this same period, however, "sustainable" wood supply has
fallen with increased forest conversion from 1.7 million to slightly less
than 0.5 million m3 (ODA, personal communication). A significant
proportion of this latter figure now comes from hill forests that meet the
TGHK criteria for protection forest and should not, in theory, be logged.
47. The logging of hill forest systems is of great concern because
concessionaires generally appear to lack the expertise and equipment to
log in an environmentally safe manner in even moderately steep terrain
(Dick and Purwono 1991 and Schweithelm and Zuwendra 1991). In the very
steep hills of the Nusa Lease block between Sarestra I and the park, the
main access road has been driven up the ridge spines at road grades
approaching 18 per cent. Despite the fact that the road will be used for
only 2 to 3 years, it consists of very deep cuts with the cut material
simply sidecast downslope (photos 2 a and b). Bladed skid roads, often on
very steep slopes, branch out from the main haul to collect felled logs
(photos 3 a and b). Access to felling sites in such steep and broken
topography requires a much greater density of haul and skid roads, even to
collect the fewer trees allowed by the 60 cm diameter limit theoretically
applied in limited production forests. Directional felling onto skid roads
does not appear to be the rule here, and as a result there is considerable
residual stand damage (photos 4 a and b).



52
*    48. The levels of management observed during site visits to the Nusa
Lease and Sarestra I concessions have many shortcomings even from the
*    perspective of industrial forest operations. They are completely
inappropriate in the context of watershed and buffer zone management for
a major biodiversity ICDP project. Environmental audits and casual
observations by the author throughout Indonesia would indicate that the
conditions on these two leases are probably generally representative of
the management practices on the other concessions in the study area.
2.2.6     Commercial Plantations
49.  Commercial plantation or estate crop development with oil palm,
rubber and cocoa is most common along the West Sumatera/Jambi border
and north of Bengkulu along the coast road. Tea plantations have been
established in the Kerinci Valley, at Lubuk Gadang and at Solok since the
1920s. Over the past decade, given some of the mediocre results of
original food-crop transmigration programs, there has been increasing
emphasis on "nucleus estate" transmigration (PIR-Trans). On such
projects, blocks of commercial plantations are owned and tended by
transmigrant small-holders, with the produce sold to the uestate" for
processing and marketing. Thus far there has been little consideration of
park or wildlife interactions in the planning of any estate crops. Several
oil palm plantations in Jambi ana Bengkulu suffer regular damage of newer
plantings from elephant, bush pig and macaques.
2.2.7     Mining Concessions
50.  In the past five years a total of eight mining concessions have
existed in the park and immediately-adjacent areas. One of these
concessions was located completely within the park, five straddled the
park boundary and two others lay immediately adjacent to the park. These
concessions delineated the area over which a company could explore or
prospect for minerals or coal. Five of these exploration operations appear
to have revealed no economically mineable resources and the concessions
have bee.A subsequently surrendered. Of the remaining three, one is still
at the exploration stage and two are said to be undergoing feasibility
studies. Promising areas of mineral potential, such as gold or copper, are
usually very :ocalized and any subsequent production leases will probably
be issued for a fraction of the present concession areas. The two
concessions undertaking feasibility studies are P.T. Barisan Tropical



53
Mining (gold), which lies outside the park along the extreme southeastern
boundary in South Sumatera Province, and P.T. Ketahun (gold/copper),
which straddles the park boundary east of lpuh in Bengkulu Province. The
company still at the exploration stage is P.T. Lusang Mining (gold/copper)
which straddles the park boundary immediately south of P.T. Ketahun.
Many small miners work stream and river valleys in and adjacent to the
park for placer or alluvial gold. Though considerable physical damage is
often caused by excavation of river sediments, a much more serious
environmental hazard results from the use of elemental mercury to
separate gold flakes from fine rock particles. Though mercury is benign in
its liquid elemental form, in the natural environment it is converted
through a chemical process called methylation to organic compounds that
are very toxic and very persistent in food chains.
51. Coal resources, because they are almost always associated with flat-
lying sedimentary strata, can be much more extensive than mineral ore
bodies. The impacts of mineral mining, particularly underground, may be
slight and associated largely with the mine infrastructure. By contrast,
the impacts of coal mining, which is often opencast, can be very
significant, involving extensive land disturbance and environmental
degradation which may last well beyond the period of active mining. Coal
and lignite deposits occur in sedimentary rock strata in and around the
park, but there is no record of any coal mining or exploration activity.
2.2.8     Infrastructure and Transportation Development
52. Major road systems circle the park: the coast road from Bengkulu to
Padang; the Trans-Sumatera Highway from Solok to Lubuk Linggau; and the
connector roads from the two provincial capitals to the Highway.
Secondary roads leave these main highways at intervals to service
communities near the park; the main centres being, from north to south,
Talao, Dusun Buat Air Liki, Dusun Tuo, Pulau Kidak, and Muara Aman. Two
road systems traverse the park: the road from Bangko to Sungai Penuh and
the two arteries from Sungai Penuh to Tapan in the west and to Lubuk
Gadang in the north; and the short secondary road from Dusun Tuo to Muara
Manderas. A number of factors, including park encroachment and
interprovincial competition, have created some demand for new roads
through the park. The main road proposals are: the partially started and
controversial road from Muara Labuh to Kambang; a connection from Sungai
Penuh east to the Renah Pemetik enclave; a connection from Lempur in the



54
Kerinci Valley south along the central rift to Muara Manderas or Dusun
Tuo; a connection from lpuh on the Bengkulu coast to Muara Manderas; and
finally, a connection from Katenong along the southern rift to Muara
Manderas. Tracks passible by foot and animals already exist along some of
these routes.
53.  New roads or even upgrading of existing tracks have potentially
significant implications for both park management and biodiversity
conservation since they provide access to new settlers and opportunities
for the expansion of existing agricultural activities through access to new
markets. Ladang cultivation, mainly for cassiavera, exists along almost
every road bordering the park, and encroachment is common wherever
roads cross the boundary (see photos 5 a, b, c and d). The main constraint
to further park encroachment is the lack of access since the furthest
distance between dwelling/home gardens and a Jadang is apparently a two
hour trip. There are few if any examples in Indonesia of effective
prevention of encroachment when new roads have been constructed into
areas of natural forest. As noted above, current road "proposals' fall into
two categories: first, "roads of convenience" that transect the park,
linking communities that already have road access; and second, roads to
enclave communities inside the park which do not now have road access.
There are four main proposals which fall into the first category. These,
with attendant human encroachment, pose by far the more serious threat
to park integrity; potentially fragmenting the park into isolated blocks,
disrupting animal migration, and preventing the flow of genetic resources.
2.2.9     Park Management and Tourism Development
54.  Since the park was proposed in 1982, the park authority (PHPA) has
run it as a "project" activity with very limited fiscal, staff and
equipment resources. In 1984 a project office was established in Kersik
Tuo to coordinate activities across the four provinces surrounding the
park. The project office is headed by a Park Director who is a senior PHPA
official. When government started the ICDP project in 1991, the project's
budget immediately increased from Rp 147 million to 1,141 million. The
main project activities relate to biological inventories and boundary
demarcation.
55.  Staffing levels total 74 persons; 18 in the project office at Kersik
Tuo and 56 park guards resident in 20 guard posts. The first figure



57
includes about ten people who care for the small captive elephant herd at
the park headquarters. There are presently no district park offices and
therefore no deputies in the four provinces to assist the Park Director in
inter-provincial coordination. Transportation consists of two elderly
vehicles, one on permanent loan from the World Wildlife Fund, four motor
bikes at headquarters and another four distributed around the 20 guard
posts. Park guard posts are generally some distance from the park and,
since most guards have no transportation, patrolling and enforcement
activities are limited. For legal enforcement in the field, guards must
rely heavily on local government and police support. Mobilizing this
support is a slow process and the damage (encroachment and poaching) is
usually complete before preventative or enforcement actions can be taken.
56.  Tourism development in Kerinci-Seblat has thus far been limited.
Initial development of eco-tourism has taken place at Kersik Tuo near the
park headquarters, and at Napal Licin west of Pulau Kidak in South
Sumatera. The development at Kersik Tuo is aimed at enhancing the
participation of the local community by developing homestay facilities,
interpretation contres and guide services. PHPA has developed visitor
facilities at the park headquarters including guesthouses on the slopes of
Gunung Tujuh and recreational elephant rides. The development at Napal
Licin is privately funded by local and foreign travel agencies.
Recreational amenities include forest lodges and river rafting. For the
foreseeable future, tourism activities will probably centre on hiking,
nature interpretation (mountain forests and Rawa Bento) and mountain
climbing in the Gunung Kerinci, Gunung Tujuh and Kerinci Valley areas.
2.2.10    Government Administrative Structure
57.  The administrative setting for Kerinci-Seblat is extremely complex;
a situation that will pose a very serious challenge to park management
and, in particular, to effective buffer zone management. The park overlies
four provinces - Jambi, West Sumatera, Bengkulu, and South Sumatera;
nine Kabupaten (districts or regencies); and thirty-six Kecamatan (sub-
districts). A total of 194 desa (villages) have been identified adjacent to
the park boundary. Managing through this administrative complexity will
require mechanisms of intergovernmental integration and coordination
that simply do not exist in Indonesia (or, for that matter, in many other
countries) at the present time.



58
2.2.11    Non-governmental and Community Organizations
58. A number of international and local NGOs currently work within
boundary village communities. The World Wildlife Fund Indonesia (WWF)
has established the Kerinci-Seblat National Park Development Program
which caries out the following activities related to park management:
1) assistance to park authorities in boundary surveys, mapping,
wildlife and vegetation monitoring, and boundary surveillance;
2) assistance to local government in socia-economic surveys to assess
the extent and impact of human activities;
3) participation in the eco-tourism activities at Kersik Tuo; and
4) public education relating to the park boundary and independent
mediation of conflicts between local communities and the park,
including buffer zone management considerations.
There are also approximately 12 local NGO's working in four pilot areas
around the park under an umbrella conservation network called WARSI.
WARSI's major interest is in grass-roots community development and
biodiversity conservation. WARSI and its constituent NGOs are assisting
project preparation activities by facilitating community consultation.
59. The DHV studies single out two village organizations that will
probably play a significant role in developing and implementing the
integrated conservation and development project: the Lembaga Sosial Desa
or LSD, responsible for advising the village head and approving village
development plans and budgets; and the Lembaga Ketahanan Masyarakat
Desa or LKMD, which is primarily a public participation mechanism
considered the abottom rung" of the rural development planning process.



59
CHAPTER III  A DESCRIPTION OF THE KERINCI-SEBLAT ICDP
PROPOSAL
3.1 GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY AND INTEGRATED CONSERVATION
AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
3.1.1     Criteria for Global Environment Facility Proposals
60. The Global Environmental Facility (GEF) is a three year pilot project
to help developing countries protect the global environment. Specifically
the GEF is designed to assist developing countries by off-setting, at least
in part, the opportunity costs of: 1) greenhouse gas reduction; 2) ozone
layer conservation; 3) biodiversity conservation; and 4) protection of
international waters and aquatic resources. The Facility, which became
operational in 1991, is administered by the United Nations Environment
Program (UNEP), United Nations Development Program (UNDP) and the
World Bank. General GEF criteria stipulate that a project must:
a) contribute to human welfare and sustainable development;
b) be replicable in an international context;
c) contain an incentive design to secure sustainability;
d) be unlikely to be implemented by the country without GEF funding
(i.e. domestic costs exceed domestic benefits but global benefits
exceed domestic costs);
e) develop human and institutional capability;
f) have a firm scientific basis;
g) have a good chance of succeeding;
h) have political, fiscal, legal, and administrative conditions that
favour effective implementation;
i) include plans for regular project evaluation and dissemination of
results and knowledge; and
k) include plans that demonstrate the project will be sustained by the
host country beyond the initial GEF funding.
61. In addition to these general criteria, areas considered for
biodiversity conservation support must meet one or more of the following
criteria:
a) contain high ecological diversity and species richness;
b) known to contain significant numbers or proportion of endemic



60
species;
c) contain genetic resources of species of social, cultural or economic
importance;
d) reflect sound principles of sustainable biodiversity management;
e) threatened by destruction, degradation or conversion;
f ) critical to the conservation of other associated ecosystems;
g) contain habitats important to migratory species or to species that
clearly fall under international treaties, laws, agreements and
conventions (i.e. RAMSAR, CITES etc)
3.1.2     The ICDP Concept in Kerinci-Seblat
62. If biodiversity conservation funding is to be obtained for the Kerinci-
Seblat area there is an urgent need to reconcile the strong forces
favouring further resource exploitation, primarily for wood production and
cash-crop agriculture, with the interests to conserve the area's unique
biodiversity and watershed protection values. The species-rich lowland
forests, which now exist if at all only as scattered remnants, and low
elevation hill forests are of prime concern, along with wetlands and the
accelerated encroachment of lower montane forest for cassiavera
cultivation. The mechanism proposed to achieve this reconciliation in
Kerinci-Seblat is the concept of an Integrated Conservation and
Development Project (ICDP). This concept is similar to the International
Biosphere Reserve program of UNESCO in which core biodiversity and
natural resource conservation- zones are linked to surrounding areas of
intensive human use by intermediate buffer zones accommodating a
variety of low impact uses. The Kerinci-Seblat ICDP proposal will consist
of the following elements:
1 ) conservation of the outstanding biodiversity values through national
park and buffer zone management;
2) development of economic opportunities that are compatible with, or
complimentary to, biodiversity conservation, in order to strengthen
public and local community support for, and participation in, park
protection and management;
3) protection of watersheds to prevent flooding and ensure sustained,
quality water supply for downstream users;
4) a pilot project in the rationalization and strengthening of the legal
and institutional framework for biodiversity and national park
management and protection;



61
5) development of buffer zone management regimes that protect and
enhance park and watershed management, and contribute to the
prosperity of local communities;
6) development of practical and effective mechanisms for public
participation in on-going design and implementation of the ICDP;
7) raising public awareness of biodiversity values and commitment to
their protection;
8) development of new and innovative funding mechanisms for
biodiversity conservation; and
9) a demonstration project leading to improved mechanisms of regional
development planning and spatial planning to more effectively
integrate natural resource conservation and sustainable economic
development.
3.2  KERINCI-SEBLAT NATIONAL PARK
3.2.1    National Park Objectives
63. Project design has posed four major objectives for National Park
management:
1) to secure and protect within the park an ecologically complete
representation of the continuous spectrum of biotic zones and
associated vegetation communities in the Kerinci-Seblat region;
2) to conserve the rich, diverse,and often endemic, low elevation and
montane fauna of the region through population management and
protection, and through securing within the park all the habitat
necessary for the long-term maintenance of genetically viable
populations;
3) to provide opportunities for nature education, wildland recreation,
wildlife viewing and eco-tourism for the benefit and enjoyment of
Indonesian citizens and foreign visitors;
4) to provide a centre and an opportunity for long term research in
tropical plant and animal ecology, and a benchmark against which to
measure the impacts of intensive human land uses in similar areas
in central and southern Sumatera.
3.2.2    Park Boundary Options and Decisions
64. Kerinci-Seblat was proposed as a national park after extensive field



62
surveys by FAO and PHPA in the late 1970s and early 1980s. A
management plan prepared by FAO in 1981 was the basis for the Minister
of Forests' nomination of the area for park status the following year.
This initial proposal, comprising an area of 1,484,650 ha, was a complex
of 17 gazetted and proposed wildlife and nature reserves, adjacent
protection forests, and connecting areas between these separate blocks.
Over the intervening years from 1985 to 1991 a series of boundary
revisions reduced the area of the park to approximately 996,500 ha, the
great majority of the losses involving lowland forests and low elevation
hill systems. This latter area has been mapped by the Directorate General
of Forest Inventory and Land Use (INTAG), and this mapping now
constitutes the uofficial" park boundary. More recently the province of
Jambi has recommended the repatriation of large areas of the eastern hill
systems to the park, and the DHV project inception team recommended a
series of boundary changes to: increase representativeness, particularly
of low elevation systems; excise areas so heavily encroached or degraded
that they no longer warrant protection; and improve manageability of an
overly complex and convoluted boundary. These various boundary options
are shown in Figure 8. Most of the western, southern and northern
boundary have been surveyed and demarcated. The eastern boundary in
Jambi Province is still subject to a consensus-building process, a pre-
requisite to finalization and demarcation.
3.2.3     Resettlement and Rehabilitation Programs
65. Over the past few years PHPA has pursued a program of voluntary
resettlement for communities and individuals living within the park,
through the government transmigration program. Relocation criteria are
not explicit but the program has, apparently, met with some success
because of the desirability of securing placement on the nuclear estate
(PIT-TRANS) projects. The project preparation team has also
recommended broader application of the 'kebun kehidupan' concept of
temporary utilization zones. This technique allows the resettlees to
harvest the crops they planted, and then to continue to use the area for a
set period for the production of more 'natural' crops such as fruits, nuts
and other minor forest products. At the end of the set period the land
reverts unencumbered to the park.



63
& r W ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SUMATRA \,'' ;.x,  
Alahon Ponlong                              Indian Ocea.    odn
LObun         Lubuk MelakO       Tnnornr Tumnouh
uoco B3ungo
\>QA _vDulz odo< < t l PROVINCE
ti \   iS  p2~~rSik rU             %Ui oua <
lck  ra                                    Raniouicil54- RonIOu Ponlra g
I      J      \  ~~~~~)Skn~~gas Pen"
ugai Mnonu SOng
E\JDHV1 arr  roun Tuo
- Km        lIvo ~~M o                                                    Sur aKu
*i e S. Histor ; Park           ndPUr _pti
\  Q           \ ~~~~Kolanon         IN       E
_               &            98t~~~~~~~~~~oro  Amon 
L E G  E  N  D                                                          Lubuk  
13OSInaIP^rkBOUnJA84                            PPROVINCE 
I~~~~~~~~~~~i I          -)\ramrpSas                              up
O                   |                        )* * ILJ~~~~~~~~~GKULU
lQ  220K      l
Figure 8. Historic Park Boundary Options.



64
3.2.4     Compensation for Commercial Resource Tenures
66.  No consideration has been given in project design to compensation
for resource tenures pre-empted by park gazettment. The major potential
consideration for compensation may be mineral concessions, however,
recommendations will be made later in this report on ways to minimize
potential compensation.
3.2.5     Park Administration, Management and Enforcement
Programs
67.  Project design recommends major steps to upgrade the capability
and effectiveness of park management programs. The first major activity
will be the preparation, by year three of the project, ot a park
management plan and a comprehensive park zoning system. The
management plan will provide long-term objectives and shorter-term
strategies to guide and control: the management of park resources; the
establishment of acceptable levels and types of park use; the development
of park management and visitor facilities; research, inventory and
monitoring activities; staff recruitment, training and allocation; the
acquisition and distribution of vehicles and equipment; and the
development of annual budgets. The park management plan will provide
the context for the development of an uevergreenu, five-year Operational
Action Plan, which will provide the substance for annual budget requests.
68. Significant staff additions have been recommended for the project,
to be phased in over five years of project development. At the senior
management level four senior PHPA staff will be allocated to the project
as Deputy Park Directors to head coordinating units in each of the four
provinces. These units will coordinate, implement and supervise park
management operations, and consult with Provincial, Kabupaten and
Kecamatan authorities under the general direction of the Park Director.
In order to upgrade boundary and park use enforcement, BAPPENAS has
approved the recruitment of 100 upegawi proyeku park guards over the six
year period of the project.
69. To improve capability in anti-poaching patrols and general
enforcement, a specialist mobile enforcement unit will be established in
each provincial sub-office. These teams, equipped with 4-wheel drive
vehicles and radio communications, will provide back-up to local park



65
guards and liaise closely with local police. They will also provide initial
and on-going enforcement training to the "pegawai proyek" park guards.
3.2.6     Community Consultation and Involvement
70. The Park Director will initiate a "community partnership program"
in the first year of the project which will employ 190 local people over
the first five years to work with park and World Wildlife Fund staff as
park extension workers. These extension programs will include park and
biodiversity awareness, strengthening of village-based conservation
organizations and community participation in park management.
3.3 BUFFER ZONES
3.3.1     Buffer Zone Management Objectives
71. Management in the buffer zones surrounding Kerinci-Seblat National
Park will have the following objectives:
1) to Tcushion" park ecosystems and ecological processes from the
impacts of intensive land uses and resource developments;
2) to limit the potential for negative interactions between people and
park wildlife;
3) to encourage local peoples' active involvement in park protection,
and participation in park-based commercial recreation and tourism
developments;
3) to provide local communities with a secured supply of traditional
use items from the natural forest, and with the opportunity to
supplement their income from low intensity harvesting of
commercial forest products;
4) to reduce flood potential and minimize water quality degradation
through the implementation of sound watershed management
principles;
5) to allow the cultivation of perennial crops consistent with other
buffer zone objectives;
6) to function as a demonstration project in integrated, interprovincial
spatial planning;
7) to provide migration corridors and supplementary food sources for
the forest fringe dwelling wildlife group (especially elephant and
rhinoceros) in traditionally-used ranges outside the park.



66
72.  Clearly not all of these objectives can be accomplished in all areas
and the width of the buffer zone will vary depending on adjacent park
values and external land uses. The challenge of buffer zone planning and
management will be to match land use regimes both to park values and to
local community needs.
3.3.2     Community and Rural Development Programs
73.  Rural development programs are a major component of buffer zone
management, sponsoring activities designed to mobilize the cooperation
of communities adjacent to the park in the protection and management of
park resources. The intent is to create a vested interest in biodiversity
prolection and resource conservation by allowing local communities to
benefit economically from both the existence of the park and through
greater access to buffer zone resources. This type of assistance,
however, is only really effective if it is complemented by regulatory
enforcement and park/biodiversity awareness programs.
74.  Over the six years of the ICDP project, community and rural
development would focus in the following seven functional areas:
1) Village Resource Management, assisting villagers to evaluate and
map village resources, improve village land use, secure access to
resources, establish development priorities, and conserve local
biodiversity;
2) Village Develooment. providing funds and technical assistance to
intensify or diversify agriculture and improve village
infrastructure;
3) Target Group Assistance. providing resources for the poor and
landless, who are most dependent on exploiting park resources, to
adopt alternative income-generating activities;
4) Special Area-Management, encouraging and assisting residents in
ecologically sensitive areas to relocate without loss of prosperity
or cultural identity;
5) Reduction of In-migrant Imoacts. developing incentives and/or
disincentives to prevent illegal use of park and buffer zone
resources by opportunistic migrants from other areas;
6) Planning Sugort, to assist government agencies in ICDP planning, in
incorporating village development activities in Regional and



67
Provincial Development Plans, in incorporating village land use
plans into regional spatial plans, and in ensuring an eventual orderly
transition from the GEF project to routine government programs; and
7) Training, to strengthen the capability of government officials,
community facilitators, and villagers to play their respective roles
in ICDP implementation.
75.  Specific rural development activities proposed by the project
preparation team include:
1) Agricultural Intensification: involving improved cassiavera and
jungle rubber cultivation, nuclear tea estate projects, integrated
vegetable pest management, wider cultivation of vanilla,
introduction of cut flower cultivation, fish production in ponds and
cages, small livestock culture, bee keeping and butterfly farming;
2) Social Forestry: involving agroforestry systems, community
forests, tree nursery production for regreening and forest
enrichment, rattan plantations, and resin tapping;
3) Small Enter2riselInfustrv: involving rattan craft, village industries
and the processing of agriculture products;
4) Social Considerations: relating to educational scholarships, and
tenures to land and resources;
5) Tourism: involving training and revolving loan assistance to local
people to enhance their capability to attract tourists to homestays,
and training to guides in nature interpretation and managing eco-
tours and treks; and
6) Village Infrastructure DeveloMen3t: involving improved access,
small-scale irrigation and improved portable water supply.
76. The management structure described in section 3.4 below will
provide assistance to villages in developing proposals, and will also
establish a 'transparent review and approvals system to ensure that the
proposals are consistent with ICDP objectives.
3.3.3     Forest Concessions and Community Forests
77. This component of the project will develop an action plan for the
forest concessions along the park boundary in Jambi and Bengkulu
Provinces. The objective stated for this planning is to manage and
stabilize the remaining lowland forest areas bordering the park to



68
effectively extend the conservation estate and protect biodiversity within
production forests. The planning is anticipated to borrow heavily on the
Permanent Forest Production Unit (KPHP) process being developed jointly
by the Ministry of Forests and the U.K. Overseas Development
Administration.
78. It is proposed that community forests be established in areas
degraded either by previously logging or agricultural encroachment.
Support for land rehabilitation and enrichment planting would come ftom
the rural development component.
3.4 THE INTEGRATED PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE FOR ICDP
IMPLEMENTATION
79. As alluded to above, the project is proposed to consist of four
components: 1) Park Management; 2) Concession Management; 3) Policy
Coordination, Evaluation and Monitoring; and 4) Rural Development. Each
component will have a separate project supervisor or Pimpro, responsible
for overseeing the disbursement of project funds. The organizational
structure for project coordination consists of a National ICDP Steering
Committee, and an Interprovincial Coordinating Committee supported by a
Planning Secretariat and technical advisory 'eams.
3.4.1     National Steering Committee
80. The National Steering Committee will be chaired by BAPPENAS. with
members representing the Ministers of Forestry, Agriculture, Home
Affairs and Finance. This committee will also include representatives of
the tour Governors, the Indonesian Institute of Sciences (LIPI), and
national environmental NGOs. This committee will meet infrequently and
its major role will be to coordinate the activities of the agencies
responsible for the separate project components: Ministry of Forests
(Park and Concession Components); Ministry of Home Affairs (Rural
Development Component) through the National Regreening Program; and the
Interprovincial Coordinating Committee (Policy Coordination, Evaluation
and Monitoring Component).
3.4.2    Interprovincial Coordinating Committee
81. The interprovincial Coordinating Committee will comprise senior



69
representatives of the four governors, the Park Director, a representative
from the improved concession management component, and the World
Wildlife Fund Indonesia. The major function of this committee will be to
coordinate and integrate on-going project implementation at the
provincial, kabupaten and kecamatan levels. To carry out this function it
is proposed that the committee would be supported by a Policy and
Planning Secretariat.
3.4.3    Planning Secretariat
82. The proposed planning secretariat would be composed of technical
staff seconded from appropriate agencies of the four provincial
governments. The major function of this secretariat would be to provide
support to the Interprovincial Coordinating Committee in interprovincial
and intergovernmental coordination of project implementation. The
Secretariat would also provide an independent project evaluation function
and administer inventory, monitoring and information management
functions that service all components of the ICDP project. The
Secretariat would probably be located in Sungai Penuh.
3.4.4    Inventory, Monitoring and Information Management
Services
83. In designing this component of the project, the project preparation
team had two options: 1) to fragment the function amongst the three
operational components; or 2) create an integrated service function that
would take direction from the operational managers but could capitalize
on interdisciplinary synergies and efficiencies. The project team has
chosen the latter option. In order to ensure the broadest application and
utilization of these services, it is proposed to place the inventory,
monitoring and information management function under the Planning
Secretariat. These services will include: the collection, housing, storage,
management, interpretation and dissemination of natural resource and
socio-economic information; and the establishment of indicators and
collection of information for the evaluation of the project's technical and
financial progress, and trends in environmental and social status.



70
CHAPTER IV A CRITICAL ANALYSIS OF PROJECT DESIGN: ISSUES
AND RECOMMENDATIONS
4.1 PARK DESIGN AND MANAGEMENT
4.1.1     The Park Boundary
84. As noted in earlier sections, the majority of past park boundary
revisions have excised species-rich lowland and hill forests,
reclassifying the areas from protection forest to production forest and
placing them in adjacent logging concessions. Current information on
vegetation condition of the study area is not available, and in fact
vegetation cover is probably experiencing considerable change on a year to
year basis because of the accelerating rates of forest conversion. As a
"default", generalized RePPProT landscape units were used in this
.ssessment to determine the impact of boundary revisions on park
biodiversity. In all 27 landscape units were identified as representative
of the study area, defined by differences in climatic region, topography
and lithology (Appendix 11).
85. A comparison of the original boundary, as mapped by BPN, with the
current INTAG boundary (Table 3) reveals that there has been an overall
reduction in the area of low elevation systems of 72 per cent, however,
some important systems have suffered much higher loss: plains systems
reduced by 81 per cent, and the larger alluvial valleys so important to
many wildlife species reduced by more than 99 per cent. In all 14 of the
27 landscape units were reduced by 80 per cent or more and the remaining
low elevation systems exist primarily as scattered remnants around the
perifery of the park. The proportion of mountain systems, with lower
biological productivity and biodiversity, has risen from 67 per cent to 86
per cent. The boundary is currently the single most critical issue of
project design. The park has lost a significant proportion of its faunal
*   and floral biodiversity and may no longer contain the habitats necessary
for the long-term protection and maintenance of its "flagship" wildlife
species - elephant, tiger, rhinoceros, and tapir. Adjacent lands are being
subjected to such devastating logging practices and such rapid
deforestation by encroachers that they may loose much of their
biodiversity and buffer zone function. In the light of these problems
Kerinci-Seblat may no longer meet the criteria for Global Environment
Facility funding outlined in section 3.1.1. There is no doubt that Kerinci-



71
Table 3. A Summary Comparison of Landscape Diversity
Between the Original and INTAG Boundaries*
Physiographic    Original   % of Total   INTAG    % of Total  % Reduction
Type        Boundary      Area     Boundary      Area      in Area
(Area in Ha)          (Area in Ha)
Mountain Systems    1,027,280    69.40      864,505      86.BO     16
Hill Systems         211,140      14.25      84,750       8.50     60
Plains Systems       211,325      14.30      42,285       4.20     80
Fans & TeTaces        14,650       1.00       1,505       0.15     88
Lahar Slopes          10,045      0.70        1,955       0.20     8 1
Alluvial Valleys       3.550       0.20          35       c.10     99
Wetlands               2,395       0.15       1,430       0.15     40
1,480,385    100.00     996,465    100.00
' See Appendix I for more detailed comparisons



72
Seblat still has the potential to be one of the most important and valuable
biodiversity projects in Southeast Asia. If the situation is to be
retrieved, however, a number of steps must be taken immediately:
1. Current demarkation of the INTAG boundary should proceed in order to
expedite park gazettment, but there must be a clear statement from
the Government of Indonesia that the boundary is recognized as
inadequate and that major boundary rationalization to improve its
biodiversity status will take place progressively over the next five
years.
2. A rapid environmental appraisal, involving biodiversity and wildlife
habitat, must begin immediately to determine the most important
areas for repatriation to the park, concentrating on the Jambi and
Bengkulu park boundaries (Figure 9). Work should begin immediately,
utilizing remaining JGF funding, on two concessions adjacent to the
park, one in Jambi and one in Bengkulu, with the following selection
criteria: high biodiversity; large proportion of protection and limited
production forest; and/or lease expiring within the next two years.
Candidates for these first appraisals are the Sarestra II and Nusa
Leases in Jambi and the Bina Samaktha and Maju Jaya Raya leases in
Bengkulu. These two appraisals should be completed by December
1995. Appraisals of all other concessions should be undertaken as
part of the concession reviews, see section 4.2.3, and be completed
by December 1996 with firm recommendations for the transfer of
low elevation areas of high biodiversity back to the park.
3. Consideration should also be given to the inclusion in the park of the
low elevation wetland/swamp forest complex west of Tapan and the
limestone-karst formations east of the Alahan Panjang-Lubuk Gadang
road since both ecosystems were poorly represented even in the
original park boundary.
4.1.2    Enforcement Programs
86. From even a casual field trip around the park boundary, it is evident
that encroachment by agricultural squatters is now out of control and that
greatly upgraded capability to deal with the problem is needed
immediately. The project design calls for 100 new park guards to be
engaged as upegawi proyek" at 25 per year for four years starting in 1996.



73
inan~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
sK Solk    Sgp.jnjBng
KoneDono    )  L u D u > er                t ~~~~~~PROVIINCE
ij\Sulak lD                     z                oniou Peniong
a t 
Mul.ur *o+%   -   -2<r~~~~~~~~~~~- *
Pa. :-, nan s   .    _ng.
-3 Preewt   -o',.arj - 4--uc r  l'lonle ror       T
K_renong      BuniO
KamDanq                                            JAMB,t Aman
Bo9 pnLinsl SNPun
EmnromerLaA Ppeai auaoMneoC4                                     t
NGKULU
110  22OKS ~ ~    ~    ~    ~ ~       QL        TR
*iur RriiviipBunar E5nviomna)frta,K                                     onas



74
The Government of Indonesia should clarify its intentions with regard to
the status of the upegawi proyek" at the end of the project. Whatever its
longer-term future, by the time this force becomes effective it may well
be too late for many areas inside the park boundary, let alone areas of
value adjacent to the park. It is therefore recommended that the
Government of Indonesia develop, and submit to the World Bank prior to
project appraisal, an effective "bridging" enforcement strategy to be
implemented by December 1995 in priority areas and to continue until new
project staff are trained and in place. The strategy should contain: i) a
description of legal enforcement procedures, ii) staffing levels and
responsibilities, and iii) a summary of enforcement actions to date.
Priority areas for both boundary enforcement and encroachment
stabilization are shown in Figure 10. These bridging enforcement
activities may also assist in preventing further encroachment into
selected areas of the surrounding timber concessions.
87. Developing an effective enforcement program requires more than
simple numbers of staff. Morale is probably the single most important
issue in enforcement agencies, particularly when staff must enforce,
often unpopular, government regulations on their neighbours. If park
enforcement is to become effective, senior staff at all levels up to and
including the Minister must create the proper institutional climate. Staff
Morale will be dependant on the following considerations:
1 ) Staff must be made to feel that they are engaged in a "great and
noble enterprise" whose achievement is important to the nation and
society (staff education and training);
2)Staff must be made to feel that what they do matters directly to the
success of the enterprise (job descriptions and performance
evaluations);
3)Staff must believe that the objectives of the enterprise are
achievable and not out of reach (the past situation of 56 park guards
responsible for 2750 km of boundary could hardly have inspired such
confidence);
4)Staff must believe that the organization they work for is an
efficient one that will provide a context for the effective
employment of their efforts (strategic and operational planning);
5)Staff must, as far as possible, be given the legal and material tools
to carry out their jobs (enforcement authority, such as the ability to
issue cease and desist orders and seise property, back-up



75
501011   Silunlung                                  J  m,
APDANG \
. 3 >  kAlonon Pon Drno                     Cln.   Pan icf
WiZ \    5\    ~w SUMATRA                                      Re u
.ii    M    c  Mugr       8aLuk  .e.skO     Tonu n TumDuo
\\ ,   1   \  f    -s       * f           are Bungo
Koni4&> Luu~                       t PROVINCE
\ \ -                               '^Z uo  Amr LlbE ;=-'on
vJ  \  \; gnool Penun  -
. . \  |  . 8 t s  sa: Dusun Tuo
E rlcorobchwterLt        ir M---                           Sufu1V0
1 P . ~~~~~~P \S  \ i   <.    IQ~~~~~~:Pfa Ko   u        I.a
Ipuh          *SHUMTA
|    __   '   -   g   <             itu~~~~~~~~Oro ASmon 
LEGEND                                                       LubuknO
E Encro achme nt 5ta 6lization.'       
X    ,    lLNuvmbMx rezer to    ,urup
o ~~disc-ussion irL tegt. 
NGKULU
'M      Ila      210K_
Figure 10. Priorities ior BounJar  Enforcement and
Encroachment Sta6ilization.



76
assistance, appropriate transportation and field equipment);
6)Facilities and living conditions for field staff must be made as good
as they can be.
4.1.3     Encroachment and Resettlement
88.  Encroachment into the park falls into three general categories: first,
cash and subsistence crop cultivation, often on steep slopes, along the
park boundary by people who live outside the park; second, wetland rice
cultivation and dryland agriculture in community enclaves within the
park, usually associated with rich volcan;c soils in the rift and alluvial
valleys; and third, cassiavera plantations on upland slopes along roads
that transect the park, usually by sharecroppers who reside outside the
park. It will require quite different techniques to deal adequately with
these different types of encroachment. Generally the tools available are
to amend the park boundary, to demarcate and enforce enclave boundaries,
or to resettle/relocate. These will have to be applied on a case-by-case
basis after careful study during the first few years of project
implementation. Decisions should take into consideration criteria such as
the impact on wildlife management and biodiversity conservation,
sustainability of the cropping practice, whether the use is compatible
with park or buffer zone management criteria, and the potential
reversibility of the vegetation change. In addition the traditional attitude
of park managers that upeople have no place in parks' must change.
Indigenous people who have lived in a region for decades or centuries
should be considered an integral part of the local ecology. Their customs
and the way they relate to natural systems becomes an added
'biodiversity value".
89. If relocation is the most appropriate and desirable option, every effort
should be made to encourage the persons or ccmmunity to relocated
voluntarily. This can be accomplished by providing an acceptable
relocation site and adequate compensation for shifting, and by allowing
continued use of the or.iginal site for a set period through the 'kebun
kehidupan' concept of temporary utilization zones.
90.  It is clear that at present there is neither sufficient information to
assess the impacts of individual encroaching communities nor the staff
capability to plan and manage a community resettlement program. For
these reasons the following irm-plementation steps are recommended:



77
1. Immediate measures must concentrate on the stabilization of the
park and forest concession boundaries to ensure no new
encroachment takes place, through the interim enforcement strategy
recommended above.
2. No further resettlement of established individuals or communities
should occur for three years pending cotnpletion of the park
management plan and the wildlife-biodiversity studies discussed
above, unless the request comes unsolicited from the people. The
wildlife-biodiversity studies should establish objective criteria for
assessing the impacts of communities living and farming inside the
park and establish priority areas where resettlement may be
requires. Terms of reference for these studies should be sent to the
World Bank for review prior to project appraisal.
3. Resettlement should be contemplated only where communities
jeopardize biodiversity values that are still intact, where there is a
likelihood of permanent human/wildlife conflict or where the
community occupies land with significant potential for the
rehabilitation of habitat values. Wherever possible, resettlement
should be voluntary and carried out in accord with a Resettlement
Action Plan prepared in consultation with the affected people. An
objective economic analysis of both the earnings of current
agricultural practice and the potential earnings of the alternatives
available to encroaching communities (i.e. transmigration and pohon
kehidupan) should be prepared and submitted to the World Bank in
year one of project implementation.
4. Where communities remain in the park, they should do so under a
formal park use contract. Every effort should be made to
accommodate these communities in park management programs and
to capitalize on the tourism potential o' their culture and way of
life.
4.2  MANAGING THE IMPACTS OF OTHER LAND USES
4.2.1     Buffer Zone Planning
91. Effective buffer zone management, matching buffer zone uses to
park values and community needs, will be the most complex and difficult



78
task of coordination in the ICDP project. The primary focus of this
coordination will be to exercise some degree of zoning and control of land
use within a defined buffer zone. The recognition here is that any
boundary, no matter how well designed, is largely' an artificial creation.
If certain types of human use extend up to that line, the impacts will be
felt for considerable distances into the park. The idea of ICDP is to
intluence land use adjacent to the boundary to: a) protect park resources,
b) minimize the potential for negative interactions between the park and
its neighbours; and c) provide real economic benefits to buffer zone
communities. In the present case, the buffer zone will also compliment
the park in the important downstream function of watershed protection.
92.  Looking at the administrative structure of the project, particularly
the fragmentation between park, concession and rural development
components, it is hard to generate much confidence that the required
degree of coordination will occur. Success will largely depend on the
coordination, planning and evaluation activities of the Planning
Secretariat. Unfortunately this will probably be classed as a "functional"
rather than a ustructural" organization", and past experience has been
that such entities often iail to attract the "best and the brightest".
Every effort must be made to provide the types of incentives that will
attract the influential, dynamic and technically competent individuals
necessary to make this group effective. Consideration should also be
given, as soon as possible, to the establishment of butfer zone criteria,
standards and boundaries in Governors' or even Presidential Decrees.
93.   Some of the required land use change can be effected through
government regulation, but it will also take some incentives to local
people to get them to 'buy in' to the buffer zone concept, and this is the
primary function of the rural development component. While the
community and rural development component of the project appears
innovative and well designed, the writer has seen no written
documentat.on that boundary communities accept the program or that the
proposec development activities will result in real economic benefits. In
particular, the focus of social forestry on the creation of community
forests only in areas degraded by past logging and agricultural cultivation
is not likely to be completely acceptable to local people. It will also be
important to establish community forests from intact hill forests surplus
to biodiversity needs in which local people can derive benefits and income
from the low-impact harvesting of natural forest products (see section



79
4.2.2). To date all of the benefits derived from natural systems (esp.
timber production) are enjoyed at a distance from the Kerinci-Seblat area,
while most of the benefits from forest conversion are enjoyed locally.
Unless this flow of benefits can be reversed through ICDP land use
planning, there will be no incentive for local people to change their
practices, and the buffer zone function will fail. Buffer zone land use
planning is one of the weakest parts, along with the boundary, of present
project design.
4.2.2     Forest Management
94. As previously noted, many of the areas of the original park proposal
excised by the INTAG boundary were reallocated to timber concessions
even though they were classed as, or met the TGHK criteria for, protection
forest. The majority of the concessions around the boundary of Kerinci-
Seblat are now wholly or largely within protection forest, and past
enforcement against encroachment has been so inadequate that intact
forest on some concessions now exists only in steep hill systems. Logging
observed in such systems on a recent field inspection was extremely
destructive both to the forest and to watershed values. The reason that
such fragile landscapes are now being logged is that wood processing
capacity in Jambi province now exceeds sustainable forest production by
2.5 to 3 times, and this discrepancy is driving timber exploitation in the
study area. The following recommendations are made with respect to
forest concession management within the Kerinci-Seblat Buffer zone:
1. A one year moratorium should be place on the logging of any of the
protection forest areas classed by RePPProT as Protection Forest
within the QCgfiWL 1982 park boundary, pending priority application
of the KPHP analysis to forest concessions on both the Jambi and
Bengkulu boundaries ot the park. This analysis should be
synchronized with the rapid environmental appraisals referred to
under park boundary recommendations and should: identify remaining
areas of functioning primary and secondary forest; define which
areas of intact forest and disturbed vegetation are of significant
biodiversity value and should be repatriated to the park; determine
which remaining areas are amenable to commercial logging; and
define sLandards and conditions under which logging may be carried
out in an environmentally safe manner. All of these analyses should



80
be completed by December 1996.
2.Upon completion of these analyses, areas of high biodiversity or
conservation value outside the rationalized concession boundaries
will be repatriated to the park.
3.Areas of intact forest not required for the park and not suitable for
industrial logging techniques shall be placed in community forests
where local people may harvest minor forest products or hand log
commercial timber species on a sustainable basis under a buffer zone
use contract administered jointly by the project's Planning
Secretariat and local governments.
4.2.3     Mineral Resource Development
95. The following recommendations are made with respect to mining
activity:
1. No further mining concessions should be granted by the Ministry of
Mines and Energy within both the areas included in the oriainal 1982
park boundary or the hatched area shown in Figure 10 until the final
boundary of Kerinci-Seblat is decided.
2. Feasibility studies and controlled mineral exploration on the three
existing concessions should be allowed to continue in the park on the
understanding that if no economically viable mineral potential is
determined within five years, the concessions will be cancelled
without compensation.
3. If mineable mineral deposits are found, the acceptability of mining
will be determined on a case-by-case basis through the AMDAL
process. The following limitations should be considered for any
potential mine projects: 1) no open pit extraction would be allowed
inside the park or a 5 km buffer zone; 2) all mine infrastructure
must be located outside the 5 km buffer; and 3) equipment, worker
and ore transport within the park and buffer must be by a method
other than road (i.e. overhead bucket or rail tram). Where a
potentially viable mine is not allowed to proceed, compensation will
be limited to exploration expenses only.



81
4.Any ore processing in the area should be by a closed-circuit cyanide
process with a built-in cyanide destruction system (e.g. Inco SO2).
Consideration should be given to the subsidized processing of ore
belonging to small alluvial gold miners in order to lessen their
dependence on mercury in and adjacent to the park.
4.2.4     Road and Access Development
96. New roads or even upgrading of existing tracks have potentially
significant implications for both park management and biodiversity
conservation since they provide access to new settlers and opportunities
for the expansion of existing agricultural activities through access to new
markets. There are few if any examples in Indonesia of effective
prevention of encroachment when new roads have been constructed into
areas of natural forest. Current road "proposals" fall into two categories:
first, "roads of convenience" that transect the park, linking communities
that already have road access; and second, roads to enclave communities
inside the park which do not now have road access. There are about seven
proposed roads which fall into the first category. These, with attendant
human encroachment, pose by far the more serious threat to park
integrity; potentially fragmenting the park into isolated blocks, disrupting
animal migration, and preventing the flow of genetic resources. It is
strongly recommended that:
1. A three year moratorium be place on the construction of all new
roads, pending completion of the park zoning and management plan,
research to improve impact prediction and the strengthening of
enforcement capability to prevent encroachment. Research should be
partly funded by those government agencies sponsoring road
development.
2. At the end of the moratorium any road proposals that may be deemed
acceptable must be subject to rigorous environmental assessment
and project justification through a full ANDAL report.
3. The unpaved 3 km of the proposed Muara Labuh - Kambang road should
be stabilized with proper drainage controls and put to bed under a
temporary vegetation cover pending a future decision on its
acceptability.



82
4.2.5    Agriculture
97.  Effective management of buffer zones will require agriculture crop
zoning guidelines. Cassiavera, for example has been described as a
"perfect buffer zone crop", but this is only true where the major buffer
zone consideration is watershed protection and then only if the plantation
is not clean weeded for undercropping. Like most agricultural crops,
cassiavera does little for biodiversity protection. Likewise crop and
livestock cultivation in areas of high wildlife density will only generate
wildlife human conflicts. Rural development programs must aim to
influence choices of crops and cultural practice through farmer education
and program incentives.
CHAPTER V    THE IMPACT OF THE PROPOSED ICDP ON REGIONAL
DEVELOPMENT OPPORTUNITIES
98. This section of the regional assessment is presently impossible to
complete with accuracy and technical rigour because of existing project
design uncertainties, such as the boundary, and real information
deficiencies. What is evident is that, in its current form, the ICDP project
has few opportunity costs because the land area has major use
limitations. The economic analysis prepared as part of the inception
report (DHV Report 8, 1993) probably overestimated the economic
opportunity costs because it assumed existing land uses and levels of
resource exploitation were largely sustainable. A full economic analysis
of opportunity cost is beyond the scope of this analysis. Rather it is
hoped that the following observations will contribute to such an analysis
if deemed necessary at a later stage of project appraisal.
5.1 THE REGIONAL LAND USE AND DEVELOPMENT PLANNING CONTEXT
5.1.1     Regional Development Planning and Environmental
Assessment
99. In an ideal world, integrated provincial development planning would
resolve intersectoral conflicts through necessary negotiation and trade-
offs, and establish regional resource management objectives that are
consistent and complimentary. Regional spatial plans would translate
these objectives, on the basis of land suitability and capability, into



83
zonation that minimizes conflicts and competition over the land base. The
task of the environmental assessment practitioner then becomes straight-
forward. If a project falls within an area zoned for that use, the
assessment becomes one of identifying and mitigating site-specific
impacts. If a project falls within an area zoned for another use or
multiple use, then the assessment must deal with identifying and
mitigating the potential impacts of the project on the objectives set for
the production or use of these other resources. Few areas in the world
have been able to create this context for impact assessment and, not
surprisingly, the provincial plans in the study area fail to do this also.
Practical demonstrations of this vertical linkage and dependency between
planning levels should be one of the main objectives in the institution-
building activities of the Rural Development Component of this project.
5.1.2     Regional Values and Potential Benefits of the
Proposed ICDP
100. It is unlikely that the ICDP project will make a significant regional
economic contribution in the short-term. If, over the remainder of this
decade, the project -leads to a significant slowing in the degradation of
land, water and biological resources, it will have made a major
achievement. Over the medium term the best that may be expected will be
growing park-based tourist revenues associated with eco-tourism and
wildland trekking, and increasing prosperity resulting from some of the
community development initiatives. Over the longer term, perhaps ten to
fifteen years, as infrastructure improves and more is known about the
distribution and abundance of wildlife species, Kerinci-Seblat could
develop into a significant wildlife viewing area in Southeast Asia.
5.2 THE IMPACT OF THE PROPOSED ICDP ON SPECIFIC DEVELOPMENT
SECTORS
5.2.1    Agriculture
101. As discussed in section 2.1.5 and illustrated in Figure 6, capability
in the study area for sustainable agriculture is seriously limited. The
original boundary may have included about 3,550 ha suitable for irrigated
agriculture and 101,000 ha marginally suitable for tree crops. The
boundary revisions in 1985 and 1991 have virtually eliminated any land
with a potential for irrigation and reduced the area marginally suitable



84
.
for tree crops to about 20,900 ha. Many of these areas have been so
heavily encroached, however, that the real "loss" of land to crop
production is difficult to determine without a major land use study.
5.2.2     Timber and Woodfibre Production
102. Section 2.2.5 and Table 2 indicate that, of the existing forest
concession area of 761,450 ha, 517,000 ha meet the criteria for
protection forest and should not be available for commercial wood
production. Only 106,600 ha of limited production forest and 68,000 ha of
full production forest exist within the concessions, and many of these
areas have already been converted to ladang. The total area of intact
forest in these two categories included in, or that might be repatriated to,
the park is approximately 65,000 ha. Sutter (1989) reports the average
recorded net yield per ha on the first pass through forest concessions in
Jambi and Bengkulu as 8.15 m3/ha for full production and 5.40 m3/ha for
limited production forest. Using these figures, the estimated volume of
commercial timber on these lands would be approximately 338,300 m3.
Some of this wood deficit could be made up by production from licenced
handlogging in protection forests allocated to community forests within
the ICDP buffer zones.
5.2.3     Mining and Mineral Resource Development
103. The impact of the park and ICDP on mineral resource development is
expected to be minimal, though this cannot be confirmed until the three
operating concessions complete feasibility studies accounting for the
restrictions proposed in section 4.2.4. Because all three projects overlap
or are outside the park boundary the conditions should not present serious
problems to an economically viable precious metal prospect. The question
of longer term loss of mineral potential due to park establishment is more
difficult to assess. Much of the park was covered in the past with
exploration concessions, which have subsequently been surrendered,
presumably because no viable mineral deposits were discovered. This
would seem to imply that the economic mineral potential of the park area
is negligible.
5.2.4     Transportation and Infrastructure
104. Road development proposals must be placed in the context of the



85
fact that no community outside the park boundary currently lacks road
access. Even the enclaves inside the park, legal and illegal, are serviced
by tracks and many have flourished with such access for decades. A
recent cumulative environmental impact study of Kabupaten road
developments undertaken by the Ministry of Public Works (1994) concludes
that "where the land was suitable and not too steep, the lack of road
access has never been a constraint to local farmers". The justification
given to the project design team in Padang for the Muara Labuh-Kambang
road "that it will provide reliable alternative access to the southern
areas of West Sumatera in case of disruptions to the coastal road" is
difficult to accept. Its impossible to conceive of a road through steep,
mountainous, volcanic terrain as a reliable route to anywhere. The current
road access proposals transecting the park are primarily stimulated by
inter-provincial competition for the marketing, processing and shipment
of commodities, primarily cassiavera, from the Kerinci valley. Such
considerations are likely to result in costly duplication of access and
should not be allowed to jeopardize park and biodiversity values. One of
the preconditions to any new road access through the park should be a
regional access/transportation plan agreed-to by all four provinces,
perhaps developed through a process of consensus-building mediated by
BAPPENAS.



86
REFERENCES
Dick, J.H. 1991. Forest Land Use, Forest Use Zonation, and Delorestation in
Indonesia. A Background Paper for the 1992 UNCED Conference
Prepared for the State Minister for Population and Environment and
the Environmental Impact Management Agency (BAPEDAL).
Dick, J.H. and B. Purwono.1991. A Report on an Environmental Audit of the
P.T. Oceaneas Timber Concession, East Kalimantan. Badan
Pengendalian Dampak Lingkungan, GOI.
DHV Consultants BV. 1993. Kerinci Seblat National Park and Integrated
Conservation and Development Project:
Inception Report
Background Report No. 1. Project History and Background
Background Report No. 2. Biodiversity Conservation and Park
Management
Background Report No. 3. Local Area Development and Resource
Rights Rationalization
Background Report No. 4. Micro-Regional Development and Planning
Background Report No. 6. Integrated Watershed management
Background Report No. 8. Resource Economics
Cannon, C.H., D.R. Peart, M. Leighton, K. Kartawinata. 1994. The Structure of
Lowland Rainforest After Selective Logging in West Kalimantan,
Indonesia. Forest Ecology and Management 67 (1994) 49-68.
Collins. N.M., J.A.Sayer and T.C. Whitmore. 1991. The Conservation Atlas of
Tropical Forests of Asia and the Pacific. The World Conservation
Union.
FAO. 1990. Situation and Outlook of the Indonesian Forestry Sector. Food
and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations and the Ministry
of Forestry, Government of Indonesia.
King, B., M. Woodcock and E.C. Dickinson.1 987. A Field Guide to the Birds of
South-East Asia. Collins.
McKinnon, J. 1990. Field Guide to the Birds of Java and Bali. Gadjah Mada



87
University Press.
Medway, Lord. 1972. The Gunong Benom Expedition of 1967. The
Distribution and Altitudinal Zonation of Birds and Mammals. Bull. Br.
Mus. Nat. Hist. D. 23, 105-54.
Ministry of Public Works. 1994. Cummulative Environmental Impact Study
of Kabupaten Rural Road Development in Bengkulu and Aceh
Provinces. Directorate General of Highways, Ministry of Public
Works.
Regional Physical Planning Program for Transmigration (RePPProT). 1988.
Sumatra: Review of Phase I Results. Land Resources Department, U.K.
Overseas Development Administration and Directorat Bina Program,
Direktorat Jenderat Penyiapan Pemukiman, Departemen
Transmigrasi, GOI.
Sutter, H. 1989. Forest Resources and Land Use in Indonesia. Food and
Agricultural Organization of the United Nations and the Ministry of
Forestry, GOI.
Schweithelm, J. 1994. Kerinci Seblat National Park/ICDP, Rural
Development Component Preparation Report, World Bank, Jakarta and
BAPPENAS, GOI.
Schweithelm, J. and Ir. Zuwendra. 1991. Report on an Environmental Audit
of the P.T. Wenang Sakti Timber Concession, North Sulawesi. AMDAL
Sub-Directorate, Directorate of Nature Conservation, Ministry of
Forests, GOI.
Transmigration Advisory Group (TAG). 1991. Forest Clearance Study.
Directorate Bina Program, Directorate General Settlement
Preparation, Ministry of Transmigration. May, 1991.
Wells, D.R., C.J. Hails, and A.J. Hails. A Mist-netting Study of Avifaunal
Variation In Lowland Tropical Forest in Malaysia. Reference cited as
OIn Preparation" by Whitemore 1 984.
Whitmore, T.C. 1984. Tropical Rainforests of the Far East, Second Edition.
Oxford Science Publications, Clarendon Press, Oxford, U.K.



88
Whitten, A.J. et al. 1987. The Ecology of Sumatra. Gadjah Mada University
Press. Indonesia.



89
APPENDIX I
A LANDSCAPE ANALYSIS OF THE KERINCI-SEBLAT REGION
The study area contains three broad physiographic regions, from
west to east: the Western Coastal Foothills; the Barisan Mountains and
associated rift valleys; and the Jambi-Palembang Plains. Though the
whole study area is broadly classed as tropical perhumid climate, the
three regions have somewhat different moisture and temperature regimes
because of their alignment at right angles to prevailing weather systems
and the extreme altitudinal variation. Generally there is a trend from
moister in the west to drier in the east, with the mountains characterized
by great diversity. These climatic variations have a significant influence
on vegetation patterns.
Tlhe Western Coastal Foothills
1.  In the study area, the lithology of the western hill systems is of
two distinctive types. North of Mukomuko the dominant rock types are
acid igneous - granite, granodiorite, diorite, and fine and coarse grained
tephra. South of Mukomuko there is an abrupt change to sedimentary
strata consisting of sandstone, shale, mudstones, conglomerates and
minor lignites. Young alluvial/colluvial sediments are restricted to
narrow coastal sections and even narrower riparian valleys at right
angles to the coast and separated from one another by coastal hills. Only
in the delta of the Indrapura River and its tributaries, west of Tapan, are
there any substantial alluvial deposits, consisting largely of beach sands
and riverine sediments overlain by basin peat swamps.
2.   Rainfall varies from 3000-3500 mm/year on the coast to 3500-
4200 mm/year in the higher foothills. There is little variation in
precipitation through the year, with 9-11 wet months (>200mm) and no
dry months (c00mm). Annual temperature variation is slight, with
maximum temperatures ranging between 26 and 330C and minimum
between 18 and 230C.
3.   Drainage consists mainly of about 25 small, steep-gradient,
youthful rivers perpendicular to the coast and flowing short distances
from headwaters in the foothills straight to the sea (Figure 3). Only two
of these westerly-flowing rivers penetrate the Barisan Mountains to drain



90
the central rift valleys: Air Dikit and its major tributary Air Langkap; and
Air Ketahun. Because of the steepness of these rivers there are few areas
amenable to irrigated agriculture except for the lowest reaches of some
of the broader floodplains, where the capability for freshwater or tidal
irrigation is probably already fully utilized.
4.   The Western Coastal Foothills in the study area contain four
dominant and eight minor landforms. The coast from Padang to Painan is
strongly indented, consisting of deep bays flanked by steep, hilly
headlands. These hill systems (BBR) have developed from acid igneous
rocks, and take the form of nErrow, steep-sided ridges. There are only a
few major valleys and these are dominated by coarse alluvial/colluvial
fans and terraces (KNJ, LBS). From Painan to Air Dikit a coastal plain has
developed, consisting of narrow beach/swale deposits (PTG, BLW) in the
northerly and southerly sections and much more extensive freshwater
peat/alluvial marsh estuary (GBT, MDW, BLI, TNJ) at the outlet of the
Indrapura River. The Indrapura swamps/marsh complex contains one of
only three significant peat deposits on the west coast of Sumatera.
Immediately inland of this coastal plain is the same mixture of acid
igneous hill systems (BBR) and narrow river valleys (KNJ, LBS) described
above.
5.   From Air Dikit to Bengkulu the change from igneous to sedimentary
rocks has produced a much more moderate landscape composed of long,
narrow parallel ridge systems (MPT) interspersed near the coast with a
hillocky plain (TWH). These hills and plains extend all the way to the
coast, and thus beaches (PTG) are either narrow (near Bengkulu) or non-
existent. River valleys (BKN) which dissect these hill and plain systems
are characterized by narrow floodplains and low broad alluvial/colluvial
terraces. In three discrete areas - east of Mukomuko, east of Ketahun, and
northeast of Bengkulu - past volcanic activity has deposited a layer of
basaltic material over the older sedimentary hill systems (MPT), to
produce a landscape of very steep-sided parallel ridges (BMS).
6.   Soils in the Western Coastal Foothills are characterized by very low
variability (Figure 4). Beach/swale deposits support very impoverished
sandy soils (psamments). Poorly drained peat and alluvial wetlands
consist of saturated, largely-undecomposed, organic deposits (histosols)
and waterlogged soils (wet inceptisols). The dominant soils of the region,
however, occupying almost all of the hills, plains, and well drained



alluvial/colluvial fans and terraces, are deep, acidic, very infertile
ultisols and oxisols (stable slopes) and inceptisols (erosional slopes).
The exceptions are the three areas of basaltic hill systems described
above, where more youthful, basic volcanic parent materials have
weathered to richer, but very erosion prone, andepts.
The Baflsan Mountai
7.   The Barisan Mountains form a prominent 'backbone" to the whole
island of Sumatera, separating the western coastal foothills from the
eastern plains (Figure 2). Peaks in the Barisan Ranges commonly reach
2000m and in places exceed 3000m. The ICDP proposal includes Mt.
Kerinci which, at 3805 m, is the second highest point in the Indonesian
Archipelago. The Barisan Ranges were formed by the convergence of the
sedimentary rocks of the Indian and Sundan tectonic plates. The forces ot
the converging plates combined to produce a north-south, up-arching
'bubble", higher to the west than to the east, which subsequently split
and collapsed longiti;dinally to produce two mountain "rims" flanking a
central rift valley. The western rim is usually termed the High Barisan
Ranges and the eastern rim the Low Barisan Ranges. Continuing tectonic
stresses were periodically relieved by volcanic eruptions and igneous
intrusions at intervals along the rift faults. These partially filled the
rift and divided the mountains into separate and distinctive blocks. Over
twenty volcanic cones or caldera occur in the study area.
8.  In the study area the Barisan Mountains are divided into two
subregions - the Central and the Southern Barisans - roughly along an east-
west line delineated by the Air Merangin and Air Dikit valleys (Figure 1).
The main distinction between the two subregions is in the nature of the
original rock strata of the continental plates.
9.  In the Central Barisans the basement strata are slates, shales,
limestones, and marbles. These rock types dominate the surface geology
of the ranges to the northeast of the Padang-Lubuk Gadang road, where
there has been little volcanic activity. To the west and south these
sedimentary and metamorphic strata underlie, and outcrop through,
andesitic and basaltic lavas and breccias. The main areas of volcanic
activity in the Central Barisans are the Rasam-Pantaicermin-Padan-
Malenggok-Patahsambilan-Kerinci-Tujuh mountain series.



92
10.  In the Southern Barisans the basement strata are weakly-
metamorphosed quartzites, phyllites, sandstones, tuffs, slates and
*     shales, which occur in widely-spaced bL:t large outcrops. Overlying
volcanic andesites and basalts are more dispersed than in the Central
Barisans, and there are more extensive areas of acid igneous rocks. The
main centres of volcanic activity are the Sumbing, Masurai, Seblat,
Runcing mountains and a cluster of six volcanos near Curup.
11. Climatic patterns in the Barisan Mountains are very complex and
characterized by rapid change over very short distances. Rainfall in the
western ranges varies from 3500 to 5500 mm/yr, with the higher levels
recorded in the Central Barisan subregion. The rift valleys experience a
significant rainshadow effect, with precipitation ranging from 1700 to
2300 mm/yr. Rainfall in the eastern ranges is more moderate than in the
western ranges, varying from 2500 to 3000 mm/yr. Rainfall in the area
is fairly evenly distributed through the year, with 8-10 wet months
(>200mm) and 0-2 dry months (.100mm). Recorded maximum and
minimum temperatures are 23-28 OC and 14-19 OC, which are rather
higher than might be expected for these altitudes, probably because of a
-chinookw effect.
12. Drainage systems are quite complex (Figure 3). The western flanks
of the High Barisans drain exclusively to the Indian Ocean. In the Central
Subregion the eastern stopes of the High Barsisan, the western slopes of
the Low Barisan and the rift valley drain north and east via tributaries of
the Batang Hari, and south and east via Air Merangin. In the Southern
Subregion, the major portion of the rift valley and adjacent mountain
slopes drain north and west via the Air Langkap/Dikit and Air Ketahun
valleys. The extreme southerly portion of the rift drains south and east
via Sungai Musi. The entire eastern slopes of the Low Barisans in both
subregions drain east to the Berhala/Bangka Straits via the Batang
Hari/Tembesi and Sungai Musi/Air Rawas systems. Areas amenable to
intensive irrigated agriculture, with potential for enhanced production,
occur at a number of points in the rift valleys: at Muara Labuh, in the
Kerinci Valley, at Muara Aman, and at Curup.
13.  In the Central Subregion landforms differ significantly between the
High and Low Barisans. The High Barisans comprise a series of basaltic
volcanic mountains (BBG, TGM), all over 2000 m elevation. These peaks
grade at lower elevatione into volcanic hill systems (BMS). The Low



93
Barisans are a much more complex mixture of basic volcanic, acid igneous
and sedimentary/metamorphic rocks. North and east of the road between
*     Alahan Panjang and Muara Labuh is a low (1500-2000 m) mountain ridge
system composed primarily of sandstone (PDH) and metamorphic (BPD)
materials, with smaller areas of limestone lenses (GGD) and compact
blocks of granite (TWI). These mountain ridges grade into sedimentary
(MPT), metamorphic (BGA), and acid igneous (BBR) hill systems at lower
elevations, primarily to the east. The rift valley in this area widens
progressively from north to south and contains significant deposits of
lahar (TLU) and volcanic fan materials (GJO) at three points -
Bukitgadang, Muara Labuh and Lubukgadang. The latter area is really the
northward extension of the Kerinci Valley which was cut off when the rift
valley was plugged by lava materials (TGM, MNU) from eruptions of Mt.
Kerinci and the Tujuh caldera. The Low Barisans to the east of the Kerinci
Valley consist primarily of basaltic volcanics (BBG) and minor igneous
granites (TWI) over sandstones (PDH) and metamorphic (BPD) strata.
These sedimentary/metamorphic rocks outcrop in large blocks along the
eastern edges of the mountains. The Kerinci Valley is a poorly-drained,
volcanic, alluvial plain (SLK) with flanking, undulating fans (GJO, KNJ),
terraces (UBD, PKS), and lahar slopes (TLU). At the north end of the valley
is a large marshy area (KLR), called Rawa Bento, which contains the
highest peatswamp forest in western Malesia.
14. In the Southern Subregion both the High and Low Barisan Ranges
consist of a series of mountain peaks and ridges, about a half of which are
basaltic volcanic (BBG, TGM), and quarter each acid igneous (TWI) and
metamorphic (BPD). There are five distinct peaks in the High Barisans and
seven in the Low Barisans. Peak elevations are generally lower than those
in the Central Subregion. At the extreme north of the Low Barisans are
three adjacent basic volcanic cones (TGM); Masurai, Sumbing and a lower
unnamed peak. These volcanos have produced extensive lava flows (BTK)
stretching 15 to 25 km eastward as a near-circular, rolling hummocky
plain or plateau, which contains some of the richest, flat-lying soils in
the region. To the southeast of this plateau, in the headwaters of Batang
Tembesi is a major block of metamorphic rocks characterized by
precipitous, longitudinal mountain ridges. Further south, centred around
Curup, is a scattered group of six volcanos - five cones (TGM) and one
caldera (MNU) - three on each side of the rift valley. The lower slopes in
this area contain la.a hills (BMS), lava plains (BTK) and lahars (TLU). The
rift valley in this subregion is generally narrow and V-shaped, opening



94
wider into alluvial plains only in the extreme south near Curup.
15.  Soils in the Barisan Mountains are as varied as the geology (Figure
4). Dominant upland soils range from fertile andepts on basaltic volcanic
parent materials to extremely acid, very infertile podzolic oxisols and
ultisols on acid igneous and sedimentary/metamorphic parent materials.
Small areas of karstic limestone strata support thin mollisols with high
base status. Most of these upland areas are very steep and the soils
highly erodible. The dominant soils are thus interspersed with associated
erosional entisols. The nature and productivity of soils on lowland
alluvial/colluvial landscapes depends largely on the inherent fertility of
the parent materials from which they were derived.
Jambi-Palembang Plains
16. This region has been described as an area of "monotonous, rolling
sedimentary plains and hills" whose sole purpose is to separate the
Barisan Mountains from the Eastern Coastal Swamplands (Figure 2). The
transition from the mountains to these plains and hills occurs quite
abruptly at elevations between 50 and 200 m. Older references refer to
this area as a Piedmont-Peneplain Zone". The Jambi-Palembang Plains
lie entirely within the drainage areas of the Batang Hari and Sungai Musi,
two of Sumatera's largest river systems (Figure 3).
17. The geology of the region is only slightly less monotonous than the
landscape, consisting of calcareous, carbonaceous or tuffaceous
sedimentary rocks - siltstones, shales, sandstones and lignites.
18.  Rainfall varies from 2500 to 3000 mm/yr, with only minor seasonal
variaTion; 6-8 wet months (>200 mm) and 0-1 dry months (<100 mm).
Temperatures are high and constant. Maximum temperature vary from 30
to 330 C and minimums from 21 to 240 C.
19. The general landscape consists of longitudinal ridges and plains of
minor relief, traversed by slightly-incised river floodplains. The area
throughout is interspersed with small, enclosed, linear swampy
depressions. The most extensive land systems are low, undulating to
rolling, tuffaceous plains (MBI, SAR, PKS, SKA), surrounding very long,
narrow, steep-sided, asymmetrical ridges (AHK). The plains contain many
peat swamp (MDW) and marshy (KLR) depressions. The plains in the Batang



r
95
Hari drainage (PKS, SkA) are dominated by extremely acidic, igneous and
volcanic tuff parent materials. Their transition to the Barisan Mountains
*      is through a series of smaller, equally acidic, increasingly hillocky plains
units (TTG, BTG). Further south, in the Sungai Musi drainage, parent
materials are less strongly acidic mudstones, siltstones, sandstones and
tephra (MBI, SAR). Major river valleys have wide floodplains (TNJ) and
meanderbelts (SBG), grading to narrow floodplains and terraces (BKN) in
smaller tributaries.
20.  Upland soils are dominated by very nutrient deficient, acidic to
extremely acidic ultisols and oxisols (Figure 4). Soils in marshy
depressions are peaty histosols and waterlogged inceptisols. Floodplain
soils are defined as wet entisols (fluvents) and inceptisols (aquepts).
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



I
96
APPENDIX 11
TABULAR SUMMARIES OF COMPARISONS BETWEEN LAND FORM DIVERSITY
IN THE ORIGINAL AND INTAG PARK BOUNDARIES
I
II



97
U
Appendix ha. Regional Summary Comparison of Landscape Diversity
Between the Original and INTAG Boundaries
Physiographic    Original   % of Total    INTAG    % of Total  % Reduction
Type         Boundary      Area     Boundary      Area       in Area
(Area in Ha)           (Area in Ha)
i
1. Westem Coastal
Foothills
1.1 Hill Systems        77,885       5.30      22,735        2.30         71
1.2 Plains Systems       5,365       0.40           0        0.00        100
1.3 Fans & Teraces       5,765       0.40           0        0.00        100
1.4 Alluvial Valleys     2,430       0.16          35       c0.10         99
1.5 Wetlands              510       c0.10           0        0.00        100
2. Barisan Mountains
2.1 Mountain Systems   1,027,280    69.40    864,505        86.70         16
2.2 Hill Systems       122,955       8.30      58,600        5.90         52
2.3 Plains Systems     167,340      11.30      39,040        3.90         77
2A Fans & Terraces       8,885       0.60       1,505        0.15         83
2.5 Lahar Slopes        10,045       0.70       1,955        0.20         81
2.6 Alluvial Valleys      905        cO.10          0        0.00        100
2.7 Wetlands             1 ,865      0.13       1,430        0.14         24
3. Jarnbi-Palembang
n    ~~~Pb-ins
3.1 Hill Systems        10,300       0.70       3,415        0.34         67
3.2 Plains Systems      38,620       2.60       3,245        0.33         92
3.3 Alluvial Valleys      215       <0.10           0        0.00        100
1,460,385     100.00    996,465      100.00



Appendix lb. Detallea Com$arlsan of Landscape Diveraity Between the Original ana INTA1 Boundarles
Physiographic        Landscape           Qeological       Original     INTAG      % Reduction
Unit                Unit              Type           Boundary    Boundary    In Area
(Area In Ha)  (Area In Ha)
WESTERN COASTAL   Hill Systems        Acid Igneous             32,670        5,630           82
FOOTHILLS                         Sedimentary              15,955        2.285           65
Volcanic                 29,260       14,820          49
Plains Systems    Sedimentary                5,365           0          100
Fans & Terraces                             5,765            0          100
Alluvial Valleys                             2,430          35           98
Wetlands                                      510            0          100
BARISAN MOUNTAINS   Mountain Systems    Acid Ignecus          241,635      206,005           15
Sedimentary              18,345       14,910           18
Metamorphic              50,005       32,080          36
Volcanic                717,295      611,510           15
Hill Systams      Acid Igneous/Tuff        35,315        14,430          59
Sodimentary              24,040       20,835           13
Volcanic                 63,600       23,335           63
Plains Systems    Acid Igneous/Tuft        30,205         9,485          66
Sedimentary               5,875        4,100           30
Volcanic (Lava)         131,260       25,455           51
Fans & Terraces                              8,885        1,505          63
Lahar Slopes                                10,045        1,955          81
Alluvlal Valleys                              905             0         100
Wetlands                                     1,885        1,430          24
JAMBI-PALEMBAG    Hill Systems       Acid Igneous                690             0          100
PLAINS                           Sedimentaryl              7,580        3,415           55
Metamorphic
Volcanic                  2,030            0          100
Plains Systems    Acid Igneous/Tuft           110            0          100
Sedimentary/             36,510        3,245          92
Metamorphic
Alluvial Valleys                              215             0         100
Total                                                  1,480,385     996,465



