GLOBAL
ENVIRONMENT
FACILITY
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
Kerinci Seblat Integrated Conser'vation
and Development Project
Project Document
April 1996
UOU
THE WORLD BANK



GEF Documentation
The Global Environment Facility (GEF) assists developing countries to protect
the global environment in four areas: global warming, pollution of international waters,
destruction of biodiversity, and depletion of the ozone layer. The GEF is jointly implemented
bythe United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations Environment Programme,
and the World Bank.
GEF Project Documents - identified by a green band - provide extended project-
specific information. The implementing agency responsible for each project is identified by
its logo oh the cover of the document.
Global Environment Division
Environment Department
World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-1816
Fax: (202) 522-3256



Report No. 15124-IND
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
Kerinci Seblat Integrated Conservation and Development
Project
Project Document
April 1996
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of March 1996)
Currency unit = Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00 = Rp 2,331
Rp I million = US$429
SDR I = US$1.47592
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
FISCAL YEAR
April I - March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMDAL           -    Environmental Impact Assessment (Analisis Mengenai
Dampak Linkungan)
APBN            -    Central Budget Allocation
APBD            -    Provincial Budget Allocation
BANGDA          -    Department of Regional Development
BANGDES         -    Village Development Agency
BAPPEDA         -    Regional Development Planning Board (Badan Perencanaan
Daerah)
BAPPENAS        -    National Development Planning Agency (Badan Perencanaan
Pembangunan Nasional)
BCPP            -    Biodiversity Conservation Promotions Program
BRI             -    Bank Rakyat Indonesia
Bupati          -    District head
Camat           -    Sub-district Head
CIFOR           -    Centre for Intemational Forestry Research
DG              -    Director General
DUP             -    Proposed Budget Plan
DIP             -    Final Budget Plan
GEF             -    Global Environmental Facility
GIS    ,        -    Geographic Information Systems
GOI             -    Govemment of Indonesia
HPH             -    Forest Concession (Hak Pengusaha Hutan)
HTI             -    Industrial Forest Plantaitons (Hutan Tanaman Industri)
ICDP            -    Integrated Conservation and Development Project
IDT             -    Presidential Poverty Alleviation Fund (Inpres Desa Tertingal)
INPRES          -    Presidential Instruction (Instruksi Presiden)
INTAG           -    DG of Forest Inventory and Forest use (Inventarisasi dan Tata Guna Hutan)
IPCC            -    Inter-Provincial Coordination Committee
JGF             -    Japanese Grant Facility
KPKN            -    Office of the State Treasurer (Kantor Perbendaharaan dan Kas Negara)
KPHP            -    Permanent production forest management units (Kesatuan
Pengusahan Hutan Produksi)
KSNP            -    Kerinci-Seblat National Park
LEI             -    Indonesian Ecolabelling Institute (Lembaga Ekolabel
Indonesia)
LIPI            -    Indoncsian Institute of Sciences (Lembaga limu Pengetahuan
Indonesia)
LKMD            -    Village Community Resilience Institute (Lembaga Ketahanan
Masyarakat Desa)
MoFr            -    Ministry of Forestry
MoHA            -    Ministry of Home Affairs
NGO             -    Non-govemmental Organization
PCC             -    Project Coordination Committee
PHPA            -    Directorate General of Forest Protection and Nature
Conservation (Perlindungan Hutan dan Pelestarian A lam)
PIMPRO          -    Project Director/Manager
TGHK            -    Forest Consensus Boundary (Tata Guna Hutan dan
Kesepakatan)
VCA             -    Village Conservation Agreement
WARSI           -    Clearing House for Conservation Information (Warung
Informasi Konservasi)
WWF             -    Worldwide Fund for Natur
ZOPP            -    ZielOrientierteProjektPlanung(Objective oriented project planning)






PART I: Project Summary






INDONESIA
Kerinci Seblat Integrated Conservation and Development Project
LOAN/GRANT AND PROJECT SUMMARY'
Borrower                         The Republic of Indonesia
Implementing Agency              Ministries of Forestry and Home Affairs and local government in the four
participating provinces.
Beneficiaries                    The globally important National Park of Kerinci-Seblat,
and people living in the park buffer zones.
Poverty                          Programn of targeted interventions. The villagers living in the Park buffer zone are
the beneficiaries, including tribal people (the Kubus), and belong to the poorest
sections of society. The project interventions are focussed on arriving at a village
conservation agreement which legalizes village access to resources in the Park and
buffer zone and providing social benefits, in return for community cooperation in
Park protection and conserving biodiversity resources in village lands and forestry
concessions.
Loan Amount                      US$19.1 million equivalent
Terms                            Standard variables interest rate for a term of 20 years, including five years of
grace for currency pool loans.
Commitment Fee                   0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after signing, less
any waiver.
Grant Amount                     GEF Trust Fund Grant of SDR 10.2 million (US$15.0 million equivalent)
Terms                            Grant
Financing Plan                   See table on page 16.
Economic Rate of Return          National Park  (not applicable); AreaNillage  Development and  Forest
Concession Monitoring 16% (63% of total costs).
Map                              IBRD 27251
Staff Appraisal Report            14989-IND
Project ID Number                ID-PA-3699/GE003
GEF and [BRD are financing mutually dependant activities and therefore this document is intended to meet both GEF and
IBRD processing requirements.






1. PROJECT BACKGROUND
A. INDONESIA'S BIODIVERSITY RESOURCES
1.1    Biodiversity Value. Indonesia is rich in biodiversity. It contains nearly 10 percent of the
world's closed tropical forests. It also has extensive coral reefs and more marine coastline than any
other tropical country. Although the archipelago represents only 1.3 percent of the earth's land
surface, it contains an estimated 25 percent of the world's fish species, 17 percent of all bird species,
16 percent of reptile and amphibian species, 12 percent of mammal species, 10 percent of plant
species, and unknown numbers of species of invertebrate animals, fungi, and microorganisms.
These habitats and species are now threatened by logging, mining and over fishing, as well as by
agricultural development and other competing land uses.
1.2    Economic Importance. Indonesia's biological resources are economically important both
globally and nationally. Many plant species originated in Indonesia, including cloves, black pepper,
sugar cane and several tropical fruits. Indonesians use over 6,000 species of plants and animals.
Daily they gather or cultivate these species for food, handicrafts, medicines, fuel and building
materials. Some 40 million people directly depend on a wide range of forest and non-forest products
for subsistence.  Natural ecosystems, and the environmental functions they protect, strongly
influence Indonesia's agriculture, forestry, livestock and fisheries which together contributed about
19 percent of GDP in 1993 directly; a significant proportion of industry sector output is also highly
dependent on natural resources.
1.3    Biodiversity Areas. The biodiversity and natural habitats most at stake for priority in situ
conservation are the 49 million hectares (ha) of terrestrial areas, as well as the 30 million ha of
marine and littoral habitats, which GOI has identified for conservation by the year 2000. In addition,
there are some 65 million ha designated for production forests, which have an equally important
share of the biodiversity and natural habitats, particularly the lowland forests. While certain of these
lowland forests would therefore also call for conservation, as a priority, most of these areas require
sustainable management. Out of the 366 established conservation areas, there are 33 National Parks,
covering nearly 8.8 million ha, one of which is Kerinci Seblat. the focus of this project. The Kerinci
Seblat National Park (KSNP) spans four provinces in Sumatra covering some 1.3 million ha. The
Park and its adjacent forests have been internationally recognized as one of the most important
conservation areas in Southeast Asia.'
lIUCN Review of the Protected Areas System in the Indomalayan Realm, 1986.



-2 -
B. GOVERNMENT STRATEGY AND LEGAL FRAMEWORK
1.4    Biodiversity Action Plan. This plan, prepared in 1991/92, is the main policy statement by
GOI for Indonesia's biodiversity conservation strategy. The Plan provides a framework for
biodiversity conservation during the current five-year Development Plan (REPELITA VI - 1994/5-
1998/9) and for the twenty-five Year Development Plan. The main objectives of the Plan are to (a)
reduce the loss of terrestrial and marine habitats of primary importance for biodiversity; (b) expand
biodiversity data and information to policy makers and the public; and (c) foster the sustainable use
of biological resources. The strategy to attain these objectives would be carried out through an
integrated process of institutional, policy and legal reform and development coupled with investment
through selected projects. The Plan has four components. First, in situ conservation in National
Parks, reserves and protection forests; second, in situ conservation outside the protected area
network in forests, wetlands and agricultural landscapes; third, in situ conservation of marine and
coastal resources; and fourth, ex-situ conservation, including gene and seed banks, preservation of
crop varieties, and captive breeding programs.  An important prerequisite for the Plan's
implementation is an increased participation by the public, particularly by communities living in and
adjacent to areas of high biodiversity value. The Plan also provides for local NGOs to play an active
role in fostering such participation.
1.5    The legal framework. Indonesia has ratified the Convention on Biological Diversity and
has an international and legal commitment to both conserve and sustainably use its biodiversity,
including the equitable sharing of benefits. One of the main laws regulating in situ biodiversity
conservation is Law No. 5/1990 on Living Natural Resources and Their Ecosystems. This law
provides the legal basis for the enactment of National Parks and other protected areas and refers to
the possibility of sustainable use of living natural resources. It also provides a concept of zoning
within these conservation areas (core zone, use zone for recreation and tourism, wilderness zone and
traditional management zone). The law is also specific about the buffer zone and describes it as an
area outside the conservation area capable of protecting the integrity of the conservation areas by
providing natural symbiosis between all forms of life, ensuring sustainable ecological balance and a
higher quality of life for the community. However, implementing regulations or models for
National Park and buffer zone development have not yet been introduced. Another important law
concerns the Spatial Management Law No. 24 of 1992. This law intends to combine spatial
management with resource utilization and requires that all provinces and districts formulate spatial
plans. It also provides for the spatial management of protection areas, including National Parks, and
suggests that National Parks of the dimensions of KSNP would justify a separate spatial plan and
subsequently be integrated in the provincial spatial plans. While the law addresses general
environmental concerns, biodiversity conservation has not been singled out as an issue in its own
right nor as a condition for sustaining ecological balance in-and outside a National Park. The subject
of land and user rights for people living within the Park and buffer zone is addressed in a number of
laws (e.g. Basic Agrarian and Forestry laws). Individual and community rights related to forest lands
remain in general a major source of dispute, and in the particular case of KSNP, this is aggravated by
the fact that Park boundary for the proposed project, including the delineation of forest/non forest
boundary within the buffer zone, has not yet been confirmed in its entirety.



- 3 -
1.6   The strategy taken in Indonesia to manage the conservation areas, including their
biodiversity, is through Integrated Conservation and Development Projects (ICDPs). This approach
attempts to ensure the conservation of biological diversity by reconciling the management of
protected areas with social and economic needs of local people. These projects range from small
biosphere reserves with multiple-use area within the boundary of the protected area, to larger
projects which link land use plans and regional development initiatives to protected area
management. In Indonesia there are currently eight National Parks where ICDP's will be tested.2
The ICDP approach in Indonesia seeks the systematic devolution of management responsibility to
people living around the protected area. This requires a steady decentralization of management
authority to local agencies, including the funding of protected areas.
C. INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK FOR MANAGEMENT OF PROTECTED AREAS
1.7   The designated government authority responsible for the management and stewardship of the
protected area system is the Directorate General of Forest Protection and Nature Conservation
(PHPA) within the Ministry of Forestry (MoFr). PHPA's mandate covers the planning, designation
and management of all protected areas, and the planning and supervision of protection forests. At
the provincial level, PHPA is represented by the Natural Resources Sub Regional Office (Sub-Balai
Konservasi Sumber Daya Alam) under the authority of the provincial forestry department (Kepala
Kanwil Departemen Kehutanan), headed by a representative of the Minister of Forestry. In addition
there are regional representatives of the DG PHPA called Balai KSDA covering several provinces
with sub-offices in each province. Most National Parks are managed by a special body, the National
Park Office or Management Unit, headed by a director who reports directly to the DG PHPA through
the Provincial Forestry office.
1 .8   The responsibility for survey and demarcation of protected area boundaries in the field rests
with the DG of Forest Inventory and Management (INTAG). The mandate for enforcement of
protected area legislation is with PHPA in cooperation with local law enforcement agencies. The
area bordering the protected area -- the buffer zone--is managed by provincial and district
authorities. The key person is the Bupati, the head of the district (Kabupaten), who is responsible for
coordinating and managing all govemment activities in the district. He is assisted in his task by the
provincial planning board (BAPPEDA II) who plays a key role in coordinating, planning, advising
and monitoring development programs and the (Dinas) technical agencies that implement sectoral
programs. For the past several years the National Planning Agency (BAPPENAS) with the Ministry
of Forestry has convened a national forum to coordinate agency planning and development activities
in areas surrounding National Parks. Other institutions that have responsibility for managing
biodiversity include: Ministry of Environment, Agriculture, Home Affairs, and the Indonesian
Institute of Science (LIPI). There are several institutional and policy constraints facing GOI as it
attempts to implement its protected areas conservation strategy. PHPA and other institutions with
responsibility for biodiversity conservation suffer from an acute lack of trained and dynamic staff,
frequent transfer of experienced staff, and a lack of adequate funding. Coordination between the
2 The eight national parks include Gunung Leuser, Kerinci Seblat, Gede-Pangrango, Halimun, Bromo-Tengger Semeru, Kutai,
Dumoga-Bone and Lore Lindu.



-4-
forestry agencies and the regional governments in the management and enforcement of rules and
regulations in and around protected areas is often totally lacking. This situation is exacerbated by
the lack of effective incentives for local governments and smallholders to protect habitat and
biodiversity, and of integrated management plans that link management of protected areas with
district or provincial development plans.
D. KERINCI SEBLAT NATIONAL PARK'S SETTING
1 .9   The KSNP is the largest conservation area in Sumatra, straddling the four provinces of West
Sumatra, Jambi, Bengkulu, and South Sumatra (see map). With an area of about 1.3 million ha the
Park is one of the largest conservation areas in South East Asia. Based on extensive field surveys by
FAO and PHPA the Park was nominated in 1982 by the Minister of Forestry as a National Park.
However, it is only now that MOFr is preparing the final text of the decree that will formally gazette
Kerinci Seblat as a National Park. The Park boundary demarcation process is nearly completed and
most boundaries adjoining settlements have been demarcated but not yet agreed upon by all
stakeholders. There are some 450 villages in the nine districts which share common boundaries with
the Park. The population of the sub-districts closest to the Park is approximately 1.75 million. In
some villages, the boundary demarcation is under review, as some of their agricultural land has
fallen within the Park. The project will focus on these villages in the area/village component. There
is considerable ethnic variation between the villages and some evidence of nomadic Kubu people
(Orang Rimba) entering the Park buffer zone to hunt.
1.10   The Park and its environs encompass a spectrum of habitats from species-rich lowland
forests through hill forests and unique highland wetland systems to montane forests and subalpine
habitats on Sumatra's highest mountain. The Park is remarkable for its species richness with more
than 4000 plants (1/60 of the world total), 180 birds (1/50 of all birds), including at least 14 of the 20
Sumatran mainland endemics, and 144 mammals (73 percent of the Sumatran mammal fauna and
1/30 of the world total, including five island endemics). Many of the habitats and species protected
within the Park and its immediate forest buffer zone are poorly represented or absent from other
conservation areas in Sumatra or elsewhere in Asia. This area harbors some of the last viable
populations of endangered mammals such as the endemic Sumatran hare Nesolagus netscheri,
Sumatran rhinoceros Dicerorhinus sumatrensis, Sumatran tiger Panthera tigris sumatrensis, clouded
leopard Neofelis nebulosa, Malay tapir Tapirus indicus and Asian elephants Elephas maximus.
Many of the large predators and forest herbivores require large areas of lowland forests and other
natural habitats to protect their home ranges and ensure access to vital mineral-licks. The high
biodiversity value of the Park and surrounding forests is a result of both the area's large size and
wide range of habitats and is dependent on the long-term protection of an adequate continuum of
habitats from lowland forests to subalpine montane systems. The integrity of the Park and its high
biodiversity values are threatened by encroachment from shifting cultivation and cinnamon
plantations, forest logging, mining, commercial plantations and road development.
I.11   There are twelve forest concessions (HPHs) bordering the Park (see map). These HPHs total
some one million ha and provide potentially an important buffer zone habitat for biodiversity
conservation. In 1985 over 200,000 ha of lowland and hill forest were transferred from the proposed
Park mainly to benefit the logging concessions in Jambi. The HPH areas are based on a thirty-five



year logging cycle, but the actual leases for the concessions to private logging companies are for
twenty years. The precise location of the concession boundaries are difficult to determine given the
large areas concerned and the nature of the terrain. This can quite easily lead to logging operations
taking place in protected or other conservation forest areas. While the legal framework covering
forest exploitation seems to be adequate, supervision of logging plans and operations by the
responsible provincial forest service is inadequate so that the implementation and enforcement of
appropriate logging practices is generally poor, threatening biodiversity and affecting watershed
management.
1.12 Apart from being surrounded by estate crop areas and transmigration settlements, KSNP also
has a number of gold and coal mining concessions straddling the Park. Most of the small
concessions belong to domestic companies; the fewer but bigger ones are owned by Indonesian-
foreign joint ventures. Most operations are in the exploration stage with the smaller ones not very
active due to lack of capital. No economically mineable resources have so far been revealed in the
Park and together with the fact that existing laws and regulations are generally putting limitations on
mining activities in gazetted National Parks, it is believed that mining operations on the Kerinci
Seblat Park and its environment will be limited and controlled.



-6 -
2. BANK/GEF INVOLVEMENT AND LESSONS LEARNED
A. LESSONS LEARNED FROM PREVIOUS GEF AND BANK OPERATIONS
2.1    The Global Environment Facility (GEF) has supported two biodiversity conservation
initiatives in Indonesia: the Biodiversity Collections Project (US$7.2 million) and the Conservation
Strategies for Rhinos in Southeast Asia Project (US$2.0 million). An amount of US$1.56 million
from the GEF/UNDP Pre-Investment Facility (PRIF) was approved to finance preparation of the
Biodiversity Collections Project, Kerinci Seblat ICDP and a Conservation Awareness Program.
Project implementation under the Bank managed Biodiversity Collections Project is proceeding
well, with technical advisors recruited and workshop and key planning/consultation activities well
underway. The UNDP managed South East Asia Rhinos Project will develop organized and trained
rhino protection units in KSNP to assist in anti-poaching and community outreach programs. As
both operations are newly launched it is too early to draw applicable lessons for KSNP.
2.2    Over the period 1988-1995, the Bank committed a total of US$731 million of its own
resources and resources it administers on behalf of the international development community to 84
projects or project components with explicit objectives for biodiversity conservation in 51 countries
around the world3. Bank support to parks and protected areas has grown rapidly over the last five
years. The Bank's IBRD/IDA portfolio of biodiversity related activities has included some twenty-
seven projects with a total loan/credit value of US$287 million equivalent between FY92-95. In
addition, the Bank (as GEF implementing agency) has worked closely with local project sponsors on
thirty one biodiversity programs, for which the GEF Participants/Council have allocated US$244
million between FY92-95. In an independent evaluation of the GEF pilot phase (11/93), the
assessment of some thirty IJNDP/WB biodiversity projects showed that: (a) too little consideration
had been given to local people, their expertise and priorities, and the need to engage and empower
local communities, NGOs and other stakeholders in designing and implementing projects; (b) NGO
involvement was found to be inadequate; (c) long-term financing of such projects was sometimes
doubtful; and (d) the need to monitor and evaluate arrangements in projects and adopt an action-
learning approach with the flexibility to adapt project activities to take account of lessons learned
during implementation. Similar observations are found in the 1991 OED analysis of forestry and
conservation lending, which also concluded that: (a) realistic incentives are needed for conservation
activities, and (b) conservation and buffer zone management components should be based on a clear
prioritization of areas and a realistic plan for related rural development activities targeted to nearby
populations.
2.3   In Indonesia, the Bank has supported investment in management and infrastructure
development in twelve National Parks in Indonesia through the Forestry Institutions and
Conservation Projects I & II. These projects have revealed PHPA institutional weaknesses which
KSNP will also have to face, namely, frequent movement of senior staff, moratorium of recruiting
new guard staff with low educational qualifications, lack of incentives for technicians and guards to
3 Mainstreaming Biodiversity in Development: A World Bank Assistance Strategy for Implementing the Convention on
Biological Diversity, ESD, October 1995.



- 7 -
perform their assigned tasks, and overemphasis on blueprints and planning rather than learning by trying
and doing. More generally, experience with the Bank's portfolio in Indonesia has highlighted difficulties
associated with: (a) inter-agency coordination; and (b) timely appointment of consultants and their
effective interaction with government staff. The proposed project will address these difficulties by
building on some very positive experiences gained from WWF and WARSI (a group of local NGOs)
involvement in community participation and village development around Kerinci Seblat. The approach
will be a rebalancing of responsibilities toward decentralized government agencies, NGOs, and local
communities. Project design has built on the lessons learned from conservation project experience in
Indonesia and elsewhere. The principal lesson is that projects which have focused on purely biological
and ecological concerns, and have attempted to insulate the project site from surrounding economic and
social pressures, have often failed. This project recognizes that protection of the biodiversity assets of
this large and populous area can only be achieved through significant change in social and economic
factors affecting the lives of people who live and work in the Park, and its surrounding areas.
B. RATIONALE FOR GEF/BANK FINANCING AND CONSISTENCY WITH COUNTRY ASSISTANCE
STRATEGY AND ECONOMIC & SECTOR WORK
2.4    The proposed project is fully consistent with the Convention on Biological Diversity and
guidance from the Conference of the Parties. It has been identified as a national priority in the
Biodiversity Action Plan (see para 1.4) and proposed activities will: strengthen conservation,
management and sustainable use of ecosystems and habitats (including threatened lowland and hill
forests as well as montane habitats); demonstrate innovative measures (linking conservation and district
development) to conserve biodiversity; and give priority to involvement of local people in Park and
natural resource management. KSNP and its surrounding forests can be regarded as one of the last
opportunities in Southeast Asia to conserve a diverse and complex mammal predator-prey system.
Forestry management to integrate conservation values into forestry practice and maintain permnanent
forest cover in the Kerinci forest buffer zone will not only effectively increase the conservation estate by
maintaining natural habitat beyond Park boundaries, but could provide a model for sustainable forestry
throughout Indonesia.
2.5    The proposed Kerinci Seblat ICDP is also consistent with the Bank's Country's Assistance
Strategy (CAS) for Indonesia which was discussed by the Board of Executive Directors on March 21,
1995. This strategy projects increased lending for natural resources and conservation management, and
focuses on sustainable environmental and natural resource management, targeted poverty reduction,
human resource development, and more decentralized and participatory approaches. Assistance will
focus on watershed management and conservation, integrated management and conservation of National
Parks (both terrestrial and marine), and coral reef rehabilitation and management. The project is a
logical progression from the Bank's past support for conservation issues. These include efforts at
supporting Park planning and management and the on-going Biodiversity Collections Project which will
improve GOI's capacity in biodiversity inventory and monitoring. The proposed Kerinci Seblat ICDP
project is viewed by GOI as the demonstration model for future National Park interventions elsewhere in
the country, and both GOI and the Bank are heavily committed to its successful implementation. With
respect to Economic and Sector work this project follows the recommendations of the Bank study on
Conserving Biological Diversity in the Asian Pacific Region (1992) and the Bank Country Study for
Indonesia on environment and development (1994).



- 8 -
3. THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.1   Project Concept. The project would address the first objective of the Biodiversity Action
Plan (in situ conservation of natural habitats para. 1.4) and is largely process oriented. While it
would primarily focus on the protection of one of the country's largest National Parks, it would deal
with major institutional, policy and development issues whose resolution is vital for the development
of an integrated protected area system covering all major terrestrial habitats in Indonesia. It would
strengthen PHPA, the main agency responsible for conservation areas. On the developmental side, it
would use an integrated conservation and development approach (ICDP) that reconciles Park
management with the social and economic needs of the local people and within the framework of
some of the development goals set for the four provinces bordering the Park. This requires a steady
decentralization of management authority to local agencies and governments. It would aim at
finding better modus operandi for local community participation and the use of NGOs in
management decision making concerning Park boundary demarcation and land use and buffer zone
regulations.
3.2   Specific Project - Objectives.  The overall objective of the project is to secure the
biodiversity of KSNP and stop further habitat fragmentation by: (a) improving Park protection and
management, including the involvement of local communities; and (b) promoting sustainable
management and the maintenance of permanent forest cover in the remaining buffer zone concession
areas. The project will develop a model for ICDP which can be applied to other Parks in the
Indonesia protected area system (and elsewhere in Asia) to reconcile conservation and regional and
district development. The ICDP would follow an integrated two pronged approach to help stabilize
the Park boundary and protect biodiversity within the Park and adjacent areas, as well as to enhance
the livelihoods of poor households living around the KSNP by providing them with alternative
livelihood opportunities consistent with Park conservation objectives. The project design proposes
to meet this objective by institutional strengthening in the areas of integrated planning, coordinated
implementation and regular monitoring and enforcement at provincial and local levels; building
institutional capacity through increased staffing and in-service training; and improving livelihoods
through improved resource management and services delivery.
B. PROJECT DESIGN AND DESCRIPTION
3.3   The background for project design and components is based on eighteen technical reports
(see Annex 14) completed in June 1993 and funded by the GEF/UNDP Pre-Investment Facility (para
2.1). Detailed design followed with funding provided by a Japanese Grant. Community and
stakeholder consultation activities have played a major role in project preparation and design.
Beginning in 1992, preparation teams have engaged in rapid rural appraisal exercises in boundary
villages with the objective of creating village profiles, understanding land use patterns and people-
Park interactions, and eliciting stakeholder feedback on ICDP design. Wherever possible, project
activities will build on local knowledge and practices that are compatible with biodiversity



- 9 -
conservation and sustainable use of resources in and around KSNP. Annex 2 provides social
assessment information particularly relevant to the Park's buffer zone communities. The area/village
development component will focus on the target groups identified, most of which belong to the
poorer sections of Indonesia's population. Annex 3 provides a summary table of the major
consultation activities that have taken place during the preparation phase, including workshops with
foreign and local NGOs, affected villagers, and government officials. The proposed project to be
implemented over a six-year period will include four major components which are complementary to
project objectives: (a) park management; (b) area and village development; (c) integrating
biodiversity in forest concession management; and (d) monitoring and evaluation. Supporting
activities are: (a) policy and planning; (b) training and community facilitation; (c) promotion of
conservation awareness; and (d) studies.
Project Components    -
3.4    Park Management (estimated costs US$13.4 million).  One of the first major project
activities will be the preparation and implementation of a management plan, including zonation, for
KSNP. The component will strengthen Park protection, management, enforcement and participatory
planning through institutional strengthening of Park personnel, training and infrastructure support. It
will also support boundary rationalization activities, species inventory, ecological monitoring, socio-
economic and other research necessary for Park and buffer zone planning and management. The
component will be implemented by a Park director and his staff, supported by technical assistance.
More detailed information is provided in Annex 1, with full details in Working Paper I of Annex 14.
Given the institutional and management constraints facing the Park, a longer time horizon beyond the
initial six year project period will be required to implement the strategy to elevate the Park to a fully
protected and functioning conservation estate. Accordingly, the Park management strategy is based on
short, medium and long-term objectives as follows:
Short-Term (1-2 years):
- Legal establishment of the Park through formal gazettement and further boundary
rationalization.;
* Mobilization of senior and junior staff, including technical assistance; and
* Set up of management plan, M&E system and training.
Medium-Term (3-12 years):
*  Develop and implement a Park management plan including a comprehensive zoning
system;
*  Develop and reinforce Park management and protection, including efficient coordination
with local government;
*  Effective protection for the preservation of viable natural ecosystems and endangered
species:
*  Improve management of people-Park interactions, particularly with buffer zone local
communities; and
*  Facilitate human use for recreation and education;



-10-
Long-Term (13-25 years):
*  Regenerate degraded areas;
*  Maintain habitats for specific conservation objectives; and
*  Focus activities to utilize the Park for recreation, research and tourism.
3.5    Area/Village Development (estimated costs US$25.9 million).  The area development
component is designed to improve land use planning, land use rights and community resource
management in about 134 selected villages in the interaction zone surrounding the Park, including
villages adjoining or within logging concessions bordering the Park. It will be based on an iterative
participatory development process involving four steps namely: situational assessment, designing
village development plans, implementing and monitoring, and review and evaluation leading to a
revised design. The main aim of this process is to arrive at a village conservation agreement (VCA)
which legalizes village access to resources in the Park and its buffer zone (e.g. access to non-timber
forest products, intensification of agricultural production systems and community forestry) or social
benefits (such as improved marketing and village infrastructure improvements, including processing
and storage) and guarantees specified development assistance in return for community cooperation
in Park protection and conserving biodiversity resources on village lands. This process, that will
require a long preparation and delivery time of up to three years, will be initiated and sustained in
each target community by resident project facilitators in collaboration with formal village leaders,
traditional and formal village groups.  While the target group of resource-poor farmers most
dependent on the Park will be the main focus of this activity, the overall village community will
necessarily be parties to this consensus VCA.  In villages adjoining forest concessions, the
component will mainly promote community forestry management. Some key preparatory work in
regard to planning and training has already been commenced by WWF and financed by the Japanese
grant (para 3.3). Further details of this component are shown in Annex I with full details on
operation and legal framework given in the Working Papers 2, 3 and 9 in Annex 14.
3.6    Each of the target villages will receive about US$50,000 as village grants, depending on their
needs, for a combination of small-scale infrastructure, agriculture intensification and business/
enterprise activities. Much of the budget allocation process will follow the process of "Certification
for Development Assistance Budget" (SPABP). The Village Community Resilience Institution
(LKMD) and the Discussion Forum of the Area Development Unit (UDKP) at sub-district level will
form the key local institutions for implementing the program (see Chart 1). Project assistance
provided for the agriculture related activities may consist of community or individually focused
activities which are based on a menu of indicative interventions and guiding principles rather than
the standard top-down sub-sectoral packages provided by the provincial agricultural service.
Activities will be based on areas' potential in terms of natural resources which vary considerably,
(altitudes ranging from 0-2000m, climate, topography and in particular the difference between
volcanic and podzolic soils). Nevertheless, there will be two generic benefits which will be
generated by the project. The first will be related to the poor soils encountered in the podzolic lands
used by villages, most of which have a fertility problem which can be improved by large initial



- I 1 -
applications of rock phosphate.  The other one will be related to genetic and management
improvements in the availability of tree crop related stock (e.g. jungle rubber). The technical
support team (para. 4.4) would evaluate each of the proposed village activities and productive
investments and their recommendations for improvement would be taken into consideration for the
implementation of subsequent activities.
3.7    The eligibility criteria associated with the village development investments would be based
on: (a) conservation of biodiversity; (b) targeting common interest groups which are most
disadvantaged; (c) technical and financial feasibility; social and institutional feasibility; and (d)
impact and sustainability. Additional requirements are: (a) public infrastructure investments must
be justified by the number of users and the cost per user; (b) village grant and village contributions,
including labor, must be sufficient to complete the sub project; and (c) implementation/contractual
arrangements must be clear. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that village grants would be
made available in accordance with procedures and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
3.8   Integrating Biodiversity in Forest Concession Management (estimated costs US$2.9
million). The primary objectives of this component are the following:
X  establishment of a clear institutional and policy basis for the effective management of
forested areas bordering the Park to act as an effective buffer zone for biodiversity;
X  identification, monitoring and protection of high biodiversity sites of conservation value
within the concessions; and
*  linking the management of forest concessions with the overall regional land use priorities
supported by the project.
3.9    One of the main activities to be undertaken under this component will be ecological and
biodiversity assessments of the logging concession areas with the view for GOI to reallocate forest
land to appropriate land use and management regimes as needed in the six logging concessions.
This process would also assist in the rationalization of the Park boundary (see paras. 5.12-5.14).
Some initial survey work has already commenced through WWF/CIFOR (Center for International
Forestry Research) assistance and financed by the Japanese Grant (para 3.3). The intention is that
the rapid ecological assessments will be complemented by the longer term KPHP (Permanent
Production Forest Management Units) process. The KPHP is a new program instituted by MOFr as
a planning mechanism to redefine concession boundaries based on land use, biophysical and social
development considerations. As part of this process, areas of high biodiversity or watershed
conservation values would be identified so that they can be left as protected forest areas within the
concession. The component will also include independent audit contracts to review and monitor
forestry logging and conservation practices in some selected forestry concessions around the Park.
The audits will be based on standards for forest management, environmental and social performance
and contracts will be issued by the Directorate General for Forest Utilization. Further details are
described in Annex I and in Working Paper 4 of Annex 14.
3.10   Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) (estimated costs US$3.8 million). M&E is a support
component which is linked to the project's Park management, area/village development and
concession management for biodiversity activities. The M&E is intended to support the planning



- 12-
and decision-making processes in each of the three intervention components and are key to their
effective implementation.  The proposed project monitoring activity will support three major
planning and resource management functions: (a) technical and financial progress monitoring; (b)
impact analysis; and (c) performance evaluation.  Specific objectives for each of the three
components include the following:
Park Management
* to provide appropriate tools for monitoring encroachment, poaching and other development
impacts within Park boundaries; and
*  to develop monitoring and performance indicators to assess the health and well-being of the
Park such as boundary stability, habitat condition, species survival and distribution.
Area/Village Development
* to strengthen institutional capabilities for analyzing the impact of rural development
activities on the Park; and
* to facilitate the assessment of project effectiveness in enhancing social and economic
development for boundary communities.
Integrating Biodiversity in Forest Concession Management
* to establish a system for monitoring the integrity of Park and concession boundaries,
including the effectiveness of preserving biodiversity; and
* to develop a capability to monitor and evaluate forest management practices within
concession areas, including the success of conservation sites within concession boundaries.
Further details are described in Annex I and in Working Paper 5 of Annex 14.
Additional Project Activities (included above but not described).
3.11   Policy and Planning (US$1.7 million). Project interventions in policy and planning will be
mainly focused on the improvement of the regulatory guidelines for inter-provincial spatial planning
and regional planning practices with the aim to influence the regional economic development of the
greater Kerinci Seblat area in taking more "conservation friendly" directions. The project intends to
do this through the support of three activities:
* short-term policy and planning support to BAPPENAS and the Ministry of Home Affairs at
the central level to incorporate environmental concerns, particularly related to biodiversity
conservation, in the regulatory guidelines of regional and spatial planning;
* long-term support to BAPPEDA I and II for provincial and district planning in the four
provinces encompassing KSNP, particularly to ensure that KSNP's development will
reflect agreed community resource management and conservation priorities; and



- 13 -
the preparation of a comprehensive land zoning plan for the entire project area which will
address inter-provincial development priorities, including forest production, commercial
plantations, mining and infrastructure and transportation development, so that the landuse
zonation and management of the Park and its buffer zone can be endorsed by the four
provincial govemments. Further details are provided in the preparation report and the
regional and spatial planning Working Paper 6 shown in Annex 14 and its costs are mainly
included in the area/village development component.
3.12   Training and Community Facilitation (US$6.1 million). Specific training activities have
been identified (see Annex I and 14) for each component that are necessary for capacity building
and successful project implementation (see para. 4.7). The project will assist in designing and
conducting a training needs assessment of all involved stakeholders, the implementation of relevant
theoretical and practical training programs, contracting of training services, and supervision and
monitoring of training impacts.  The extension services in the districts will be used in the
area/village development component as and when required and will complement the community
facilitation process. (See Working Paper 3 in Annex 14).
3.13   Conservation Awareness (US$1.3 million). The Biodiversity Conservation Promotions
Program (BCPP) included in the project will play a key role within Park management and rural
development activities by disseminating information to people in boundary villages, government
agencies and the community at large on the value of the Park for biodiversity, watershed protection,
and local development. It will assist in the survey of current awareness levels and attitude, and
design multi-media programs aimed at specific target groups, building on local practices and
traditions wherever possible. Details of this activity are shown in Annex 9 tables 1.2/3 and in the
BCPP Working Paper 7 in Annex 14.
Studies (US$0.8 million)
3.14   Financial Sustainability. KSNP will require a long-term sustained program of investment
and institutional development to achieve its overall goal of conserving biodiversity through
integrated buffer zone development.  The proposed project would contribute to long-term
sustainability through its emphasis on capacity-building and community involvement in project
design and implementation. In addition, recurrent costs associated with proposed project activities
will be financed by GOI during the project period, reflecting the national commitment to effective
operation of KSNP and ICDP activities. The project's fiscal requirements over the long term are not
escalating. However, to protect the Park from any possible budget cut, and to ensure financial
sustainability beyond the project period, GOI wishes to explore what options would be available for
future recurrent cost/investment financing and development assistance for both the Park and buffer
zones on an off-budget basis. The study would review the structure by which money could be raised
for and spent on protected areas management and come up with an approach to ensure continuity of
funding sources, including decentralized funding mechanisms with responsiveness to local
conditions as the guiding principles. The study would include also a review of the feasibility and
requirements for establishing a trust fund or other financing mechanism. Consequently, during years
1-3 of project implementation, a special study will be commissioned to assess options and make
recommendations for future action.



- 14 -
3.15   Ecotourism. Tourism could provide a source of revenue towards Park maintenance costs as
well as alternative livelihood opportunity for some village communities. At present KSNP offers
very little facilities and services to attract any type of ecotourism. In addition, experience from
other tropical forest habitats in Asia suggest that ecotourism potential is limited, unless it is
accompanied by other attractions. This need for additional attractions would be considered in the
framework of the preparation of the spatial plan (para. 4.3). At the same time the project, with
additional support from technical assistance provided for under the Park management component,
would undertake a study to assess the potentials and constraints for KSNP to become an ecotourism
site. If a real potential would exist for KSNP and depending on the type of ecotourist (e.g. budget
and time available) the study would also outline how the ecotourism would have to be organized and
managed, including the roles of the local people, government and the private sector.
3.16   Kubu Assistance Plan. The Kubu or Orang Rimba (people of the forest) have a tradition of
nomadic rain forest foraging, the only traditional hunter-gatherers to be found on mainland Sumatra.
They generally are distributed outside the Park throughout the Batang Hari and Musi drainage basins
but they have begun to venture into the KSNP buffer zone, particularly in or near the forest
concessions because of the continuing depletion of their traditional forest resources. While the
Kubus' livelihood is mainly derived from a combination of swidden cultivation, harvesting non-
timber forest products and hunting and trapping, the overall depletion of resources has also led to an
increase in commercial hunting and trapping of many rare and threatened animals in and around
Kerinci Seblat because of lucrative prices paid by middlemen. The information on the Kubu and
possible development actions are described in Working Paper 8 of Annex 14.
3.17   Preliminary surveys indicate that there may be as few as two to three families to as many as
several hundred Orang Rimba living in the buffer zone of the Park. While the Kubu are not likely to
suffer any adverse effects from the proposed project other than that the project will enforce standard
legal provisions against poaching of wildlife (especially endangered wildlife) for commercial
purposes, the project will'review the actual Kubu dependence on buffer zone and KSNP resources
and based on this impact assessment will prepare, if required, a plan which will propose measures to
continue the continued access of the Kubus to natural resources vital to their subsistence and
livelihood in a manner to be acceptable to them, but within the constraints of a sustainable
management of KSNP and its buffer zone. If deemed necessary selected pilot activities among Kubu
groups, possibly in the field of health improvements and education, would be initiated under the
project.
3.18   Because of the Kubus' highly mobile nature and their tendency to range in small groups over
an enormous territory, it appears that a two step approach may be the most appropriate means to
further assist them. The first step would include a 2-3 year review process carried out by the project
and mainly dealing with:
*  establishing and training of a small multidisciplinary team consisting of both NGO and
government to effectively communicate with the Kubu and act as interlocutors between
the Kubu and the district and provincial government officials;
*  the collection by the team of more basic baseline information on what-where Kubu
presence, and dependence on resources in buffer zone and Park, including ecological and
socio-economic impact assessments;



- 15 -
determining Kubu livelihood and resource needs through an action plan in the event that
partial or full restrictions on resource utilization or access exist for the Kubu in the Park
and buffer zones;
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that (a) not later than September 30, 1998, the results of
the baseline study and impact assessment would be sent to the Bank for comments; (b) based on the
results of the study and of the assessment, and taking into account the KSNP management plan, the
land zoning plan for the project area, and the comments of the Bank on the baseline study and
impact assessment, prepare, not later than June 1, 1999, an action plan designed to ensure that the
Orang Rimba do not suffer adverse effects as a result of the implementation of the above plans; and
(c) promptly thereafter, carry out such action plan in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
C. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
3.19   The total cost of the project, summarized in Table 3.1, is estimated at US$46.0 million
(Rp.103.6 billion equivalent), inclusive of taxes and duties in the amount of US$3.7 million
(Rp.10.1 billion). Foreign exchange costs amount to about US$9.4 million or 20 percent of total
costs. Physical contingencies are based on an average amount of 5 percent for goods and services,
except for village allocations which are excluded from physical contingencies due to their
programmatic nature. Price contingencies reflect foreign inflation of 2.4 percent per annum and
local inflation of 8.7 percent per annum throughout the project period. The local inflation rate has
been adjusted to take account of expected dollar appreciation against the Rupiah since most costs are
dollar-based. Total contingencies are estimated at US$5.0 million or 11 percent of total costs.
Further details of project costs are presented in Annex 9.
Table 3.1 PROJECT COST SUMMARY
%     % Total
(Rupiah Million)            (USS '000)         Foreign    Base
Local   Foreign    Total      Local   Foreign    Total  Exchange  Costs
1. Park Management       17,910.7  8,934.4  26,845.1    7,971.6  3,976.5  11,948.1   33      29
2. AreaNillage Development  45,460.1   6,326.9  51,787.0    20,233.2  2,816.0  23,049.2   12  56
3. Concession Biodiversity  4,428.3  1,359.2  5,787.5   1,970.9    605.0  2,575.9   23        6
Assessment
4. Monitoring & Evaluation  5,194.2  2,543.5  7,737.7   2,311.8  1,132.1   3,443.9   33       8
Total Baseline Costs     72,993.2  19.164.1  92,157.3    32,487.6  8,529.5  41,017.1   21    100
Physical Contingencies    1,957.7    341.2  2,298.8      871.3    151.8  1,023.2   25         2
Price Contingencies \a    7,585.1   1,576.1   9,161,3   3,254,0    676.2  3,930.2   17        10
Total Project Costs      02,536.1  21,081.4 103,617.4    36,612.9  9,357.5  45,970.4   20    112
\a Price contingencies are converted at the current exchange
rate.
3.20   The financing plan in Table 3.2 presents the GEF, Bank and GOI contribution over the six
year project period. The Bank Loan of US$19.1 million equivalent, combined with a GEF Grant of
SDR 10.2 million, would finance about 74 percent of project costs or 81 % of project costs exclusive
of taxes, duties, vehicles and fertilizers which would be purchased by GOI. The GEF grant would
finance the incremental costs of the proposed project to conserve the unique global biodiversity in
the KSNP, and would be targeted to elements of the project that contribute wholly or largely to



- 16-
achievement of global biodiversity objectives (47 percent of total foreign costs and 32 percent of
local costs). The detailed incremental cost analysis (with information on the costs of the baseline
scenario and GEF alternative) is presented in Annex 12. The proposed Bank loan would finance 38
percent of foreign costs and about 47 percent of local costs. The balance of project costs, covering
15 percent of foreign costs and 20 percent of local costs, or a total of US$11.8 million equivalent,
including taxes, would be financed by GOI.
Table 3.2 COMPONENTS BY FINANCIERS
(USS 000)
Local
GOI      GEF      IBRD     Total    Foreign  (Excl.  Duties 8
Amount  Amount  Amount  Amount   Exch.   Taxes)   Taxes
1. Park Management            4,937.2   8,505.4       -  13,442.6  4,343.3  8,294.1    805.1
2. AreaNillage Development /a    4,696.3  4,565.9  16,601.6  25,863.8  3,097.4  20,543.8  2,222.6
3. Concession Biodiversity    1,612,1   1,240.2       -  2,852.3    670.2   1,893,7    288.4
Assessment
4. Monitoring & Evaluation      558.9    709.4  2,543.6  3,811.8   1,246.7  2,180.5    384.7
TOTAL DISBURSEMENTS         11,804.4  15,020.9  19,145.2  45,970.4   9,357.5  32,912.1   3,700.8
\a This component is implemented in villages next to the Park boundary



- 17-
4. -PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
4.1   The overall organization of the project is shown in Chart 1. The three main interventions,
i.e. Park management, area/village development and concession management for biodiversity would
each be managed by a project manager (PIMPRO) responsible for contracting services,
implementing activities and preparing reports.  The PIMPRO  for the Park Management
component will be appointed by the DG PHPA and be responsible to the KSNP Park manager and
be based in Park headquarters in Sungai Penuh (see map). The Park manager will be supported by a
project-financed Technical Advisory Group and a Management Support Unit which will assist him
with annual planning, financial management, monitoring and reporting. Staff of the Forestry
Ministry's provincial offices (Kanwil Kehutanan) in Jambi and Bengkulu will be assigned as
PIMPROs for the Concession Management for Biodiversity component. They will be responsible
for activity implementation, and report directly through the Kanwil's office to the Project
Management Committee (PMC). Field activities will be under the supervision of the Dinas
Kehutanan TK II in the Kabupaten which have concession areas identified for project activities. In
line with the further devolution of responsibility for local development planning and implementation
and in support of the KSNP management program, implementation of the Area/Village
Development component will be devolved to organized village community groups through the
LKMD. These village groups will be assisted by resident facilitators and the visiting TA team
working in coordination with sub-district extension workers to plan and implement the component
activities. The planning and implementation of village infrastructure investments will follow the
general guidelines outlined in the technical manual prepared for the Village Infrastructure Project
(Ln. 3888-IND). The component will be coordinated in each of the Kabupatens by a district
committee chaired by the head of BAPPEDA TK II with a PIMPRO pointed from the same office as
the secretary. A similar Provincial Coordinating Committee chaired by the BAPPEDA TK I with
the PIMPRO TK I as secretary will ensure district project plans are incorporated into the improved
provincial spatial plans being prepared with assistance from the project planners. The Park director
will take overall responsibility for the development and implementation of the Monitoring and
Evaluation System. His office will establish a "base" for the information system. Each of the
agencies responsible for implementing components (BAPPEDAS and Kanwils Kehutanan) will be
strengthened with a "subset" of the overall project monitoring system.
4.2   The inter-provincial project coordination will be achieved through an Inter-Provincial
Coordinating Committee (IPCC) with membership incorporating all project PIMPROs drawn from
the BAPPEDAS in each participating province and district and from the Forestry Ministry's
provincial offices. The IPCC will be responsible for ensuring that the Park management plan and
the various district and provincial plans are coordinated into an overall land zoning plan for the Park
and surrounding areas, and that the annual series of planned activities and budget proposals are
integrated and consistent with other component objectives and overall project goals.  The
chairmanship of the IPPC will rotate through the four provinces and will be serviced by a project
secretariat maintained by each province. Meetings will be chaired by the Head BAPPEDA TK I of
the host province while the Park manager will be the committee's permanent secretary. In addition,



- 18-
there is an overall National Steering Committee covering all ICDPs, chaired by the National
Planning Board (BAPPENAS), with members representing the Ministries of Finance, Home Affairs,
Agriculture, Forestry, National Land Agency, the four Governors, the Indonesian Institute of
Sciences and representatives of national environmental NGOs. A working group will be attached to
this Committee to review project performance and deal with policies, laws and regulations,
particularly those "perverse" incentives that discourage conservation.
4.3    The "greater" KSNP land zoning plan (para 3.11) should be completed by September 30,
1998, including recommendations for the long-term management plan for KSNP. Assurances to this
effect were obtained at negotiations. It is intended as a tool to get the four provinces to endorse the
final zonation plan for KSNP and its surrounding districts, including commitment to what the plan
deems necessary for the -further integration of biodiversity conservation and development in and
around the Park. Particularly the environmental, land use (e.g. roads and mining) and socio-
economic impact implications of KSNP have to be addressed and inter-provincial issues need to be
resolved. Assurances were also obtained at negotiations that GOI not later than June 1, 1999, would
review the land zoning plan for the project area, and, thereafter, carry out the recommendations of
such review, taking into account the comments of the Bank. Both the IPCC as well as the national
steering committee will review the 'greater" KSNP land zoning plan, in time for the project's Mid-
Term-Review.
4.4    Technical Assistance (TA) The project involves the introduction of many new conservation
techniques and processes that are still not very well known in Indonesia. To ensure effective
technology and managerial transfer and train and build institutional capacity, the project has
included some 1,300 staff-months of short and long-term local and foreign experts, including NGOs.
About 82 percent of the TA is for the support for operational activities and institutional development
of which 60 percent is expected to be carried out by local and 40 percent by foreign consultants. The
remainder of TA (18 percent) is set aside for studies and research. Details are described
in Annex 5. The TA is provided to cover the following main fields:
(a)    Park management and enforcement;
(b)    village land use and development planning and community based implementation;
(c)    regional and spatial planning;
(d)    concession management for biodiversity and inspection audits;
(e)    monitoring and evaluation; and
(f)    studies and research.
4.5    Most experts to be located in Sungai Penuh will provide support to the areas in Jambi and
West Sumatra, whereas the TA team to be located in Curup (see map) will provide support to
villages and districts in Bengkulu and South Sumatra. Assistance from both local and foreign NGOs
will also be provided. Particularly in the village planning and implementation process of the
area/village development component, they are one of the most valuable resources for the project.
The terms of reference for the key technical assistance assignments are summarized in Annex 14 D.



- 19-
4.6    Annual Plan Preparation and Fund Flow. The Project Managers of the Park Development
and Concession Management for Biodiversity components will prepare the annual budget plans
(DUPs) and funds will be made available when annual plan proposals have been approved (DIPs) by
BAPPENAS and DG BUDGET. Funds released for the Area/Villages Development component will
basically conform to the specific grant of DATI II (see Chart 2). The SPABP will go to the PIMPRO
in BAPPEDA TK II through KPKN. The PIMPRO will make the request to BRI to finance the
village community project. The village community group assisted by the TA team will prepare an
annual contract, according to the approved village development plan, with the appropriate district
PIMPRO. The annual village development contract would be approved by the Camat before
submission to the PIMPRO. The village community group will receive funds from BRI Unit Desa at
Kecamatan to meet the expenditures. The PIMPRO accounts for BRI's expenditures incurred on the
basis of the PIMPRO's request to KPKN to replenishment to BRI. This replenishment to BRI, being
reimbursement of expenditures incurred, is paid from the Special Account. The leaders of each
community group will be assisted by the accountant from the village development council (LKMD)
to manage and account for the funds released to them. They will also be supervised and trained by
the facilitators and the TA team. The annual work-plan will be prepared by the Kabupaten PIMPROs
of the area/village development component, based on participatory planning at the village-level to
produce project proposals. These proposals will be screened by the Kabupaten and Provincial
Guidance teams before they are forwarded to BAPPENAS and DG BUDGET.
4.7    Training. The overall objective of project-related training is to develop skills and institutional
capacity to implement ICDP activities by implementing agencies. Training plays a large part in the
Park management component, where the focus is on building Park management skills, community
awareness and extension skills and familiarizing Park staff and communities of the biodiversity within
KSNP. In the area/village development component the focus is primarily in improving integration
between biodiversity conservation and rural development through integrated planning and community-
based program planning exercises. Training will also focus on improved biodiversity monitoring and
development impact specifically through training of forestry personnel in concession audit techniques.
Table 4.1 illustrates the different types of training to be financed through the project. The project
proposes to deliver nearly 802 staff-months of training through short-courses at the provincial, district,
and sub-district level. In addition, the project will support four Park management staff to attend
overseas short training course on Park Management, and seven staff to visit Malaysian National Parks
on working visits to learn ICDP management techniques being implemented in Kota Kinabalu National
Park. PHPA staff will also visit other National Parks currently implementing ICDP types of projects
within Indonesia. Prior to implementing training activities, each component will first conduct a
training needs assessment.



- 20 -
Table 4.1    Proposed Training Interventions (staff-months)
Component         PYl    PY2    PY3   PY4   PY5  PY6  TOTAL
Park Management
Field Staff            1.5    6.5      6.5    6.5    6.5   6.5    34
Short-Courses                          2      2      -     -        4
(overseas)                    2        2      3      -     -        7
Working-Visits                 1.5     1.5    -      -     -        3
Traveling Seminars    34      34       34     34     34    34    204
District workshops    5       5        5      5      5      5      30
Extension Training                                                282
Area/illage Dev.
Project Manager                1.5     1.5                          3
training                      2.5      2.5                          5
Planners training             7        17.5   10.5                 35
Extension worker              35       52.5   70     52.5         210
training                      3.5      3.5    3.5    3.5           14
Community organizer                                               267
training
ZOPP meetings
Concession
Biodiversity
Assessmen
Traineeships          10      20       20     20     20    10    100
Monitoring & Eval.
M&E staff training    18       18                                 36
Decision-makers       4.5     4.5                                  9
training              50      58                                  10
Planner's GIS training                                            153
B. IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
4.8   Implementation Schedule  The project will be implemented over six years. A project
implementation schedule, showing the key events of project implementation for the first two years
has been prepared. Details are summarized in Annex 6. In general there are three key steps for
project start-up implementation:



- 21 -
(a)   the preparation of the decrees (Surat Keputusan-SK) concerning the appointments of
the PIMPROs, coordinating teams/committees and 1996/7 budgets, which have to be
prepared by GOI;
(b)   the preparation and processing of procurement of the project's technical assistance
program so that the TA and NGO teams can be mobilized immediately; and
(c)   the completion of Park boundary demarcation.
4.9    With respect to the Park Management component, little project action can be expected
before the appointment by the Secretary DG PHPA of the senior Park staff. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that not later than August 1, 1996 a KSNP project management unit, with
competent staff and in adequate numbers, would be established and thereafter be maintained until
project completion. Concerning the Area/Village Development component it would be important
to have the resident village facilitators (pendamping) for the first ten villages selected, trained and in
place by July 1996. The meeting of this deadline is possible as the training and pre-planning
activities for the ten villages by WWF were started in November 1995, with funds provided by the
Japanese Grant (para. 3.3).  With respect to the Concession Management for Biodiversity
component, there is a need to commence the rapid ecological assessments in the concession
forthwith so that biodiversity management zones in the concessions and along the Park boundary
can be identified (see para. 5.12).
4.10   During appraisal a list of draft monitoring and performance indicators to be used over the life
of the project was developed and which should be finalized during the first year of implementation
once key staff are in place and key TA personnel are mobilized. The Project's supervision
requirements are summarized in Annex 7. While the project would carry out yearly reviews on
progress and if required, would make appropriate adjustments during the project cycle, a MTR will
be completed by March 1, 1999. The MTR report would be prepared under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank. The MTR will review project effectiveness in meeting ICDP goals and in
stabilizing Park boundaries and reducing biodiversity loss.  It will also be used for making
appropriate technology and institutional adjustments in project design if required, including follow-
up actions for the "greater" KSNP land zoning plan (para. 4.3) and Kubu action plan (para. 3.18).
The MTR report will be reviewed with the Bank by June 1, 1999 and thereafter GOI would take all
measures to ensure the efficient completion of the project based on the conclusions and
recommendations of the MTR report, and taking into account the views of the Bank. A project
completion report would be prepared by the Ministry of Forestry on the basis of Bank guidelines
within six months of the closing date of the loan and grant. Assurances regarding the above were
obtained at negotiations.
C. PROCUREMENT
4.11   The procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 4.1 and reviewed below. Goods
and Works would be procured in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", dated January, 1995, and revised in January,
1996. The DG of Forest Protection and Nature Conservation (MoFr) will be responsible for
coordinating the procurement activities related to the Park Management component, the DG for



- 22 -
Forest Utilization (MoFr) will do so for the Concession Management for Biodiversity component
and the DG of Regional Development (BANGDA) in MoHA will be responsible for the
Area/Village Development and M&E components. Since the consulting services required for this
project are quite large and interrelated between the various components it will be BAPPENAS who
will coordinate the initial procurement process of these services. GOI would finance purchases of
vehiclcs and fertilizer from its own resources because under GOI procurement rules these items are
not open for international competitive bidding. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that such a
procurement will be in accordance with schedules agreed with the Bank.
Table 4.2 PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(USs '000)
Procurement Method
National
Competitive                Consulting
Bidding       Other la    Services    N.B.F /b     Total
A. Civil Works
Buildings and Structures                     2,314.3            -            -          -    2,314.3
[1,388.6]                                       [1,388.6]
Village Infrastructure                             -       5,761.2           -          -     5,761.2
(4,609.0)                          (4,609.0)
B. Equipment, Furniture.
Office/Field equipment & Furniture/c            633.7         661             -          -       699.8
(188.1)        (5.6)                            (193.7)
[318.7]       [47.2]                            [365.9]
Aerial photography                              604.5            -            -          -       604.5
(483.6)                                         (483.6))
Remote Sensing Equipment                            -         47.4            -          -        47.4
(37.9)                             (37.9)
C. Vehicles                                           -            -                   986.8       986.8
D. Training                                           -      3,084.8            -      288.8     3,373.5
(1,127.5)                          (1,127.5)
[1,523.3]                          [1,523.3]
E. Consultant Services                                -            -     12,723.0      144.2    12,867.1
(4,907.4)             (4,907.4)
[6,572.2]        -    [6,572.2]
F. Studies                                            -            -        825.5          -       825.5
(743.0)               (743.0)
G. Survey and Research                                -            -      4,579.1          -     4,579.1
(1,022.8)             (1,022.8)
[3,098.3]             [3,098.3]
H.. Extension & Planning                              -      6,127.0            -          -     6,127.0
(4,050.3)                          (4,050.3)
[1,346.4]                          [1,346.4]
I. Agricultural and Other Inputs /d                   -      1,453.8            -          -     1,453.8
(1,163.0)                          (1,163.0)
J. Incremental Operational Costs                      -            -      1,703.4    4,278.8     5,982.2
(806.9)               (806.9)
[726.2]               [726.2]
TOTAL                                           3,552.5     16,540.2     19,831.0    6,046.7    45,970.4
(671.6)   (10,993.4)    (7,480.1)         -  (19,145.2)
[1,707.3]    [2,916.9]   [10,396.8]        -   [15,020.9]
Note: Figures in ()and [ are the amounts financed by IBRD and GEF respectively.
\a  Includes national shopping, direct contracting and community participation works, simplified
procurement procedures for small work and training.
\b NBF - Not Bank Financed
\c Amount less than $200,00 per contract.
\d Including inputs for village enterprises, but excluding fertilizers.



- 23 -
4.12   Civil works (US$8.1 million) would comprise buildings and village infrastructure. The
works for small offices and other buildings would involve small contracts over scattered areas which
would not attract foreign bidders. These works would be procured following national competitive
bidding procedures (NCB) acceptable to the Bank. Civil works for village infrastructure (US$5.8
million) would be small sub-projects between US$10,000-40,000 in often very remote areas. These
works would be carried out mostly by the LKMDs by direct village labor (community participation)
or by lump-sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation, with implementation agreements
with the Kabupaten Department of Public Works. Agricultural and other inputs (US$1.5 million)
would consist of planting materials, labor, small tools, and other goods required by small enterprises.
Inputs also include fertilizers valued at about US$0.07 million and not financed by the Loan/Grant.
These inputs would make up the bulk of the farm or community forest treatments and spread over a
large number of areas and farms in and around the Park buffer zone. The size of each input would
be too small (on average less than US$15,000) to attract international or national competitive
bidders. They would, therefore, be procured under national procedures acceptable to the Bank,
mostly through national shopping and with at least three price quotations. Vehicles (US$1.0
million) are considered reserved procurement and would not be financed by the Loan or Grant.
Office and field equipment (US$1.4 million) would be mainly for small packages or items below
US$200,000 and be procured under NCB acceptable to the Bank and with at least three price
quotations. For small items that cannot be conveniently packaged under NCB in amounts not
exceeding US$20,000 per contract up to a aggregate of US$70,000, national shopping procedures
acceptable to the Bank would be used. Aerial photographs would be procured through NCB
procedures acceptable to the Bank as this would be for packages between US$50,000-100,000 for
which capable domestic companies are available and which would be too low to attract interest by
international companies. Satellite imagery would, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured by
direct contracting as this would only be available from either Spot or Landsat. Training (US$3.4
million), of which about US$0.3 million would not be financed by the Loan/Grant, would be carried
out by procedures acceptable to the Bank. Extension and Planning (US$6.1 million) would be
procured by national shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank. Consultancy Services, Studies
and Surveys and Research (US$18.3 million) would be procured in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for Use of Consultants. For complex, time-bound assignments, contracts would be based
on the standard form of contract for consultants'services issued by the Bank. The project's TA
requirements would be coordinated by an independent Project Coordination consultant attached to
PHPA but responsible to the KS-ICDP working group of the Project Steering Committee. An NGO
as a sole sourced contract would carry out the village participation operations of the area/village
development component.  It is likely that WWF would be chosen on account of their long
involvement with villages in KSNP. The balance of project costs are Incremental Operational
Costs (US$6.0 million), most of which (US$4.3 million) would not be financed by the loan/Grant.
About US$ 1.7 million would be procured following the Bank's guidelines for the use of consultants.
4.13   Procurement Review.  All contracts for goods would be grouped into bid packages
whenever possible to attract competition and permit bulk purchasing. GO] would use and conform
to the Bank's standard Bidding documents i.e. procurement of goods and works, including works for
smaller contracts, which would facilitate the tender and contract preparation by the various agencies
involved. Civil works' contracts for offices and other buildings, equivalent to US$500,000, or more,
would be subject to the Bank's prior review. Given their small amounts and their large number, the



- 24 -
need for quick approval and the safeguards in project design (field engineers and other TA will be in
place to assist) to supervise the process, the contracts for village infrastructure, except for the first
five contracts, would not require prior review. All tender documents and contracts for goods,
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$200,000 or more would be reviewed by the Bank, including
the first contract. All contracts for consultants' services, including studies, surveys and research,
valued at US$100,000 or more for engagement of firms and US$50,000 or more for engagement of
individuals would be subject to prior review by the Bank. The exceptions to prior review of
contracts for consultants'services would not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts;
(b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably
determined by the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising
the contract value to US$100,000 equivalent or more; and (e) amendments to contracts for the
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to US$50,000 or more. This would
result in prior review of about 55 percent of all contracts procured. Contracts below the threshold
levels would be subject to selective post-review by visiting missions.  This review  would
concentrate, among others, on the competitiveness of prices paid and on the physical inspection of
the inputs provided. Assurances were obtained from GOI at negotiations that these procurement
arrangements would be followed.
D. DISBURSEMENTS
4.14   The Bank loan of US$19.1 million and a GEF grant of SDR 10.2 million (about US$15.0
million equivalent) are expected to be disbursed over a six-year period. The period of disbursement
is less than the disbursement profile for agricultural projects in Indonesia. However, with the pre-
implementation activities now taking place in the buffer zone and a dynamic Park Director already
present, it is believed that the targets should be achieved during the project period provided that the
technical assistance team can be mobilized promptly. The project loan and grant closing dates are
September 30, 2002. The proposed Loan and Grant allocation and a summary of estimated
disbursements by year is presented in Annex 10. Disbursements of the Bank loan would be made on
the following basis:
(a)    80% of expenditures for civil works for area/village development;
(b)    100% of foreign expenditures, 100 % of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 65%
for other items procured locally for equipment, furniture and mapping materials;
(c)    80% of expenditures for agricultural and other inputs, excluding fertilizers;
(d)    60% of expenditures for training;
(e)    80% of expenditures for planning and extension activities related to buffer zone
development;
(f)    80% of expenditures for technical assistance.;
(g)    90% of expenditures for studies;



- 25 -
(h)    30% of expenditures for surveys; and
(i)    15% of incremental operating expenditures related to the buffer zone.
4.15   Disbursements of the Grant would be made as follows:
(a)    60% of expenditures for civil works in the Park;
(b)    100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 65%
for other items procured locally for equipment, furniture and mapping materials;
(c)    90% and 20% respectively of expenditures for Park and buffer zone related training;
(d)    80% and 10% respectively of expenditures for planning and extension activities related
to Park and buffer zone development;
(e)    90% and 50% respectively of expenditures for surveys and research related to Park and
buffer zone;
(f)    90% on expenditures for technical assistance related to Park and NGO Services; and
10% for TA related to buffer zone development, excluding NGO Services; and
(g)    15% for incremental operating expenditures related to the Park.
4.16   For disbursement purposes, full documentation will be required for all contracts at or
exceeding the following amounts: (a) for civil works US$500,000 and the first five contracts related
to village infrastructure; (b) for goods US$200,000 and the first contract of both the loan and the
grant; (c) for consulting services' contracts, including studies, surveys and research, with firms
US$100,000; and (d) for consulting services'contracts, including studies, surveys and research, with
individuals US$50,000. For all expenditure in those categories below the limits specified and for
expenditures on training, agricultural inputs, extension and planning, and incremental operating
expenditures, disbursements will be made on the basis of certified statements of expenditures
(SOEs). SOE for village infrastructure works will be supported by progress reports certified by the
Camat (head sub-district). This documentation will be available for the required audit and also to
Bank supervision missions.
4.17   To expedite disbursements, two Special Accounts would be opened in an amount of US$1.8
million and US$1.5 million respectively for the Loan and the Grant by GOI in Bank Indonesia, or at
a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank for the purpose of the project. This account should be
maintained by the Directorate General of Budget and would be used for all eligible foreign and local
currency expenditures. Replenishment to the Special Accounts will be made on a monthly basis, or
when 20 percent of the Special Accounts' balance have been used, whichever comes first.



- 26 -
E. PROJECT ACCOUNTS, AUDITS, REPORTING AND BANK SUPERVISION
4.18   Separate detailed accounts would be kept by the provincial project and program offices, for
each budget under their charge by sub-project and project year. Project accounts are subject to two
audits by: (a) the Inspector General of concerned ministries; and (b) the Financial and Development
Supervisory Board (BPKP). The work of both auditors has generally been found satisfactory on
Bank-assisted projects. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the project records and
accounts, including the Special Account, would be audited for each fiscal year and furnished to the
Bank within six months of each Government fiscal year. Such audit would also contain a separate
opinion on the SOEs. In addition, all project related contracts, documents related to the SOEs, and
orders and receipts, would be kept for at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the loan and or grant account was made.
Annual financial audits would include at least 10 percent coverage of randomly selected village
infrastructure sub-projects.
4.19   An annual work program outlining the proposed activities and budget would be submitted to
the Bank by no later than October 15. The MIS developed and improved under the project would
review the reporting mechanisms and update them through to the national level, as well as the
BAPPEDA offices at district and provincial levels. Annual progress reports on each separate
component will be prepared by the appropriate PIMPRO but with a consolidated project summary
prepared by the Park manager (information data base will be located in the Park management office
in Sungai Penuh) would be submitted to the Bank no later than June 30 each year and would also
elaborate on the constraints and problem solving aspects of the project.
4.20   The above progress reports will also reflect the monitoring of key performance indicators of
the various project components. The Performance Indicators (both implementation and impact) for
each project component would be finalized during the first year of implementation once key staff are
in place and key TA personnel have been mobilized and had time to review and update their work
program and TORs. Key indicators are discussed in Annex 8. The project would be supervised
according to a supervision plan summarized in Annex 7 and priority would be given during the three
launching workshops in the first project year to institutional arrangements (e.g. project
coordination), to review first year work program and TORs and to get full agreement on the project
indicators among the various project units. While this plan is likely to be modified as the project
becomes fully operational, the plan suggests that regular supervision be carried out by RSI, with
specialized project reviews to be coordinated by Bank HQ, including the milestone missions. Three
milestone supervision missions would have to be undertaken by the Bank and GOI, namely (a) first
year launching workshops: project start-up, after TA mobilization, and after end of full
implementation year to review project component indicators and to review suggestions for project
adjustments; (b) MTR, particularly to review KSNP land zoning plan, including social and
environmental impacts and Kubu development follow-up; and (c) implementation completion
mission.



- 27 -
5. PROJECT IMPACT
5.1    The project would benefit some I to 1.5 million people living in the thirty-six sub-districts
surrounding the Kerinci Seblat National Park, both directly as a result of specific income generating
investments made under the project, and indirectly as a result of improved soil and water quality
delivery resulting from better protection of forested areas in and around the Park. The project would
generate the following benefits:
(a)    environmental benefits, including protection of unique biodiverse habitats and rare
and endemnic species native to Kerinci Seblat for current and future generations and
improved watershed protection for the four surrounding provinces. More specifically
the project would reduce negative environmental impacts of local people on
biodiversity and increase a better appreciation of protected areas and the social and
economic benefits accruing from conservation. Downstream soil and water impacts
of stabilizing the Park area and forest cover in neighboring forest concessions are
likely to be significant, given the high density of population and intensity of land use
on lowland areas of Sumatra affected by erosion of watersheds;
(b)   socio-economic  benefits by  improved  employment and  income generation
opportunities for poor households and communities living in Park boundary villages
by giving them more control over the long-term management of their resource base,
including resolution of land use conflicts.  More specifically about 13,400
households, considered to be the poorer sections in the four provinces, would directly
benefit from the investment funds availability to the 134 villages communities and
some 300,000 households would indirectly benefit through improved biodiversity
conservation. The project would ensure participation of women, tribal communities
and other disadvantaged people in community decisions about resource distribution
and investment selection in both the National Park and buffer zone; and
(c)   the capability of institutions would be enhanced through human  resource
development, strengthening of sector institutions and policy reform. More
specifically the project would improve Park and buffer zone management, through an
improved spatial/regional planning process and policy and regulatory framework,
including enforcement and a more participatory role of village communities. It
would provide an innovative pilot model, which if successful, could be replicated in
other conservation areas in Indonesia.
A. ECONOMIC BENEFITS
5.2    Given the nature of this project, it has been difficult to quantify the benefits. As a result,
varying degrees of precision can be attached to estimates made for the various components.



- 28 -
5.3    With respect to the biodiversity value of the Park, the Project Preparation Study (Report 8 on
Resource Economics-Annex 14) concluded that "the value of KSNP as a conservation estate is likely
to be similar to the opportunity cost (of timber harvest) in the worst case scenario and that there is a
potentially large economic gain to be achieved in the best case scenario". The benefits of KSNP
investments are very broad, and many of them are also long term. Such benefits can be difficult to
estimate directly, particularly because there is not yet a generally accepted method in the
environmental economics literature on how to estimate these. In the case of biodiversity and
conservation benefits associated with KSNP, the net present value of selected benefits has been
estimated ranging from US$70 to US$200 million, with the mid-point being US$135 million. The
costs of achieving these can be calculated by adding the direct investment costs involved, to the
value of logging benefits foregone in this forested area. In this case these costs were estimated at
about US$93 million.
5.4    At the same time, the investments in Park Management and the planned activities in the
buffer zones are a sine-qua-non for maintaining the integrity of the Park. Many of the large predators
and forest herbivores require large areas of forests for food and to maintain viable populations. This
sets a minimum threshold to Park size and, correspondingly, to investment in management and
monitoring. Similarly, once the Park area is defined, then stabilization in the entire zone buffering
that Park is necessary. It seems that the proposed level of investments of about US$13.2 million for
Park Management and other components of US$34.0 million form a minimum amount that would
safeguard the biodiversity value of the Park. With respect to the cost recovery of these investments
and the Park's future recurrent cost financing, since the project's benefits are mainly long-term and
indirect in nature, the project will carry out studies to find an effective mechanism to ensure long-
term recurrent cost financing of KSNP, particularly since few effective measures presently exist
(para. 3.14). It is believed that the fiscal implications of continued Park management beyond the life
of this project are not large, and are well within the budgetary capability of GOI to cover.
5.5    With respect to the village infrastructure investments (e.g. upgrading village roads, drinking
and irrigation water), employment and cash compensation to village laborers is an important feature
of the project. The cash to be earned under the project should provide an important addition to the
poorer household budgets. Labor-intensive methods are also efficient for the public budget.
Villagers are willing to work for the equivalent of about Rp 4-5,000/day (e.g. share rubber tapper),
and at those costs labor intensive methods are competitive with capital intensive methods for the
simple type of works envisaged, particularly for the relatively isolated villages in the Park's buffer
zone. The villagers have generally to undertake the maintenance of the village facilities. However,
having participated in the construction and because it is for their own benefit it is likely they would
do the maintenance themselves. Assuming that rural roads increase farmers' income by 10 percent,
due to better access to markets in the rainy season, easier access to employment, health and other
services outside the village (see: Yogyakarta Upland Development Project; 3305-IND) and using
data on buffer zone villages in the KSNP Project gives an economic rate of return for rural roads of
37 percent. With respect to the village development in the Park buffer zone, the communities
commitment to Park protection and to improvement of the management of the natural resources
they utilize, will to a large extent determine the project's success to meet above objective. Since
most of the resource management decisions of these generally isolated villages are motivated by
varying combinations of family needs for livelihood, local knowledge and customs, topography and
climate, including a wide array of external factors, the interaction with the environment represents



- 29 -
for each of these villages an unique set of fesource management and community development
opportunities and constraints. Hence, critical decisions into possible changes in village landuse and
resource management will be made with each target village through a participatory process of
planning and implementation. This process would be iterative, flexible and responsive to each
community's particular situation and development requirements.
5.6   Individual farmer benefits in newly agreed land use activities to be brought about by the
village and Park zonation plans are difficult to quantify. The proposed changes in land use within
the Park will be mainly governed by achieving more optimum "conservation" principles, with
community benefits as a secondary objective and mainly comprising "security of access to certain
subsistence resource uses in the Park". The effectiveness of introducing land use changes in the
village buffer zone will mainly depend on the financial attractiveness for the target group compared
to the activities it is already engaged in. There is a huge variety of farming systems in the buffer
zone determined by a wide variation in plot and farming size, soils (volcanic and podzolic) and soil
depth, elevation (0-2,000 m), rainfall (2,000-5,000 mm/year) and proximity of markets and input
supplies. The project intends to bring about improved land use changes in these farming systems
according to a menu of indicative principles rather than a clearly described menu of packages. Some
of the indicative principles are: (a) emphasis on tree crops and existing farming systems; (b) work on
factors which improve securing of markets and input supplies (e.g. coffee, cinnamon and rubber
have well established market structures; one of the main limiting factors to increased productivity is
the small amount of phosphorous available in the podzolic soils); (c) return on labor; and (d)
improvement and availability of planting material. At the same time there are clearly highly
profitable improvements in certain farming areas, the project could instantly introduce (e.g. in the SE
part of the project area where jungle rubber provides the main cash crop and where farmers are less
well off, the introduction of improved varieties with either budded stumps or polyclonal seed for
remote areas, could more than double the yields).
5.7    As part of project preparation, a study was carried out for various farming systems to
calculate the economic rate of return for agriculture investment under the village grants. The ERR
for jungle rubber is estimated to be 40 percent, for cassiavera (cinnamon), 60-90 percent, depending
on the bark grade and for oil palm, 35 percent. Also, on the basis of incremental benefits for
agroforestry on 3,720 ha in the buffer zone, an ERR of 34 percent has been estimated. Additionally,
as part of the project preparation study, incremental benefit calculations have been carried out for
irrigation intensification. These involve investments in an area of 930 ha spread out over sixty-two
villages. The economic rate of return is estimated to be 53 percent. It should be made clear that the
benefits of these direct investments in agricultural productivity are incremental to the benefits from
investments in infrastructure, discussed in para 5.5.
5.8.   The village/area development component is both the largest item of expenditure under the
project and the one most directly related to social development and income improvement for
communities, in the project area. It accounts for 57 percent of total base costs. Therefore, it is
necessary to provide an overall rate of return for this component. Because of the difficulty of
estimating specific activity returns, given that both the infrastructure requirements and agriculture



- 30 -
land use options in each village are as yet unknown (para. 3.5), an ERR of 34 percent is considered
representative for infrastructure and agriculture without inclusion of all TA and overheads - this
being the lower end of the range of returns discussed in paras 5.5-5.7 above. Once all costs of
component overheads and associated TA are added in for the village/area development component
an ERR of 16 percent for this component results.
5. 9   Sensitivity analysis. The major risk would consist of an inadequate consultation process
with target communities with the result that not all villages would participate in the village
conservation agreement process (para 3.5).  Assuming that 20 percent of villages would not
participate, this would result in an ERR of 13 percent. Other likely scenario would be for the project
to be delayed by one year due to delay in NGO and other technical assistance mobilization or for the
project to receive reduced incremental benefits, say by 10 percent These outcomes would correspond
to reduced ERRs of 12 percent and 13 percent respectively. This project component is therefore
relatively insensitive to these major categories of risks and maintains an acceptable return.
5.10  In respect to the economic benefits derived from  a better monitoring in the forestry
concessions bordering the Park, an ERR of some 15 percent has been estimated. This calculation is
based on the approach taken in a paper on the economics of sustainable forest management which
was presented to GOI in September 1995 and assumes that adequate protection of the regenerating
stands produced from project activities can be maintained. The economic calculations prepared for
two main project components (area/village development and integrating biodiversity in forest
concession management) are given in Annex 13.
- B. SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
5.11  The project is expected to have a highly beneficial environmental impact. The main goal of
the project is the protection of the approximately 1.3 million ha of the Kerinci Seblat National Park
and the surrounding buffer zone. The project has extensive environmental, land use and socio-
economic development implications. The major environmental impacts facing the Park, including
the proposed mitigation measures are described in a Regional Impact Assessment (RIA) report
prepared for BAPPENAS in December 1994 and released by GOI to the Bank on April 20, 1995. A
summary analysis is provided in Annex 11. While the project has addressed these issues by
including a number of policy, administrative and fiscal responses in the project design (see Working
Paper 9, Annex 14) the final understanding with GOI on the more prominent issues will be sought at
negotiations. These issues are as follows:
5.12   Boundary Rationalization and Forest Concessions. The rationalization of the current Park
boundary is critical for the successful development and sustainability of the Park as buffer zone
lands are being subjected to serious disturbance from logging and encroachers. Unless the Park will
represent a compromise boundary between social and biological pressures, the completion of the
Park and buffer zonation/land use plan would be futile and the Park would not be sustainable. While
it is important for project implementation to have the Park boundary gazetted in the shortest possible
time, it is equally important that the Park boundary, once gazetted, can in futuLe be further
rationalized in areas contested by villages (forest/non-forest boundaries) and in forest concessions



- 31 -
bordering the Park with high biodiversity values and with lands categorized as "protected forest"
areas so that further adjustments to village and forest concession boundaries can take place. During
negotiations GOI provided the Bank with a 1:250,000 base map of the Park showing (a) the
delineation of the Park boundary based on the proposed gazetted Park area of approx.1 ,368,000 ha,
and (b) the location of all forest concessions adjoining or near the Park.
5.13   The following assurances were obtained at negotiations: (a) by March 31, 1997, the
demarcation of the KSNP boundary would have been completed and that not later than September
30, 1997 the gazettement of the Park would be completed; (b) by March 31, 1997 GOI would have
reviewed measures to improve biodiversity management in the logging concessions adjacent to the
Park, including the possibility of excluding logging activities in certain areas. Thereafter, GOI
would immediately implement any measure that is found to be feasible; and (c) GOI would take all
steps to ensure that existing logging permits for forest concessions in areas adjacent to the Park are
not renewed or extended without the inclusion of a biodiversity management zone for the areas
adjacent to the Park. Such biodiversity management zones would remain in effect until biodiversity
surveys would have been carried out for purposes of identifying significant biodiversity sites to be
protected. Thereafter, the identified biodiversity sites would remain as biodiversity management
zones.
5.14   The measures which will be evaluated for keeping logging operations as far from the KSNP
boundary as possible will include the following: (a) the transfer of intended operations which are
adjacent to the Park boundary, to blocks further away from the boundary, and (b) an intense
monitoring program under the project of surveillance and observance of the 500-1000 m buffer zone
which already applies in GOI regulations to concessions bordering the Park. With respect to the
renewal and extension of logging operations in concessions bordering the Park, logging operations
will not proceed inside a 3-km biodiversity management zone along the boundary, where applicable,
until a biodiversity survey has been carried out.
5.15   Mining Concessions. There are a number of concession holders (gold and coal) currently
engaged in mining operations which could potentially have adverse impact to the Park. So far their
impact on the Park has been small as most concession holders are still at the exploration stage. To
reduce the potential impact of these mining operations on the Park, assurances were obtained at
negotiations that:
(a)   current exploration permits in the Park area (whether under the initial three-year
period or under one of the two one-year extensions) would not be extended after
expiration, and that promptly upon the determination by the Ministry of Mining that
an area subject to a mining concession lacks significant mineral potential, the
applicable mining concession is terminated in accordance with applicable legislation;
(b)   prior to the granting of exploration permits and exploitation or production licenses in
KSNP, furnish to the Bank for comments, the full Environmental Impact
Assessments (AMDAL) evaluation by GOI's Sectoral AMDAL Commission
(AMDAL Kegiatan Terpadu /Multisektorao, including the specifications of
exploration, mining and extraction methods, and any other mitigation measures
required to minimize any adverse impact on KSNP from the proposed activity;



- 32 -
(c)   take all measures necessary to ensure that the exploration permit and the exploitation
or production license, is granted solely on terms consistent with the findings and
recommendations of G01's Sectoral AMDAL Commission and the Bank's comments
on the AMDAL evaluation; and
(d)   thereafter,-ensure that all recommended mitigation measures are promptly and fully
carried out.
5.16   Road Development. New roads or even upgrading of existing tracks have potentially
significant implications for the sustainability of the Park and biodiversity conservation, since they
provide access to new settlers and opportunities for the expansion of existing agricultural activities
in the Park. To mitigate against potential impact of road development in the Park, assurances were
obtained at negotiations that no roads would be constructed or upgraded within KSNP until the
completion of the Park Management Plan and the land zoning plan for the project area (para. 4.3),
and that an AMDAL would have been carried out. GOI would also ensure that any construction or
upgrading would be carried out in a manner consistent with the recommendations of the AMDAL,
including recommendations for the carrying out of mitigating measures, and the requirements of the
management plan and land zoning plan.
5.17   Park Encroachment. Generally the tools available to deal with existing Park encroachment
are to amend the Park boundary, to demarcate and enforce enclave boundaries and/or to
resettle/relocate encroachers. However, due to the large size of the Park and insufficient staff
available to monitor the current impact of individual Park encroachment, there is insufficient
information available to assess the current Park encroachment and to decide which course of action
should be taken by the project to mitigate such impact. For this reason, assurances were obtained at
negotiations that GOI would, until April 1, 1999, not cause or permit involuntary resettlement of
persons residing within KSNP and thereafter, confine any involuntary resettlement to that required
for purposes of protection of KSNP's biodiversity. During this initial period of about three years, the
Project will identify key areas for biodiversity conservation, finalize Park zoning and set criteria for
resettlement, if any. The project will generally seek to find all possible alternatives to involuntary
resettlement through the use of zonation and land use improvement. If there is any involuntary
resettlement to be carried, GOI would furnish to the Bank for approval the Rehabilitation Action Plan
(OD 4.30) and, thereafter, carry out the resettlement and rehabilitation of affected persons in
accordance with the Resettlement and Rehabilitation Action Plan approved by the Bank. Assurances to
this effect were obtained at negotiations.
5.18   Women, Tribal Groups and Poverty Impact. The project potentially would affect the
livelihoods of tribal group, women, landless and other poor people living in and around KSNP. A
major emphasis of the village/area development efforts financed under the project will be to target
poor households and poor communities living in Park boundary villages. Over half the project costs
are directed to village development affecting 13,400 households the majority of which are poor,
landless and/or living in remote areas. Given the targeting and the estimated ERR, tile project is
expected to have substantial poverty reduction benefits. In the preparation process stakeholder



- 33 -
consultation with these groups have contributed to project design (para. 3.3).   Project
implementation of both the Park, rural development and the concession component will be carried
out through a process of participatory decision making, particularly regarding behavior change to
benefit conservation and increase opportunities for sustainable livelihood. Tribal group involvement
complies with the requirements of OD 4.20 and the project action plan to deal with these concerns
are described in paras 3.16-19.
C. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
5.19   The long-term sustainability of KSNP will to a large extent depend on a shared responsibility
in Park conservation between the Ministry of Forestry, local governments of the nine Kabupaten
making up the Park and the village communities bordering the Park. Participatory planning,
including land use zonation, development of incentives and alternative livelihood opportunities,
decentralized decision making and empowerment of local communities, and successful conflict
resolution of land related issues, will therefore be crucial. It will also depend on the ownership by
the four provincial governments of the zonation/management plan to be made for the Park and on the
spatial plan to be prepared for "greater" KSNP, as both plans deal with long-term development
perspectives of the Park. The prospects for sustainability are enhanced by the fact that the Bank is
assisting GOI in preparing additional rural development projects in the three provinces of Jambi,
West Sumatra and Bengkulu, which would provide alternative livelihood to the population and will
take pressure off the Park. At the central level the project's sustainability will depend on some
critical policy support and willingness to allow flexible administrative and management
arrangements. Lastly, public support and awareness for the need of protected area conservation,
including access to viable post-project financing would be equally important. The latter is particular
important to the long-term sustainability of the Park. While the project would increase the Park's
annual budget by two-fold compared with the 1994/5 KSNP budget, it is expected that GOI's fiscal
implications beyond the project period would level off to slightly above the current fiscal outlay for
KSNP, which are about US$1.2 million per year. Nevertheless, the project will embark on exploring
options for future recurrent cost/investment financing of the Park (para 3.14).
D. RisKs
5.20   The major risks associated with the project are the threats to KSNP from sources such as
road development, human encroachment, and poor logging and concession management practices,
thus causing further biodiversity impoverishment and potential Park fragmentation. In addition, care
will have to be exercised to deliver the appropriate incentives and effective community participation
process and local government commitment to deflect encroachment pressures away from the Park to
sustainable development alternatives. Unless GOI shows clear commitment to controlling these
risks, including the resolving of any infringement of rights of foreign and national concession
holders, the Park's biological diversity will not be maintained over the long-term. The issue of Park
integrity will be addressed in certain policy agreements and interventions by GOI prior to and during



- 34 -
project implementation (paras 5.11/17).  Other risks concern the present lack of integrated
management plans, coordination between agencies, and enforcement of regulations within the Park
and the buffer zones. These risks will be addressed by an ICDP project approach which will
introduce a greater participatory role of local government officials and local communities,
integration of regional and Park planning, and the establishment of an inter-provincial project
secretariat. This will be linked to a strong project environmental and socio-economic monitoring
program to provide feedback to project management and allow refinement or corrections in proposed
project interventions. It is clear that this project has significant risks. Nevertheless, the project
should proceed because Sumatra's forests and biodiversity have been decimated over the last twenty
years and the remaining primary forests and biodiversity is largely contained in the protected area
network, particularly Kerinci Seblat. It should also proceed because of its importance as a pilot
project to demonstrate Park interventions which can be replicated elsewhere in Indonesia,
particularly concerning the critical role of people in conservation and in developing a planning
process that integrates biodiversity conservation with development.



- 35 -
Schedule A
INDONESIA
Kerinci Seblat Integrated Conservation and Development Project
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
Estimated Cost=             Loa             Foreign            Ttal
(US$ Million)
1. Park Management                 8.0               4.0              12.0
2. Concession Bio.Assessment       2.0               0.6               2.6
3. Area/Village Development        20.2              2.8              23.0
4. Monitoring and Evaluation       2.3               1.1               3.4
TOTAL BASE COSTS                 32.5              8.5              41.0
Physical Contingencies             0.9               0.2               1.0
Price Contingencies                3.3               0.7               3.9
TOTAL PROJECT
COST2                         36.6              9.4              46.0
Financing Plan             Loral            Forei              IQa
(US$ Million)
GOI                                10.4              1.4              11.8
IBRD Loan                          15.6              3.5              19.1
GEF Grant                          10.6              4.4              15.0
TOTAL                            36.6              9.4              46.0
Includes Taxes and Duties estimated at US$3.7 million equivalent.
2 Numbers may not add up to the total due to rounding.



-36 -
Schedule B
Page I of 2
INDONESIA
Kerinci Seblat Integrated Conservation and Development Project
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ 000)
Procurement Method
National
Competitive               Consulting
Bidding      Other /a    Services    N.B.F lb    Total
A. Civil Works
Buildings and Structures                    2,314.3           -           -         -    2,314.3
[1,388.6]                                     [1,388.6]
Village Infrastructure                           -      5,761.2           -         -    5,761.2
(4,609.0)                         (4,609.0)
B. Equipment, Furniture.
Office/Field equipment & Furniture/c          633.7        66.1            -         -       699.8
(188.1)       (5.6)                           (193.7)
[318.7]      [47.2]                           [365.9]
Aerial photography                            604.5           -            -         -       604.5
(483.6)                                      (483.6))
Remote Sensing Equipment                          -        47.4            -         -        47.4
(37.9)                            (37.9)
C. Vehicles                                         -           -            -     986.8       986.8
D. Training                                         -      3,084.8           -     288.8    3,373.5
(1,127.5)                         (1,127.5)
[1,523.3]                         [1,523.3]
E. Consultant Services                                          -     12,723.0     144.2   12,867.1
(4,907.4)            (4,907.4)
[6,572.2]        -   [6,572.2]
F. Studies                                                      -        825.5         -       825.5
(743.0)              (743.0)
G. Survey and Research                                          -      4,579.1         -    4,579.1
(1,022.8)            (1,022.8)
[3,098.3]            [3,098.3]
H.. Extension & Planning                            -      6,127.0           -         -    6,127.0
(4,050.3)                         (4,050.3)
[1,346.4]                         [1,346.4]
1. Agricultural and Other lnputs/d                  -      1,453.8           -         -     1,453.8
(1,163.0)                         (1,163.0)
J. Incremental Operational Costs                    -           -      1,703.4   4,278.8     5,982.2
(806.9)               (806.9)
[726.2]              [726.2]
TOTAL.                                        3,552.5    16,540.2     19,831.0   6,046.7   45,970.4
(671.6)   (10,993.4)    (7,480.1)       -  (19,145.2)
[1,707.3]    [2,916.9]   [10,396.8]      -  [15,020.93
Note: Figures in (and [ are the amounts financed by IBRD and GEF respectively.
\a Includes national shopping, direct contracting and community participation works, simplified
procurement procedures for small work and training.
\b NBF - Not Bank Financed
\c Amount less than $200,00 per contract.
\d Including inputs for village enterprises, but excluding fertilizers.



-37-
Schedule B
Page 2 of 2
Disbursement Plan
(US$ Million)
Amount                       Disbursement Rate
Category              IBMD      XE              IBRD
Civil Works:
- Buildings and Structures                    1.2                                    60%
- Village Infrastructure              4.2                   80%
Equipment & Furniture /a
- Parks                                       0.3                              100%; 100%; 65%
- Buffer zone                         0.6             100%; 100%; 65%
Training:
- Parks                                 -     1.1             -                      90%
- Buffer zone                         1.0    0.3            60%                      20%
Consultant Services:
- Parks                                       2.6             -                      90%
- Bufferzone & Land Zoning            4.4    0.5            80%                      10%
- Community Services                          2.8             -                      90%
Extension & Planning:
- Parks                                       0.8                                    80%
- Buffer zone                         3.7    0.4            80%                      10%
Survey & Research:
- Parks                                       1.2                                    90%
- Buffer zone                         0.9    1.6            30%                      50%
Studies                               0.7       -            90%
Agricultural Inputs /b                 1.0      -            80%
Incremental Operating Expenditure     0.7    0.7             15%                      15%
Unallocated                           1.9    1.5             10%                      10%
TOTAL                                19.1    15.0
/a 100% of foreign expenditures on equipment, furniture and mapping; 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory
prices) for locally manufactured equipment and furniture and 65% for locally procured items.
/b Excluding fertilizer which GO] will finance.
Estimated Disbursement
(US$ Million)
IBRD Fiscal Year   FY96    FY97   FY98   FY99   FY00   FY01   FY02   FY03
Annual           1.5       1.8      3.7      3.6      3.7      3.3      1.4     0.1
Cumulative          1.5      3.3      7.0      10.6    14.3    17.6    19.0    19.1
GEF Fiscal Year
Annual           1.0       1.7      3.4      2.9      2.9      2.4     0.6      0.1
Cumulative          1.0      2.7       6.1     9.0      11.9    14.3    14.9    15.0



- 38 -
Schedule C
INDONESIA
Kerinci Seblat Integrated Conservation and Development Project
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROJECT PROCESSING EVENTS
(a) Time taken to prepare the project:         4 years I
(b) Prepared by:                               PHPA of the Ministry of Forestry with
local and foreign consultants, including
some Bank assistance.
(c) First Bank mission:                        October 1991
(d) Appraisal mission departure:               June 1995
(e) Negotiations:                              March 1996
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:             July 1996
(g) List of relevant PCRs and PPARs:           PCR: Upland Agriculture and
Conservation Project (Loan 2474-IND),
Report No. 14744
ICR: Nusa Tenggara Agricultural
Support Project (loan 2638-IND),
Report No. 14720
Project processing took four years which is more than the norm for similar projects in
Indonesia. This was due to: the different views in initial project concept between GOI
and the Bank; the amount of effort needed to collect baseline data of such a large and not
very accessible area, and the time required to seek out stakeholder views and
commitments, including regional impact assessment.
This report is based on the findings of an Appraisal Mission that visited Indonesia during June 1995,
comprising Messrs./Ms. Ben van de Poll (Task Manager), Asmeen Khan, Thamrin Nurdin, Pieter Evers,
John Dalton, Oyvind Sandbukt. Assistance was also provided by Messrs. Jim Douglas, Scott Guggenheim,
Charles Di Leva and Ms. Salenna Prince. The peer reviewers were Mss. Susan Shen and Augusta Molnar.
The GEF external technical reviewers were Mr. Jeff McNeely (IUCN) and Ms. Christine Paddoch (New
York Botanic Garden). Ms. Marianne Haug, Director, EA3 and Mr. Gershon Feder, Chief, EA3AG, have
endorsed the project.



- 39 -
Schedule D
Page 1 of 4
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS /8
(as of December 31, 1995)
Amount (US$ million)
Loan/                                                    Bank      IDA
Credit Fiscal                                           Original principal  Undis-
umber  Year                                             (less cancellation)  bursed
One-hundred-thirty-three loans and                   11,371.62    901.60
forty-eight credits fully disbursed
Of which SECALS, SALs and Program Loans /b
2780 1987  Trade Policy Adjustment                    300.00
2937 1988   Second Trade Policy Adjustment            300.00
3080 1989   Private Sector Development                350.00
3267 1991   Second Private Sector Development         250.00
Subtotal:                         1,200.
2705 1986   Manpower Development and Training          54.90                 1.02
2930 1988   Forestry Institutions & Conservation       30.00                 3.49
2932 1988  Jabotabek Urban Development                150.00                18.78
2940 1988  Accountancy Development                    113.00                 9.56
2992 1989  Tree Crops Human Resource Development    18.40                    1.60
3000 1989  Tree Crops Processing                       88.40                19.57
3031  1989  Agriculture Research Management            34.53                 1.68
3040 1989  Industrial Restructuring                   236.96                 3.15
3042 1989  Third Health                                43.50                 6.56
3097 1989  Power Sector Efficiency                    321.00                22.68
3098 1989  Paiton Thermal Power                       346.00                33.77
3112 1990  Public Works Institutional                  36.10                 2.13
Development & Training
3158 1990  Second Secondary Education                 154.20                46.52
3180 1990  Rural Electrification                      273.56                12.30
3182 1990  Third Telecommunications                   322.50                55.95
3209 1990  Gas Utilization                             86.00                52.28
3219 1990  Second Jabotabek Urban Development         190.00                54.41
3246 1991   Third Jabotabek Urban Development          61.00                28.53
la   The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate
report on all Bank/IDA-financed projects in execution, which is updated
twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.
/b   Approved during or after FY80.



-40 -
Schedule D
Page 2 of 4
Amount (US$ million)
Loan/                                               Bank      IDA
Credit   Fiscal                                     Original principal  Undis-
umber  Year                                        (less cancellation)  bursed
3282 1991  Fertilizer Restructuring               221.46              17.51
3298 1991  Fifth Population                       103.80              13.42
3302 1991  Provincial Irrigated Agriculture       104.50              35.52
Development
3304 1991  East Java/Bali Urban Development       180.30             49.70
3305 1991  Yogyakarta Upland Area Development      15.50               5.15
3311 1991  Second Higher Education                150.00              20.12
3340 1991  Sulawesi-Irian Jaya Urban Development  100.00              29.31
3349 1991  Power Transmission                     171.60              29.30
3385 1991  Technical Assistance Project for        30.00              17.90
Public and Private Provision
of Infrastructure
3392 1992  Second Irrigation Subsector            215.00               8.69
3402 1992  Agricultural Financing                 106.10              70.97
3431 1992  Third Non-Formal Education              69.50              24.99
3448 1992  Primary Education Quality Improvement   37.00              25.48
3454 1992  BAPEDAL Development                     12.00               5.64
3464 1992  Treecrops Smallholder                   87.60             49.65
3482 1992  Fourth Telecommunications              375.00            257.88
3490 1992  Third Kabupaten Roads                  215.00             34.48
3496 1992  Primary School Teacher Development      36.60              19.64
3501 1992  Suralaya Thermal Power                423.60             278.37
3526 1993  Financial Sector Development           307.00             90.25
3550 1993  Third Community Health & Nutrition      93.50             66.17
3579 1993  E. Indonesia Kabupaten Roads           155.00             72.39
3586 1993  Integrated Pest Management              32.00              25.14
3588 1993  Groundwater Development                 54.00             40.73
3589 1993  Flores Earthquake Reconstruction        42.10              14.79
3602 1993  Cirata Hydroelectric Phase II          104.00             87.64
3629 1993  Water Supply & Sanitation for           80.00             66.63
Low Income Communities
3658 1994  National Watershed Management and       56.50             51.64
Conservation
3712 1994  Second Highway Sector Investment       350.00            282.82
3721 1994  Skills Development                      27.70             26.42
3726 1994  Surabaya Urban Development             175.00            164.80
3732 1994  Fifth Kabupaten Roads                  101.50             77.86
3742 1994  Dam Safety                              55.00             49.91
3749 1994  Semarang-Surakarta Urban Development    174.00           158.96
3754 1994  University Research for Graduation Study  58.90           53.46
3755 1994  Integrated Swamps                      65.00              60.06
3761 1994  Sumatera & Kalimantan Power           260.50             249.91
3762 1994  Java Irrigation Improvements and      165.70             155.86
Water Resource Management



-41 -
Schedule 0
Paeg 3 of 4
Amount (USS million)
Loan/                                                      Bank       IOA
Credit  Fiscal                                             Original pfincipal   Undis-
Number  Year                                               (less cancellation)  bursed
3792  1995  Land Administration                           80.00                77.22
3810  1 995   Second Accountancy Development              25.00                24.40
3825  1 995   Second Professional Resource Development    69.00                63.93
3745  1995  Second Rural Electrification                 398.00               397.50
3854  1995  Kalimantan Urban Development                 136.00               134.30
3886  1995   Second Agriculture Research Management       63.00                63.00
3887  1995   Book & Reading Development                  132.50               130.50
3880  1995  Village Infrastructure                        72.50                58.69
3904  1 995  Telecommunications Sector Moderniz3tion     325.00               325.00
3905  1995   Fourth Health                                88.00                88.00
3913  1995   Second Technical Assistance Project for      28.00                27.00
Public and Private Provision of Infrastructure
3972  1996  Industrial Technology Development /a          47.00                47.00
Total                                                  20,407.63    901.60
of which has been repaid                               5,310.49    145.67
Total now held by Bank and IDA                         15,097.14    755.93
Amount sold    88.08
of which repaid 82.35
Total undisbursed                                                            4,599.68
/a Not yet effective as of December 31, 1995.



-42 -
Schedule D
Page 4 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of December 31, 1995)
(US$ million)
- Original Gross Commitments -     Held    Held   Undisb'd
Fiscal Year                                                         IFC      IFC                        by      by       incl.
Committed            Obligor                  Type of business     Loan   Equity  Partic   Totals      IFC   Partic     Panic
1971             /a P.T. Kabel - Indonesia    Industrial equip. & t   1.80    0.37    1.00   3.17        -
1971                 P.T. Unitex              Textiles             0.75    0.80    1.75      3.30    0.35         -
1971/73/74/76/84 /a P.T. Semen Cibinong       Cement & constructi  21.23    5.31   25.27    51.81        -
1971174          /a P.T. Pnmatexco Indonesia Textiies              3.35    0.80    0.65      4.80
1972177/79       /a P.T. Daralon Textiie      Textiles             4.43    1.12    1.73      7.28
1973/89           /a P.T. Jakarta             Tourism              4.00    1.49    7.00    1 2.49
1974             la P.T. Monsanto Pan         General mfg.         0.90        -       -    0.90
1974              la P.T. PDFCI Bank          Development financ       -   0.4.8       -    0.48
1974/77           /a P.T. Kant.altex          Textiles             2.36    0.75    1.39      4.50
1980              /a P.T. Papan Sejahtera     Capital markets      4.00    1.20        -    5.20
1980              /a P.T. Supreme Indo-Americ General mfg          5.10    0.94    6.00    12.04         -        -
1980/88              P.T. Semen Andales       Cement & constructi  29.51    5.00   28.53    62.04   21.23   11.98
1982/85/94           P.T. Saseka Gelora       Capital markets      4.52    0.38    2.00      6.90    0.38         -
1988              /a P.T. Nonterado Mas Minin Mining               3.50    2.00    4.50    10.00         -   -1.35
19S8                 P.T. Asuransi Jiwa       Capital markets         -   0.32         -    0.32    0.32
1988                 P.T. Bali Holiday Village   Tourism           9.32        -   2.00    11.32    0.66
1990             /a Nomura Jakarta Fund (NJF Financial services       -   3.C0         -    3.CO                  -
1990             ia P.T. Bank Umum Nasional Capital markets       10.00        -       -   10.00
1990              /a P.T. Federai Motors      Automotive & acces  1 2.50       -       -   1 2.50
1990                 Bank N aga               Capital markets      7.50        -       -    7.50         -
1990/91/94           P.T. Astra International   Automotive & acces  12.50   35.43      -   47.93   22.29
1990/91/95           P.T. Indo-Rama Synthetics Textiles           57.00   10.93   67.50   1.35.43   54.23   72.95        2.21
1991             /a Raja-Pendopo Oil          Energy                   .   3.60        -    3.60         -        -
1991                 P.T. Agro Nluko          Food & agribusiness  10.50    2.20       -   12.70    6.40    4.55
1991                 P.T. Argo Pantes         Textiles            30.00   13.00   53.00    96.C0    33.63   34.07
1992                 P. . Iraonesia Asahi    Textiles             4.C0    1.83        -    5.83    3.43          -      0.33
1992                 P.T. Rimba Partikel      Timber, pulp & pepe   9.88    0.60   10.00    20.48   10.07    5.83
1992                 P,T. Swadharme Kerry    Tourism              35.00        -  51.00    86.00   28.00   53.75
1992/94              P.T. Lantai Keremik Mas  Cement & constructi   5.40    3.10   10.00    18.50    4.23    8.73        O. 3
1992/95              P.T. Eakrie Kasei Corp.   Chemical & petroch   60.00   12.63  95.00   167.63   65.63   94.08        5.00
1993                 P.T. BBL Dhamala Finance Capital markets      5.00        -       -    5.00      1.01    1.64
1993                 P.T. Nusantera Tropical   Food & agribusiness   9.00      -   7.00    16.00    4.00   12.00         0.75
1993                 P.T. Samudera Indonesia  Industrial services    12.00    5.00    3.00    20.00    7.73    9.1 5
1993                 SEAVI Inconesia Aruba    Capital markets          -   1.50        -    1.50    1.50          -
1993/95              P.T. Mitracorp           Industrial services    18.75    4.12     -   22.87   22.57
1993/96              P.T. South Pacific       Textiles            45.00           60.00   105.00   34.52   54.96        31.00
1994                 P.T. Asia Wisata         Tourism                  -       -       -    0.00    2.43    2.43
1994                 P.T. KOLC Bali BancBali  Capital markets     15.00    1.14            16.14   16.14         -       9.00
1994                 P.T. Pama Indonesia      Capital markets         -   0.71         -    0.71     0.71
1994                 P.T. Saripuri Pamai      Tourism              8.00    3.60   24.00    35.60   11.60   24.00         7.60
1994                 P.T. Sinar Pure Foods    Food & agribusiness     -        -       -    0.00    0.33
1994                 Prudential Asia Indonesia  Capital markets       -   6.75         -    6.75    6.75         -       2.62
1995                 P.T. Bakrie Kasei Pat    Chemical & petroch   12.00    2.00       -   14.00   14.00                    -
1995                 P.T. Bakrie Pipe Industries General mfg.     29.50        -       -   29.50   29.50               20.CO
1995                 P.T. Eunas Finance Indone Capital markets    10.00        -   6.00    15.00   10.00    6.00
1995                 P,T. KIA Serpih Mas      Cement & constructi  15.00    6.35   55.00    76.35   21.35   55.00      41.89
1995                 P.T. Panin Overseas Finan Capital markets     6.00    1.93    4.00    11.93    7.93         -       6.00
1995                 PT Citimes Capital Indonesi Finance services     -   2.61         -    2.61     2.61        -       1.30
Total gross commitments /b                     533.30  142.99 527.32 1203.61
Less cancellations, terminations, repayments & sale 216.76   14.C0   77.55  308.31
Total commitments now held /c                  316.54  128.99 449.77  895.30  445.53  449.77    127.89
/a Investments have been fully cancelled, terminated, written-off, sold, redeemed, or repaid.
/b Gross commitments consist of approved and signed projects.
/c Held commitments consist of disbursed and undisbursed investments.



-43 -
PART II: Technical Annexes



-44 -
ANNEXES
I.   Details of Project Components
A. Park Management
B. Area/Village Development
C. Integrated Biodiversity in Forest Concession Management
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
2.   Summary Social Assessment Information for Boundary Villages
3.   Community Participation and Stakeholder Consultation Activities
4.  Indicative Development Activities
5.   Technical Assistance Requirements
6.   Project Implementation Schedule
7.   Project Supervision Plan
8.   Project Perfornance Indicators
9.   Expenditure Accounts by Components and Detailed Costs by Components
10. Estimated Disbursement Schedule and Plan
11. Regional Impact Assessment
12. Incremental Costs of Biodiversity Conservation
13. Economic Analysis of Project Components
14. Documents in Project File
CHARTS
I.  Project Organization
2.   Planning and Funds Flow for Integrated Area Development Activities
MAP
IBRD 27251



-45 -
ANNEX 1
Page I of 10
DETAILS OF PROJECT COMPONENTS
A. PARK MANAGEMENT
Management Planning and Park Zonation
1.    The first major project activity will be the preparation of a comprehensive management
plan for the Park. This plan will guide and control the management of Park resources, zone land
use within the Park, and provide a plan for infrastructure development within the Park and its
buffer zone. The planning process will be implemented with close consultation and coordination
with the regional planning agencies (BAPPEDAs), local governments and target communities.
Institutional Strengthening
2.    The institutional strengthening component will focus on the following activities:(a)
strengthening Park personnel through additional recruitment and technical assistance; (b) providing
in-service training to Park personnel for management and extension activities; and (c) improving
Park infrastructure for enhanced management and enforcement activities.
(a)    Strengthening Park Personnel: Currently the Park is understaffed with a total
complement of 71 personnel. The GOI, as part of its commitment towards
enhancing Park management, has agreed to assign four senior PHPA staff to each
province, based on performance and staff formation given by the State Minister of
Administrative Reform, who would assist the Park director by coordinating Park
activities within each province. In addition, 100 new project field staff, Pegawai
Proyek, would be recruited over the life of the project to supplement existing field
staff. The GOI has agreed to regularize these staff as permanent employees based
on performance and the number of staff allocated by the State Minister of
Administrative Reform. In addition PHPA will start a "Community Partnership
Program" through which 190 field-staff will be recruited from local target
communities as Park community extension workers. The Project will also support
PHPA through the provision of long-term technical assistance including an
internationally recruited Park planner, and wildlife enforcement officer.  In
addition, local staff or international volunteers will be assigned to the Park to assist
with ecology, management, extension and training.
(b)    Training: Training will be provided to Park management staff, field staff and
community extension workers.  The project will focus on developing staff
capabilities to protect and manage the Park through both formal and informal in-
service training provided by trainers on the TA team. The project will send four
qualified senior staff on three month short course in Park management, as well as



-46 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 10
international working visits to national Parks in the region. In years 2-3, traveling
seminars will be held for PHPA technical staff to visit other Indonesian national
Parks. Field staff will receive broad training on enforcement and ecological
monitoring from the Senior Planner and wildlife specialist, as well as receive field
manuals for identifying major wildlife. The project will also train and equip four
special mobile enforcement teams in each province as special task forces for back-
up enforcement. The community extension workers will be provided with in-
service training in organizing village conservation groups, and wildlife
identification. Training will be provided by the Park sociologists, extension and
education officers.
(c)    Park Infrastructure Support: Infrastructure support consists of cost-sharing the
upgrading and rehabilitation of existing Park structures (8 field stations and Park
headquarters) and construction of provincial field quarters (4), new field stations
(40), information centers (6) and visitor centers (2). In addition the project will
provide over 100 signposts and entrance posts providing information on the Park.
Annual maintenance of these structures will be provided through the GOI's
recurrent budget. The project will assist in providing a full-range sr
technical and field equipment, including communications equipment to facilitate
enforcement and management activities. The GOI has agreed to assign additional
vehicles and motor cycles to Park authorities to facilitate field enforcement and
mobile extension activities.
Boundary Rationalization and Biodiversity Sustainability
3.     Boundary rationalization activities, including biodiversity sustainability, focus on two
major issues: (a) boundary conflict resolution with target villages within and along the park; and (b)
improvement of biodiversity sustainability in the forest concessions bordering the Park. Boundary
rationalization activities regarding disputed land between villagers and or encroachers and Park
mangement would continue to be carried out during the first 2 or 3 years of project implementation
and are directly related to preparation of the Park management plan. The project would also review
measures to improve biodiversity management within the logging concessions bordering the park,
particularly in areas adjacent to KSNP. The project would pay for the biodiversity survey work in
these areas. The project will also work with forest concessionaires and the MoFr Forest Utilization
directorate to institute a KPHP program which would improve the management of the forest
concessions.
4.     Encroachment-of Park lands is a major issue for Park enforcement and integrity, and is a
direct result of inadequate enforcement. There are 134 target village areas where boundary conflict
resolution is required. The process of resolving conflicts with local communities over land use
within the Park will be handled through several options: (a) negotiating temporary land-use rights
in the Park; (b) implementing boundary changes; and (c) providing rural development incentives
based on signing agreements that commit communities to respect demarcated boundaries and
agreed land-use practices. This strategy would reduce the need for Park enforcement. In addition a
fourth option, of "Pohon Kehidupan" program, will also be implemented which allows settlers



-47-
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 10
several options including voluntary resettlement; or gradual conversion of existing farming systems
to permanent multipurpose fruit tree production.
Management Activities
5.    Three categories of management activities will be implemented by PHPA field staff during
the course of the project: (a) wildlife protection and management; (b) establishment of a living
boundary marking and posting; and (c) habitat rehabilitation. The project will focus on protection
of large mammal fauna by developing effective enforcement systems to combat poaching.
Activities include field surveys; establishing elephant patrols; and barriers against animal raiding.
Live boundary marking will be implemented over the life of the project by demarcating 500 km of
boundary using Arenga palm seedlings. Local villagers will be contracted to plant and care for
these seedlings. These in combination with cement boundary markers will assist the public in
determining the exact boundary of the Park. Habitat rehabilitation activities will focus on yearly
assessment and status update of encroached land within the Park (4000 ha per year will be
surveyed); rehabilitation of degraded areas with multi-purpose indigenous trees; and the
development of 10 village nurseries to raise 65,000 seedlings for replanting programs.
Research
6.    The project will support management-oriented research, including species distribution and
population dynamics. Rapid biodiversity appraisals to determine appropriate use and Park zoning
will be done in the first two years of project implementation through specialist institutes such as
the Indonesian Institute of Sciences (LIPI), the Center for International Forestry Research (CIFOR)
and local Sumatran universities. Ecological monitoring activities will be identified by the Park
management team including consultant biologists, and will be implemented by the monitoring team
whose activities are described under the monitoring component. In addition a small project-
supported research fund will provide seed money for research projects consistent with Park
management objectives submitted by local NGOs and university researchers. Proposals for
biodiversity grants would be reviewed by the Park authorities assisted by a peer review panel of
external experts.
Monitoring
7.    Monitoring activities will be implemented by the monitoring team whose activities are
described under the monitoring component.
Extension and Awareness
8.    The project will develop a broad public awareness program to promote local appreciation
of the Park through conservation promotion interventions. The program will be initiated in year 2
and continue through the duration of the project. Priority target groups include (a) local
communities; (b) local government officials; (c) educational and religious institutions; (d) media
and the press. Activities include development of community-based conservation materials; local
workshops; public information; training; promotion of ecotourism opportunities; and educational
materials development.



-48 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 10
Management and Implementation
9.    The project will be based at Park headquarters in Sungai Penuh (Jambi province), and will
establish and equip a field office in Curup (Bengkulu province) near priority areas targeted for
integrated development and Park management activities. The Project manager assisted by a
PIMPRO will be responsible for the overall management of project staff and technical assistance
team. He will be assisted by the four senior-province based staff in implementing project activities
and will also receive support from technical assistance staff.
10.   Implementation of field activities will be through the existing line structure with extension
workers and community field workers implementing community awareness, extension and
enforcement activities and reporting through the provincial field-staff structure to the Park Manager
(Figure 1). Pre-project implementation activities will focus on rehabilitation of Park headquarters,
re-deployment and recruitment of staff, assessment of potential Park boundary problem areas.
During the first year of project implementation, Park management activities will focus on: initiating
community partnership programs; coordinating with local govemment; preliminary species
surveys; boundary and encroachment surveys; social forestry and boundary demarcation activities;
and extension and community awareness programs.
Component Linkages
11.   The Park management component will be closely coordinated with the area/village
development component and the forest concession management component through the following:
(a) targeted site selection of villages for rural development activities - in the first year of
implementation activities will be in four sites (Tapan, Jangkat, Katenong, Ketahun) where human
interactions are having a major adverse impact on biodiversity; (b) through coordinated community
awareness programs linked to enforcement activities; (c) through boundary demarcation and
completion of Park gazettement; and (d) through biodiversity surveys and protection of biodiversity
habitats within the concessions. Coordination of component activities will take place through the
inter-provincial coordination committee (IPCC) described under the project organization section.
B. AREA/VILLAGE DEVELOPMENT
Objective
12.   The rural development component's main objective is to reduce encroachment and
conserve biodiversity, by providing incentives for alternative livelihoods to local communities who
currently use Park resources. This component aims to provide assistance to 134 target boundary
villages to improve resource management on village lands, ensure security of access to traditionally
used resources, increase agricultural productivity and improve village infrastructure. Project
activities will target groups, most dependent on Park resources, and provide them with alternative
income-generating opportunities. Activities will be implemented by local government agencies
with technical support from project-financed advisors and local NGOs. The component will be
largely implemented by the communities in the park interaction zone in accordance with a



-49-                               ANNEX I
Page 5 of 10
participatory development process involving four steps, namely: situational assessment, planning
and work programming, implementing and monitoring, review and evaluation and re-planning.
This iterative process will be initiated and sustained in each target community by resident project
facilitators working in close collaboration with formal and informal leaders and through traditional
or newly-organized common-interst groups. In close conjunction with members of visiting
technical assistance team and various staff from the Kecamatan and Kabupaten, each community
will be assisted to first generate by concensus their own village land use and village development
plan.
Village Resource Management
13.   The village planning process would  rationalize land use, secure access to resources,
establish development priorities and conserve biodiversity in selected Park boundary villages. The
project will assist communities map village boundaries and current land use/ownership practices,
evaluate and capability, and through a consultative decision-making process, institute land use
zonation for agriculture, non wood forest products and conservation areas. The land use plan will
be formalized as a Community Conservation Agreement, that legalizes village access to
resources in the Park and its buffer zone, and guarantees specified development assistance, in return
for community cooperation in Park protection and conserving biodiversity resources on village
lands. The project will assist the local Kabupaten legislature to prepare and pass legislation
recognizing the legality of such agreements.
Village Development
14.   Village development activities raise the economic status of the whole village by providing
infrastructure support (water, small roads, culverts) to raise income and create goodwill for the
Park, and assistance for diversifying agriculture thus providing poor villagers with higher income
from village lands. Each target village will receive a maximum of US$50,000 for a combination of
infrastructure and agricultural assistance. Activity selection will be based on development priorities
set in the village development plan, produced through a participatory decision-making process
coordinated by the village head and the village development council (LKMD). Activities will be
selected from a menu of development activities that meet project criteria. Villagers would provide
labor, and if necessary use credit to purchase fertilizer and other inputs. The implementing agency
will provide expertise, extension, equipment and construction materials financed by the project.
Development activities will be phased with ten villages selected in the first year, 18 in year 2, 19 in
year 3, 28 in year 4, 29 in year 5 , and 30 in year 6 or a total of 134 target villages. This gradual
phasing will allow local organizations time to develop sufficient institutional capacity to implement
participatory, community based activities at the village-level. In addition the project will support a
series of feasibility studies to determine the economic feasibility of a number of altemative income-
generating enterprises such as ecotourism. These will be identified by the Project Steering
Committee during implementation. The studies will be commissioned through local business and
marketing consultants.



- 50 -
ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 10
Planning Support
15.   Village-level plans will be based on the village-resource management exercise, and will
involve local NGO staff working with local communities, using PRA and micro-planning
techniques, over a 6-8 month period to prepare an annual work program as well as an overall five-
year village plan. This plan will identify priority activities requiring external support, financing,
time-frame and include community contributions. Similarly at the district-level, for the five priority
Kabupatens, spatial plans will be revised to account for natural resource distribution, the impact of
their utilization and other forms of development (such as roads) on biodiversity conservation. This
multi-sectoral planning will be conducted by BAPPEDA II (the planning agency at the Kabupaten-
level) with technical assistance provided by the project.
Training
16.   Training is a major activity in terms of building institutional capacity to implement ICDP
activities. A training needs assessment will be conducted in the first or second year of project
implementation to devise a Rural Development Training Plan tailored to the needs of project
coordinators, Bappeda Planners, kecamatan staff and extension agents. In addition, annual Zopp
participatory planning meetings will be held with principal project stakeholders to ensure that
feedback from community groups and implementation agencies is incorporated in annual project
work-plans. Training will be provided by members of the Technical assistance team and planning
advisors. PRA training for community organizers (para 19) selected from boundary villages, and
local NGOs will be provided by WWF.
Management and Implementation
17.   The lead agency managing this component will be the BAPPEDA 11, who will act as the
Kabupaten-level coordinator (PIMPRO). The Kabupaten-coordinator is the primary manager for
implementing and monitoring component activities. The PIMPRO coordinates the activities of the
relevant technical agencies (Dinases) providing technical and extension services to target villages
and the technical advisory team including local NGOs. Each district involved in the project will be
facilitated by a management support group composed of the PIMPRO, the WWF district
coordinator and visiting WWF specialist staff, visiting members of the technical support team (this
includes: a rural development advisor, agricultural advisors, small enterprise advisors, planners),
and representatives of participating extension agencies selected as the situation requires. The
PIMPRO reports to the Bupati (District Head) and the BAPPEDA I at the provincial-level. The
Technical Assistance to be provided by WWF would focus on the process of participatory village
land use and village development planning, including facilitating a Community Conservation
Agreement and training of village facilitators, whereas the technical support team would provide a
more specific technical facilitating role, including regional planning and would be closely
associated with the staff of the technical agencies. Coordination of activities between Kabupatens
and Provinces takes place through the Inter-Provincial Coordination Committee. This committee
is composed of representatives of the four governors, the Park Director, a representative of the
MoFr Forest Utilization directorate, and WWF.



- 51 -
ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 10
18.   Implementation of component activities is built around three major processes: village
selection; formulating an activity menu; and village implementation. Village selection will begin
early in implementation to prioritize villages and identify special management areas. Each
Kabupaten will develop an activity menu of project approved activities that will be formulated
through a process of expert evaluation, feasibility study and information exchange with other
kabupatens. Implementation follows a phased sequence of activities: survey, situation analysis,
facilitation, planning, implementation and monitoring. Village development activity proposals are
prepared by target groups (facilitated by local community organizers and NGOs), reviewed by the
village council (LKMD) and forwarded by the village head as a development proposal (DUP)
through a consultative process (UDKP) at the sub-district (kecamatan-level). These are then
forwarded to the Kabupaten where the proposals will be reviewed by the Kabupaten PIMPRO and
forwarded to a provincial guidance team for approval. Funds will be channeled through the
Kabupaten PIMPRO who will release them to the lead technical agency responsible for assisting
villagers implement a project activity.
19.   Resident village facilitators (tenaga/pendamping) will play a key role in the village
development component. They will initiate and supervise all community-based implementation of
project activities in each target village, including the identification and strengthening of existing
common-interest groups and the organization of target groups, orienting and assisting them with
participatory rural appraisal, village land use- and development planning, annual work
programming and budgetting, and with implementing their planned development interventions.
Owing to the critical importance of this facilitation function, the work involved, and the isolation
and size of most target villages, there will be two facilitators assigned to each village. The village
conservation facilitator (VCF) will be a graduate or high school diploma-holder experienced in
community work recruited from the district. The local community organizer (LCO) will be
recruited from the village and nominated by the LKMD. The LCO will act as the local assistant
trainee to the VCF and towards the end of the establishment phase (i.e. during the third year of
implementation) will assume increasing responsibility for facilitating project processes in the
village. After the third year the VCF will move on to initiate and facilitate the project in the other
villages targeted during the expansion phase (Years 4-6).
Component Linkages
20.   The arealvillage development component has close links to Park management, improved
concession management and planning activities. In Park management, target village selection and
boundary rationalization activities have to be coordinated with Park management activities. Park
staff will also participate in negotiating community conservation agreements with boundary
villages as a prerequisite for development investment. The two components will also develop
monitoring indicators for human impact on the Park. In concession areas, the rural development
component will target twenty four villages for development assistance. Planning advisors will also
assist the Kabupaten technical advisory team to ensure the project activities conform to regional
and spatial plans.



- 52 -
ANNEX 1
Page 8 of 10
C. INTEGRATING BIODIVERSITY IN FOREST CONCESSION MANAGEMENT
Concession Biodiversity Assessment
21.   This component will support four main activities. These include: training for enhanced
biodiversity conservation within forest concessions; independent audits of logging operations;
biodiversity assessment conservation within production areas; and community forestry activities.
Training for Improved Forest Management within Conservation Areas
22.   The project will provide short-term technical expertise to assist the Ministry of Forestry,
provincial forest agency (Dinas Kehutanan) and concessionaires with the implementation of
improved biodiversity conservation within concession areas. Focus will be on forest sites during
and after logging. The project will provide training support to selected trainees from the Ministry,
Dinas, concessions. Training will focus on techniques and knowledge needed to conserve in-situ
biodiversity in concession areas. The project will provide support for 220 traineeships of 2-3 week
duration. The project will also fund production of training materials, visiting experts and field
travel as required. Training activities will be linked to biodiversity assessment information
generated from concessions.
Independent Audits of Logging Operations
23.   To ensure that upgraded monitoring and enforcement is having the desired effect, the
project will contract the services of a forest inspection firm to audit operations in the eleven
concessions bordering the Park. Standards for forest management, environmental and social
performance based on those currently being developed by the Indonesian Ecolabelling Institute
(LEI) in collaboration with the international Forest Stewardship Council will be employed. The
LEI will be invited to participate in field inspection activities. Inspection activities will be phased
with, two concessions (picked at random) selected per year for audits. Audit results will be
submitted to the IPCC and the Directorate of Forest Utilization for appropriate follow-up and
action.
Biodiversity Conservation within Concession Areas.
24.   The project will support field ecological surveys to identify and locate especially biodiverse
areas within the concessions. The surveys will make use of existing field, GIS and remote sensing
data available from INTAG (Directorate for Forest Inventory), and other GOI agencies. The
project will also support initial activities to demarcate and manage these areas. This component
will require close coordination with the Park Management team and the Park Director. Project
funds will pay for short-term field biodiversity specialists and field survey costs.
Community Forestry



-53-
ANNEX 1
Page 9 of 10
25.   The project will identify areas (based on remote sensing and ground survey) where
significant encroachment has occurred into logged-over and unlogged production forest areas.
Communities living in or near such areas will be identified through field socio-economic surveys,
and engaged in community forestry and rural development activities as described under the rural
development component. Such communities will be selected for allocation of community forestry
agreements, and the project will provide income generating investments, and inputs to improve
land use on these sites. The continuity of financial support will be made contingent upon
performance in curtailing encroachment. Some twenty four villages will be selected out of the 134
target villages near forest concession areas.  Activities under this sub-component will be
implemented jointly with the rural development component.
Management and Implementation
26.   A staff of the Kanwil Kehutanan Jambi, section responsible for concession monitoring, will
be assigned as the project manager (PIMPRO) for the project. The PIMPRO is responsible for the
day-to-day implementation of activities financed under this component, and will report through the
Kanwil Kehutanan to a Project Management Committee in the Ministry of Forestry. The PIMPRO
will be supported by a project-funded Management Support Unit and Technical Advisory Group
which will assists with annual planning, financial management, monitoring and reporting. The
technical advisory team will include a: senior ecologist, training and biodiversity consultants and a
community forestry advisor attached to the rural development team. Field programs will be
implemented through the Dinas Kehutanan II (Pimbagpro) in the Kabupatens covering the target
concession areas (Sarolangun Bangko and Bungo Tebo in Jambi and Bengkulu Utara in Bengkulu).
27.   An ICDP Project Management Committee (PMC) will be established to supervise the Park
Management and Concession Management components within the Ministry of Forestry. The PMC
will provide policy and technical guidance. The PMC will be chaired by the Director Bureau of
Foreign Cooperation (KLN) with members from the DG Forest Inventory and Land Use (INTAG),
DG PHPA (Director of National Parks, and Director Bina Programs), DG Forest Utilization
(Director of KPHP and Director Bina Programs), the Secretary General's Office, Forest Research
and a representative of the forest concessionaire's association (APHI).
Component Linkages
28.   Activities financed under the Concession Management Component will be closely
coordinated with the Park Management component, specifically: boundary delineation and
ecological surveys within the concession areas; and with the Rural Development component;
specifically selection of target villages for community forestry activities and the financing and
implementation of village infrastructure and income generating activities.
D. PROJECT MONITORING AND EVALUATION
29.   The monitoring program aims to develop the institutional capacity of the various
agencies involved in the conservation and protection of the Park to monitor biodiversity and
socio-economic conditions and to plan "Park friendly" economic programs. The program will
support the Park Management and Biodiversity Conservation component by providing tools for



-54-
ANNEX 1
Page 10 of 10
monitoring encroachment, poaching, and other uncontrolled development activities within the
Park and by developing performance indicators assessing the health and well-being of the Park.
It will support the Concession Management component by monitoring the integrity of the
boundaries between the concessions and the Park and by monitoring forest conditions and
management practices within the concessions. It will support the Rural Development component
by developing capacities for analyzing the impacts of rural development activities both on the
Park and on the local communities in the buffer zone around the Park and by assessing the
project's effectiveness in enhancing the socio-economic conditions of local people.
30.   The project will provide technical assistance support in the first year of the project to
design and establish the overall monitoring system, including the Geographic Information
System.  In addition, assistance will be provided to finalize the selection of appropriate
indicators, develop a Data Base Management system, input baseline data, introduce and integrate
the system into the existing institutional environment, and implement a human resource
development program to enable the staff of the various government agencies at various levels to
operate the system. In the second and third years of the project, the practical application of the
system will be tested. The system will be fully operational at this stage to support evaluation and
impact assessment activities. Following a thorough review, additional data and indicators will
be added to the database. The monitoring and evaluation systems will include Geographic
Information System capabilities thatwill be integrated into the overall Management Information
System.
31.   The technical assistance will include approximately 99 staff-months of support (16
months expatriate and 83 months local). The TA will include a long-term local GIS/monitoring
specialist who will serve as team leader and assist the Park manager in supervising the M&E
activities. It will also include an expatriate monitoring advisor, an MIS specialist, and an
evaluation specialist. The project will provide support for computer hardware and software for
the monitoring and evaluation activities at the Park office and at the provincial and kabupaten
planning offices. Support will also be provided for data collection and conversion. This will
include satellite imagery, aerial photography, map baseline data, ground verification data, and
socio-economic surveys.  Training (approximately 153 staff-months) will be provided to
provincial, kabupaten, and Park managers to ensure the systematic use of the monitoring
information in the planning and decision-making processes.
32.   The monitoring and evaluation activity will fall under the direction and responsibility of
the Park management office in Sungai Penuh. This office will establish a "base" for the
information system and will collaborate and cooperate with the existing information collection
and analysis activities of a local NGO (World Wildlife Fund). Each of the agencies with a
responsibility for implementing components of the project (e.g., the BAPPEDAs and the
Kanwils Kehutanan) will also be strengthened with a "subset" of the overall monitoring system.
The Park manager will be overall responsible for the development and implementation of the
M&E system.



-55 -
ANNEX2
Page I of 4
SUMMARY SOCIAL ASSESSMENT INFORMATION FOR
BOUNDARY VILLAGES
Demographic Factors
1.  , The population in the nine buffer zone districts (kabupatens) surrounding the Park is
approximately 3.3 million. The 36 sub-districts (Kecamatans) bordering the Park have a
population of 1.64 million. The population of the 468 boundary villages ranges from 500-
700,000 people. The largest population concentrations in the immediate vicinity of the Park, are
at Sungai Penuh (62,000) in the center, Lubuk Linggau (103,000) and Curup (131,000) in the
South. Population density in the rural kecamatans varies between 8-80 persons per km2. The
village populations range from several hundred to more than a thousand inhabitants (50-300
households). The population in the four provinces grew by 2.8 percent p.a. in the period 1970-90,
well above the national average of 2.0 percent. In-migration is the major cause of this high level
of population growth, in particular in Bengkulu province where annual growth was close to 4.4
percent. The province of West Sumatra is an exception, where growth rates are decreasing from
2.2 to 1.6 percent due to a long tradition of male out-migration.
Table 1.    Population Distribution by province and Kabupaten
Province                   Kabupaten/Kecamatans             Population
W. Sumatra                 Pesisir Selatan (6)              328,490
Solok (4)                        178,342
Sawahlunto (1)                   44,213
Jambi                      Kerinci (6)                      283,924
Bungo Tebo (3)                   154,498
Bangko (5)                       133,247
S. Sumatra                 Musi Rawas (4)                   181,046
Bengkulu                   Rejang Lebong (4)                182,914
Bengkulu Utara (3)               157,606
The project strategy is to develop a series of programs ranging from incentives to pull people
away from the boundary villages, to alternative income generating programs for households in
these villages.
Cultural Groups and Local Institutions
2.    There is considerable ethnic variation between the four provinces, and with this variation
in traditional village organizations, systems of community organization, and village-level
decision-making over resource management. The following table gives a breakdown of the
predominant ethnic groups and their use of local institutions for resource management. There are
two sets of institutions that operate in these boundary villages: traditional organizations such as
the Ninik Mamak, Kaum and Marga, and government established institutions such as the
Lembaga Ketahanan Masyarakat Desa (LKMD) and the Lembaga Masyarakat Desa (LMD) the



-56-
ANNEX2
Page 2 of 4
village development council and consultation forum which takes decisions on development
activities at the village level and is the officially recognized forum for village-based consultation.
In many of the boundary villages, due to in-migration of Javanese and other ethnic groups,
traditional institutions no longer play a significant role in regulating resource use. This allows
outsiders to enter protected forest areas for agriculture, tree crops and other opportunistic use.
Traditional organizations continue to exert a major influence in land use and resource access
decision-making in boundary villages in West Sumatra, Kabupaten Kerinci and in some villages
in Bengkulu. The project design calls for an in-depth inventory of these institutions and will
support their involvement in project implementation as well as formal village institutions.
Table 2.     Distribution of Ethnic Groups by Province
Province                            Ethnic Group           Village Organizations
West Sumatra                        Minang                       Ninik Mamak
LKMD, LMD
Jambi                               Kerinci                      Kaum
Javanese                     LKMD, LMD
Sundanese
Batak
South Sumatra                       Rejang                       Marga
LKMD, LMD
Bengkulu                            Rejang                       Marga
Javanese                     LKMD, LMD
Minang
Batak
Categories of Encroach ers
3.    There are five categories of encroachers operating in KSNP boundary villages:
(a)    Wealthy "Patrons" ( Pertani berdasi) who finance farm workers to clear forest and
plant cinnamon. The worker receive a monthly wage, food and 50 percent of the
crop value after harvest, usually a period of up to 1O years. Some patrons purchase
young (1-2 year old) cinnamon plantations.
(b)    Local People (elit desa) who live outside the Park but enter to develop plantations
ranging in size from  4-500 ha in multiple plots and sites.  The trees are
progressively felled as they mature and after one or two coppice crops, the soil is
abandoned and the farmer claims ownership of the abandoned plot.
(c)    People who live outside the Park (pemukin dikawasan) do not own a house or
farm outside and have lived in settlements for many years. Some of these
settlements are officially registered as enclaves within the Park and have village
status.



-57-
ANNEX2
Page 3 of 4
(d)   Newcomers (pendatang) from outside the Park, mainly young couples.
(e)    Farm workers (anak ladang) who work for "pati7ons" and others.
Project interventions range from stricter enforcement against category (a) and (b), and
disincentives for categories (d) and alternative income generating opportunities for category (c)
and (e).
Adat Institutions and Resource Control
4.    In boundary villages where Adat Institutions are still functioning, they play a significant
role in regulating resource use, protecting watershed areas and in West Sumatra, regulating the
complex system of communal land tenure. The following description of how the adat institution
ftunctions in Lempur, a typical boundary village, in kabupaten Kerinci, provides input in how
such institutions could play a key role in biodiversity conservation.
5.    In Lempur Village the smallest social unit is described as a tumbi (household), several
tumbi - based on kinship - form a perut. A group of perut are described as a kalbu and several
kalbu form a kaum or clan. A village may contain several kaums which are called kurung
kampung. The adat leader of the whole village is called the Depati Agung. His decisions are
based on consultation, and he is assisted in his tasks by two other Depatis. Decisions are only
made when all three are present at a meeting. Each Depati has specific roles: one deals with the
government, the second is responsible for rules and laws and the third is responsible for
development activities. Depatis are chosen based on their economic standing in the community.
Villagers follow adat restrictions, mainly for fear of social ostracization from the community.
Many Adat leaders also play a dual role as government representatives in 'official' village
institutions such as council members of the LKMD or as the village head. Most village-level
disputes and conflicts are resolved through village meetings chaired by the Depati. In Lempur
village this traditional institution has played a major role in resolving boundary conflicts with the
Park and developing a consensus village-land use plan and zonation which will be enforced by
the Kaum.
6.    In "ethnically" homogenous villages, such traditional institutions can play a major role as
intermediaries between Park authorities and villagers in resolving boundary and land use
conflicts. In more heterogeneous villages, with new migrants, the more formal government
administered institutions and religious institutions assisted by NGOs will play this role. During
the first year of project implementation, the local NGOs will assist the implementing institutions
identify traditional groups and institutions in the boundary villages to work with in implementing
development activities and enforcing conservation agreements.



-58 -
ANNEX2
Page 4 of 4
Land Tenure
7.    Very little land near the Park boundary, outside of transmigration sites is titled. In West
Sumatran boundary villages land is controlled through a system of communal and individual land
tenure, with most wet rice plots being individually titled, whereas tree crop (ladang) lands are
controlled by clan ownership. In the other provinces, with the decline in the influence of
traditional organizations, coupled with ambiguity of land tenure, there is limited internal village
control on outside migrants coming-in and opening new upland fields within the Park boundary.
Further work on land tenure systems in the boundary villages will be done during
implementation. The project will develop Community Conservation Agreements which will
give usufruct rights to local communities for buffer zone areas and allow them to prevent
outsiders from opening new lands within the Park.



- 59 -
ANNEX3
Page I of 7
COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION AND STAKEHOLDER
CONSULTATION ACTIVITIES
I       Community and "stakeholder" consultation activities have been an integral part of project
preparation, design and will continue to play an important role during project implementation. The
project "stakeholders" include the following groups: provincial and local governments; PHPA (Park
Management Authority); sectoral technical agencies; forest concession holders; industrial crop
estates; local and national NGOs; local communities and traditional organizations.
2.      The objective of the consultation activities were the following:
*       Inform project stakeholders of the proposed project and its objective;
*       Allow   opportunities  for  information  to  be  presented  by  stakeholders  and
communities on issues and problems related to KSNP and its buffer zone;
*       Allow for stakeholder input in ICDP project design from primary stakeholders.
These consultation activities have used a range of participatory techniques to meet these objectives.
The following tables provide summary information on these consultation activities, stakeholder
involvement, duration and outputs.
Table 1.         Summary Information on Consultation During ICDP Preparation 1992-1993
Consultation Activity      Stakehoiders Involved                Duration                    Output
Rapid Rural Appraisal      Boundary             village  November  -  December  Village  profiles, land  use
Exercise  In  12 Boundary  Communities:                 1992,                     sketch  maps, institutional
Villages in 4 provinces by  W. Sumatra (3 villages); Jambi  1 week per village    diagrams,        transects.
DHV-Kepas      preparation  (4  villages);  Bengkulu  (4                          identification of people-Park
consu?tants               -villages);   S.Sumatra   (1                            interactions.
village).
Consutation   and   village   Boundary village communities  November 1992- February  Identification    of    adat
profile of 8 KSNP boundary  In: W. Sumatra (1); S.Sumatra  1993                   institutions, and major social
villages by WWF            (1); Bengkulu (2); and Jambi                           and economic issues facing
(2)                                                    communities   in  target
villages
Consultion meetngs with  Local NGOs from  WARSI  November  1992-  March  Consultation   meeting  in
local and National NGOs by  network In Jambi, W.Sumatra,  1993                    Palembang;    consultation
NGO  faciltator on  DHV   S.Sumatra, and Bengkulu; and                            meeting    in    Padang;
preparation team           with   representatives   of                            consultation   meeting  in
national environmental NGOs                           Jakarta; 6 NGOs participated
in inception report meeting;
inter-provincial  consultation
meeting   in   Singkarak
W.Sumatra;    consultation
meeting in Jambi; NGO
round-table  discussion  in
Jakarta;  and  background
report on NGO role in ICDP.



-60 -
ANNEX3
Page 2 of 7
Table 2.         Consultation Activities During ICDP Preparation 1994-1995
Consutation/Partlipatlon         Stakeholders Involved             Duration                  Output
Activity
Provincial  meeting   with  Bappeda 1, Forestry, Agriculture,  July - September 1993  Feedback         from
principal   sectoral   and  Transmigratlon,  Land  Agency,                           stakeholder on preliminary
planning agencies to discuss  Park    Management,    Local                           ICDP design; identification
ICDP preparation reports and  Govemment, NGOs                                        of  need  for  further
design                                                                               participatory  preparation
and   phased    project
implementation approach
Japanese   Grant  Facility  WWF working with 6 boundary  July 1994 - June 1995       Data set of biophysical
(JGF)   to   WWF   for  communities in: Rantau Kermas,                               and      socio-economic
participatory  pilot  project  Muara Hemat and Renah Kayu                           information; analysis and
kdentification activfties in six  Embun villages (Jambi province);                   profile  of  people-Park
boundary villages, base-line  and Sukamerindu, Sungai Ipuh,                          interaction;
survey,   database   and   Talang Arah villages (Bengkulu                           implementation    model;
preparation of manuals     Province),                                               field    guide,     and
identification of institutions
and training of individuals
as community organizers
for project implementation.
WARSI   assistance   In  12 local NGOs In four provinces  July 1994- June 1995       Strengthening  of  local
strengthening    community  working with communities in four                         NGO  network  to  help
participaton  In  proposed   boundary villages: Sungal Kalu                         implement ICDP activities,
KSNP ICDP activiies        (W.Sumatra),   Pesisir   Bukit                           survey of local institutions
(Jambi); Napal Licin (S.Sumatra);                        and analysis of potential
and Katenong I (Bengkulu).                               for  ICDP  involvement;
development          of
participatory  information
collection    techniques;
development of media e nd
information packets for
boundary communities on
proposed ICDP
ZOPP participatory Planning   Bappeda I and 11 from  target  August - December 1994    Participatory problem
Workshops In Jambi, West  Kabupatens, Camats, Head of                                identification and analysis;
Sumatra,  Bengkulu  and   Dinas  agencies  for  forestry,                            prioritization target areas
Sungai Penuh               agriculture, tree crops, livestock,                       & activities for ICDP
tourism, cottage industry, PHPA,                         implementation;
Kanwil             Kehutanan,                            identification of
concessionaires, adat  leaders,                          implementing agencies &
village heads, local NGOs and                            mechanisms for
WWF                                                      coordinating activities;
consensus building
between stakeholders
holding divergent views.
Review  to discuss Regional  Local   governments,   central  April-May 1995          Tables from  BAPPENAS
Impact Assessment (RIA)    govemment  agencies,  private                            of   5/9/95   indicating
sector, local NGOs and WWF.                              agreement in principle to
RIA.



-61 -
ANNEX3
Page 3 of 7
Community Consultation Activities with Local NGOs
3.    Community consultation activities have provided invaluable project design input, by
allowing participants from representative boundary villages the opportunity to identify problems and
issues related to the Park and possible development initiatives that could be implemented by local
institutions. Village-level community consultation has been conducted by WWF and WARSI, a local
network of conservation and development NGOs. These activities have provide valuable base-line
information for the project, as well as have supported local-level institutional development. These
consultation activities have been implemented in ten boundary villages in the four provinces.
Villages were selected on the basis of high-level of interaction between the community and the Park.
Financial support for these activities, including further start-up training and planning (to be
completed before April 1996) was provided by JGF.
Base-line Socio-economic and Landscape Surveys
4.    WWF has conducted a baseline socio-economic and landscape survey in the following six
villages: Rantau Kermas, Muara Imat, Renah Kayu Embun (Jambi Province) and Sukamerindu,
Sungei Ipuh, Talang Arah (Bengkulu province). The specific objectives of this activities were as
follows:
 To compile an integrated database of physical and socioeconomic information to be used
for participatory planning and project monitoring activities;
* To prepare participatory plans in the interaction zone of the survey areas; and
* To test and develop implementation strategies to assist the ICDP.
These activities are being conducted in close collaboration with the local community, local
government representatives and Park management authorities.
NGO Community Consultation Activities
5.    WARSI is a network of twelve local Sumatra-based NGOs, many of whom are actively
assisting local communities with development activities in villages adjacent to the Park. The NGOs
are working in boundary villages in the four provinces covering KSNP-(Sungei Manau Atas in W.
Sumatra; Napal Licin in S.Sumatra; Katenong in Bengkulu and Pelompek in Jambi). WARSI is
assisting the ICDP preparation by undertaking the following activities:
* strengthening the local NGOs so they can actively participate in implementing the ICDP;
* conducting surveys on local institutions and community organizations working in the
villages and assessing their potential to participate in the ICDP;
* producing a series of case studies on people-Park interactions and identifying
mechanisms for conflict resolution;



.62-
ANNEX3
Page 4 of 7
* working with local communities in identifying development activities that could be
financed by the ICDP;
* developing media materials (posters, videos, pamphlets, newsletter) to provide
information to-local communities on the ICDP.
Description of Participatory Techniques
6.    WWF and WARSI are using several innovative participatory "tools" to involve boundary
communities in ICDP project design. Both groups are using Participatory Rural Appraisal (PRA)
techniques to involve community members in problem identification, analysis and development of
potential ICDP interventions. Some of the tools used are described as follows:
* Sketch-maps of the boundary villages drawn by community members, showing village
land use, settlements, and Park boundary;
* Land use Transects identifying land use linked to topography, soils, agricultural and tree
crops, interaction with the Park and problems constraining production;
* Time Lines indicating history of village settlement, and introduction of external
development interventions including boundary demarcation;
* Seasonal Calendars indicating variation in seasonal agricultural activities;
* Ranking and Trends: priority ranking exercises to identify possible interventions; and
analysis of village development trends in health, transportation, education, commodity
production and interaction with Park boundary; and
* Institutional Diagrams identifying different institutions working at the village level, their
role in decision-making and level of interaction between institutions.
In addition, the local NGOs are working closely with traditional leaders and community groups
through regular village-based community meetings to discuss land use near the Park boundary, ways
to develop consensus zonation near the boundary, Park protection and implementation of ICDP
activities.
Zopp' Planning Workshops
7.    Objective
The primary objective of the participatory planning workshops (ZOPP) are the following:
* to train representatives of different stakeholder groups involved in implementing the
ICDP in participatory planning methodology;
* to develop a planning document (project planning matrix, plan of operations) utilizing
the methodology;
* improve communication and common understanding of the issues among the Dinas
agencies to be involved in executing the project; and
* improve community participation by discussing and analyzing problems jointly with
community representatives.
Objective Oriented Project Planning (Ziel Orientierte Projekt Planung).



-63 -
ANNEX3
Page 5 of 7
The Process
8.    The Zopp methodology uses participants knowledge and experience, and allows them to
express their opinions freely through a system of presenting written information on cards. These
cards are then analyzed by the group. The workshop, conducted over a period of four days, and
facilitated by an experienced ZOPP facilitator follows a process-oriented approach which builds on
group analysis, discussion and consensus. The following steps describe the ZOPP process:
*     Step 1: problem analysis and identification of core problem;
*     Step 2: identification of causes leading to the problem, developing a problems tree
which allows complex relationships to be portrayed;
*     Step 3: the problem tree is transformed into an objective tree by translating a
negative existing situation into a desired situation in the future by providing several
alternative solutions;
*     Step 4: solutions are screened using project planning criteria;
*     Step 5: involves developing a project planning matrix which shows how the project
should be carried out, what is the project goal; how it is proposed to achieve this
goal; what external factors influence this; how to measure the extent by which the
objectives have been attained; data required for evaluation and cost estimates for
project activities.
ZOPP workshops were conducted for ICDP stakeholders in all four provinces. These ZOPP
workshops helped bring together the principal "stakeholders" - community members, NGOs, local
government agencies, and PHPA- who will be responsible for implementing the project in the future.
The project planning matrix described in Box I indicates the preliminary results from the ZOPP held
in Jambi.
Output
9.    The output of the workshop is a project planning matrix that helps decision makers overview
the project strategy, indicators for achieving its goal, and the purpose and result of the project. This
analyses allows the government technical executing agencies develop a plan of operation which
spells out who has to do what, when, where, and how much the activity will cost. The important
output of the process is a greater understanding among the different agencies involved, which results
in improved coordination and cooperation which is essential for the ICDP project.



-64-
ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 7
Box          .                     Project. f.   i Planning    M       r                                           .... i n   . ..
Jamiftiand SouthM Suara19199994".
i; SS;00  0 f  t:if;it;A;..... ... ...... -.,  f-t  f000     S   ; i 400 t t f ;    : -0-.:-T t....... .  . . . .   . . . . . ....  f t00
.. .     . .   . .   ..   .      ...--........:                   .:             : 
asfrmulate byZOP?okhppatcpns
3.       Oupu:  implement  measures  thatimprove  community  inc                              e;.         i e  exe ns
sevices; -       himproveti Coor nation   among bgoernment  ageniesnand  comm it   groups;
-increase o uniy  tiptin inboundary demarcation; a-d impre l  enfocment
.to sup:portPrpote:h     ctiotn.         : -: '   :i   :    i:  :'''' ---   :: :::   -:' 
2.                             es :h  - .                       be   :                  
:   7  .     TE   E .          .       ::  T::  7   : ~ ~~~~~ .. . f e : .  : -.    -              ih : 
. ~ ~ ~  ~     ~  .   ...   ..  ..  .  ..  .... ..   ...    .E     . .  .                               ..  .     ....:         - ::E ::   : :  
4. f       Acivities:,;i,ntroduce0 new improved: ;           , fanng; -pra,cu,ces;0i0 codcttmg    antd,:ptovide;
0  ttftisupport *forincoame generation ativties; peareguidelines fo communities to participa^te
0   ;;In boundary demtarcation ativities; improve bottom-upplanning proess, improve; sk;ills
of extensionpersonnel,tst ,;:::::': etc.      :Xt      :::W :     E:;:           
5.F ;I n 4kaor   reuto - : :  O -- inF  nuberS   ofX :Par  :encroaciers, i1ncreased  income  of  target:
-   m. pp m r ..ice... h koEo    -----       . .  .        ..   . .    ..   ..   ...    .. ...    ....  .-  .  .   ...    ....
house-od. nwbes. . ....househldsinvDoledinb oundr  demarctio                             et .: . . .  .
-   :   :   :   .  : ~~~~.   .   .   .. .   .. . . .   . 
.   :   :  i:   :  :   .:   -  ::.   :.    -  -  :E    -   :-   ... . . . ..: ......
6.: tInputt. resources prov;ided incude APPBN(reforestation funds) APBTh APBD I, APBD II,0
3.-                                                - f ;    --   :::::E::A: f tig   ' :  .             as.:~   ... :n-stqn   ; X00;. --0;; yfi: :,  
:  : 0 -  . .........emen.  meaue:               An9e  co mu    : : me :tint::::.:  i0-:r:   e i  
~~~~~~~~~~~~.           :. ..   .   .   -.................... ... . . . .  P r  ..   ...... ..  .  ..   ....................,:
Participation during Project Implementation
10.      Based on the experience gained through participatory project preparation the ICDP project
will continue to use the following participatory techniques during project implementation:
*        NGO-assisted  training  of boundary  communities  in  PRA  techniques  to  conduct
village-based analysis and design of ICDP development interventions financed by the
project;
*        preparation  of village-level maps, delineating  land  use  and  zonation  based  on
consultation and participatory field-based sketch mapping. These maps will provide



-65 -
ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 7
the basis for negotiating community conservation agreements between boundary
communities and the Park and local government authorities;
*     participatory (ZOPP) planning workshops to be organized on an annual basis with
project stakeholders to provide feed-back to improve project implementation; and
*     preparation of extension materials on the Park and biodiversity conservation for local
communities using innovative media techniques.



-66 -                            ANNEX4
Page 1 of3
INDICATIVE DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES
A number of candidate development activities were proposed by govemment officials,
and by the project preparation team. These activities fall into the categories of agriculture,
forestry, small enterprise/industry, social welfare, tourism, and public village infrastructure.
These indicative development activities are listed and briefly described below:
AGRICULTURE
1.    Cassiavera Intensification: To increase returns and sustainability of this profitable tree
crop through selective breeding, better agronomic practices, and inter-cropping with other tree or
food crops.
2.    Tea: To establish smallholder tea estates on unused land for poor or landless families.
This concept has already been proven successful in Kabupaten Solok, West Sumatra.
3.    Vegetable Integrated Pest Management:  To decrease the use of environmentally
destructive pesticides in temperate vegetable growing areas around the Park through introduction
of IPM techniques.
4.    Vanilla: To introduce this high value crop to agro-ecologically suitable areas. Vanilla is
already being grown successfully on a small scale in Kabupaten Kerinci.
5.    Improved Jungle Rubber: To increase the productivity and biodiversity value of this low
intensity agricultural system found extensively in the lowlands to the east of the Park. Initial
exploratory research on this system has been conducted by French scientists.
6.    Cage fish culture: To introduce these highly productive systems to villages that have an
adequate source of flowing water, and a market for the fish. Cage culture is already established
at the outlet of Lake Kerinci.
7.    Fish Ponds: To introduce these relatively low input protein production systems to
villages that do not have access to fish from rivers or lakes. Fish production has the potential to
reduce hunting pressure on wild animal populations inside and outside the Park.
8.    Small Ruminants: To introduce goats to poor families as a source of protein and income.
9.    Bee Keeping: To introduce the skill and inputs of bee keeping to target groups that have
small plots of land. Honey is a high value, easily transported produce that requires little land for
its production.



- 67.                          ANNEX4
Page 2 of 3
FORESTRY
10.   Agroforestry: To introduce agroforestry systems based on cassiavera or other tree crops
to the project area. ICRAF has already begun preliminary agroforestry research near the Park in
West Sumatra.
11.   Community Forestry: To introduce community forests as one type of village land use.
WWF has already pioneered this approach in Keluru Village in Kabupaten Kerinci. It has the
dual benefit of providing the community with fuel wood and timber, as well as forming a buffer
zone on the Park boundary.
12.   Nurseries: To assist target groups or individuals to establish village nurseries for the
following commercial purposes: sale of fruit or timber tree seedlings to fellow villagers; sale of
palm tree seedlings to PHPA for marking the Park boundary; sale of seedlings to Dinas PKT for
use in regreening and reforestation.
13.   Rattan Plantations: To explore the possibility of establishing village rattan plantations to
replace rattan that is currently being harvested in the Park. Initial research by Stephen F. Siebert
of the University of Montana indicates that the clustering rattan, Calamus exiles could be grown
sustainably in the project area because this species resprouts after harvesting. The small canes
are used primarily for handicrafts.
14.   Turpentine Tapping: To increase the practice of tapping pine trees for resin for sale to
turpentine factories. Many pines have already been planted for reforestation, and demand for
turpentine exceeds the supply of resin.
SMALL ENTERPRISES/INDUSTRY
15.   Rattan Handicrafts: To introduce rattan handicrafts more widely in the project area, and
expand the range of products and markets. this builds on an existing handicraft tradition.
16.   Village Industries: To explore the possibility of introducing small village industries such
as black-smithing or simple furniture making.
17.   Agricultural Processing: To explore the possibility of introducing simple agriculture
processing techniques to add value to cassiavera or other products.



- 68-                          ANNEX4
Page 3 of 3
SOCIAL
18.   Scholarships: To provide scholarships for children in SMk villages to attend school in
nearby towns or cities to provide them with a better education, and to encourage them to move
away from their village when they reach adulthood.
19.   Land Titling: To assist selected villagers to obtain government ownership certificates for
their land. This woulu only be done in exceptional circumstances as titling is an expensive and
time-consuming process.
TOURISM
20.   Hospitality Training: To train village women in the cooking, sanitation, language and
hospitality needed to attract international visitors to their homes for a remote homestay
experience. WWF has already been successful in providing this training in the village from
which visitors begin the ascent of the Mount Kerinci.
21.   Guide Training: to provide young men with the necessary language, intercultural, and
nature interpretation skills to guide foreign visitors into the Park.
PUBLIC VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE
22.   Access Roads: to build light traffic access roads to villages close to the existing road
network. Prior to approval, these roads would have to be evaluated for possible negative impacts
on the Park, through AMDAL process.
23.   Small Scale Irrigation Systems: To construct simple irrigation systems with village labor
to increase rice production in villages that border a stream or river.
24.   Drinking Water Supply Systems: To provide a reliable and clear source of drinking
water to the entire village to improve sanitation and reduce the amount of time needed to obtain
water.
THE SELECTION PROCESS
25.   The villages assisted by the project will receive a tree year cycle of intervention that
includes surveys, situation analysis, facilitation, planning, implementation, and monitoring.
These steps will be repeated during each year of the cycle as a learning experience for the
villagers, and to allow mid-course corrections to be made. All sub-components would be
integrated into this process.
26.   The village intervention process is guided by the Kabupaten Coordinator in consultation
with the Camat. Activity proposals would be reviewed through the standard GOI process that
includes the LKMD at the village level and the UDKP at the Kabupaten level before being
submitted to the Kabupaten Coordinator. Facilitation will be done by LCOs and local NGO
staff, and the Community Participation Advisor and the WWF supervisor would provide periodic
assistance. Kabupaten technical agencies would implement development activities. The TAT
would assist village leaders and target groups to write activity proposals in the DUP format.



INDONESIA
Kerinci Seblat Integrated Conservation and Development Project
Proposed Technical Assistance
Estimated                                                   Standard Con-   Responsibility
List of TA                                    Implementing   Total Cost*      No. of        Status of TOR (Date)    Short List (Date)  tract Prepared  for Supervision
Contract/Activity        Purpose/Objectives         Agency       (USS'000)     Staffmonth     Prepared   Expected   Prepared Expected     (Y/N)       RSI     HQ
A. Preparation/
Implementation Support
(a) Park Management      Assist in the preparation &      PHPA             1,S81  302 (foreign)      12/94
implementation of a Park                          448  214 (local)         12/94
Management plan.
(b) Area/Village DcvL    Assist sclcted villages in     Kabupaten/         Lump sum = 3,440                     1/%
(i) Village intervention  resource stabilization and  Camat/LKMD             (NGOs/LCOs)
process                income gencration.                               1,336  186 (foreign)      12/94
1,581  334 (local)                   1/96
(ii) Regional and sptial    Integation of pak panning    BAPPEDA I & 11      144  9 (foreign)        3/95
planning              with regional/provincial                           781  152 (local)         3/95
planning.
(c) Concession Biodiversity  Assist in bounday delinea-  KANWIL              98  17 (foreign)                   1/96
Assessment            tion and provision of inspec-   Forestry
tion service, incl. training.                                                                                                                   @
(d) Monitoring & Evaluation Impaet assessnent, analysis,  PHPA              293  16 (foreign)        12/94
& management improvemnenL   KANWIL For.           355  83 (local)                     1/96
BAPPEDAs
B. lastitutional Capacty
Building
The above consultant services are completely intertwined with institutional capacity building.
C. Policy Advice/Studies
10 percent of the consultant services provided under Preparation/lmplementation Support should be regarded as improvement of policies and regulations.
Kerinci Trust Fund Study                                  PHPA              Lump sum= 101                       4/96
Interprovincial Spatial Plan                          Bappeda I & 11        Lump sum = 152                      4/%
Ecotourism Study                                          PHPA               Lump sum =51                       4/96                                          OQ  P
Kubu Development                                       Social Dept.         Lump sum = 522                      4/96                                           -
Tourism Devt. Planning                                    PHPA               Lump sum= 10                       4/96 
Including contingencies.



-70 -
ANEX 5
Page 2 of 2
Technical Assistance and Studies by Component and Lead Agency
Central                        Estimated
Lead           Requirements     Costs
Agency          (Staffmonth)   (US$'000)
Technical Assistance
Central Coordinating Consultants                                   PHPA                   72            620
(Working Group PSC)
Park Management Component                                       MoFr - PHPA
Snr. Park Planner/Mgt. Specialist                                                     39            736
Park & Wildlife Enforcement Officer                                                   36            681
Curriculum Development Specialist                                                      2             11
Writers (two)                                                                         10             45
Park Mgt. Officer                                                                     60             27
Education Extension Officer                                                           60             27
Training Officer                                                                      60             27
Conservation Officer                                                                  65             77
Elephant Specialist                                                                    6            112
Communications Specialist                                                             24            449
Ecologist                                                                             60             27
Sociologist                                                                           94            110
Subtotal                                                                           516          2,329
AreaNillage Development Component                            MoHA - BANGDA
Rural Development Advisor/Team Leader                                                 28            521
Assistant Team Leader                                                                 52            277
Agricultural Advisor                                                                  52            270
Community Forestry Specialist                                                         28            521
Training Advisor                                                                      40            210
Community Participation Advisor                                                       52            270
Small Enterprise Advisors (two)                                                       78             17
Work Engineers (two)                                                                 126            663
Regional Planner                                                                       9            144
Planning Advisors (four)                                                             152            781
Accountant                                                                            64            168
Village Facilitating NGOs                                   MoFr - PHPA              -            3,440
Subtotal                                                                           681          7,282
Concession Biodiversity Assessment Component                     MoFr - PA
Trainer in Concession Managemcnt                                                      17             98
Monitoring & Evaluation Component                            MoHA- BANGDA
Monitoring & Evaluation Specialist                                                    16            293
MvilS Specialist                                                                       9             46
Evaluation Staff                                                                       8              2
M&E and GIS Consultant                                                                66            355
Subtotal                                                                            99           696
TOTAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                       1,385         11,025
Sndkz
Park Management Component
Tourism Development Planning                                MoFr - PHPA              -               10
AreaNillage Development Component
Kerinci Trust Fund Study                                    MoFr - PHPA              -              101
Interprovincial Spatial Plan                             MoHA - BANGDA               -              152
Ecotourism Study                                            MoFr - PHPA              -               51
Kubu Dcvelopmcnt                                         MoHA-BANGDA                 -              522
TOTAL STUDIES                                                                      -             836



KSNP Project Implementation Schedule
1995       1996   1  1997   1  1998           1999        2000        2001        2002
ID  Task Name                                               Duration    Start    Finish   2  1 3  14 2 134  1 2          1 3 1 4 2  3  1 234        2 1 3 1 4 1 1 2 13 1 44   1 1 2 1 3
1  Project Implementation Schedule - KSNP                     1913d    6/11/95   9/30/02
2      Start-up ActIvtins                                      608d    6/1/95   9/30/97
3          Appraisal                                             65d    6/1/95   8/30/95
4          Submit Maps on Concession & Mining Operations          Od   4/23/96   4/23/96                 23
5          Gazettement for KSNP                                   Gd   9/30/97   9/30/97                                9/30
6          Negotations                                            1 w   4/23/96   V24/296
7          GEF Approval                                           Od    1/5/96    1/5196
8          Board Approval                                         Gd   4/30/96   4430/96
9          Grant Ef    llivenee                                   Od   7/31/96   7/31/96
49-7/31
10          Loan Effectvenes                                      Od   7/31/96   7/31/96
7/31
11          Stal-up Mision                                        2w    7/31/96   8/13/96
12      JGF Contract wIth WWF                                   1SOd  12/18195   7/12/96
13         Implment 10 Vdlages (Training & Villge Plan)          30w   12/18/95   7/12/96
-.4
14          Low-land Forest Ecological Assessment                30w   12/18/95   7/12196
15      Staff PIMPRO Appolnbmnis                                130d    6/3196  111291S9
1 6         SK Park Mgr as PIMPRO for Park Mgmrt. Component     1 30d    6/3/96  11/29/96
17          SK for Concession Biodiversity Assessment           130d    6/3/96  11/29/96
I8          SK for Appointnent of PIMPROs in Bappeda TK 1 & UI  130d    6/3/96  11/29/96
19          Establish IPCC                                      130d    6/396  11/29/96
20          Establish WoddNg Group of KS for PSC                13Cd    6/3/96  11/29/96
21          Establish PMC                                       13Cd    6/3/96  11/29/96
Task                                  Summary                                Rolled Up Progress
Progress                              Rolled Up Task
Milestone                             Rolled Up Milestone K)



KSNP Project Implementation Schedule
1995       1996   |  1997   |  1998   |  1999           2000        2001       2002
ID  Task Name                                              Duration   Start    Finish   2 3        24  34   1 2 1 3 1 4  |214112131412341    2131411121314111213
22          Establish Central Coordination Team for Area Devt.  130d    6/3/96  11/29/96
23          Establish PCCAPCC                                  130d    6/3/96  11/29/96
24         Appoint 4 Senior Staff for KSNP                     130d    6/3/96  11/29/96
I
25      Procurement of TAs                                     150d   7/31/96   2/25/97:
26         Independent TA Coordinator                          26w   7/31/96   1/28/97
27         TAs for the 3 components                             30w   7/31/96   2/25/97
28     Implementation                                         1718d   8/31/95   3/30/02           i
29          Preparation and Approval of Budgets                150d   8/31/95   3/27/96
30             DUP Preparation for all 3 components            22w   8/31/95   1/31/96
31             DIP Preparation for all 3 components             8w    2/1/96   3/27/96
32         Task Implementation                                1479d   7/31/96   3/30/02
-J
33             Park Management                                1479d   7/31/96   3/30/02           .                                  _                               _
34                 Involuntary Resettlement Moratorium         697d   7/31/96    4/1/99
35                 Road Development Moratorium                 697d   7/31/96    4/1/99               _
36                 Implement Park Management Plan              957d   7/31/98   3/30/02
37             Area/Village Development                       1479d   7/31/96   3/30/02
38                 Prepare land zoning plan for project area   566d   7131/96   9/30/98
39                 Review & implement land zoning plan         174d   10/1/98    6/1/99           .
40                 Long-Term Development for KUBU              740d   7/31/96    6/1/99
41                 Area/village planning implementation       1479d   7/31/96   3/30/02            -_._-
42             Concession Biodiversity Assessment             1479d   7/31/96   3/30/02
Task                                 Summary                w              Rolled Up Progress                                     >
Progress                             Rolled Up Task                                                                               ' I
Milestone                            Rolled Up Milestone



KSNP Project Implementation Schedule
1995   1  1996   1  1997   1  1998   1  1999   1  2000   1  2001                2002
iD  Task Name                                               Duration   Start    Finish   2 |314 I 1 1 2131411121314111213 1 4 | 12 | 3 1 4 | 1 12 13 1 4 | 1 1 2 1 3 1 4 | 1 12 1 3
43                  Review biodiversity mgt in logging concessio  174d   7/31/96   3/31/97
44                  Finalize biodiversity mgt in logging concessio  900d   731196   1/11/00900d
45                  Carry out audits in logging concession    1218d   7/31/97   3/30/02                           _
46      Monitoring & Evaluation                               1561d    7/1/96   6/21/02
47          Mid-Term Review                                      6w   1/19/99    3/1/99
48          Annual Report                                     1306d    6/1/67'   6/1/02                        K            '
55         Annual Planning and Budgeting Report               1304d   10/1196   10/1/01                 00
62          Audting Report                                    1304d   10/1/96   10/1/01                 O          K           0           0          0           0
69          Supervision                                       1561d    7/1/96   6/21/02
70              1st Supervision Mission                          3w    7/1/96   7/19/96                    :
71              Major                                         1053d   1/15/97   1126/01
77              Minor                                         1045d   6/16/97   6/15/01                          I
83              Final                                            3w    6/3/02   6/21/02
84      Completion                                               Od   3/30/02   3/30/02
85      Closing                                                  Od   9/30/02   9/30/02
Task                                  Summary                               Rolled Up Progress
Progress                              Roled Up Task
Miestone                              Roiled Up Miles ine K>



~ 74  -                           ANNEX.7
Page I of 2
PROJECT SUPERVISION PLAN
The matrix below indicates the mix of specialties and frequency and duration of missions
likely to be needed to ensure adequate project supervision. The footnotes suggest some of the
key events requiring particular attention of the supervision missions.  Some underlying
assumptions for the matrix are as follow:
Bank supervision input:
*  Regular supervision needs for the review of progress reports, procurement actions,
correspondence, etc. are estimated to require six staff weeks per year (n= shown in
the matrix). In addition, specialized review time depending on which year will be
required to deal with key project activities (biodiversity assessment, MIS/GIS,
regional and spatial planning, training, village agreements and its land use, etc.) and
key events (project start-up i.e. finalization of project indicators, review of TORs of
TA and agency coordination, MTR i.e. para 4.10 of SAR main report, ICR, etc.).
v  Each of the four provinces should be visited at least once per year, including typical
project actions (village development, park zonation, boundary adjustments, social
forestry etc.).
*  Staff from the Resident Mission (both from PMU and ESIU) would assist in the
supervision of this project, in particular in nursing along start-up activities related to
boundary rationalization and biodiversity assessments in concession areas, random
ex-post review of SOE documentation, particularly village infrastructure investments
and attending PCC/IPCC meetings.
Borrower's Contribution to Supervision:
*  A one-day overall project launch workshop in Sungai Penuh is to be organized by
GOI in about June 1996, followed by a two-day provincial workshop (between July
and October, 1996 pending on critical TA mobilization) in each of the four
provincial capitals.
*  The KS Working group for Project Steering Committee and PSC to meet as needed
and the meetings for IPCC, PCC and DCC will be held normally in January/February
of each year to discuss previous year project performance and current year program
*  The monitoring and project data base will be coordinated through the park director in
Sungai Penuh, including the (semi)-annual progress reports.   The project
coordination consultant for the TA, would, apart from the TA procurement
monitoring also be involved in project reporting/supervision.



- 75-               ~ANNEX7
Page 2 of 2
Table 7.1 Duration of Missions
Mission    Time                      STAFF WEEKS d/                      .    TOTAL
No.     MO/YR.   AE    A          E      E/B    MIS    LSP        OS    Staff    Weeks
I a/     7/96      2      2              2       3                        4         9
2a/      11/96     2       2      2       2      2       2        2        6        12
3 a/     2/97      2      2                      2                2        4        8
4       9/97       1      1      2       2      2       2                 6        10
5       2/98      1       1                     1       2       2         5        7
6       9/98      2              2       2                       1        4        6
7 b/     2/99      2       2      2       2      2       2        2        7        14
8 b/     9/99       1      1      1       1      1       1        1        7        7
9       2/00              1              1                       2        3        4
10       9/00      2                     2       1               1        4         6
I 1      2/01      1              1      1              1                 4         4
12       9/01             2              2       2      1        1        5         8
13 c/     2/02      2      2      2       2       2      2        2        7        14
14 c/     6/02      1      1       1      1       1                        5         5
Total                                                                               114
a/ Launching workshops during first year of project
b/ Mid-term Review
c/ Implementation Completion mission
d/   Specialities: AE  = Agricultural Economist; A  = Agriculturist; E  =  Engineer; EB
Ecologist/Biologist,
MIS/GIS = M. E. Specialist; LSP = Land Use/Spatial Planner; OS = Other Specialists.



-76 -
- 76 - ~~ANNEX 8
Page I of 4
PROJET PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
The project indicators are grouped into two categories:
(a)   implementation indicators (these are related to the implementation schedule in
Annex 6).  When this input/output system will be set up by the various
implementation agencies during the first project year it will rely heavily on the
initial physical and institutional parameters set out in the SAR (e.g. cost tables in
Annex 9, phasing of village investments in WP 3 of Annex 12, number of key
events shown as dated covenants e.g. road construction moratorium). It covers
indicators such as procurement technical assistance progress, disbursement, staff
appointment, biodiversity areas surveyed both in the park as well as the forest
concessions, availability of funds for each of the components. The physical
progress will be monitored as set out in WP 5 of Annex 14 and reflected in a
progress reporting system. Technical assistance for the setting up of the project
monitoring system, including the performance indicators, is included in the
project and initial assistance will also be provided by environmental GIS staff
from ENVLW. The setting up of project indicators by project staff will receive
the highest priority during the three project launching workshops and the draft
indicators shown in Table I would be reviewed with each of project units,
PIMPROS and technical assistance staff.
(b)   impact indicators. The project is based on the application of instruments
(such as boundary rationalization; restriction of fragmenting infrastructure within
the Park area, particularly roads; income generation in potentially encroaching
buffer zone communities; conservation management in neighboring forest areas;
improved technology and human resources in park management) to the basic
objective, which is to protect the Kerinci Seblat Park environment and
biodiversity, and that of its immediate environs. It will be possible to monitor
the extent to which the instruments are developed and applied: the rate at which
boundaries are agreed and demarcated; improvements in community and farm
incomes; physical and human resource developments in the park management
structure; habitat and forest stabilization in the Park; decline in poaching
activities and illegal hunting and trapping of large mammels and birds as
indicator of improved park protection; developments in the forest concessions.
These aspects will be included in the project's M&E system but will require
constant reassessement during project implementation. Although the instruments
chosen are believed to be the best possible in this case, it will nevertheless be a
difficult and time consuming task to directly assess their contribution to
biodiversity and habitat survival, and other major factors involved in protection
of the Park environment as a whole. It will take many years, for example, to
determine whether sustainable production with an acceptable degree of
conservation and protection, is being achieved within the forestry concessions-
and other environmental trends will be similarly slow in emerging. It should not



- 77 -                           ANNEX8
Page 2 of 4
be assumed, therefore, that all major impacts from the project will be in full
evidence prior to the end of the project period. Remote sensing and other
technologies can be applied to the task of longer term environmental impact
assessment, and decisions will need to be taken on the extent to which this can
and should be done as the project is implemented.
(c)    With respect to the economic performance indicators, the project will only
attempt to measure those related to the area/village development component as
both the park management, and the concession biodiversity assessment
components do not lend themselves to such application.
SK NEEDED FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
SURAT KEPUTUSAN                     PREPARED BY                 DAIE
1. SPABP (Area/Villages Dev. Project)   MOHA/BAPPENAS/MOF          April 1996
2. DUP for BAPPEDA I and II (Area      MOHA/BAPPENAS                April 1996
Dev. Project. sub-component: Dinas
Tkt I dan Tkt II)
3. SK Program Director                 BAPPENAS                     Sept. - Oct. 1995
4. SK Project Management Committee    Ministry of Forestry          Sept. - Oct. 1995
(PMC)
5. SK Pimpro for Forest Concession     Ministry of Forestry         DIP (April 1996)
Management Component
6. SK Pimpro for National Park         Ministry of Forestry         DIP April 1996
Management Component, Include TA
7. SK Pimpro for Intg. Area Dev.       Ministry of Home Affairs     DIP April 1996
Component at the center
8. SK Coordination Team               Ministry of Home Affairs      Sept. - Oct. 1995
9. INMERNDAGRI on Project             Ministry of Home Affairs      DIP April 1996
Coordination and Supervision
10. SK Provincial Coordinating        Governor                     After April 1, 1996
Committee (PCC)/IPCC
I 1. SK Pimbagpro for Area/Village    Governor INMENDAGRI          April 1996
Dev. Component at the province
12. SK District Coordinating Committee  Bupati INMENDAGRI          April 1996
(DCC)



ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 4
Table 1: MONITORING AND EVALUATION INDICATORS OF RURAL DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT, ICDP
LEVEL OF INFORMATION                                                         . _ .
_____________  _____________                    REG] OA=PR                   DISTmICT/ECOSYSTEM               VILLAGOEIIULATION                USE OF DATA FOR        1      TI?4E FRAMEWORK
PROJECTr       MILE DiDICATORS1        DEFONMTONd         SCALE        SOURCE OF       SCALE  [      SOURCE OF           SCALE          SOURCE OF          BASE       MONITORING(    MONffORING    EVALUATION
COMAPONENT         MIONITORIN         CHARACTERISTI                    INFORMATION                    INFORMATION                       INFORMATION    __LINE           EVALUATION__
L. UK_Z-f            p d - WI o          11:2C 0     Rd9lP.T. Sod0k   10O         OidIi.       ,        I 1 25    D D WADI 11                                          I .S 
.AEOI_Ziln                W          1    iODDT 1150000  To.   pd B_1 0Dm    St_Cmx   Th     lI.         25 I n      Th.,0.(d     lr
.bud                                                                                 A0
Aoobk  -            Df.  - _t_ bkSOo r Se  1:150.00 1 Digl 5w  fd      1:3.0                             U5   Coo   Lool Goftn   Iu I1. t
AL d_Bini bi d      Dd.o  bod a        Id2500:0.OC    A_      LREPl  I3    uIS R.   (flSk(C A          1 25.000D    R   ..    nt CSAR.
Sm.. C.q.V        -.                                                                                                Bow
/_m1 L_d Lrdt.
- SdI-              Dhkom1  .1 mk-    II1'.W                t bs: WI d_.0Ec REc,.tCrtp_                  I 25C        A.W                     x 1                        .x     !     I 2. 
Fmo.lDA im 00             **k -dT"Fk                           wmq  Bmbo-w                                     PInIogh flpoai.
.Nk t k-- lde _w-
-   A                             *   110000 RF_.=    Pt  d         I D0.00D    RV&. P5Wk  W00       I 25         AI.I                     0                        2 .             .2-3-
-lA 0* ll  o     ho b                      Plhh. CISAIo    S_                  m1                FgqolA.       _*oIm&
P0       -.L ph                  Sm                           L.J4idrimd G.  -l
0o- bloo            hi          ft...    I 050 m     Pl-oSlhm   _d  )  50.       D_ia CW0I Ag     C     I252IA0      Lo-1 G.,       V           h                       0             I o2>I s
A. .W..Mh C_bbl. d-1. bD          : bD0000    R                1.0.00     Rm.W                  120m ct8              G. s 0                                   I ss l         I
Popwho. ck- oo       P0.    dmah.   b. Dim1           C215pd_. 0  V;    S_-           CB5P    -   0      o V.         C-    d P.m                                      Is              I 
p.. &-h. g..-tu                  E-o C-            AMC0      EC0.kn1 Cm                          kW.da
ho qp~. in- 
F-A    Ddhd ho    oop. 00  hob Dm1        CUS'AIm1mI       bs  S.&   C8SA0coI.i.W Coi       h.- VOIq     A1kho1   - 0             .x2
pm-           -Oo~~~dhwktc                                       dmiaSS
Cup F1.0001..      PI.Ad. f1  Oqoh O s ,W 13o        CSSArIW.W 1      hob-  CUSIAS-.k-.I Co             h vbo        Api-N.W   -    0                                  I sI -
MN                               cm                dkio                                          s.AM
*- PnSho            Si. .0 b- kw (odoid   hoDm.       C3S/AuIWW        ho  FA.   CSS/AplahoI C-         bi SOh       AVUb.    -      0                                 I sd 
mi .i-.ud1kl h.rb                cowu              dm1 kd.
* L00ToI.O.         &km h.&s  I.   kbA   by~ Dm1      C3WAeki1-        h.   0-  CSAgikWo.W C-            ho 'Jlhe     ApIoshoo  Cm  002I o
pm~~~~~~~~. ~~~Cm                         Adm                                           St.
* hums        ~~~~Fm  --    ff fi h  by m1     CBS               hF   0-  CBS                    by 01bla0     Apift.  Cm  -d                                       -Is
.CoiD. oIpm    cos..W                    hoDm1lo                        by   -                          boW                                   s                        Ioi             oo
.P~..o  Wdlcs.     27 bm.o od b CBS                                                                     by ViI       CS                      0 
I w &wp-  I  I                I~--                                                                                                  =        



- 79 -
rNO                rC >
aW <
p0
_~ ~ - :    4                                            I     -       
St mE        't                St              St               St'    S
0 r
o .Y          R}Q&  a    i           }
Mz X  I _   _ __  .       _  _  _   _      .          _  _ _  _ 
i     Wo         t;}|;|         I                     i           1         ;  s
_ _II jZj1~j   i   i3i3         33, s i  j
U ~     Mg  Ia  I1M I    II           I     I   Ii       I       8     
.-
zl} 
L L X                                                    U~~~~~~~~~~~~



r        ad Ssd ICDP
Tal 1.1. Pwk ie
Dm d I    r g
(UNS)
GeneSes                           UnIt               TdSs hickS.. Co r_gaocles CSUi
UnSt t7 911" 9_    Owl O11n2  Total  cost                                  _W12 Td
I.  -_     Coat s
A. Prject Mne
1. Maagmt Planni  & P"a  Zo
Regons Tm  Consultations                      metng       I      -      -                             1       976      1.1               -       - *                    1.1
V*dahop Management Plan                     workho        1      2      3                             6    29,441    30.4    82.2    95.5        -       -       -   188.0
oats eaing                                    survy       1      -      -      -      -      -        1      4,907     5.1           -           -       -       -      5.1
FIed work                                     survey      1      3      2      -                      6     4,907      5.1    15.5    10.6                             31.2
Aeril Sury                                     hour      10    10    10       10    10    10         60       589      6.1     6.2     8.4    6.5      6.7    6.6    38.7
Regiong consultOn                             distrit     3      6      -      -      -      -        9       488      1.7     3.4       -       -                      5.1
Managemntzoning                                unt        -                                         1        9,761       -       -    11.6                             11.6
Bounderyr vbew ndlocalzoning                   unt        -      1      I      -      -      -        2     4,880        -     5.7    5.8        -       -       -    11.5
Tourism deveopmnwt planning/s                 study                                                                   10.1       -                                     10.1
Preparationanddlstrlbutlonofpimn/b             unit                     1      2      -      -        3     4,880        -       -     5.8    11.9       -       -    1717
Subtotal Management Plnning & Park Zoning                                                                               59.4    93.0   135.7    18.4    8.7      6.8   320.1
2. Equipment & VehIcles
a. Offlc equlpment
Doaktopcomputers                             unK        5             -      -      -     -        5      2,487    13.5       -       -       -       -       -    13.5
Nobtbook oomputers                          unk         I         -       -                        1      1,990     2.2       -       -       -       -       -      2.2
Digitzer                                    unt         1      -1                                         1,492     1.6           -       -                          1.- 
Softwre                                    program     10                                         10        497     5.4                                              5.4
Lor  prnter                                  unit       2      -      -      -      -     -        2        796     1.7       -       -       -       -       -      1.7
Facarile machine                             unit       2      -      -                            2      1,492     3.2       -       -                              3.2
Photocopy unit                               unit       1      -1                                         2,487     2.7       -                                      2.7
Voblsl ablizes                              unit       a      -      -      -      -      -       8         75     0.6       -       -       -       -       -      0.6
UPS wstem                                    unit       2      -      -      -      -     -        2      1,194     2.6       -       -       -       -       -      2.8
SSB radio unis                               unit       4                                          4      3,382    14.7       -       -       -       -       -    14.7
Solwpanlas&batters                          unit       4     13    13       -      -     -       30      3,709    16.1    53.5    54.7       -       -       -   124.3
RYG unit wlth anntna                        unit        8     10    10      10    10      -       48        497     4.3     5.5     5.6     5.8      5.9      -    27.2
Simd pjctor system                           unt        1      -      -      -      -     -        1        796     0.9       -       -       -       -       -      0.9
Steopes                                      unit       2      -      -      -      -     -        2        497      1.1      -       -       -       -       -      1.1
Stereocpe(portble)                           unt        5                                          5         25     0.1       -       -       -       -       -      0.1
Map  nd aorl phobs                        lumpsum                                                                   2.7       -       -       -       -       -      2.7
Lbrary end refereces                      lumpsum                                                                   2.2       -       -       -       -       .      2.2
DOM  nudchaimh(fl)                           set        5      -      -      -      -              5        124     0.7       -       -       -       -        *     0,7
DaelcakIarge)                                unit       2          -      -      -        -        2        149     0.3       -       .       -               .      0.3
SwS vchalm                                   unit       2      -      -                            2        189     0.4       -       -       -       -       -      0.4
She                                          unit       5                                          5        249      1.3      -       -       -       -       -      1.3
Toee  confrence t                            un         I      -      -      -      -      -        1       497      0.5      -       -        -      -       -      0.5
mep  le                                      unit       2      -      -      -      -      -       2      1,492      3.2      -       -       -       -       -      3.2
Ught table                                   unit       2      -      -                            2        249     0.5           -           -       -       -      0.5
MISc.tabl                                    unK        4      -      -      -      -      -       4         75     0.3       0-3                                                C 0
Asfe       s                                 unIt       5      -      -      -      -      -       5        149     0.8        -       -       -      -              0.8         t )
VWle  bowds                                  unit       3                                           3        99     0.3                                              0.3
Sabtl Ofe. equIpmt                                                                                                    84.0    59.0   60.4      5.8     5.9       -   215.0          _



Indonews
Kerind Sea ICDP
Table 1.1. Park Mengeet
PDd Mwgse
(USS)
Qusud                             Unft                Total IncldIn Continge-es C0)
Unit  SUS97 W7M9 s1                ooIi 0112   To-al        Cost   9S1H7   S97M          9      0     00101   01102    Total
b. Felcd equipdmet
Bhocxerw                                      unit       5                                           5        296      1.8       -       -       -       -        -      1.
Allnetrs                                      unit       3       -      -      - *           -        3       248      0.8                                               0.8
Conpases                                      unit      10      -       -      -      -     -       10         35      0,4       -       -       -       -              0.4
Photgaphicequlpmen                            set        I      -       -      -      -     -        1      1,985      2.1                                              2.1
Tents (cMp size)                              set        2              -      -      -     -        2        397      0.9       -       -       -       -        -     0.9
Camng equlpnk/c                               set       40    4       40       -      -     -      120      1,191    51.6    528    54.1         *       -            158.5
Spog                                          unit       2      -       -      -      -     -        2        149      0.3       -       -       -       -              0.3
Mistnets                                      unit      20      -       -      -      -     -       20         50      1.1       -       -       -       -        *      1.1
Livetaps                                      unit      20      -      -       -      -     -       20         50      1.1       -       -       -       -              1.1
Genenrotors(poable)                           unit       3      -       -      -      -     -        3        496      1.6       -       -       -       -        -     1.6
Global positioning risym                      unit       4      -       -      -      -     -        4      1,985      8.6       -       -       -                -     8.f
Miscr equipountAd                             unit       -      -       -     1      1      -        2      2,730        -       -       -     3.2     3.2        -     8.4
Sutbli Fied equket                                                                                                      70.1    52.8    54.1      3.2     3.2       -   183.4
c. VehIcls
Fourwheeldrivewith frnt wlch /                unit       4      4       -      -      -     -        8    27,792   120.4   123.3         -               -       -   243.6
Trail moloMtik l                              unit      18    32      24     20    20       -      112       1,985    34.4    70.4    54.1    48.2    47.3        -   252.3
Pckdc-uruck   g                               unit       1      4       -      -      -     -        5    29,777    32.2   132.1         -       -           -        164.3
Moble extlon vehide ml                        uni        -      1       -      -            -        1    49,628         -    55.0       -       -       -             55.0
Subtota Vehclk                                                                                                         187.0   380.8    54.1    46.2    47.3        -   715.3
Subtl  Equlpmet  & VehIlde                                                                                               341.0   492.6   168.8    55.1    58.4        -  1,113.8                   c
Tanta                                                                                                                          400.5   585.6   304.3    73.5    63.1      6.8  1,433.8
Na To be conducted in year 3 of project irnwtmebtion
*b Indudes draft plan evaluaion, mn, and distribution of plan. Indudes approval meetng with Vioxrd Bank. BAPPENAS, PHPA, BAPPEDA.
tc Includes tents, sleeping bes, ruclk ad oter camping equipment fhr Perk guards
\d Equipment required for etension purposes
bN Utization: 2 in park HQ; 4 in provil coordinating offlces; 2 in Curup project field office; 4 in Swat enforcement teams.
V Location: 8 in Park HQ; 8 in provinil oordinating ofmfces,;  : 2 each in 40 Wd staions; 8 in Curup project ofce; 8 for extension teams.
g Four whee drive wih font wich. Location: 1 in pwk HQ; 4 in provincial coordinating ofces.
th Four whee drive equipped
It
ID



rgw Sd    ICOP
Taf 12. Pwk   _mgs I
TecvIw Asl_"
D_tld Coda
(USS)
Quantities                         Unit                Totals Incdg Cotingencl  (00)
Unit   96197  971S8  SU/99  9900   00/01  01/02   Total        Cost     98117   979      NM       9100   0I01   01l02    Tol
1. hwsstb_ t Comt
A. Tchnicl Asstatnc
1. Techncal Assice
Cerns Consullark Coordlrukw           sItaIffmnt    12      12      -                            24      15,000   185.6   190.1        -       -       -        :     375.7
AsCenCaitral ConsutrntCoordinaor      staflmn1      12      12     12     12      -      *       48       4,763    58.9    60.4    61.8    83.3         -       -     244.4
Srw. Perk PlnuIgI Spedail             sti/non        3      12     12     12      -      -       39      17,500    54.1   221.8   227.1   232.5        -        -     735.5
Pwks&lVWkeEnhrbrwitOlFfctr st-ffmo111                       12     12     12      -      -       36      17,500       -   221.8   227.1   232.5        -        -     681.4
EpwiitSpeat                           staffintl       -      3      3      -      -      -        6      17,500       -    55.4    56.8        -       -        -     112.2
ConuacaonsSpwalist                    slffmth         -    12      12                            24       17,500       -   221.8   227.1       *                      448.8
Curnim development_ ispe t             slalUN"y     12      12     12      -      -      -       36         300      3.7     3.8     3.9       -       -        *       11.4
Ecologist hvu r /a                    staffmontl      -    12      12     12    12    12         60         400        -     5.1     5.2     5.3     5.4      5.8      28.6
9*M1b                                  SUM"y        25      25     22       -     -      -       72         300      7.7     7.9     7.1       -       -        -      22.8
Paek MgL Officer(volunteer)           staffntnth      -    12      12     12    12    12         s0         400       -      5.1     5.2     5.3     5.4      5.6      26.6
Writrs /c                              staffday     S0      50     44      -      -      -      144         146      7.5     7.7     7.0       -        -       -      22.2
Educationeion Officer(Volunteer)      stMMImnt        -    12      12     12    12    12         60         400        -     5.1     5.2     5.3     5.4      5.6      26.6
TrainangOM  r(volwlteer)              staffmonth      -    12      12     12    12    12         60         400        -     5.1     5.2     5.3     5.4      5.6      26.6
Sociologlst(kcalsecondment)/d         stiffnonth    10      24     24     12    12    12         94        1,074    11.1    27.2    27.9    14.3    14.6    15.0      110.0
ConssevtlinOflwcer(localSecondment)    staffmoiKth   5      12     12     12    12    12         65        1,074     5.5    13.6    13.9    14.3    14.6    15.0       76.9
Subol Tachml Assistance                                                                                              334.3  1.051.7   880.4   578.1    51.0    52.2    2,947.7           F
2. Travl
Travel /                                 trip      400    400    400    400   400   400    2,400             49    20.1    20.6    21.1    21.6    22.1    22.7       128.3
lntatialonal Air Travel                 trip          1      2      6      2      2      1       14       3,000      3.1     6.3    19.5     6.6     6.8      3.5      45.8
In-CountryAirTravel                      trip       20      20     20     20    20    20        120         390      8.1     8.2     8.4     8.6     8.9      9.1      51.3
SuboXtl Travel                                                                                                        31.3    35.2    49.0    36.9    37.8    35.2       225.4
Total                                                                                                                      365.6  1,086.9   929.4   615.0    88.8    87.4   3,173.1
\a Vokunee  to be mruited through internabonal volunteer programs
\b Short-erm writers hired by the project
%c Local writers hired by the project to wnte bahasaa articles
\d Two pons seconded from VWF Kerini
No Staff travel to Jakarta, towns, field, estimated at US$50/day x 10 persons x 40 days per year
0)
UQ:



Indonesia
Kedncd Seblat ICOP
Table 1.3. Park Maagement
Training & Conseamion Awarenes
Debild Costa (USS)
Quantie                              Unit               Tota  Including ContIngencIs (VW)
Unit    96S17  97198  9819   9910  00101  01102    Totbl        Cost    96197   97198   9U99   S9100   00/01   01/02    Total
. Invna  t Cosb
A. Trn & Coeervf   A was
1. Traning
FieldStaffTaing,Pmo                     perm saion      1      4      4      4      4      4          21       494      0.5     2.2     2.2      2.3     2.4     2.4       12.0
ShortCosrsas(Inlamflonai)/a               cesxaa        -      -       -     2      2      -           4     14,810       -       -       -    34.4    35.3                89.7
V*"rDValt(Inlnl)/b                        pervlsit      -      2      2      3       -     -           7      4.542       -    10.1    10.3    15.8        -       -       36.2
Trnvell  S    errSnars                   seniw          -      1      1       -     1      -           3    16.784        -    18.6    19.1        -    20.0               57.6
KantmV dhp                              persesion      38     38     38     38    38    38           228       987    40.8    41.6    42.8    43.8    44.7    45.7       258.8
K dnut uhap 8deng                       per esion       3      3      3       -      -     -           9      2,488     8.0     8.2     8.4        -       -       -       24.6
ExlmaionTraig                           perasaoun       -      1      1       1     1      1           5      3,357             3.7     3.8      3.9     4.0     4.1       19.5
PiwoTr_ T-g                               course        I      -                                       1    29,820    32.1                -        -               .       32.1
Mha    Degree P m                         paon          4      -       -                     -  -      4    84,178   278.0                         -       -              278.0
FdMMianus/c                             pernunual       -      -   350    350   350   350          1.400        10        -             3.9     4.0      4.1     4.2       18.3
Subo   TraIing                                                                                                          359.2    84.4    90.4   104.1   110.4    58.5       804.9
2. Consevatlan awermnesa actlves
a. Conevaion 
NalionaliProvktcSale nupau PAMERAN    wnltyaw         1      1      1      1      1      1          6    20,892    23.5    24.0    24.8    25.2    25.8    26.4        149.8
Nature LoW  Ckta                       unWtyar       1       1      1      1             1          6    32,600    37.0    37.9    38.8    39.7    40.7    41.8        235.6
Mobil Exabnon Unit                       un1it        -                           -      -          1      7,320       -      8.5       -       -       -        -       8.5
V1BoueBary MuBM                       Ppermap         -           100    1nO   100   100          400          2       -        -     0.3     0.3     0.3      0.3       1.2
CommuntyTeT niMein                     massi          -    10      10     10    10    10           50        978       -    11.3    11.6    11.9    12.2    12.5        59.5
KeundGama                               gne           -      1      1      1      1     1           5      91761       -    11.3    11.8    11.9    12.2    12.5        59.5
Subtal Consrwfon ar                                                                                                    60.5    93.1    86.9    89.0    91.1    93.3      513.8
b. SociAl mutai
Rafdospotasl                           smoht    23,360 23,360 23,?60 23.360 23,360       -    116,800          1    25.9    26.5    27.1    27.8    28.4        -      135.7
Pnrit PublicRetti"ons                 ent/mCh       12      12     12     12    12       -         60      2,440    33.2    34.0    34.8    35.7    36.5        -      174.2
Tdevidona"perront                       spd           -     4       4      3      1      1         13      3.904       -    18.1    18.6    14.3      4.9      5.0      60.8                  w
Prssan video ptoducon                   Vieo          -     1                     -      -          1    48,803        -    58.7        -               -               56.7
Fliptarts                               chart         -  2,000      -  2,000      -      -      4,000          5       -    11.3             11.9       -               23.2
Quay buletin                           bulletin      4      4       4      4     4       -         20        978     4.4     4.5      4.6     4.8     4.9       -       23.2
Lealt                                   leaflet   10,000 10,000     -      -      -      -     20,000                2.8     2.8        -       -       -       .        5.6
V11lge Prantoa                         vilage       10      18     16    26    26    30           124        244     2.8      4.5     4.6     7.7     7.9     9.3       38.9
Localgovemntpraentabmons               meeting      10     20      20     20    20    20          110        122     1.4     2.8      2.9     3.0     3.0     3.1       16.3
Trahinsg,sw                            troing        4      4       3      2      1     1          15       976      4.4     4.5      3.5     2.4     1.2      1.2      17.3
I mntt   ID o POCINs events             event        1      3      2       1      1     1           9       244      0.3     0.9     0.8      0.3     0.3     0.3        2.6
Vige Counstn                           vilge        10      16     16     26    30       -         98       488      5.5     9.1      9.3    15.5    18.3       .       57.6
School ocsl aurntium development       malal                                                                        22.1       -        -       -       -       -       22.1
Conservation awwenesssurvey            Survey        1              1      -            1           3      9,761    11.1       -    11.6        -       -    12.5       35.1
Subttal Social ntktng                                                                                                 113.9   175.9   117.7   123.2   105.4    31.5    867.5
c. Equlpnent
Audio-Visual Equipment                   unit         -      -      -      1      1      -          2      9,926       -       -        *    11.5    11.8       -       23.4
VlsiorCernerEquipment                    set          -                           I -  -  1  1      2      9,949       -       -       -        -    11.8    12.1       24.0
IntormationCenterEquip. (for3 centers)   set         -       -      -      3     3      -           6      4,974                             17.3    17.8       -       35.1
Subtotl EquIpment                                                                                                         -      -        -    28.9    41.4    12.1       82.4       N
Subtotal Conservaton awarness activitie                                                                                 174.3   268.9   204.8   241.0   238.0   136.9   1,283.8       aq
Total                                                                                                                        533.5   353.3   294.9   345.2   348.4   193.4   2,068.7 
'-A
%a taining in p rmk amnt                                                                                                                                                                     _  rt
\b To Kota Ka Ba6u, Malaysia
t Four field Manuals will be prepared to  used b1y guards and cinmuntty extension workers
vd Incudes pmduction, duplication and distribution of rmaps 1:50,000 indicating Park boundary to Boundarv Villages
le four radio spots per day in siteen bcal stabons



Keiso Sdht ICDP
Table 1.4. Pak Mf gm ent
CM hl. & B dary ActhMs
Detailed Cost (US$)
Quafnt                            Unit                Totals Iricuding Conngenci  C000)
Unit   N/1?  971N   NMiS  90100  00101  01/02    Total      Cost    96197   97Ml   981SS   910   00101   01102    Total
1. Investment Com
A. Clvii Waor & BoAndry Acdvitee
1. CtN Wai
Proval Field Headquarters /a             station      -     4       -      -      -     -         4   87,456         -   387.9               -       -       -      387.9
ParkFlddStatons/b                        staXn        -    10     10      10    10      -        40   23584          -   261.5   267.8   274.2   280.8       -    1,084.2
Park Infrnetionn   Ceners /c             center       -      -      -      3     3      -         6   24,566         -       -       -    85.7    87.7       -      173.4
Pak Ent"anos Gg ate                                   -     2      3      3       -     -         8    2.457         -     5.4     8.4     8.8       -       -       22.4
Park VmsorCenters                        center       -      -      -      1     1      -         2   58.959         -       -       -    68.5   70.2        -      138.7
Park Headquartera/d                       unit       1       -      -      -      -     -         1  206,061    223.1        -       -       -       -       -      223.1
Upgrading&RehablitationofFieldStations/e  station    -       -     4      4       -     -         8   17,688         -       -    80.3    82.3       -       -      162.6
Information Signs                         unit      20    20      20     20    20       -        100      357      7.7     7.9    8.1      8.3    8.5        -       40.6
Boundary signposts                        unit        -   100    100    100   100   100         500        10        -     1.1      1.2    1.2     1.2      1.2       5.9
Building Site Survey and Planning tf   lumpsum                                                                       -    18.2    18.6   19.1    19.5        -       75.4
Subttl Civil Works                                                                                                  230.9  682.1   384.4   547.8  468.0       1.2    2,314.3
2. Boundary AcStitis
Boundary Revisons and Adjustments         und        1       -      -      -      -     -          1   19,521     22.1       -       -       -       -       -       22.1
Boundary and Encroachment Area Survey   ha/year   4.000  4,000  4,000  4,000  4.000  4,000    24,000        5     20.2   20.7    21.2    21.7    22.3    22.8       129.0
Seed Procurement for Boundary Markers   seedling  30.000 30,000 30,000 30,000 30,000 30,000    180,000            12.7    13.0    13.3    13.7    14.0    14.3       81.0
Live Boundary Marking Labor               km       100   100    100    100   100   100          600        41      4.7    4.8      4.9     5.0     51       5.2      29.6
Seed Procurement for Agroforestry       seedling  40,000 40,000 40,000 40,000 40.000 40,000    240.000            21 2    21.7    22.2    22.8   23.3    23.9       135.0          ^
Boundary Monumenting/g                    km          -      -    50     50    50    50         200       224        -       -    13.4    13.7    14.0    14.3       55.4
Social Forestry ActvrMties Labor          ha       200   200    200    200   200   200         1.200       39      8.9    9.1      9.3     9.5     9.7    10.0       56.4
Village Nursery Developnent             seedling      - 35,000 30,000      -      -     -    65,000                  -    19.0    16.7       -       -       -       35.6
Habitat Rehabilitation (Labor)            ha          -      -      -      -    50      -        50        73        -       -       -       -     4.6                4.6
Transfer of Elephants to Bengkulu       elephant      -     5       -      -      -     -         5       683        -     4.0       -       -       -       -        4.0
Patrolling Route Development              km         -   150    150        -      -     -       300        98        -    17.0    17.4       -       -       .       34.4
Installation of Artificial Mineral Lakes /h  site     -      -      -    10      -      -        10       390        -       -       -     4.8       -       -        4.8
Trenche Fencing for Elephants             km          -      -      -    25    2.5                5    9,761         -       -       -    29.7   30.4                60.2
Preliminary Species Surveys              year        1       -      -      -      -     -         1   16,556      17.1       -       -       -       -       -       17.1
Subtotal Boundary ActivIie                                                                                          106.9   109.2   118.4   120.8   123.4    90.5     669.1
3. Blodvemrity Rsearch
Biodversity Research                     year         -     1      1       1     1      1         5  176,648         -   186.5   191.0   195.6  200.3   205.1       978.5
Small Research Grants                    year         -     1       1      1     1      1         5   19,628              20.7    21.2    21.7    22.3    22.8      108.7
Subtotal Blodlvemity Researh                                                                                            -   207.3   212.2   217.3   222.5   227.9    1,087.3
Total                                                                                                                    337 7   998.5   715.0   885.9  813.9   319.6    4,070.7
\a 300 square meters; based on GOI standard cost per sq. meter of Rp. 480,000.
\b 100 square meters (equipped); based on GOI standard costs of Rp. 480,000 per sq. meter.
\c 1 00 square meters equipped
'd Rehabilitation and upgrading
\e Indudes costs of renovation of 70 sq. meter post (USS9,000); equipping post (US$1,000); and expansion of post by 30 sq meters (US$8,000).                                     CD
V Addresses issues of permanent water supply; estmated at 7% of costs of buildings.                                                                                              ON
\g to be carried out by BipHut                                                                                                                                                  0
\h Large Mamrmal core areas



IndontaU
Keinm Solat ICDP
Table 1.5. Park Managemt
Recurrent Cosh
ODied Cost
(USS)
Quanflms                          UnIt               Totdl Incuding Cordnguncles (000)
UIt    9S67  979   91  99 00  O101  01/02    Total           Cost   96197   97n9   9U99   99100   00/01   01102    Total
IL Recuwrnt Cosa
k SuWpod Staff fo TA to
A&OYW afOfflr(2puka$)                safrrnt       10     24    24    24    24    24           130      732      7.5    18.6    19.0   19.5    19.9    20.4       104.9
Seasty(2purone)                         lnoui      10    24    24    24    24    24            130      634      8.5    16.1    16.5   18.9    17.3    17.7        90.9
Ddnm (boo)                             _londl      10    24    24    24    24    24            130      732      7.5    18.6    19.0   19.5    19.9    20.4       104.9
Untkhmm (bvo)                        a'_0 n i      10     24    24    24    24    24           130      195      2.0     4.9    5.1      5.2     5.3     5.4       28.0
Div.ni(3pe    )                      st_inonh      15     36    36    36    36    36           195      293      4.5    11.1    11.4    11.7    12.0    12.2       62.9
LiFHetlb                              swusy       500    500   500   500   500   500          3,000       8      4.0     4.1     4.2     4.3     4.4     4.5       25.7
Su"iS Support SW    TA                                                                                            32.2    73.4    75.1    76.9   78.8    80.7       417.2
B. Puk Stl
Pak DWclr                                                                                                        2.5     2.6     2.7     2.7     2.8     2.9      16.2
SerP k tOIfliou(Speuaons)             q:t/Yer       5      5      5      5      5      5        30    1,659      9.0     9.2     9.4    9.6      9.9    10.1       57.2
Pak Vhitu/iht Rela Offce                Yew                                                                      1.8           -           -       -       -        1.8
Provi Conotflr(4people)                 Yew         4      4      4      4      4      4        24    1,659      7.2     7.4     7.5    7.7      7.9     8.1       45.8
ProvnciOlflca ( Sa                      yew         8      8      8      8      8      8        48    1,659    14.4    14.7    15.1    15.4    15.8    16.2        91.6
Park Guu(4861)                          yew        46    48    48       46    46    46         276      830    41.3    42.3    43.3   44.4    45.4    46.5        263.3
AdSlomParkGtds                          yea          -    25    75    150   250   250          750      830        -    23.0    70.6   144.7   246.9   252.9      738.1
Mahufl(ElphwtKeqpers,l10 oa             Yew          -    10    10    10    10         -        40      830        -     9.2    9.4      9.6     9.9       -       38.1
Catqgmr                                 Ye          1      1      1      1      1      1         6      830      0.9     0.9     0.9     1.0     1.0     1.0        5.7
Dra_nam                                yew          I      1      1      1      1      1         6      83o      0.9     0.9     0.9     1.0     1.0     1.0        5.7
ODe Analyst                             yea         1      1      1      1      1      1         6      830      0.9     0.9     0.9     1.0     1.0     1.0        5.7
SeArawu(3s1)                            ye          3      3      3      3      3      3        18      830      2.7     2.8    Z       2.9     3.0     3.0       17.2
Mod-i*a(2d )                           yew          2      2      2      2      2      2        12      878      1.9     1.9    2.0      2.0     2.1     2.1       12.1
Drut  (6su1)                           yew          6      6      6      6      6      6        36      830      5.4     5.5     5.7     5.8     5.9     6.1      34.3                           0
Cornn yPwilu                           yew         37     76    114   152   190   190          759       73      2.9     6.2     9.5    12.9   16.6    17.0       65.0                           0'
S aueS Pwk Staff                                                                                                  91.8   127.5   180.9  260.8   369.1   367.9   1,398.0
C. Heasul  Per Dm mad Trvel
P.tStSCorusnSkduk                      yew          1      1      1      1      1      1         6   24,011    26.0    28.6    27.3   27.9    28.6    29.3        165.7
PHPA Pr.  Brielhg                     seiOn         1      1      1      1      1      1         6    2,928      3.2     3.2     3.3    3.4      3.5     3.6      20.2
RepoXt'                                yew          1      1      1      1      1      1         6    1,952     2.1      2.2     2.2    2.3      2.3     2.4      13.5
Tralaron                               year         -    0.5      1    0.5   0.5       1       3.5    9,761        -     5.4    11.1     5.7     5.8    11.9      39.9
Adrntration                            monft        5     12    12    12    12    12            65      488      2.6     6.5     6.6     6.8     7.0     7.1      36.7
CoWmnunicalns                          month        5     12    12    12    12    12            65    1,464      7 9    19.5    19.9   20.4    20.9    21.4       1101
LteOaeU tu                              year        1      1      1      1      1      1         6    4,880      5.3     5.4     5 5     5.7     5.8     5.9      33.7
SafeSd H,Pnaraa Pe Diem & Travel                                                                                  47.1    68.8    76.0    72.2    73.9    81.6      419.7
D. Opeaton mud Mnfnance
OM forb4f eel DnveVehicen month                    40    216   218    216   216   216         1,120     122      5.3    29.2    29.9   30.6    314    32.1       158.6
O&MMobtes                            unitorimDth    80    576   864  1.104  1,344  1.344      5,312      24      2.1    15.6    23.9    31.3    39.0    40.0     152.0
Eephants Careand Maintnanoe           elephant      -      5      5      5      5      5        25    2,147       -    119    12.2    12.5    12.8    13.1        62.4
Buildings O&M                         site/year     8     23    43    64    79    79           296      197      1.7     5.0     9.6    14.6    18 5    18.9      68.3
Radio Licensing                         unit        5      5      5      5      5      5        30      420      2 3     2.3    2.4      2 4     2.5     2.6      14.5
RYG Lcensing                            unit        8     10    10    10    10    10            58       50      0 4     0.6     0.6     0.6     0.6     0.6       3.3
RYG Annual Licensing Renewal           license      -      8     18    28    38    38          130       15        -     0.1     0.3     0.5     0.7     0.7       2.3              <q
Subtotal Operailon and MaIntenance                                                                                11.8    64.7    78.9    92.6  105.5   108.0       4615
Total                                                                                                               183.0   334.5   410.9   502.5   627.3   638.2   2,696.3                0
%b Guides, porters, etc. estimated at Rp. 17,000 per day x 10 person x 50 days/year
tc Consultabons incdude BAPPENAS. PHPA, Kanwil Kehutanan and other local govemment staff



lndonesa
Kerinci Seblat ICDP
Table 2. AreaVlige Develpment
Detailed Costs (USS)
QuantIs                           Unit                   Table Including Contingencies (OOO)
Unit   96f97  97/98  9U99  991/0  00 /1  01102   Total       Cast     96197    97)98    98U99    99100    00101    01502       Toat
L Ivenlu  Comb
A. P
1. Pl_ng        g
hIr,4-mnhldCoonationMee&gla           meetng        2      4      4      4      4      4       22      3,904      8.9     18.1     18.8      19.0     19.5     19.9       104.0
Ka    n Coordinon MeehVn b            meeig        30    60      80    107   107   107        471       244       8.3     17.0      17.4     31.8     32.8     33.3       140.4
Sum" P_a*b  Metngs                                                                                                 17.2      35.1     36.0     50.8     52.0     53.3       244.5
2. Etpdpmet
Cnuluws_kIemsf                        system        9       -                                   9      4,974     48.5        -        -         -        -        -        48.5
S*   n PSU nd -                                                                                                       8 65.6   35.1     36.0     50.8      52.0     63.3      292.9
B. alge DevelapmiteActlvUes
Fe _yh Sies                              shdy          -      3      3      3      -     -        9    19,828         -     62.2      63.7     65.2        -        -       191.0
Caff    l Pract(iftr_uctue)              vib         10      18    19    28    29    30         134    39.042    401.8    739.4    797.9  1,202.3  1,273.2  1,348.7        5,761.2
ConMnu    Prcjec (ajnput)                vila        10    18    19    28    29    30           134      9.784    100.9    186.0    201.0    303.4    321.7    340.8       1,453.8
SpechsneeMwegemesfI                       area         -      2      3      3     2      -       10    48.922         -    108.5    166.6    170.6    116.5          -      582.3
Lo      lGacenwn.taoperaionsalr         vieege       10     18    19    29    28    30         134      2,440     27.7      51.0     55.1    86.2      85.2      93.5      398.7
VmhLrtdueeM      kig/t                   ifvow        10     18    19    29    28    30         134    14,641    166.1    306.1    330.9    517.1    511.3    561.0        2,392.5
LCO SW inahnent /g                        unit      120    336    440    780   912  1,044    3.632         317     41.2    118.2    158.5    287.7    344.4    403.7       1,353.7
VmlegelevsWt1Splyreements                 uni        120    338    440    780   912  1,044    3,632         99     12.9      37.0     49.5     90.0    107.8    128.3       423.6
ICe    c r d supply equkserb              unit       80    120    200    200   200   180        980        179     15.5     23.8      40.6     41.5     42.5     39.2       203.1
Sub      l VOWDgev p     AevItes                                                                                    768.0  1,632.1   1,883.9  2,764.0  2,802.7  2,911.3    12,739.9
C. Technical  _ 1 ica
1. Technical aesistace0
Rurldevuopmrdtadvsor/TeamLeader    stalmolt         4     12    12        -     -              28    17,500      72.2    221.8    227.1         -        -        -       521.0
AsslMtToamLe                         staffoanth     4     12    12    12    12                 52      4,880     20.1     61.8     63.3      64.8     68.4        -       276.5
dA dimUWaor                          sfamon         4     12     12    12    12        -       52      4,763     19.6     60.4      61.8     63.3     64.8                269.9
Coanny Foaesry Spedalst              staf/mln       4     12    12        -     -      -       28    17,500      72.2    221.8    227.1         -        -        -       521.0
TrigMAidor                           staffionth     4     12    12    12        -      -       40      4,880     20.1     81.8     63.3      64.8                         210.1
Camnwnty petcipalion advisor         stafmonth      4     12    12    12    12         -       52      4.763     19.6     60.4     61.8     63.3      64.8        -       289.9
Smtsn eprseer&Mors (two)/h           staftnant      6     24     24    24       -      -       78       200       1.2      5.1      5.2       5.3        -        -        16.8
UbEnneeus (two)                      staffmonth     6     24     24    24    24    24         126      4,753     29.5    120.7    123.6    126.6    129.6    132.7        662.7
Regioq Pmner                         stamonti h            6      3       -     -      -        9     15,000        -     95.0     48.7                  -        -       143.7
PlsjiVgAvisfourdf                    sldamonlt      8     48     48     48      -             152      4,763     39.3    241.4    247.2    253.2                  -       781.1
AoountdO                             stafmonth      4     12     12    12    12    12          64      2.382      9.8     30.2     30.9      31.6     32.4     33.2       168.1
Coarli  NGO                          hnpsum                                                                     399.6    495.5    437.7    675.9    707.0    723.8      3,439.5
KesinTrustFundStudy                  lumpsum        I      -      -      -                      1    98,138    101.2         -        -        -         -        -       101.2
Lnlovide Spatial Plan                lunmpsum                                                                   151.8        -        -        -         -        -       151.8
Ecoudam  study                       lumpsurn       1      -       -     -      -      -        1    49,069      50.6        -        -                                    50.6
Kubu Devpment (TA)                   lumpsum                                                                     60.7    155.4    159.2         -        -        -       375.3
Kubu Deveopment (Equipments)         lumpsurn                                                                    15.2     51.8     79.6                  -        -       146.6
Subte Technkal assstance                                                                                         1,082.9  1,883.1   1,836.5  1,348.8  1,065.0    889.7    8,106.0
2. Equpment & Vdhicls
FourWDvehides                           unit        4      -      -      -      -      -        4    24,767    107.3         -        -         -        -        .       107.3    ,
TwoWDVehide                             unit        2      -      -      -      -      -        2     14,860     32.2        -        -         -        -        *        32.2   SD
Motarcycles                             unit       10      -         -                 -       10      1,486     16.1        -        -         -        -        -        16.1    Q
Computersystem                          unit        8                                           a -   -   -   8  4,974  43.1  -       -        -         -        -        43.1    Xa
FacsImile machine                       unit        2      -         -      -      -            2      1,492      3.2        -        -        -         -        -         3.2    0
Officefthaitre                         office       2      -         -      -      -            2    14,811      32.1        -        -         -        -        -        32.1    "  b
VehieRentl                              day       100       -      .      .     .      .      100        99      10.7                                                      1 *  *  10.7   t. 
Submo  Equipment & Vehcles                                                                                        244.7             -        -             -        -       244.7



Indonesi
Keuina Sebat ICDP
Table 2. AreaVillage Dopment
Detailed Comb (US$)
Quantie                          Unit                   Totals Includingi ContingencIes OOO)
Unit   96197  S7198  9il99  99100  00/01  01/02   Total     Cost    96/97    97/98    9899    99/00    00/01    01/02        ToWl
3. iscellneoum costs
OlceRental                            month        4      12    12    12    12        .       52       488      2.1      6.5      6.6      6.8       7.0        -       29.0
Communications                        month        8     24    24    24    24         -      104       976      8.5     26.0     26.6     27.2      27.9               116.1
Repoting                              month        8     24    24    24    24         -      104       586      5.1     15.6    16.0       16.3     16.7        -       69.7
Travel                                 trip       100   520   520   400   200         -    1,740        49      5 3     28.1     28.8     22.7      11.6        -       96.6
lntemabonaliawl                        trip        5      4      5      4      5      -      23      3,000     15.5     12.7     16.2      13.3     17.0        -       74.7
Per Diem                             sta"iday    250  1,480  1,480  1,000   500       -    4,710        49     13 2     80.1     82.0     56.7      29.1        -      261.1
Opawon dMaintenanc oelnmont                         8     24    24    24    24        -      104     1,952     16.9     51.9    53.2      54.5      55.8        -      232.3
Subotl fscNllus-a comb                                                                                           66.5    220.9    229.4    197.6    165.1         -      879.5
4. Training
AgrbusinessTrsanigCeder               course        -      1     1      1      -      -       3    78,988         -     87.6     89.7     91.8         -        -      269.1
Comm     TrauniyTrq                   village     10    18    19    29    28    30           134     4,487     48.6     89.6     96.8    151.3    149.6    1641        700.0
Project Maagers                       course        -     1      1      -      -              2      2,962        -      3.3      3.4        -        -        -         6.6
Plannenrs                             course        -     2      2      -      -      -       4      2,962               6.6      6.7        -        -        -        13.3
Extnsion worker                       course        -     2      5      3      -      -      10      1,975        -      4.4     11.2      6.9        -        -        22.5
ZOPP Meeing                           meebng        -      1     1      1      1      -       4      4,937        -      5.5      5.6      5.7       5.9        -       22.7
LCO trring                          lumpsum                                                                    26.6     49.0     61.9     89.1     94.1      99.4      420.0
Subtota Training                                                                                                 75.2    245.8    275.3    344.8    249.6    263.5      1,454.1
Subtol Technical msitnce                                                                                        1,469.2  2,349.8  2,341.2  1,891.2  1,479.6  1,153.2    10,684.2
ToWtInlnweb mCosb                                                                                                  2,300.8  4,017.0  4,241.1  4,706.0  4,334.3  4,117.8   23,717.1
I. Recr    Cosb
A. Support saff to TA                                                                                                                                                                           -J
Adminlststor(two)                      staffmonth     4     24    24    24    24        -      100     3,904     16.1      98.9    101.3    103.8    106.2        -      426.4
Searetarl(tour)                        stabffmont    16    48    48    48    48         -      208       976     161      49.5     50.7     51.9      53.1               221.2
Dnvs(eigh                              saffrmonth   32    96    96    96    96          -     416        488     16.1     49.5     50 7     51.9      53.1        -      221.2
Offlceassistarts(bur)                  staffllonth   16    48    48    48    48         -      208       293      4.8      14.8    15.2      15.6     15.9        *       66.4
Subtol Support staff to TA                                                                                          53.1    212.7    217.8    223.1    228.4        -       935.2
B. Project Mament
Staff Honoraria                        staffmonth    90    90    90    90    90    90          540        39      3.8      3.9      4.0      4.1       4.2      4.3       24.2
Extension Wo1kers Incentive Payrnents  staffmonth   36    48    54    84   108    48          378         49      1 9      2.6      3.0      4 8       6.3      2 9       21.4
OfficeSupplies                        ofliceiniont    108    108   108   108   108   108       648        98     11.4      11.7     12.0     12.3     12.5     129        72.7
Commnuncabons                         office/mont    108    108   108   108   108   108        648       293     34.2     35.1     35.9     36.8      37.6     38.6      218.2
Reporting                             office/mont   36    108   108   108   108   108          576       195      76      234      23.9     24.5      25.1     25.7      130.2
Travel                                    tip       200    400   400   400   400   400    2,200           49     10 6     21.6     22 2     22 7      23.2     23.8      124.1
PerDiem                                 staffday   1,000  2,000  2,000  2,000  2,000  2.000   11.000      49     52.8    1082    110.8    1135    1162    119.0          620.6
Subtotal Projet Managerient                                                                                        1224    2065    211.8    218.6    2252    227.0    1,211.4
Total Recurrent Cost                                                                                                 175.5    419.2    429.6    441.6    453.6    227.0    2,140.7
Total                                                                                                               2,476.4  4,436.2  4,670.7  5,147.7  4,787.9  4,344.8   25,863.8
ba Thirty people at $75 per day trawl and per diem
\b Monthy meeting coordinated by Kabupaten Pimpro in five Kabupatens years 1-3 and nine kabupatens years 3-6
vc Includes PC, pninter and software                                                                                                                                                   I
vd These are areas which require special management to prevent further encroachment                                                                                                         >
b Calculated at 5% of vilage investment costs                                                                                                                                          CD
V Mapping contract to BPN at Rp 2000 per hectare, average village size 15000 ha                                                                                                        \ 0
tg Nils covers the cost of the viNlage LCOs. subsistence and Kabupalen liaison for 5 years and is part of the coordinating NGO contract                                                
\h Intesnational volunteerOs
Xi Assigned to i3APPEDA I                                                                                                          
4 Indudes othe local NGOs



hRonm
Kom Sdt ICDP
Ta  3. Canoe    Bibdelt ASeaNt
Dens Coati
(USl)
GueSSes                          Unit                  TotW hlud  C          a   ('W)
Uni *   17  97P13 N          NMe 31   0    01I2   Total    Cost 7              T1i   iD                 oz1        0102      Tobl
L hmen Cose
k Reid MSSsm NW Squa* m
1. Conesmau     1    I  gwg& hg
a. Trafg
Trus &          Is                          pun         20     40     40    40    40    40         220     9s7       21.4     43.8     44.8      45.9     47.0     48.1      251.1
SuappunsN eue                                            1      2      2      2      2      2       11    2,962       3.2      6.6      6.7      6.9       7.1      7.2       37.7
S _btotl    i                                                                                                          24.6      50.4     51.6     52.8     64.1      55.4     288.8
h. Bld-rsW  erwe lb
Veddl ts                                     day         6      6      6      a      6      6       36      491       3.0      3.1       3.2      3.3      3.3      3.4       19.3
Swwyeq**met andnmuWs/c                        e          1      1       1      1     1      1        6   39,255      40.5     41.5     42.4      43.5     44.5     45.6      257.9
lwsmon Trveld                                trip        -      4      4      4      4      4       20    2.944         -     12.4      12.7     13.0     13.4     13.7       65.2
LocIfld                                      trIp        8      6      6      6      6      6       36      491       3.0      3.1      3.2      3.3       3.3      3.4       19.3
Fleid per den                                day       450    450    450    450   450   450    2,700         49      22.6     23.3     23.9      24.4     25.0     25.6      145.1
Sublt    B   dnovemity esurys                                                                                          69.3      83.4     85.4     87.5     U9.S      91.7     506.9
Subtotl Co sn bodkra  mgmt & tang                                                                                         93.9    133.8    137.0    140.3    143.6    147.1      795.7
B. Tachcl  as e
1. Tecnical Aases
Elogis                                     slahnont        -    12      12    12    12        -      48   17,174         -    217.6    222.8    228.2    233.7                902.3
Bio lty Speda (two) /e                     staffmonth      -      4      4      4     4      4        20   17,174        -      72.5     74.3     76.1     77.9      79.8     380.5
Trainng apedt                                safflronh      -      1      1      1      1     1         5   17,174        -      18.1     18.6     19.0     19.5      19.9      95.1
aiodiveralypciataf                          staffnoth      8       8      6      8     6      6        36    4,907     30.4      31.1     31.8     32.6     33.4      34.2     193.4
Fieldaew(our/g                              stffmontnf    48      48     48    48    48    48        2e8      491      24.3      24.9     25.5     26.1     26.7      27.3     154.8     m
Trajnlnaconaonmgt                           staffllonth    2      3      3      3      3     3        17    5,250      10.8     16.6     17.0     17.4     17.9      18.3      98.1
Subal Tchncl Astance                                                                                                      65.5    380.9    390.0    399.4    409.0    179.5   1,824.3
2. Offc St
Seselsy                                     staffinonth    6      12     12    12    12    12          66      634      3.9       8.0      8.2      8.4      e.6       8.8      48.1
Subttl  Technical Asslsance                                                                                                 89.4    388.9    398.3    407.8    417.6    188.4   1,870.4
Total lnvestmet Costa                                                                                                         163.3    522.7    535.3    548.1    561.3    335.4   2,666.1
H. Rwcurrnt Costa
A. Staff
Inemenwt Field Staff /h                        staffniontl   12    24      24    24    24    24         132       96       1.3      2.6      2.7      2.7       2.8      2.9      14.9
B. Otew Recunwnt Coms
VehideHirefbrFFld StaffTi                         day       126    252    252   252   252   252    1,386          98      13.3     27.3     27.9     28.6      29.3     30.0      156.4
FuelandVehideMalntenanoe                        fonth         6     12     12    12    12    12          66      195       1.3      2.6      2.7      2.7       2.8      2.9      14.9
Subl OtrRecuentCost                                                                                                         14.8     29.9      30.6     31.3     32.1     32.8      171.3
Total Recurnt Cost                                                                                                             15.9     32.5     33.2     34.0     34.9      35.7     188.2
Total                                                                                                                         179.2    555.2    568.5    582.1    596.1    371.1    2,852.3
\a Fifteen day field-based training for concession, dinas and kanwil staff
\b surveys of eleven HPHs over project life                                                                                                                                          p
vo Includes field eqipnient required for flora and fauna surveys
\d Travel fbr foreign experts
\e Herpetologists, botanist entymologist, avifauna specialist
V Botanists, zoologists                                                                                                                                                              O
\g local NGO or university graduates
\h Staff from kanvil and Dinas offire
\ one seven day inspection tour tby dinas staff per month per province



Indonesia
Kefinri Seblat ICDP
Table 4. Monitoring and Evaluabon
Debiled Coms
(USS)
QuantWfies                       Unit                  Totals Including Contingencies (0W)
UnIt   96197  97198  9U99  99100  00101  01102   Total    Cost    96197    9718    9899    99100    00t01    01102           Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Equipment nd Mpping
1. Computer Equpment
a. Secrebriat
PersonalConputers                       unit        3      -      -      -     3      -        6    3,482      11.3        -         -        -     124         -       23.7
Digitizers                              unit       2                            -              2    1,990       4.3        -         -        -        -        -        4 3
Laser Printer                           unit        2      -      -      -     2      -        4      995       2.2        -         -        -      2.4        -        4.5
Color Pdnter/Pbtter                     unit        2      -      -      -     1      -        3    3.979       8.6        -         -        -      4.7        -       13.4
UPS System                              unit        2             -      -      -     -        2    1,194       2.6        -         -        -        -        -        2.6
Soltware(GLSuidDatabase)                set         3      -      -      -      -     -        3    3,979      12.9        -         -        -        -        -       12.9
Subti Secretwst                                                                                                  41.9         -        -        -      19.5        -      61.4
b. Site Offlie
Pwral Cohulers                          unit        5     5       -      -      -     -       10    3,482      18.9     19.3         -        -        -        -       38.2
Printes                                 unit        5     5       -      -      -     -       10      796       4.3      4.4         -        -        -        -        8.7
Coicx Pniner                            unit        5      5      -      -      -     -       10    1,990      10.8     11.0         -        -        -        -       21.8
UPS System                              unit        5     5       -                           10    1,194       6.5      6.6         -        -        -        -       131
Sotwarm                                 unit        5      5      -      -      -     -       10    3,979      21.5     22.1         -                                  43.6
Subtotsl Site omfc                                                                                               61.9      63.4        -        -        -        -      125.4
SubtotaI Corpulr Equipment                                                                                         103.8     63.4        -         -     195         -      186.8
2. Oter Equipnedt nd Furniture
Office Funifte (Secrelsriat)              set         4      -                                   4       995       4.3                                   -                 4.3
PhotSopier                                unit        1                                           1    2,487       2.7        -        -                                   2 7
SubtotaI Otr Equment and Funiture                                                                                    7.0        -        -        -         -                 7                  co
3. 1pping
DataibaseMap(1:250.000)la              mapshedt    25    52         -      -      -      -      77       248      6.7      14.3                                           21.0
Dataae Map(1:25,000)b                  rnapsheet   300   376       75      -      -      -     751       199     64.5      828      16.9        -                        164.1
Existing Aeriai Photo                     no.     2,100      -      -                         2,100       17     38.4         -        -        -                         38.4
NewsAedraPhoto                          'OOOha        -      -    75       -    75       -     150    2,184         -         -    185.9        -    1950                3809
Satellite Inagery                        scene        2      -      2       -     2      -       6    6.948       15.0       -      15.8        -     16.5        -       47.4
Subtotal Mapping                                                                                                   124.6     97.1    218.6        -    211.5         -      651.8
4. Vehicles
Four Vvieel Drive Vehide                  unit        1                    -         -            1   24,767     26.8         -        -        -        -        -       26.8
Subtotal Equipment and Mapping                                                                                       262.3    160.5    218.6         -    231.1        -      8725
B. Technical Asistance
1. Consultant.
Monioring and Evaluation Specialist    stafffronth    6     10      -                            16   17.500    108 3    184 8         -        -                  -     293.1
MIS Specialist (Local)                 stafflmonth    3      3      3                             9    4,880      151      15 5     15.8        -        -                46 4
Evaluabon Staff (Local)                stafflnonth    -      -      4             -     4        8       195        -         -      0.8        -        -       09        1.8     r
M&E and GIS Consultant (Local)         staffmonth     6     12    12      12    12    12        68    4,880       30.2     61 8     63.3     64.8     66.4      680      3546
Subtotal Consultants                                                                                               153.6    2621      80.0      64.8     66.4     68 9      695 8    CD  >
2. Travel                                                                                                                                                                              Z
M&E Specialists Travel                    tnp        12    12    12       12    12    12        72       390       51       5 2      5.3      5.4      5.6       5.7      32.3     O
Subtotal Technical Assistance                                                                                        158 6    267 3      85.3     70 3     72 0     74 6      728 1
Z I>



Tabe 4. 4oniNl  nd Evulon
Detabd Coast
(US$)
Qu_AntIt                          Unit                    Totals hcukng Co       r_ngenl  (00O)
Unit   967  971S8 98             0  OOA1  012   Total         Cost    96197    97136        IU S 99130        OIOi   01102       TobW
C. Deb Codecton
Sodo.E          sump*Sdveyst rict                          -      9              9      -      9       27   29,441          -    279.8         -    293.4         -    307.6      880.8
LMnded FIeld Sieys M/d                      Iunum                                                                         5.1      5.2       5.3      5.4       5.6      5.7       32.2
Indpqendmtc n ce alhoruit                  rosncessi       -      2      2       2      2      3       11   49,069          -    103.6    106.1    106.7    111.3    170.9        600.6
Subal Dab  ColscIon                                                                                                         5.1    388.6    111.4    407.5    116.8    484.3    1,513.7
D. TraInn
TraimngtorM&EStaff                        sdaffmllm      16     16       -      -      -      -       36    1,185       23.1     23.6         -        -         -        -       48.7
DenmaonMakersTrainig                        staffweelk    1      1        -      -      -              36      740       14.4     14.8         -        -         -        -       29.2
Plari Trk*t  (nm GIS)                      staffmth       so     56       -                           108     1,481      80.2     95.2              -        -             -      175.4
Subtoa Tranng                                                                                                             117.7    133.7         -         -        -         -     251.4
Total Investnint Cost                                                                                                        543.7    950.1    415.4    477.8    419.9    558.9    3,365.7
I. Recurrent Costs
A. Support Stilto TA
(D
M&EStaff(2 salM)                           staffmonth     12     24     24      24    24      24      132    1,952       24.2     49.5      50.7     51.9      53.1     54.4      283.7         o
Seacay                                     stmloanlt       6     12     12      12    12    12         66      634        3.9      8.0       8.2      8.4       8.6      8.8       46.1
Driver                                     stalmonUn       6     12     12      12    12    12         66       293       1.8      3.7       3.8      3.9       4.0      4.1       21.3
Subol Support Staff to TA                                                                                                  29.9      61.2     62.7      64.2     65.7      67.3     351.1
B. Ma11t_nanc
Equipent Maintenance                        tumpsum                                                                         -      5.5       5.7      5.8       6.0      6.1       29.1
Vehide OAM                                 lumpstum                                                                       1.3      2.7       2.8      2.8       2.9       3.0      15.5
SubtaMl Nis3_nance                                                                                                          1.3       8.2      8.4       8.7      8.9       9.1       44.6
C. Supplli
Suppie and Olher Operational Costs          lumpsum                                                                       7.9      8.1       8.3      8.5       8.7      8.9       50.5
TotW Recurrnt Cota                                                                                                            39.1     77.6      79.5     81.4      83.3     85.3      446.2
Total                                                                                                                        582.8   1,027.7    494.8    559.1    503.2    644.2    3,811.8
ba Under Contract
%b Urnder Contrac
\c Under TA contract
Wd Under TA contra;W
ve To be contracted to independent authoit y
H
GoQ 



-91 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 12
Expenditure Accounts by Components
Totals Including Contingencies
(US$ '000)
Concession Monitoring
Park     Area/Vlilage  Blodiversity    and
Management Development Assessment Evaluation    Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
Buildings & Structures              2,192.3           -            -         -    2,192.3
B. Village Grants /a
Agricultural & Other Inputs (Park)   251.7        562.3                       -      813.9
Agricultural & Other Inputs (Village)    -       1,453.8                      -    1,453.8
Village Infrastructure                   -      5,761.2            -         -    5,761.2
Subtotal Village Grants                251.7      7,777.3            -          -    8,029.0
C. Equipment & Vehicles
Furniture                                -         32.1            -         -        32.1
Vehicles                                 -        166.3            -       26.8      193.1
Office Equipment                     149.9         94.8            -      193.8     438.5
Field Equipment                      962.7        626.7            -      651.8    2,241.2
Office Rental                        124.3         29.0            -         -       153.3
Project Management                    75.4        775.8            -       32.3     883.5
Subtotal Equipment & Vehicles         1,312.2     1,724.6            -      904.8    3,941.6
D. Training & Study Tours              804.9      1,454.1        288.8     251.4    2,799.1
E. Extension & Planning               1,505.7     4,389.4            -         -    5,895.0
F. Technical Assistance
Foreign TA                          2,540.0     1,553.7         98.1      293.1    4,484.9
Local TA                             633.1      2,361.9         46.1      402.7    3,443.9
NGO Services                             -      3,439.5            -         -    3,439.5
Subtotal Technical Assistance         3,173.1     7,355.1        144.2      695.8   11,368.2
G. Studies                              10.1        825.5            -         -       835.7
H. Survey & Research                  1,496.3       191.0      2,233.2    1,513.7    5,434.2
Total Investment Costs                 10,746.3    23,717.1      2,666.1    3,365.7   40,495.1
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Project Management Costs            651.0      2,101.0            -      401.6    3,153.6
B. Staff Costs
Honoraria, per diem & travel         185.9         45.6           -          -      231.5
Incremental staff costs             1,056.8           -         14.9         -    1,071.7
Regular staff salaries               341.2            -           -          -      341.2
Subtotal Staff Costs                  1,583.8        45.6         14.9         -    1,644.4
C. Maintenance     -
Building maintenance                  68.3            -           -          -       68.3
Vehicle 0 & M                        373.0            -        171.3       15.5      559.8
Equip. maint. & furn. replacement     20.1            -           -       29.1       49.2
Subtotal Maintenance                   461.5            -        171.3      44.6      677.3
Total Recurrent Costs                   2,696.3     2,146.7        186.2      44B.2    5,475.3
Total PROJECT COSTS                    13,442.6     25,863.8      2,852.3    3,811.8   45,970.4
Taxes                                  805.1      2,222.6        288.4      384.7    3,700.8
Foreign Exchange                     4,343.3      3,097.4       670.2    1,246.7    9,357.5
\a The village grants may also include a small amount for village enterprises.



-92-
ANNEX 10
Page I of 2
DISBURSEMENT PLAN
(US$ Million)
Amount                       Disbursement Rate
CategQo                IBRDJ    GEF               IBRD                      GiEE
Civil Works:
- Buildings and Structures                     1.2                                     60%
- Village Infrastructure               4.2                    80%
Equipment & Fumiture /a
- Parks                                        0.3                               100%; 100%; 65%
- Buffer zone        -                 0.6              100%; 100%; 65%
Training:
- Parks                                  -     1.1                                     90%
- Buffer zone                          1.0    0.3             60%                      20%
Consultant Services:
- Parks                                        2.6             -                       90%
- Bufferzone & Land Zoning             4.4     0.5            80%                      10%
- Community Services                           2.8             -                       90%
Extension & Planning:
- Parks                                        0.8                                     80%
- Buffer zone                          3.7     0.4            80%                      10%
Survey & Research:
- Parks                                        1.2                                     90%
- Buffer zone                          0.9     1.6            30%                      50%
Studies                                0.7       -            90%
Agricultural Inputs /b                  1.0      -            80%
Incremental Operating Expenditure      0.7    0.7             15%                       15%
Unallocated                             1.9     1.5           10%                       10%
TOTAL                                  19.1    15.0
/a 100% of foreign expenditures on equipment, fumiture and mapping; 100% of local expenditures (ex-
factory prices) for locally manufactured equipment and fumiture and 65% for locally procured items.
/b Excluding fertilizer which GOI will finance.



-93 -
ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 2
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(USSIOOO)
IBRD            International Bank for                   Global                Disbursement
Fiscal Year    Reconstruction & Development          Environmental Trust           Profile/a
Semester    Per Semester Cumulative   %       Per Semester Cumulative   %           (%)
1996
2              1,500       1,500      8          1,000       1,000      7
1997
1               910        2,410     13           850        1,850     12              3
2                910       3,320     17            850       2,700     18               6
1998
1              1,850       5,170     27          1,688      4,388      29              14
2              1,850       7,020     37          1,688       6,076     41              22
1999
1              1,786       8,806     46          1,450      7,526      50             30
2              1,786      10,592     55          1,450       8,976     60              38
2000
1              1,832      12,424     65          1,470      10,446     70             46
2              1,832      14,256     74          1,470      11,916     79              54
2001
I              1,669      15,925     83          1,175      13,091     87             62
2              1,669      17,594     92          1,175      14,266     95              70
2002
1               680       18,274     95           310       14,576     97             78
2                680      18,954     99            310      14,886     99              86
2003
I                191      19,145    100           114       15,000    100             90
2                -           -      -              -           -      -                98
2004
I                                                             -      -                100
/a Standard Disbursement Profiles - 1995; Indonesia, Agriculture Sector, by Semester from Board
Appraisal; Financial Information Center, July 31, 1995.
/b Project Closing Date as September 30, 2002



-94 -                          ANNEX 1I
Page I of 7
REGIONAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF MAJOR CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
INTRODUCTION
A Brief Description of the Biodiversity of the Kerinci Seblat Area
1.    The Kerinci Seblat ICDP proposal is located in the southern half of Sumatra in the
provinces of Jambi, South Sumatra, Bengkulu and West Sumatra. It extends for a distance of
nearly 350 km along the spine of the Barisan Mountain Range from Padang in the north to
Bengkulu in the south, and includes Indonesia's second highest mountain, Mt. Kerinci, at 3,805
m. The natural ecological communities of the Kerinci Seblat area are of outstanding biodiversity
significance: including species-rich lowland dipterocarp forests at elevations from 300 m to
1,000 m; unique wetlands, and subalpine communities at almost 4,000 m. These ecological
communities support a rich flora and fauna:
*  at least 4,000 species of plants, including Rafflesia, the world's largest flower,
Amorphophallus, the world's tallest flower, and the only natural occurrence of the
genus Pinus in the southern hemisphere;
*  144 mammalian species including several threatened or endangered species such as
Sumatran rhino, tiger, elephant, tapir, and gibbons;
*  180 bird species (2 percent of the world's total), including three species of hornbill,
the rare Kerinci Scop's owl and the great argus pheasant;
*  19 animal species endemic to Sumatra - 14 birds and 5 mammals.
2.    Kerinci Seblat was initially proposed as a national Park by the Minister of Forests in
1982. This initial proposal, comprising an area of 1,484,650 ha, was a consolidation of separate
blocks of conservation reserves and protection forests.  A series of subsequent boundary
revisions has reduced the Park by about to its present size of 1-1.3 million ha. The biodiversity
value of the Kerinci Seblat area is threatened by the reduction in Park area and by a host of
development pressures, such as access proposals, encroachment for shifting cultivation and
cinnamon plantations, and logging in the lowland forests.
Regional Impact Assessment: Definition and Purpose
3.    As the name implies, a regional assessment (RIA) is an analysis of the consequences of
one or more development projects, where the project or projects are anticipated to have
significant environmental, social or economic effects far beyond their immediate locality. RIAs
are particularly appropriate where impacts affect a number of different sectors and require a
coordinated management response, or where effective impact management requires policy or
institutional change. RIAs fall into two broad categories:



-95-                           ANNEX I I
Page 2 of 7
(a)   assessment of the cumulative impacts of a number of development projects on a
geographic region, and the design of a common, coordinated impact management
program to guide the activities of government and the various project
components; and
(b)   assessment of the impacts of single large project with extensive environmental,
land use and socio-economic development implication, the management of which
requires significant policy, administrative and fiscal responses from national and
local governments.
4.    The Kerinci Seblat RIA clearly belongs in the second category, and its purpose has been
to evaluate the following:
(a)   the extent to which the ICDP design meets basic objectives for natural resource
and biodiversity conservation;
(b)   the potential impacts of adjacent development activities on biodiversity
conservation and Park integrity; and
(c)   the impacts (positive and negative) of the Kerinci Seblat ICDP design on
opportunities for future economic development.
5.    Reflecting these objectives, the main RIA document contains the following chapters: a
description of the existing environmental and social setting for the Kerinci Seblat area; a
description of the ICDP proposal; a critical analysis of project design; and an assessment of the
impact of the project on regional development opportunities.
A BRIEF SUMMARY OF MAJOR ISSUES
PROJECT DESIGN
The Park Boundary
6.    The majority of the boundary revisions alluded to above have excised species-rich
lowland and low elevation hill forests. The areas have been reclassified from nature reserve or
protection forest to production forest, and placed in adjacent logging concessions. A comparison
of the original boundary with the currently boundary reveals that there has been an overall
reduction in the area of low elevation systems of 72 percent, however, some important systems
have suffered much higher loss: plains systems reduced by 81 percent, and the larger alluvial
valleys so important to many wildlife species reduced by more than 99 percent. The proportion
of mountain systems, with lower biological productivity and biodiversity, has risen from 67
percent to 86 percent.  Overall, of 27 landscape units (based on differences of climate,
topography and lithology) identified as representative of the original Park, 15 have been reduced



- 96 -                              ANNEX I I
Page 3 of 7
by 80 percent or more and 8 have been completely eliminated. The boundary is currently the
single most critical issue of project design. The Park has lost a significant proportion of its
biodiversity and may no longer contain the habitats necessary for the long-term protection and
maintenance of its "flagship" wildlife species - elephant, tiger, rhinoceros, tapir, gibbon and the
wealth of lowland evergreen rainforest birds. Adjacent lands are being subjected to such serious
disturbance from logging and such rapid deforestation by encroachers that they may loose much
of their biodiversity and buffer zone function. If the situation is to be retrieved, a number of
steps must be taken immediately.
(a)    Demarcation of the current boundary should proceed in order to expedite Park
gazettement, but there must be a clear statement from the Government of
Indonesia that the boundary is recognized as inadequate and that major boundary
rationilization to improve its biodiversity status will take place progressively
over the next five years.
(b)    A rapid environmental appraisal, involving biodiversity and wildlife habitat,
must begin immediately to determine the most important areas for repatriation to
the Park, concentrating on the Jambi and Bengkulu Park boundaries. Work
should begin immediately, utilizing remaining JGF funding, on two concessions
adjacent to the Park, one in Jambi and one in Bengkulu, with the following
selection criteria: high biodiversity; large proportion of protection and limited
production forest; and/or lease expiring within the next two years. Candidates
for these first appraisals are the Sarestra II and Nusa Leases in Jambi and the
Bina Samaktha and Maju Jaya Raya leases in Bengkulu. These two appraisals
should be undertaken as part of the concession reviews, see below, and be
completed by December 1996 with firm recommendations for the transfer of low
elevation areas of high biodiversity back to the Park.
Enforcement
7.    From even a casual field trip around the Park boundary, it is evident that encroachment
by agricultural squatters is now largely uncontrolled, and that greatly upgraded capability to deal
with the problem is needed immediately. In addition it is also evident that serious wildlife
poaching occurs in many areas of the Park. The project design calls for 100 new pack guards to
be engaged as "pegawi proyek" at 25 per year for four years starting in 1996. By the time this
force becomes effective it may well be too late for many areas inside the Park boundary, let
alone areas of value adjacent to the Park. It is therefore recommended that, prior to project
appraisal, the Government of Indonesia develop an effective bridging enforcement strategy to be
implemented in priority areas; starting in April 1995 and continuing until new project staff are
trained and in place. The strategy should contain: (1) a description of legal enforcement
procedures; (2) staffing levels and responsibilities; and (3) a summary of enforcement actions to
date.



- 97                            ANNEX I I
Page 4 of 7
Encroachment and Resettlement
8.    Generally the tools available to deal with existing Park encroachment are to amend the
Park boundary, to demarcate and enforce enclave boundaries, or to resettle/relocate. These will
have to be applied on a case-by-case basis after careful study during the first few years of project
implementation. Decisions should take into consideration criteria such as the impact on wildlife
management and biodiversity conservation, sustainability of the cropping practice, whether the
use is compatible with Park or buffer zone management criteria, and the potential reversibility of
the vegetation change. In addition the traditional attitude of Park managers that "people have no
place in parks" must change. Indigenous people who have lived in a region for decades or
centuries should be considered an integral part of the local ecology. Their customs and the way
they relate to natural systems becomes an added "biodiversity value." If relocation is the most
appropriate and desirable option, every effort should be made to encourage the persons or
community to relocate voluntarily. This can be accomplished by providing an acceptable
relocation site and adequate compensation for shifting, and by allowing continued use of the
original site for a set period through the "kebun kehidupan" concept of temporary utilization
zones.
9.    It is clear that at present there is neither sufficient information to assess the impacts of
individual encroaching communities not the staff capability to plan and manage a community
resettlement program. For these reasons the following implementation steps are recommended:
(a)   Immediate measures must concentrate on the stabilization of the Park and forest
concession boundaries to ensure no new encroachment takes place, through the
interim enforcement strategy recommended above.
(b)   No further resettlement of established individuals or communities should occur
for three years pending completion of the Park management plan and wildlife-
biodiversity studies and encroached areas, unless the request comes unsolicited
from the people. The wildlife-biodiversity studies should establish objective
criteria for assessing the impacts of communities living and farming inside the
Park and establish priority areas where resettlement may be required. Terms of
reference for these studies should be sent to the World Bank for review prior to
project appraisal.
(c)    Resettlement should be contemplated only where communities jeopardize
biodiversity values that are still intact, where there is a likelihood of permanent
human/wildlife conflict or where the community occupies land with significant
potential for the rehabilitation of habitat values. Wherever possible, resettlement
should be voluntary and carried out in accord with a Resettlement Action Plan
prepared in consultation with the affected people.  An objective economic
analysis of both the earnings of current agricultural practice and the potential
earnings of the alternatives available to encroaching communities (i.e.,
transmigration and pohon kehidupan) should be prepared and submitted to the
World Bank in year one of project implementation.



-98 -                           ANNEX I 1
Page 5 of 7
(d)   Where communities remain in the Park, they should do so under a formal Park
use contract. Every effort should be made to accommodate these communities in
Park management programs and to capitalize on the tourism potential of their
culture and way of life.
IMPACTS OF OTHER DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES
Forest Management
10.   As previously noted, many of the areas of the original Park proposal excised by the
current boundary were reallocated to timber concessions even though they were classed as, or
met the criteria for, protection forest. The majority of the concessions around the boundary of
Kerinci Seblat are now wholly or largely within protection forest, and past enforcement against
encroachment has been so inadequate that intact forest on some concessions now exists only in
steep hill systems. Logging in such systems is invariably extremely destructive both to the forest
and to watershed values. The following recommendations are made with respect to forest
concession management within the Kerinci Seblat buffer zone:
(a)    A one year moratorium should be in place on the logging of any areas classed by
RePPProT as Protection Forest within the original 1982 Park boundary, pending
priority application of the KPHP analysis to forest concessions on both the Jambi
and Bengkulu boundaries of the Park; such analysis to be completed by
December 1996. The KPHP analysis should be synchronized with the rapid
environmental appraisals referred to under Park boundary recommendations;
(b)   Upon completion of the KPHP and rapid environmental appraisals, area of high
biodiversity or conservation value outside the rationalized concession boundaries
will be repatriated to the Park.
(c)    Areas of intact forest not required for the Park and not suitable for industrial
logging techniques should be placed in community forests where local people
may harvest minor forest products or hand log commercial timber species on a
sustainable basis under a buffer zone use contract administered jointly by local
government and the Park authorities.
Roads
11.   New roads or even upgrading of existing tracks have potentially significant implications
for both Park management and biodiversity conservation, since they provide access to new
settlers and opportunities for the expansion of existing agricultural activities through access to
new markets.  There are few if any examples in Indonesia of effective prevention of
encroachment when new roads have been constructed into areas of natural forest. Current road
"proposals" fall into two categories: first, "roads of convenience" that transect the Park, linking



- 99 -                              ANNEXI1I
Page 6 of 7
communities that already have road access; and second, roads to enclave communities inside the
Park which do not now have road access. There are about seven proposed roads which fall into
the first category. These, with attendant human encroachment, pose by far the more serious
threat to Park integrity; potentially fragmenting the Park into isolated blocks, disrupting animal
migration, and preventing the flow of genetic resources. It is recommended that:
(a)   No new roads will be approved or constructed in or through the Park pending
completion of the Park management plan and a regional (buffer zone) land use
and transportation plan agreed to by all four provinces. Road construction should
also be predicated on the strengthening of enforcement capability to prevent
encroachment.
(b)   Any road proposals that may be deemed acceptable in the Park and buffer zone
plans must be subject to rigorous environmental assessment and project
justification through a full AMDAL report.
(c)    The unpaved 3 km of the proposed Muara Labuh-Kambang road should be
stabilized with proper drainage controls and put to bed under a temporary
vegetation cover pending a future decision on its acceptability.
Mineral Resource Development
12.   Only three mining concessions are now said to exist within the Park or surrounding
buffer zones. Two of these companies, P.T. Barisan Tropical Mining (gold) and P.T. Ketahun
(gold/copper), are undertaking feasibility studies and one, P.T. Lusang Mining, is still at the
exploration stage. The following recommendations are made with respect to mining activity:
(a)   No further mining concessions should be granted by the Ministry of Mines and
Energy within both the areas included in the original 1982 Park boundary and
the hatched area shown in Figure 10 until the final boundary of Kerinci Seblat is
decided.
(b)   Feasibility studies and controlled mineral exploration on the three existing
concessions should be allowed to continue in the Park on the understanding that
if no economically viable mineral potential is determined within five years, the
concessions will be canceled without compensation.
(c)   If mineable mineral deposits are found, the acceptability of mining will be
determined on a case-by-case basis through the AMDAL process. The following
limitations should be considered for any potential mine project: (i) no open pit
extraction would be allowed inside the Park or a 5 km buffer zone; (ii) all mine
infrastructure must be located outside the 5 km buffer; and (iii) equipment,
worker and ore transport within the Park and buffer must be by a method other
than road (i.e., overhead bucket or rail tram). Where a potentially viable mine is
now allowed to proceed, compensation will be limited to exploration expenses
only.



-100 -                                ANNEX   11
Page 7 of 7
(d)    Any ore processing in the area should be by a closed-circuit cyanide process with
a built-in cyanide destruction system (e.g., Inco SO2). Consideration should be
given to the subsidized processing of ore belonging to small alluvial gold miners
in order to lessen their dependence on mercury in and adjacent to the Park.
The Impact of the ICDP on Regional Development Opportunities
13.    This section of the RIA was impossible to complete with accuracy and technical rigor
because of existing project design uncertainties, such as the boundary, and real information
deficiencies. What is evident is that, in its current form, the ICDP project has few opportunity
costs because the land area has major use limitations. Steep topography and the poverty of
dominant soils are major constraints to sustainable agriculture. Almost two thirds of the area of
existing forest concessions meet the soil, slope and rainfall intensity criteria for protection forest,
and in theory should not be available for commercial timber production. Continued logging of
these areas will have serious implications for future forest production and watershed stability.
Earlier economic analysis (DHV Report 8, 1993) probably significantly overestimated the
economic opportunity cost of the ICDP project to agriculture and forestry because it assumed
wrongly that existing land uses and levels of resource exploitation were largely sustainable.
14.    The impact of the Park and ICDP on mineral resource development is expected to be
minimal, though this can not be confirmed until the three existing concessions complete
feasibility studies accommodating the restrictions recommended above.  Because all three
projects overlap the Park boundary or lie outside the Park, these restrictions should not present
serious problems to an economically viable precious metal deposit.
15.    The recommended restrictions on access development must be placed in the context that
no community outside the Park boundary currently lacks road access. Even the enclaves inside
the Park, legal and illegal, are serviced by tracks and many have flourished with such access for
decades. The current road access proposals transecting the Park are primarily stimulated by
inter-provincial competition for the marketing, processing and shipment of commodities,
primarily cassiavera, from the Kerinci Valley. Such considerations are likely to result in costly
duplication of access and should not be allowed to jeopardize Park and biodiversity values.
This report was prepared for the Government of Indonesia by Sustainable Visions Natural Resources and
Environmental Management Consultants. Victoria, British Columbia, Canada, March 1995.



-101 -
ANNEX-12
Page 1 of 3
INCREMENTAL COSTS OF BIODIVERSITY
CONSERVATION
1.    Summary. The proposed GEF Grant of US$ 15.0 million equivalent (net of
taxes) would finance elements of the project that contribute wholly or largely to achieve-
ment of global biodiversity objectives. It is estimated that the "baseline" project scenario
(without global benefits) would cost about US$ 26.5 million, while the cost of the "GEF
alternative" (including global benefits) is estimated at US$ 46.0 million. A comparison
of project costs for the Baseline Scenario and GEF Alternative results in incremental
costs of about $19.5 million for achieving biodiversity conservation and sustainable use
objectives in KSNP and its buffer zones.
2.    Baseline Scenario. Under the baseline scenario, it is assumed that GOI would
maintain management and enforcement activities in and around KSNP at historical levels
(based on expenditure trends over the past 10 years). With respect to area/village devel-
opment expenditures, the baseline scenario includes planned rural infrastructure programs
for villages in KSNP buffer zones over the next 6 years; however, as these programs do
not address biodiversity conservation or sustainable use objectives, it is assumed for base-
line purposes that GOI would also initiate watershed protection programs in the project
area. Currently, supervision of timber concession management in the KSNP buffer zones
is inadequate, so it has been assumed for baseline purposes that GOI would begin to ad-
dress this weakness by investing in field programs and personnel to bring the situation
under better control. In the absence of the proposed project, limited monitoring and eval-
uation activities would have been undertaken in the project area. The cost of proposed
baseline activities is estimated at $ 26.5 million.
3.    Activities and expenditures under the baseline scenario are compatible with sus-
tainable development in the project area and national and social development objectives.
Although baseline activities would result in the protection of critical watersheds and
stricter enforcement of logging regulations on private concessionaires, they would be
insufficient to halt Park encroachment (human and road development) and to integrate
biodiversity conservation concerns into forestry management practices in the buffer zone.
This would lead to further biodiversity loss and habitat fragmentation in and around the
KSNP (particularly in the bordering concessions). Continued degradation and poor man-
agement in the Park and buffer-zones over the long term would result ultimately in the
loss of these ecosystems' habitat and biodiversity conservation functions. It is believed
that the most effective way to prevent such biodiversity loss is through regionally-based
programs, fully supported by local stakeholders, such as will be tested under the proposed
Kerinci Seblat Integrated Conservation and Development Project (ICDP).



-102 -
ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 3
4.    GEF Alternative. With GEF/Bank financial assistance, GOI would be willing to
undertake a much more ambitious protection/buffer zone development program in and
around the Kerinci-Seblat National Park with the explicit objective of conserving biodi-
versity resources and assisting local villagers to shift to environmentally sustainable
forms of economic behavior (the ICDP model). Park management and enforcement
would be strengthened, and efforts would be intensified (with NGO support) to resolve
human conflicts and minimize encroachment into the Park. Area/village development
activities would be specifically oriented to assisting villagers living in and around KSNP
shift to economic livelihood activities that would be compatible with habitat and
biodiversity conservation both inside and outside Park boundaries. Biodiversity assess-
ments and community forestry activities in the logging concessions would lead to incor-
poration of certain blocks into the Park and/or ensure their conservation under concession
management. Intensive monitoring and evaluation activities would be instituted to permit
documentation of trends related to the impact of project activities on participating
villages and peoples and on the area's biological resources. The cost of the GEF
Alternative is estimated at $ 46.0 million.
5.    The GEF Alternative, in addition to producing national sustainable development
benefits, would secure the biodiversity of the Park and its buffer zones, which include
threatened lowland and hill forests as well as montane habitats. KSNP and its surround-
ing forests provide one of the last opportunities in Southeast Asia to conserve a diverse
and complex mammal predator-prey system. The strengthening of Park management and
protection, the involvement of local communities, and the integration of conservation
values into forestry management practices are expected to effectively increase the conser-
vation estate by maintaining natural habitat beyond Park boundaries. The project will
develop a model for integrated conservation and development programs, which could be
applied to other parks in the Indonesia protected area system (and elsewhere in Asia).
6.    Incremental Costs. The costs of the Baseline Scenario and the GEF Alternative
are presented below, by major project component (in US$/million):
Major Components               Baseline          GEF Alternative
1)    KSNP Park management           $ 5.0                   $ 13.4
2)    Area/village development       $ 19.5                  $ 25.9
3)    Biodiversity/forest concessions  $ 1.5                 $ 2.9
4)    M/E in Park/buffer zone        $ 0.5                    $ 38
Total             $ 26.5                   $ 46.0



- 103 -
ANNEJX12
Page 3 of 3
The comparison of Baseline Scenario costs ($265 million) with the costs of the proposed
GEF Alternative ($46.0 million) results in an incremental cost of achieving global
benefits of about $19.5 million. The GEF grant of $15.0 million would contribute
substantially to financing these incremental costs. Given the associated (non-quantified)
national benefits from improved ecosystem functioning that the GEF Alternative would
generate, the GOI has indicated its willingness to finance the residual incremental costs of
roughly $4.5 million out of non-GEF (IBRD loan) resources.



- 104 -                             ANNEX 13
Page I of 6
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF PROJECT COMPONENTS
1.    As indicated in the main text of this report, aspects of the benefits from the project are
difficult to quantify, in the conventional sense. The methodology used to evaluate the benefits of
direct investment in biodiversity and conservation within the KNSP area is discussed in the main
text of the report: this annex deals with the estimation of returns to investment in the Village
Development and the Integrating Biodiversity in Forest Concession Management components.
Village Development Investments
2.    The Village Development Component of the project represents the largest expenditure
category for the project - US$27 million, consisting of investments in village infrastructure, and
grants for agricultural activities, as detailed in Annex 4 of this report.
3.    Although these investments are designed largely on the basis of reducing the impacts of
encroachment onto the KNSP area by surrounding populations, this component uses a
methodology to achieve that end which involves improving incomes in communities which are
marginalized, and poor. It also uses a participatory approach which means that the details of
some of the agricultural activities which will be sponsored under the project will not be decided
until the project is under implementation and consultation activities regarding the village land
use plan are in progress. Moreover, these activities will vary widely from one location to
another, so ex ante valuation of returns is problematical.
4.    Within these limitations, and also with some allowance for judgment on the proportion of
total project overheads which can be assigned to this component, an indicative evaluation of
costs and benefits for this component can be made.
5.    Investments under this component will, as noted above, consist of infrastructure
improvement, which is expected to have a general upward impact on agricultural and other
economic activities in the target areas, and specific agricultural production investments. It is
important to note that investments in infrastructure improvements and agricultural productivity
are incremental and additive. This can be shown in the graph of the production function below,
where K is infrastructure capital and Y is output.
y
FI(K)
Y2  -'------'-----'--   Y1
/Y.AY,
Yo     ./                  Fo (K)
/  -                    K



-105 -                             ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 6
Investments in infrastructure capital, AKO, bring about an increase along the curve of AY0,
whereas investments in knowledge expansion (through extension, demonstration, access to
improved seeds, etc.) would imply a shift of the production function (AY,). This implies that
there is no double counting involved in the rate of return calculations of infrastructure and
agriculture investments.
6.    Evaluation of returns to direct investment in various farming systems which will be
involved in the village investments have been made in the preparation process. The crop budgets
and farming system models used to estimate the benefits are shown in Technical Report 3 of
Annex 14 of the Preparation Report. The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) to incremental
benefits from irrigation intensification is estimated at 53% pa; to jungle rubber production it is
40%; to cassiavera (cinnamon) 97%; to oil palm 35%; and for an agroforestry alternative, 34%
pa. For the purposes of evaluating this component as a whole, the rate of return to direct
investment (referred to in the accompanying tables as Initial Costs) in output producing activities
in agriculture in the target villages, and the complementary infrastructure improvement inputs, is
assumed to be the lower bound of these estimates -i.e. 34% pa.
7.    Because this project is concerned with a wider set of objectives than improvement of
village infrastructure and agricultural production, there is a high input of technical assistance and
other overhead expenses under the project. A significant proportion of this input will, however,
be used to ensure that the village investments are properly implemented and monitored - not only
for their impact on incomes on the target population, but also for their success in reducing
encroachment onto the KNSP area. In this analysis, 60% of total project technical and other
overhead expenses have been attributed to this component: this is about the proportion of total
project costs taken up by this component. There are also recurrent costs (for maintenance of
infrastructure and so on ) which will attach to both the Initial Costs and Additional Investment
Costs streams, through the total investment and benefit period considered in this case (25 years.).
8.    There is a large budget assigned in this project for Monitoring and Evaluation. The bulk
of this is intended to keep surveillance over the integrity of the Park boundary. However, some
monitoring and evaluation of the performance of the village development investments will be
necessary and in this analysis it has been assumed that 25% of total monitoring and evaluation
costs are used for this.
9.    Table 1 below presents the base case data for an analysis of the ERR of the Village
Development component. The ERR resulting from the data and assumptions used in this case is
15.2 % p.a. Note that benefits are assumed to build gradually, and do not reach a maximu until
Year 7.
It should be noted that in Tables I to 4 below, values are shown only for years 1 to 8: in all
cases, all costs and benefits figures beyond year 8 are identifcal to those for year 8.



-`106-                                             ANNEX 13
Page 3 of 6
Table 1. Economic Analysis of Village Development Activities - Base Case
(in US$'000 and excluding taxes)
I        2          3         4         5          6         7         8
Initial Costs                            639     1,279      1,430     2,226     2,210     2,442
Recurrent Costs                            -                    -                   -          -      229        229
Add' Investment "                      1,000      1,708     1,581     1,588     1,552       941
Add'l Recufrent                          123       207       213       220        227       229
Total Costs                            1,762     3,195     3,223      4,034     3,989     3,612       229        229
Increm. Benefits                           -       218       654      1,141     1,900     2,653      3,485     3,485
Net Benefits                         (1,762)   (2,977)   (2,569)   (2,893)   (2,090)       (959)     3,256     3,256
IRR                                   15.2%
Add'l Investinent
Project Mgmt                              55        32        34        47         49        50
TA                                     1,389     2,415     2,409      2,378     2,343     1,263
Sub- Total                            1,444     2,447     2,443     2,425      2,392     1,313
Sub-Total less 40%                       866     1,468      1,466     1,455     1,435       788
M&E (25% of project total)               133       240       115        133       117       154
TOTAL                                1,000      1,708     1,581     1,588     1,552       941
10.      The major risk factors associated with investments of this type are: (a) some significant
proportion of the target group will not participate in the project, so that the overheads incurred
have to be spread over a narrower group of beneficiaries; (b) benefits will be slower in emerging
than originally expected, and (c) actual benefits produced by the investments will be less than
those projected.
11.      Table  2  illustrates the  impact of reducing  the  beneficiary  population
under this component by 20%. This reduces the ERR to 13%.
Table 2. Sensitivity Analysis of Village Development Activities
20% of villages do not participate
(in US$'000 and excluding taxes)
1         2         3         4         5          6         7         8
InitialCosts              511      1,024     1,144     1,781     1,768      1,954
Recurmnt Costs               -                   -         -          -         -      229        229
Add'I lnveslment"       1,000      1,708     1,581     1,588      1,552      941
Add'lI Recurent           123       207       213        220       227       229
Total Costs             1,634     2,939      2,937     3,589     3,547     3,124       229        229
Increm. Benefits            -       174       523        913     1,520     2,122      2,788     2,788
Net Benefits           (1,634)   (2,765)   (2,414)   (2,676)   (2,028)   (1,002)      2,559     2,559
IRR                    13.0%



-107 -ANNEX  13
Page 4 of 6
12.     Table 3  below  illustrates the impact of delaying the entire benefit stream  of the project
by one year, and this results in a decline in the ERR to 12.9% pa.
Table 3. Sensitivity Analysis of Village Development Activities
Delay Benefits by 1 Year
(in US$'000 and excluding taxes)
1        2        3        4         5        6        7         8
Initial Costs          639    1,279    1,430    2,226    2,210    2,442
Recurrent Costs           -        -        -         -        -        -      229       229
Addl lnvestment       1,000    1,708    1,581    1,588    1,552       941
Add' Recurent           123      207      213      220       227      229
Total Costs           1,762    3,195    3,223    4,034    3,989    3,612       229       229
Increm. Benefits          -        -      218      654    1,141    1,900    2,653    3,485
Net Benefits        (1,762)  (3,195)  (3,005)  (3,380)  (2,848)  (1,713)    2,424    3,256
IRR                  12.9%
13.     The final sensitivity test is to assume that overall benefits from  the project are reduced
by 10%. This reduces the ERR to 13.4%:
Table 4. Sensitivity Analysis of Village Development Activities
Reducing Benefits by 10%
(in US$'000 and excluding taxes)
1        2         3         4         5         6         7        8
Initial Costs         639      1,279     1,430    2,226    2,210      2,442
Recurrent Costs         -         -         -         -        -          -      229      229
Add'I Investmnent    1,000     1,708     1,581     1,588    1,552      941
I,
Add'I Recurrent       123       207       213       220      227       229
Total Costs         1,762     3,195     3,223     4,034    3,989      3,612      229      229
Increm. Benefits        -       196       588     1,027    1,710      2,387    3,137    3,137
Net Benefits       (1,762)   (2,999)   (2,635)   (3,007)  (2,280)   (1,225)    2,908    2,908
IRR              . 13.4%
Integrating Biodiversity in Forest Concession Management
14.     The project will invest grant funds in ecological surveys and biodiversity assessments in
the forestry logging concessions bordering the Park. No attempt has been made to quantify these
benefits, although it is believed a positive flow of returns will result from these inputs. Given
the uncertainty of this outcome, however, it is unlikely that GOI would invest in such activities
at least until the benefits have been demonstrated.
15.     Under the inspection and monitoring activities in the project, considerable input will be
made into producing an effectively regenerating forest area, so that sustainable forest
management becomes possible. In September 1995, the Bank delivered a policy paper to the



-108 -                                ANNEX 13
Page 5 of 6
Government of Indonesia' in which a case was made that the economic consequences of
persistence with current non-sustainable forest logging and use practices in Indonesia would be
significant, when compared with the outcome of using the same area of forest for sustainable
production.
16.    The results developed in that nation wide analysis can be applied on an adjusted pro rata
basis, as follows:
(a) First, the basic parameter assumptions given in the Bank policy paper referred to in
footnote 1, are required:
*  FOB value of plywood                                    $380 per cubic meter
*  FOB value of sawn timber                                $250
*  FOB value of other products (mouldings, furniture etc)        $600
*  real FOB price inflation rate for plywood and sawn timber 2% pa
*  real FOB price inflation rate for other products        2.8% pa
*  logging and transport cost                              $45 per cubic meter
o processing cost plywood                                  $155
n processing cost sawn timber                              $100
*  processing costs other products                         $350
(b) It is assumed that under sustainable forest use, there will be a faster adaptation by the
processing sector to raw material scarcity, so that recovery rates (i.e. produced out per
unit of log input) will rise earlier in the time series. Industry recovery rates move from
45% to 60 % by 2001 under the sustainable scenario, but reach only 50% by that year
under the non-sustainable scenario.
17.    Next, these estimates can be applied to the concessions bordering KSNP: Figures
gathered during the preparation of the Kerinci Seblat ICDP indicated that about 500 000 ha of
intact forest remains in the 11 concessions bordering the park. For indicative purposes, it can be
assumed that this resource will be used at the same rate, and for the same purposes, as applies
under current practices nationally: this will lead to depletion of the resource within a twenty year
period, with serious declines setting in after about ten years. This outcome can be compared to
the alternative of a lower initial rate of use which will be sustainable. In this case, it can be
assumed that the costs of attaining this lower rate of use will be more effective inspection and
monitoring, such as will be provided under the project. A net benefit stream can then be
calculated by subtracting annual profits from the non-sustainable current practice outcome, from
the equivalent figures for the sustainable outcome (taking the additional costs of inspection and
monitoring under the component). From this, rates of return can be derived. Table 5 below
shows the profit streams generated under the sustainable and non-sustainable scenarios for the
concessions.
The Economics of Long Term management of Indonesia's Natural Forests Paper presented to panel discussion at
Ministry of Forestry, Jakarta, September 30 1995



-109 -                              ANNEX 13
Page 6 of 6
Table 5: Stream of Profits in Concession Management
YEAR        SUSTAINABLE          CURRENT           Sustainable
PROFITS ($ pa)   PROFITS ($ pa)         net profits
1995            68.70              76.40                -7.89
1996            67.77              76.22                -9.04
1997            67.40              77.72               -10.92
1998            67.51              79.25               -12.36
1999            67.93              80.68               -13.38
2000            68.96              81.63               -13.06
2001            71.99              83.24               -11.25
2002            74.00              82.98                -8.98
2003            76.42              82.59                -6.17
2004            79.73              78.89                 0.84
2005            82.29              77.31                 4.98
2006            85.83              70.74                15.09
2007            89.51              63.17                26.34
2008            93.33              59.67                33.67
2009            95.01              59.85                35.16
2010            101.44             61.06                40.38
2011            105.74             41.06                64.67
2012            110.20             24.89                85.31
2013            114.84             7.75                107.08
2014            119.65             0.00                119.65
18.   This procedure yields a rate of return from attainment of sustainability in the concessions
bordering the park of 15% pa. Given that this does not include any valuation of the biodiversity
benefits from the survey and other purely conservation based work for which costs are included
in this component, it is reasonable to suggest it is a conservative estimate of the real returns to
investment in this component, provided it is accepted that protection of the regenerating stands
can be achieved.
19.   The rate of return is reasonably robust, because it is calculated by comparison of two
income streams which are affected by the same variables. Thus, reduction of product prices or
raising of processing costs for outputs from the forests does not lower the ERR significantly: net
present value, however, is reduced (from $21.82 m to $15.83 m at a 12% discount rate) when
product prices are reduced by 20%. If it is postulated that coverage of the monitoring process is
less than complete, so that only half the forested area actually comes under sustainable
management as a result of the project, then again the rate of return is relatively unaffected, while
in that case the net present value of the project would be reduced considerably, to $9.9m still
substantially positive.



-110-                               ANNEX 14
Page 1 of2
DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE
A. INITIAL PREPARATION BY DHV CONSULTANTS BV, JUNE 1993
Technical reports:
1.    Project History and Background
2.    Biodiversity Conservation and Park Management
3.    Local Area Development and Resource Rights Rationalization
4.    Micro-Regional Development and Planning
5.    Resettlement
6.    Integrated Watershed Management
7.    Participation and Promotion
8.    Resource Economics
9.    Rapid Appraisal of Major Socio-Economic Groups in KSNP border Area
10.   Concepts and  Strategies in Designing ICDP  for protecting  Indonesia's
Biodiversity Assets
11.   Rapid Appraisal of Some Major Landscape Profiles in the KSNP Border
Area
12.   Analysis of the Park Border Ecosystem in KSNP, Jambi Province
13.   Analysis of the Park Border Ecosystem in KSNP, South Sumatra Province
14.   Analysis of the Park Border Ecosystem in KSNP, Bengkulu Province
15.   Analysis of the Park Border Ecosystem in KSNP, West Sumatra Province
16.   Social and Economic Conditions in Six Villages in the KSNP Border Area
17.   Forest Integrity and Bird Diversity in the KSNP Border Area
18.   Study into the Role of NGOs in ICDP, KSNP, Southern
Sumatra, Indonesia
B. FINAL PREPARATION, AUGUST 1994 - MARCH 1995
Kerinci Seblat ICDP - Project Preparation Report, March 1995
Working Papers (WP):
WP I Park Management Component, by R.Petocz, November 1994.
WP 2  Rural Development Component, by J. Schweithelm, November 1994.
WP 3 Area/Village Development Component, by J. Dalton, June 1995.
WP 4 Forestry Concession Biodiversity Assessment, November 1994.
WP 5 Monitoring and Evaluation, November 1994.
WP 6 Regional and Spatial Planning in Support of ICDP Kerinci Seblat, by
H.van Raay, November 1994.
WP 7 Biodiversity Conservation Promotions Program, by Global Vision, Inc,
June 1995.



*  -111 -                       ANNEX 14
Page 2 of 2
WP 8 The Kerinci Seblat National Park and the Kubu. Preliminary Assessment
and recommendations, by 0. Sandbukt, June 1995.
WP 9 Legal Issues on Kerinci-Seblat National Park, By J. Evers, July 1995.
C. REGIONAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT.
A Report prepared for BAPPENAS and The World Bank by Sustainable Visions,
Natural Resource and Environmental Management Consultants, March 1995
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Terms of Reference, June 1995
E. BASELINE LANDSCAPE - SocIo-ECONOMIC SURVEY FOR SIX VILLAGES ADJACENT TO
KERINCI SEBLAT NATIONAL PARK
A local Level Functional Coordination Model of ICDP in KSNP, by Worldwide Fund for
Nature, September 1995.
F. NGO ASSISTANCE IN STRENGTHENING COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION IN AND AROUND
KERINCI SEBLAT
Progress and Village Level Planning, by WARSI, June 1995.



- 112-
CHART I
PROJECT ORGANIZATION
Mnisr of        inistry of                  Ministry of      Ministry of      Ministry of T   Ministry of
of PGoProject Steering Committee (PSC)                 Working Group
DG ofPH    DnG of PHPA                                                     '             WoknGru 
for KS-ICDP   )
CENTER
Min. of Forestry                   Mi. of Home Affairs
Project Management                    Coordination Team
Committee (PMC)                    (Tim Koordinasi Pusat)
,    - -- ---          GOVERNOR +
Kanwil Kehutanan             Provincial                             PROVINCE
PIMPRO                 Coordinating
- ---   (Project Management        Committee (PCC)
:   Concession)               I~~PCC*
BUPATI 
District Coordinating
F r-------   -- ---------- -              _    '                  Committee
;         ~~(DCC)
DISTRICT
Project Manager for                                    Project Manager for
Park Development                                    Area Development
PIMPRO                                              PIMPRO
---      Project function               Line function                  Coordination
* The Chairman rotates annually.



- 113 -
CHART 2
PLANNING AND FUNDS FLOW FOR
INTEGRATED AREA DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES
FUNDS FLOW                              PLANNING FLOW
.. -_  WORLD
BANK/RSI
BAPPENAS
.. BAPPENAS ~~. ...........  .....   . . ..'-- 
* ----~~:KONASBANG
NATIONAL          MINISTRY OF            BI
FINANCE           GOI                                A
SPABP       -  Financing SA                   KONREG-ICDP
.,,,,,,,-,.,.            A   1
PROVENCE                                 Bl                        RAKORBANG I
Branch Office
A
DISTRICT      ( KPKN II                BN O                       RAOIBANG 
A          ~~~~~~ALA
BAPPEDA II/
PIMPRO             BANK or
SUBDISTRICT                            Other Financial    ,D                ius
Institution                      'r
A                      ~~~~~~~A
* *1
VILLAGE                                 .........   ,    roup
:.............. . .......................I 
Note:
- -  - -Document Flow
*~ Funds Flow
Bappenas = National Development Planning Agency
BRI = Bank Rakyat Indonesia (People's Bank of Indonesia)
LKMD = Village Community Resilience Institution
SA = Special Account






IBRD 27251
To Padongpolong                            I N DON ES IA                                     -,TMAILAND
MALAYSIA
KERINCI SEBLAT INTEGRATED                                                          * LAYSIA
POdang                                   CONSERVATION  AND                                        1uoung9F'-       KAIIMAN AN
Lubuksulasih                DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                        I N'D 0'N E S I A
Areo of mop     Ja.art
J A W A
Kotabaru
\.      - \   BARAT 
The boundaries, -olors,
denominotions and any
other inl`Ormaton 5hown
on this MOP do not
'imply. on the part of
The World Bank Group,
ony judgment on the legal
status of any territory,
or any endorsement
or acceptance of such
%%~~~ A   M.   B   I                 boundaries
-  KRINC SE TATPATINALPR
Tapa/                                                            an ko  3  
MukomukoFE   CONCESS
0~~~~~~~~~~ C   _\SUA E   R 4
\  % -S-- \                              SELA-TA\N
L     KERINCI SEBLAT NATIONAL PARK           \       j         ,J           ;         ,       AIR   
=   FOREST CONCESSIONS                           \                                                       %8,> UKrNts
LOCAL AREA DEVELOPMENT PRIORITY AREAS
MAIN ROADS                                            \                                           t* N      Liubguku
Linggau
O    SELECTED TOWNS                                                 B
o)   PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                              Curup
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES (INSET)
0           25          50           75          100                                    Begul
Iopproximate scole)
To MannaI
SEPTEMBER 1 995









IMAGING
Report  No:               15124  IND
Type: PD
@   Printed on recycled paper



