Page  1
                                                         CONFORMED COPY
                                              GEF GRANT NUMBER TF 28312
         GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement related to Loan Number 4008 IND
                      Global Environment Facility
                       Trust Fund Grant Agreement
    (Kerinci-Seblat Integrated Conservation and Development Project)
                                between
                         REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                                  and
                 INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                            AND DEVELOPMENT
                   acting as Implementing Agency of
                    the Global Environment Facility
                         Dated June 17, 1996
                                                  GEF Grant No. TF 28312
          GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement related to Loan Number 4008 IND
                       GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
                       TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 17, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (the
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the
Bank) acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility
(GEF) in respect of grant funds provided to the Global Environment
Facility Trust Fund (GEF Trust Fund) by certain members of the Bank as
participants of the GEF.
      WHEREAS: (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of the
Executive Directors dated March 14, 1991, established the GEF to assist
in the protection of the global environment and promote thereby
environmentally sound and sustainable economic development;
      (B) following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements are
continued in place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of the
Executive Directors dated May 24, 1994, establishing the GEF Trust Fund;
      (C) the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
has requested assistance from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund in
the financing of the Project, and the Bank has determined that such
assistance would be in accordance with Resolution 94-2; and
      (D) the Recipient has also requested the Bank to provide additional
assistance in the financing of the Project and by an agreement of even
date herewith between the Recipient and the Bank (the Loan Agreement),
the Bank has agreed to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to nineteen million one hundred thousand dollars
Page  2
($19,100,000) (the Loan); and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                               ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General
Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth in paragraph
(b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral
part of this Agreement:
            (i)   Article I;
           (ii)   Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10),
                  (11), (15), (18) and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
          (iii)   Section 3.01;
           (iv)   Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
            (v)   Article V;
           (vi)   Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and
                  (k), 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06;
          (vii)   Section 8.01 (b);
         (viii)   Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08
                  and 9.09;
           (ix)   Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;
            (x)   Article XI; and
           (xi)   Section 12.04.
      (b)   The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
            (i)   a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section
                  2.01 to read as follows: "the term "Special Drawing
                  Rights" and the symbol "SDR" mean special drawing
                  rights as valued by the International Monetary Fund
                  in accordance with its Articles of Agreement";
           (ii)   the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions,
                  other than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and
                  the last use of such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means
                  the Bank acting as an Implementing Agency, except that
                  in Section 6.02, the term "Bank" shall also include the
                  Bank acting in its own capacity;
          (iii)   the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General
                  Conditions, means the Recipient;
           (iv)   the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General
                  Conditions, means this Agreement;
            (v)   the term "Loan" and "loan" wherever used in the General
                  Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant;
           (vi)   the term "Loan Account" wherever used in the General
                  Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account; and
          (vii)   a new sub-paragraph is added after sub-paragraph (j) in
                  Section 6.02 of the General Conditions, as follows: "an
Page  3
                  extraordinary situation shall have arisen in which any
                  further disbursement under the GEF Trust Fund Grant
                  would exceed the resources available for disbursement
                  from the GEF Trust Fund."
      Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context
otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions
and in the Recitals to this Agreement have the respective meanings
therein set forth and:
      (a)   "Affected Person" means a person who, on account of the
execution of the Project, has or would have his/her (i) standard of
living, (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including
premises, agricultural land and grazing land) or any other fixed or
movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently, or
(iii) business, occupation, work, or place of residence or habitat,
adversely affected; and "Affected Persons" means collectively all
persons who qualify as an Affected Person;
      (b)   "AMDAL" means Analisis Mengenai Dampak Lingkungan, an
environmental impact assessment under the laws of the Recipient;
      (c)   "KSNP" means the Kerinci-Seblat National Park established in
the Borrower's provinces of Bengkulu, Jambi, South Sumatra and West
Sumatra;
      (d)   "Orang Rimba" means the traditional hunter-gatherers on the
island of Sumatra, called people of the forest;
      (e)   "Project area" means the Kerinci-Seblat National Park and
surrounding areas;
      (f)   "Resettlement and Rehabilitation Action Plan" means the
action plan for the carrying out of the resettlement and rehabilitation
of Affected Persons under the Project referred to in paragraph 9 (c) of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
      (g)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                     The GEF Trust Fund Grant
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
the GEF Trust Fund Grant in an amount in various currencies equivalent
to ten million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 10,200,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be
withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or,
if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for carrying out the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant.
      (b)   The Recipient may, for the purposes of  the Project, open
and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in Bank Indonesia or
in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
including, in the case of a commercial bank, appropriate protection
against set off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments
out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2002, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Recipient of such later date.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
Page  4
      Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
agricultural, engineering and financial practices and with due regard to
ecological, environmental and social factors, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Recipient and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall:
      (a)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Recipient and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the continued achieve-
ment of the objectives of the Project; and
      (b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
with the Recipient on said plan.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures
in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the
Recipient responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Recipient shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
                  (a) of this Section including those for the Special
                  Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
                  with appropriate auditing principles consistently
                  applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
                  Bank;
           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
                  case not later than six months after the end of each
                  such year, the report of such audit by said auditors,
                  of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
                  have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
                  said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
                  Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Recipient shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
                  received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
                  the last withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant
Page  5
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in
                  the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
                  Section and that the report of such audit contains a
                  separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                  statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
                  year, together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
                  upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effectiveness; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following event is specified as a condition to
the effectiveness of this Agreement, namely, that the Loan Agreement has
been executed and delivered and all conditions precedent to its
effectiveness, except only the effectiveness of this Agreement, have been
fulfilled.
      Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
      Section 5.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the
GEF Trust Fund Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this
Agreement have fulfilled all their obligations hereunder.
                            ARTICLE VI
            Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is
designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Recipient:
            Ministry of Finance
            c/o Directorate General of Budget
            Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
            P. O. Box 1139
            Jakarta 10710, Indonesia
            Cable address:                      Telex:
                  FINMINISTRY                   45799 DJMLN-IA
                  Jakarta                       44319 DEPKEU-IA
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                      Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                     197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA),
                                                 64145 (WUI) or
Page  6
                                                 82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in Washington, DC, as of the day and year first
above written.
                  REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                  By /s/ Arifin M. Siregar, Ambassador
                                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    acting as an Implementing Agency of
                    the Global Environment Trust Fund
                  By /s/ Harold Messenger
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                      East Asia and Pacific Region
                            SCHEDULE 1
      Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the
amounts of the GEF Trust Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            GEF Trust Fund
                            Grant Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works under            800,000        60%
    Part A of the
    Project
(2) Equipment (except            200,000        100% of foreign
    vehicles), furniture                        expenditures,
    and mapping                                 100% of local
    materials under                             expenditures
    Part A of the Project                       (ex-factory cost)
                                                and 65% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
(3) Training under:
    (a)  Part A of the           700,000        90%
         Project
    (b)  Parts B and C           200,000        20%
         of the Project
(4) Extension and
    planning activities:
    (a) under Part A             600,000        80%
        of the Project
    (b) under Parts B            300,000        10%
        and C of the
        Project
(5) Surveys and research:
Page  7
    (a) Part A                   800,000        90%
    (b) Parts B and C          1,100,000        50%
(6) Incremental operating        400,000        15%
    expenditures under
    Part A of the Project
(7) Consultants' services
    under:
    (a)  Parts A (except        3,700,000       90%
         A (b)) and B (except
         B.2) of the Project
    (b) Parts A.2 (b) and B.2    400,000        10%
        of the Project
 (8) Unallocated               1,000,000
                               _________
         TOTAL                10,200,000
                              ==========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Recipient for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of
the Recipient;
    (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Recipient;
    (c)  the term "Extension and planning activities" means expenditures
for wages of laborers under extension and planning activities, materials
(other than mapping materials), and staff  honoraria and travel; and
    (d)  the term "incremental operating expenditures" means salaries of
contract administrative support staff in the Project management units in
the Project Area.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement.
4.  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditure not
consistent with the provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank for deposit into
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an amount equal to the amount so used
or the portion thereof as specified by the Bank.
5.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures for: (i) civil works under contracts costing less than
$500,000 equivalent; (ii) goods under contracts costing less than
$200,000  equivalent, except the first contract for goods under the
Project; (iii) training, extension and planning activities, and
incremental operating expenditures; and (iv) contracts for the
employment of consulting firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent
each, and contracts for the employment of individuals costing less than
$50,000 equivalent each; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Recipient to secure
Page  8
the biodiversity of KSNP and stop further habitat fragmentation, through:
(i) improvement of the protection and management of KSNP, including
involvement of local communities; (ii) promotion of sustainable management
and maintenance of permanent forest cover in the buffer zone, including
logging concession areas; and (iii) development of an integrated
conservation and development project model to reconcile conservation and
regional and district development.
Part A: Park Management
1.    Preparation and implementation of a management and zoning plan for
KSNP, including:
      (a)   strengthening of KSNP protection, management, enforcement, and
participatory planning, through: strengthening of relevant local government
agencies, carrying out of extension activities and planning activities, and
infrastructure support, including provision of equipment and furniture; and
      (b)   boundary rationalization activities, species inventory,
ecological monitoring, and socioeconomic and other research necessary for
KSNP and buffer zone planning and management, including provision of
related equipment.
2.    Carrying out of monitoring and evaluation to:
      (a)   monitor encroachment and poaching, the effectiveness of
enforcement measures, and other development impacts within KSNP
boundaries; and
      (b)   develop monitoring and performance indicators to assess the
status of KSNP, including boundary stability, habitat conditions, and
species survival and distribution.
3.    Provision of training in the improvement of skills in the relevant
fields of expertise for KSNP personnel, including management staff,
field staff and community extension workers.
4.    Carrying out of a study on the financing options for long-term
sustainable protected areas management, including the feasibility of the
establishment of a trust fund.
5.    Carrying out of a study to assess the potentials and constraints
on KSNP becoming an eco-tourism site.
Part B: Area and Village Development
1.    Improvement of land use planning and community resource management
in about 134 selected villages in the inter-action zone surrounding KSNP,
including villages adjoining, or within, logging concession areas
bordering KSNP, through:
      (a)   situational assessment; design, implementation and monitoring,
and review, evaluation and revision of design of village development
plans; and establishment of village conservation agreements; and
      (b)   provision of Grants to about 134 selected villages
surrounding KSNP to finance sub-projects for small-scale infrastructure,
agriculture intensification, scholarships for children and other training,
and business and enterprise activities.
2.    Strengthening central and provincial institutional capabilities for
analyzing the impact of rural development activities on KSNP, and
facilitating the assessment of Project effectiveness in enhancing social
and economic development for boundary communities through provision of
technical assistance and related training to staff.
3.    Provision of training for improvement of relevant skills for
Project coordinators, community organizers, extension workers, and land
use and regional planning staff, and provision of conservation awareness
information to boundary villages, government agencies and the community
at large.
Page  9
4.    Improvement of the regulatory guidelines for inter-provincial
spatial planning and regional planning practices to assist the regional
economic development of the greater Kerinci-Seblat area  to become more
conservation oriented, and preparation of a spatial plan covering the
areas having an impact on KSNP.
5.    Collection of baseline information on the Orang Rimba presence in
and utilization of KSNP and the buffer zone, including ecological and
socio-economic impact assessment.
Part C: Integrating Biodiversity in Forest Concession Management
1.    Strengthening of relevant institutions through training and
workshops, and establishment of appropriate policies for the effective
management of forested areas bordering KSNP to act as an effective
buffer zone for biodiversity, including carrying out of extension
activities.
2.    Identification, monitoring and protection of high biodiversity
sites of conservation value within the logging concessions bordering
KSNP, including ecological and biodiversity survey of logging concessions
areas, and carrying out of independent audits of forestry logging and
conservation practices in selected logging concessions around KSNP, and
provision of related equipment.
3.    Strengthening the Recipient's management of logging concessions
through the application of the overall regional land use priorities
supported by the Project, including the spatial plan and the ecological
and biodiversity survey results, to such concession management.
4.    Establishment of a system for monitoring the integrity of KSNP
and the logging concession boundaries, including the effectiveness of
preserving biodiversity; and development of a capability to monitor and
evaluate forest management practices within logging concession areas,
including the success of conservation sites within logging concession
boundaries.
5.    Provision of training for staff of the Directorate General for
Forest Utilization and other relevant agencies of the Ministry of Forest,
the provincial forestry departments, and relevant staff of the logging
concessions in the Project area, in biodiversity conservation assessment
and forest concession audits.
                              *   *   *
      The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2002.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                  Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     General
      Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:     Procurement Procedures
1.    National Competitive Bidding
      Except as provided in paragraph 2 of this Part, goods and civil
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.    National Shopping
      Goods estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $70,000 equivalent, may be
Page  10
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6
of the Guidelines.
Part C:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.    Prior Review
      With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more, and the first contract for goods under
the Project, and each contract for civil works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs
2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.    Post Review
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on
the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the
Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by
the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review
or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply
to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost
less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the employment
of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent
each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to
(a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source
selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by the Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000
equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment
of individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000
equivalent or above.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
1.    The Recipient shall:
      (a)   maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators
satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof;
      (b)   prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank, on or about March 1, 1999, a report integrating
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed
Page  11
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in
the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date
of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
      (c)   review with the Bank, by June 1, 1999, or such later date
as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure
the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of
the said report and the Bank views on the matter.
2.    In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Recipient shall, not
later than August 31, 1996, establish and, thereafter maintain until
completion of the Project, a KSNP Project management unit with competent
staff in adequate numbers.
3.    In carrying out Parts A and C of the Project, the Recipient shall:
      (a)   not later than March 31, 1997, complete the demarcation of
the KSNP boundary; and
      (b)   not later than September 30, 1997, complete the gazettement
of KSNP.
4.    In  carrying out Parts A and C of the Project, the Recipient
shall, not later than March 31, 1997, review measures to improve
biodiversity management in logging concession areas adjacent to KSNP,
including the possibility of excluding logging activities in certain
areas, and, thereafter, cause the prompt implementation of any measures
that are found to be feasible.
5.    In carrying out Parts A and C of the Project, the Recipient shall
take all steps necessary to ensure thatexisting logging permits for
logging concessions in areas adjacent to KSNP are not renewed or
extended without the inclusion of a biodiversity management zone for
the areas adjacent to KSNP, such biodiversity management zone to remain
in effect until biodiversity surveys have been carried out for purposes
of identifying significant biodiversity sites to be protected. Thereafter,
the identified biodiversity sites would remain as biodiversity management
zones.
6.    In carrying out Part A of the Project the Recipient shall:
      (a)   take all measures necessary to ensure (i) that current mining
exploration permits in KSNP are not renewed or extended after their
expiration, and (ii) that, promptly upon the determination by the
Recipient's Ministry of Mining that an area subject to a mining
concession lacks significant economic potential, the applicable mining
concession is terminated in accordance with applicable legislation;
      (b)   prior to the granting of exploration permits and exploitation
or production licenses in KSNP, furnish to the Bank for comments, the
full AMDAL evaluation by the Recipient's Sectoral AMDAL Commission,
including the specifications of exploration, mining and extraction
methods, and any other mitigation measures required to minimize any
adverse impact on KSNP from the proposed activity;
      (c)   take all measures necessary to ensure that the exploration
permit and the exploitation or production license, is granted solely on
terms consistent with the findings and recommendations of the
Recipient's Sectoral AMDAL Commission and the Bank's comments on the
AMDAL evaluation; and
      (d)   thereafter, ensure that all recommended mitigation measures
are promptly and fully carried out.
7.    In carrying out Part B of the Project the Recipient shall:
      (a)   not later than September 30, 1998, prepare and carry out a
land zoning plan for the Project area, including recommendations for the
Page  12
long-term management plan of KSNP, acceptable to the Bank; and
      (b)   not later than June 1, 1999, review the land zoning plan for
the Project area, and, promptly thereafter, carry out the recommendations
of such review, taking into account the comments of the Bank.
8.    The Recipient shall:
      (a)   take all measures necessary to ensure that no roads shall be
constructed or upgraded within KSNP until (i) the completion of the KSNP
management plan and the land zoning plan for the Project area referred
to in paragraph 7 of this Schedule, and (ii) an AMDAL shall have been
carried out; and
      (b)   ensure that any construction or upgrading shall be carried
out in a manner consistent with the recommendations of the AMDAL,
including recommendations for the carrying out of mitigating measures,
and the requirements of the management plan and spatial plan referred to
in paragraph 7 of this Schedule.
9.    The Recipient shall:
      (a)   until April 1, 1999, not cause or permit involuntary
resettlement of persons residing  within KSNP;
      (b)   thereafter, confine any involuntary resettlement to that
required for purposes of protection of KSNP's biodiversity; and
      (c)   where involuntary resettlement is to be carried out, (i)
furnish to the Bank for approval the Resettlement and Rehabilitation
Action Plan, prepared on the basis of Schedule 5 to this Agreement,
and (ii) thereafter, carry out the resettlement and rehabilitation of
Affected Persons in accordance with the Resettlement and Rehabilitation
Action Plan approved by the Bank.
10.   In carrying out Part B.5 of the Project, the Recipient shall:
      (a)   not later than September 30, 1998, furnish to the Bank for
comments, the results of the baseline study and the impact assessment;
      (b)   based on the results of the study and of the assessment,
and taking into account the KSNP management plan, the land zoning plan
for the Project area, and the comments of the Bank on the baseline
study and impact assessment, prepare, not later than June 1, 1999, an
action plan designed to ensure that the Orang Rimba do not suffer
adverse effects as a result of the implementation of the above plans; and
      (c)   promptly thereafter, carry out such action plan in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank.
11.   The Recipient shall provide the vehicles and the fertilizers
required under the Project in accordance with a schedule and timetable
agreed with the Bank.
                               SCHEDULE 5
   Terms of Reference for the Resettlement and Rehabilitation Action Plan
1.    Objectives
      (a)   Affected Persons shall be:
            (i)   compensated for their losses at full replacement cost
                  prior to the actual move;
            (ii)  assisted with the move and supported during the
                  transition period in the resettlement site; and
            (iii) assisted in their efforts to improve their former
                  living standards, income earning capacity, and
                  production levels, or a least to restore them.
Page  13
      (b)   Affected Persons shall participate and be consulted in the
planning and the implementation of the resettlement through community
participation.
      (c)   Affected Persons shall be integrated socially and
economically into the host communities so that adverse impacts on host
communities are minimized.
      (d)   Compensation for land, housing, infrastructure, and other
assets shall be provided to the Affected Persons. Lack of legal title
to the land and other assets as well as usufruct or customary rights
thereto shall not be a ban to the provision of compensation.
      (e)   Compensation for land shall be provided in land of equivalent
potential productive purpose. Compensation for houses and other assets
shall be provided in cash at full replacement cost.
      (f)   Compensation for civic amenities, community grazing land and
other community assets shall be provided in equivalent assets.
2.    Content of Action Plan
      The Resettlement and Rehabilitation Action Plan shall provide for:
      (a)   eligibility criteria for determining Affected Persons in
accordance with the definition set forth in Section 1.02 (a) of this
Agreement;
      (b)   entitlements for compensation and rehabilitation;
      (c)   organizational responsibilities;
      (d)   costs and budgets;
      (e)   community participation and integration with host populations;
      (f)   socioeconomic survey;
      (g)   legal framework of resettlement, including applicable legal
and administrative procedures;
      (h)   identification of alternative sites and of selected sites;
      (i)   valuation of and compensation for lost assets at replacement
cost in accordance with paragraph 1 (d), (e) and (f) of this Schedule;
      (j)   review of land tenure and transfer systems;
      (k)   provision of access to training, employment and credit for
Affected Persons;
      (l)   provision of adequate resources for shelter, infrastructure
and social services;
      (m)   environmental impact of resettlement on host communities and
environmental management;
      (n)   implementation schedule of resettlement, and monitoring and
evaluation of resettlement;
      (o)   grievance mechanisms to adequately address compensation
issues of Affected Persons;
      (p)   monitoring of the impact of the Resettlement and Rehabilita-
tion Action Plan by an independent agency; and
      (q)   reporting procedures to the Bank.
                            SCHEDULE 6
                          Special Account
Page  14
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through
(7) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund
Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to $1,500,000 to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$750,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the GEF Trust
Fund Grant Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of
$3,000,000.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient
                  shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into
                  the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
                  specify.
            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Recipient shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
                  other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
                  Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of
                  which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
                  such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
                  Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant
                  Account and deposit into the Special Account such
                  amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as
                  shall have been shown by said documents and other
                  evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account
                  for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be
                  withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant
                  Account under the respective eligible Categories, and
                  in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have
                  been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account,
the Recipient shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the
Page  15
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions ofArticle V of the 
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement;
      (b)   if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank
pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and
accounts for the Special Account;
      (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the
Recipient to make withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant
allocated to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all out-
standing special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated to
the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of
the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or
in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or
(ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Bank may request, or (B) deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no
further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until
the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund,
as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with
the relevant  provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
