                                         Document of
                                      The World Bank




                                                                    Report No: 25753

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                              (CPL-40080; SCL-4008A; SCPD-4008S)

                                             ON A

                                             LOAN

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$19.1 MILLION

                      AND A GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY GRANT

          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 10.2 MILLION (US$15.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                            TO THE

                                    REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                           FOR THE

                       KERINCI SEBLAT INTEGRATED CONSERVATION
                                AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                          June 30, 2003




Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
Indonesia Country Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective December 2002)

                                Currency Unit = Rupiah (Rp.)
                                     Rp. 1,000 = US$ 0.115
                                         US$ 1 = Rp. 8,700

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                       April 1      -   March 31 (up to Year 2000)
                      January 1 - December 31 (from Year 2001)

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APBD      -   Provincial Budget Allocation
APBN      -   Central Budget Allocation
BANGDA    -   Department of Regional Development
BAPLAN    -   Directorate General of Forestry Mapping (Badana Planologi Hutan)
BAPPEDA   -   Regional Development Planning Board (Badan Perencanaan Pembangunan)
BAPPENAS  -   National Development Planning Agency (Badan Perencanaan Pembangunan Nasional)
BPK       -   Directorate General of Forest Management (Badan Pengusaha Kehutanan)
BTNKS     -   National Park Office (Balai Taman Nasional Kerinci Seblat)
DMT       -   Duta Maju Timber
ERR       -   Economic Rate of Return
GEF       -   Global Environmental Facility
GIS       -   Geographic Information System
GOI       -   Government of Indonesia
HPH       -   Forest Concession (Hak Pengusahaan Hutan)
ICDP      -   Kerinci Seblat Integrated Conservation and Development Project
IPCC      -   Inter-Provincal Coordination Committee
ISPS      -   Inter-Provincial Spatial Plan Study
JGF       -   Japanese Grant Facility
KSNP      -   Kerinci-Seblat National Park
M&E       -   Monitoring and Evaluation
MoFr      -   Ministry of Forestry
MoHA      -   Ministry of Home Affairs
MTR       -   Mid-Term Review
NGO       -   Non-Governmental Organization
NTFPs     -   Non-Timber Forest Products
PCU       -   Forest Patrol Units
PHKA      -   Directorate General of Forest Protection and Nature
SAR       -   Staff Appraisal Report
VCA       -   Village Conservation Agreement (Kesepakatan Konservasi Desa)
VCG       -   Village Conservation Grant
WARSI         Sumatran Conservation NGO Network (Warung Informasi Konservasi)
WWF       -   World Wide Fund for Nature
ZPK       -   Special Use Zone (Zona Pemanfataan Khusus)
ZPT       -   Traditional Use Zone (Zona Pemanfataan Tradisional)




                              Vice President:        Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
                          Country Director:          Andrew Steer, EACIF
                            Sector Manager:          Mark D. Wilson, EASRD
                        Task Team Leader:            Asmeen M. Khan, EASRD

                     IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT

                                         INDONESIA


              Kerinci Seblat Integrated Conservation and Development Project

                                    (Loan No. 4008-IND)


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            13
6. Sustainability                                                                15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 17
8. Lessons Learned                                                               18
9. Partner Comments                                                              20
10. Additional Information                                                       28
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             30
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             31
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             35
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             36
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             39
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                40
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            41
Annex 8. Conservation Grants and Reforestation Data                              45
Annex 9. Park Management Effectiveness Matrix                                    46



Map No. IBRD 27251R

Project ID: P004014                                                      Project Name: KERINCI SEBLAT ICDP
Team Leader: Asmeen Khan                                                 TL Unit: EASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 27, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: KERINCI SEBLAT ICDP                                      L/C/TF Number: CPL-40080; SCL-4008A;
                                                                                                     SCPD-4008S
   Country/Department: INDONESIA                                                          Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Other social services (100%)
                  Theme: Land management (P); Civic engagement, participation and
                            community driven development (P); Other rural development (P);
                            Biodiversity (S); Environmental policies and institutions (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    11/18/1991                                        Effective: 08/14/1996              08/14/1986
   Appraisal:    05/05/1995                                            MTR: 04/28/1999                04/28/1999
    Approval:    04/30/1996                                         Closing: 09/30/2002               12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          The Government of Indonesia/The Ministry of Forestry, the Ministry of Home
                                           Affairs, and local governments
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:               Andrew D. Steer                                Dennis N. de Tray
Sector Manager:                 Mark D. Wilson                                 Gershon Feder - Division Chief
Team Leader at ICR:             Asmeen Khan                                    Ben van de Poll
ICR Primary Author:             Asmeen Khan; Kathleen
                                Mackinnon


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:U

                     Sustainability:UN

Institutional Development Impact:M

               Bank Performance:U

           Borrower Performance:U


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

3.1.1   The objective of the Kerinci Seblat Integrated Conservation and Development Project (ICDP) as
stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) and the Loan Agreement was " ... to secure the biodiversity of
the Kerinci Seblat National Park (KSNP) and stop further habitat fragmentation by: (a) improving Park
protection and management, including the involvement of local communities; and (b) promoting sustainable
management and the maintenance of permanent forest cover in the remaining buffer zone concession
areas." The original project was conceived as the first six-year time-slice of a much longer program that
would be required to elevate the park to a fully protected and functioning conservation estate, supported by
local government and integrated with regional development. The project proposed developing an integrated
conservation and development model which could be replicated and applied to other parks in Indonesia's
protected area system (and elsewhere is Asia), focusing on reconciling regional and district development
with conservation.

3.1.2   The ICDP was to pursue a two-pronged approach of stabilizing the park boundary and protecting
biodiversity through the provision of alternative livelihood options to communities living next to the park.
The project design proposed an integrated approach including: (a) linking park management to regional
development and spatial planning; (b) coordinated implementation; (c) regular monitoring and enforcement;
(d) increased staffing and in-service training; and (e) improved resource management and service delivery.
The project concept recognized the need to decentralize management authority to local agencies and
governments and to develop a better approach of involving local communities and non-governmental
organizations (NGOs) in management decision-making concerning boundary demarcation, land use and
buffer zone regulations.

3.2 Revised Objective:

3.2.1    The original objectives of the project remained unchanged. However, the project's Mid-Term
Review (MTR) in 1999 and a "strategic framework and action plan" prepared in February 2001 revised the
project's scope (e.g., a reduction in the number of villages to be facilitated from 134 to 75) and refocused
project activities based on issues having an impact on implementation (e.g., decentralization, and a
breakdown in governance and law enforcement). Several new activities were also included, such as
integrated anti illegal-logging activities at the level of the Local District Governments (Kabupatens),
integrated village planning and awareness in three focal areas, and the preparation of technical briefs
supporting the repatriation of key biodiversity areas in adjacent forest concessions. These revised activities
were implemented over the last eighteen months of the project's life.

3.3 Original Components:

3.3.1   The project had four components. The projected costs included price and physical contingencies.

3.3.2    Component A: Park Management [Global Environment Facility (GEF) financed: estimated cost
$13.4 million; actual expenditures $8.6 million]

In line with the short- (1-2 years) and medium-term (3-12 years) objectives of the park management
strategy, the component aimed to strengthen park protection, management, enforcement and participatory
planning through institutional strengthening of park personnel, training and infrastructure support. It also
aimed to support boundary rationalization activities, species inventory, ecological monitoring,
socio-economic and other research necessary for park planning and buffer zone planning and management.



                                                     - 2 -

The component was implemented by the Director of the KSNP and staff supported by technical assistance.
The project was designed to support: (a) the legal establishment of the park through formal gazettement and
boundary rationalization; (b) the mobilization of senior and junior staff, including technical assistance and
training; (c) the preparation and implementation of a management plan with a zoning system; (d) the
reinforcement of park protection and management, including coordination with local government; (e) the
effective protection of ecosystems and endangered species; (f) the establishment of an effective monitoring
and evaluation (M&E) system; and (g) the establishment of facilities for recreation and education.

3.3.3    Component B: Area and Village Development [Bank financed: estimated cost US$25.9 million;
actual expenditures US$6.3 million]

The component was designed to improve land-use planning, land-use rights and community resource
management in and around 134 villages adjoining the KSNP in order to take pressure off the KSNP, where
encroachment from farming had become a major threat to the forest. The strategy used was to raise
community awareness of the importance of, and the threat to, this unique resource, and to provide grants
for investment in village infrastructure and farms outside the park. The key instrument used was the
negotiated Village Conservation Agreement (VCA) in which villagers agreed to a planned resource
development compatible with conservation.           In return, the villagers were to receive the Village
Conservation Grants (VCGs) and recognition of de facto land use in the park. The World Wide Fund for
Nature (WWF) and the Sumatran Conservation NGO Network (WARSI), a local NGO, played a key role
in the planning and implementation of this component through the provision of local facilitators.

3.3.4    Component C: Integrating Biodiversity in Forest Concession Management [GEF financed:
estimated cost US$2.9 million; actual expenditures US$1.8 million]

The component focused on forest concession areas because of the high level of biodiversity of hill and
lowland forests in nine active forest concessions around the KSNP. In the initial proposal for the KSNP
(made in 1982) these forests had been part of the protection forest and still constituted a valuable part of
the forest ecosystem.      This component was designed around four major activities: (a) training for
concessionaries and provincial forest agency staff to promote enhanced biodiversity conservation within
forest concessions; (b) independent audits of logging operations; (c) surveys and assessments to identify
areas of high biodiversity value within concessions; and (d) community forestry activities in logged-over
and un-logged production forests for 24 of the 134 identified ICDP villages. These activities were
additional to (and built on) the detailed rapid biodiversity assessments conducted by the Center for
International Forestry Research Conservation and WWF (with Japanese Grant Facility - JGF - resources)
which identified the KSNP as an area of high biodiversity value.

3.3.5   Component D: Monitoring and Evaluation [IBRD financed; estimated cost US$3.8 million; actual
expenditures US$2.1 million]

The component was a support component linked to Components 1, 2 and 3 and aimed to provide a system:
(a) to monitor the integrity of the park at the landscape level; (b) to monitor and evaluate forest
management in the neighboring concessions; (c) to analyze the impact of rural development activities; and
(c) to provide appropriate tools for monitoring encroachment, poaching and other development impacts.
The M&E component was also expected to analyze the impact of rural development activities on the park.

3.3.6   Support activities included within the components were:

         (a)     Policy Planning [estimated cost US$1.7 million; actual expenditures US$0.9 million] This
activity proposed: (a) to provide short-term planning support to the Ministry of Home Affairs (MoHA) and



                                                     - 3 -

the National Development Planning Agency (BAPPENAS) and long-term support to the province and
Kabupaten for improved spatial planning activities; and (b) to prepare a comprehensive spatial plan for the
project area - the Inter-Provincial Spatial Plan Study (ISPS).

        (b)       Training and Community Facilitation [estimated cost US$6.1 million; actual expenditures
US$1.7 million] This activity was to provide: (a) specific capacity-building support for local stakeholders
involved in implementing the ICDP; and (b) community facilitation services contracted through local NGOs
(WWF and WARSI) to prepare the VCAs and to prepare participatory village plans for the use of the
conservation funds.

        (c)       Conservation Awareness [estimated cost US$1.3 million; actual expenditures US$2.5 million]
 The Biodiversity Conservation Promotion Program was designed to play a key role within park
management and rural development activities and to support the dissemination of information to people in
boundary villages, government agencies and the community at large concerning the park's value for
biodiversity, water-shed protection and local development.         Activities included surveys of current
awareness levels and attitudes, and the design of multi-media programs aimed at specific target groups.

        (d)       Studies [estimated cost US$0.8 million; actual expenditures US$0.2 million] Three studies
were identified at the time of appraisal:

                  (i)       Financial sustainability: to review the feasibility of establishing a trust fund or
                            other financing mechanism for the park;

                  (ii)      Ecotourism: to assess the potential and constraints for KSNP to be a
                            eco-toursim site; and

                  (iii)     Kubu Assistance Plan: to collect base-line information on the Kubu people and
                            their use of park resources, and to develop an action plan in the event that
                            restrictions were to be imposed on resource utilization in the park and buffer
                            zones.

3.4 Revised Components:

3.4.1     Several changes were made to the project's design prior to implementation. These included
packaging of the Conservation Awareness activity as part of park management.                    The financial
sustainability study was dropped, and the eco-tourism study was included as part of Component A. During
implementation, certain activities under Component C (specifically those activities designed to support
sustainable forest management and sustainable collection of non-timber forest products - NTFPs) were
dropped because decentralization and illegal logging had created a situation where there was no longer an
enabling environment conducive to success. Similarly, community forestry was never actively promoted
although one concession in Pesisir Selatan (Duta Maju Timber - DMT) was assessed for its potential for
community forestry.      Instead, this Component focused on: (a) the independent audits of all nine
concessions; (b) biodiversity assessments, specifically targeted to areas of high biodiversity with potential
for repatriation to the park; (c) an assessment on NTFPs; and (d) the issuance of local forestry laws by the
Kabupatens.

3.4.2   Stabilizing Agricultural Encroachment in Focal Areas Through Special Use Zones: Following
an "unsatisfactory" rating on project implementation in late 2000, a revised strategy and action plan was
developed and finalized in May 2001. The main strategy change for this component was an agreement to


                                                     - 4 -

concentrate on three focus areas. These were areas of special biodiversity significance and high risk that
lay within the gazetted park boundaries. The three areas were Sungei Kalu II, Muara Hemat complex of
three villages, and Tanjung Kasri/ Renah Kemumu. The strategy was to reach an agreement with the
community on management of these areas in the park - called co-management of Special Use Zones (ZPK)
- and to pilot the management, all within the remaining 18 months of the project period. This strategy was
recommended as a basis for integrating park enforcement and boundary demarcation activities with
conservation awareness and for strengthening linkages to village development activities.

3.4.3    Anti Illegal-Logging Activities: The focus of this revised activity was to establish an Integrated
Team (tim terpadu) approach at the kabupaten-level, chaired by the Bupati (District Head), to integrate
and focus anti illegal-logging activities (such as confiscating trucks, collating information, increasing
awareness and closing down illegal saw-mills). Block grants were provided by the project to Kabupatens
to finance these activities.

3.4.4      Kehati Small Grants Program (reallocated US$ 0.26 million):            Because of problems in
commissioning individual biodiversity research by the Directorate General of Forest Protection and Nature
(PHKA), the agency contracted the Indonesian Biodiversity Foundation (Yayasan Kehati) to manage a
program of small research grants. The grant program was to support biodiversity and socio-economic
research on the park, to encourage local researchers and NGOs from the four provinces to develop an
interest in the KSNP, and to develop a local constituency.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

3.5.1   Overall, the "Quality at Entry" of the project is judged to have been unsatisfactory. The project's
primary biodiversity and environmental objectives were fully consistent with Indonesia's biodiversity and
GEF priorities, as identified in the Indonesia Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan (1993).            The
Government of Indonesia (GOI) was committed to testing the ICDP model at Kerinci as a pilot program to
integrate conservation and regional development.         Kerinci Seblat is a declared Heritage Site of the
Association of Southeast Asian Nations and is recognized as an area of global biodiversity importance.
The park (the largest conservation area in Sumatra) and surrounding hill and lowland forests together
support one of the largest and most important tracts of tropical forests ecosystems within Southeast Asia.
GEF support was justified for the project.

3.5.2    The first project identification mission (in September 1991) identified the need for a multifaceted
ICDP, including integration of the KSNP with regional planning and development. A feasibility study
identified the need for local people's participation in project preparation and recommended that several
options be explored, including strengthening of capacity in local NGO networks. Consultant services for
preparation were procured in early 1992 to prepare an investment proposal. In early 1993, because of
criticism from several national and local NGOs about the limited participation and ownership of the project
design, the Bank and the GOI extended the preparation period using a JGF grant to include a greater focus
on regional development and planning, biodiversity inventory, local level base-line socio-economic and
landscape surveys in ten villages with WWF and WARSI, strengthening community participation, and a
regional environmental assessment. The NGO facilitation and preparation provided the project with an
opportunity to pilot and design village facilitation modules during project preparation. The project also
embarked on a series of workshops for preparing Participatory Plans involving stakeholders from the four
provinces to ensure a clear understanding of and support for the project.

3.5.3   The final project design, though complex and involving multiple agencies at the national and local
level, reflected input from project stakeholders and had multiple components dealing with park


                                                      - 5 -

management, village development, spatial planning, activities in forest concessions in the buffer zone and
landscape monitoring.       The forest concession component was included because of the biodiversity
importance of lowland forest which had earlier been excised from the proposed park area.               These
components were designed to be implemented by three central government implementing agencies (PHKA,
the Department of Regional Development (BANGDA), and the Directorate General of Forest Management
- BPK) and nine Kabupatens.

3.5.4   The nature of the design thus led to a breakdown in the integrated nature of the project, with each
agency developing its own "sub-project" within the overall project design and developing its own technical
assistance packages.     The project design did establish a national project steering committee under
BAPPENAS, but this rarely functioned and no one agency played the role of "project integrator". The one
successful innovation of the project design was to establish an Inter-Provincial Coordination Committee
(IPCC) which supported semi-annual meetings between all agencies involved in implementing the project.
The overall project design was ambitious and complex, and depended on multiple institutions working in an
integrated manner, a very difficult task in the Indonesian context. The project also tried to test the
hypothesis that integrating village-level development interventions with protected area management would
result in better biodiversity conservation outcomes.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

4.1.1     What would have happened without the ICDP? Would the park have continued to exist as a
contiguous protected area, or would the biodiversity conservation value have been severely diminished
through fragmentation by road construction, forest conversion, illegal logging and poaching? This question
can be answered through the analysis of forest cover monitoring data, comparison with other Sumatran
national parks, and analysis of available biodiversity data (Annex 10). What is most striking about the
data is the lack of linkage between development investments and conservation of biodiversity, the major
focus of the project. Data presented in Annex 10 show that during the project period (1995-2001) the
greatest rate of forest loss in KSNP was in the Kabupatens Kerinci and Solok which received the largest
proportion of VCGs. This indicates that the linkage between village/district level activities and biodiversity
conservation failed.

Overall Conservation of Biodiversity

4.1.2   The original gazettement Ministerial Decree (901/kpts-11/99) for the KSNP established a national
park of 1.375 million ha in 1999, the largest terrestrial park in Sumatra and the third largest in Indonesia.
The forest cover for the KSNP in 1995, prior to the start of the project, was 1,268,328 ha. The most
recently analyzed Landsat satellite imagery for 2001 shows a forest cover of 1,249,129 ha. This indicates
a forest loss of 19,000 ha over a period of six years during the period of project implementation, equivalent
to a forest loss of 0.28 per cent per year within the park. During this period, other national parks (such as
Gunung Leuser and Bukit Barisan Selatan) lost nearly 2 per cent per year of forest cover. Analysis of
forest loss in ICDP villages compared with non-ICDP villages, however, showed no significant difference
in the reduction of forest loss. This implies that the presence of the ICDP did make a significant impact in
protecting the park and preventing forest loss, although the actual village development investments were not
the principal reason. A major role played by the ICDP was to ensure that local governments maintained
their commitment to loan covenants not to build new roads through the park during the project period. This
commitment was maintained, and several significant road development plans (such as the Muara



                                                     - 6 -

Labuh-Kambang road in West Sumatra) were stopped because of central and provincial government
interventions.   However, the sustainability of this commitment remains to be seen, with the recent
development (after project closure) of the Tanjung-Kesri road in Kabupaten Merangin which has up-graded
a seven km road to a village enclave within the park.

4.1.3   The park and surrounding forest concessions cover a major block of tropical forests and provide one
of the largest intact forest ecosystems in Southeast Asia. Nevertheless, efforts to maintain low-lying,
species-rich forests outside the park's boundaries have not been successful.           Forest loss in forest
concessions adjacent to the park was almost four times (at 1.02 per cent per year) the level experience
inside the park during this period. Total forest cover in the nine adjacent concessions during 1995 was
480,596 ha. In 2001, forest cover was 412,456 ha, a loss of 68,140 ha of lowland rain-forest. Proposals
to return the biologically-important Sipurak Hook and the Rimba Kariya Indah Finger to the park would
enhance biodiversity values but have been stalled for two years within the Directorate General of Forestry
Mapping (BAPLAN) in the Ministry of Forestry (MoFr) as they require a letter of recommendation from
the local parliament and provincial governor. Similarly, important habitats for elephants in lowland forest
concessions are being lost while MoFr delays decisions concerning revoking concession status and
reallocating remaining forest lands to conservation status.

4.1.4    Although significant funds were invested in M&E, the focus was on landscape-level monitoring and
only limited data is available on threatened species within the park. Sumatran rhinoceros numbers are
known to have declined to such a low level that the Kerinci population is probably no longer viable.
Poaching of timber, tigers and birds for trade continues within the project area, and efforts to strengthen
protection of habitats and endangered species under the project have to be considered a failure. Clearance
of forest habitat at the foot of Gunung Kerinci has almost certainly led to local extinction of the rare and
endemic Schneider's Pitta, a reclusive bird only rediscovered in the park in the late 1980s.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Component A: Park Management

4.2.1    Park Establishment: The KSNP was fully gazetted as a National Park in 2000 after a complex,
eleven-step process including boundary demarcation and rationalization. It was the first National Park in
Indonesia to be legally gazetted. Proposals are currently under discussion to return key biodiversity areas
in forest concessions in the Sipurak Hook and Rimba Kariya Indah Finger area to the park. This
repatriation of approximately 30,000 ha of lowland rain-forest to the park would be a major contribution
towards realizing the project's biodiversity objectives, as lowland rain-forests are one of the most
threatened ecosystems in Sumatra. Nevertheless, disputes over park boundaries continue both with local
communities and with surrounding forest concessions (HPH). Agricultural encroachment continues, even
in high-profile, easily-accessible areas such as Mount Kerinci.

4.2.2    Park Management: A management plan has been prepared and is being used as the basis for the
preparation of annual work plans.        A base-line of forest cover has been established for landscape
monitoring, and Geographic Information System (GIS) capability provides a tool for identifying "hot
spots" for encroachment and management decisions. The park has been zoned according to different land
use and conservation objectives, and pilot measures have been          tested (and found wanting) in two
Special-Use Zones (ZPK) to address boundary stabilization in occupied and encroached areas within park
boundaries. An eco-tourism plan has been developed, identifying potential visitor sites and needs for visitor
facilities and management. Law enforcement has consistently been weak, and this aspect of the project has
clearly failed. This is a governance issue. Park staff have been poorly motivated and poorly supported in



                                                     - 7 -

applying protection measures. Local government and central PHKA have provided little or no follow up or
support when those responsible for illegal activities are apprehended. It is particularly disappointing that
the KSNP has failed to stop new encroachment along the boundaries of Mount Kerinci and Mount Tujuh,
areas that are high profile and easily accessible for monitoring and patrolling.

4.2.3   Park Buildings, Civil Works and Equipment: Overall, the civil works financed under the project
(guard posts, extension centers, provincial offices and watch towers) were of poor quality and have not
been well maintained. Overall supervision and quality control from PHKA was limited, and little effort
was made on improving standards. Much of this was due to local contracting at the Kabupaten-level. As
part of the MTR, the Bank stopped financing civil works without prior approval and packaging into
national competitive bidding packages.

4.2.4   Research ­ Small Grants Program: The project had two windows for research: research funding
for park management, which was never used, and a Small Grants program run by the Indonesian
Biodiversity Foundation. Management-oriented research needs have been identified in the management
plan but this framework was completed too late in project implementation for research to be initiated under
the project. The Kehati Small Grants program over the two years prior to December 2002 supported 34
small research projects undertaken by staff from local universities within the four provinces. The program
also supported training for local researchers and the preparation of awareness materials and local field
guides.

4.2.5      Strengthened Park Institutional Capacity: The project has stimulated the mobilization of
additional senior and junior staff, with the number of park staff increased from 71 to 180 (164 regular and
16 contractual staff), mostly by recruitment of additional field staff (Polhut, now 101). There are now 23
graduates working for the park, including the park director.           PHKA has strengthened the senior
management with the creation of four regional (Sekwil) positions in the provinces, filled by graduates. The
park has benefited from recruitment of eight forestry graduates, the first time that university graduates have
been recruited for such positions. The park now has a core group of dedicated and motivated staff.
Nevertheless, in spite of increases in field staff and new leadership, park performance on protection and
enforcement has been poor. Park staff have benefited from training in field training and transect surveys,
information management (including GIS as a monitoring tool), search and rescue, extension, as well as
study tours to other national parks (both within Indonesia and to Malaysia).

4.2.6   A key constraint throughout project implementation has been poor and indifferent coordination and
collaboration between different agencies within the MoFr. For instance, the Directorate General of Forest
Management has failed to support the National Park Office (BTNKS) in addressing violations by
concessionaires logging within the park boundaries or within the three km "no-take" zone around the park.
The BAPLAN has been slow in following up on proposals to repatriate important biodiversity areas back
into the park even where local government has approved such repatriation. Even under the project, the
MoFr failed actively to encourage strengthened collaboration and joint operations between the KSNP, the
provincial Regional Conservation Agency and Dinas Kehutanan to support park management objectives.
The designation of the KSNP as one of the nine priority parks within Indonesia with access to special
budgets for such collaboration provides a mechanism for future cooperation and sustainability of park
activities. However, unless the perennial issue of budget delays is addressed it seems unlikely this will
have much impact.




                                                      - 8 -

4.2.7    The KSNP has used the guidelines of the International Union for the Conservation of Nature to
monitor Protected Area management effectiveness across the project's lifetime. The results show some
progress in improving management effectiveness overall (see Annex 11), and especially in strengthening
operational training and effectiveness. Nevertheless, institutional and enforcement weaknesses still need to
be addressed.

4.2.8    Enhanced Conservation Awareness: Although awareness and outreach was always identified as
a key strategy for promoting the ICDP concept, this component started slowly. During the last two years
of the project, an integrated awareness campaign was initiated involving newspaper articles, radio spots
and talk shows, road-shows and leaflet distribution and is now underway. A new interpretation center has
been established at Sungai Penuh and is well-used by local school children. The project has paid for the
preparation of awareness and outreach materials, but there was too little emphasis on capacity building for
new KSNP staff directly responsible for awareness and outreach and for training of outside users (such as
local teachers).     Conservation awareness and outreach activities were undertaken under several
components. The park has a well-established and well-visited website (kerinci.org) and has produced
several editions of a newsletter for children (Si Tapir).

Component B: Area and Village Development

4.2.9    Processes: The chief processes to be developed by the component were: (a) the process to involve
communities in long-run biodiversity conservation, which was part of the overall biodiversity strategy; and
(b) the process for village development in buffer zones adjacent to sites of at-risk biodiversity which was
part of the overall area development strategy. The processes were linked at the village level through the
VCA.

4.2.10   Community Involvement and the VCA: The VCA was the mechanism used to link communities
with conservation and development. In the VCA, a community agreed to carry out certain activities (such
as marking boundaries of their traditional forest-use land, tree planting in degraded areas, protection of
water sources) and agreed not to carry out certain other activities (such as collecting NTFPs or farming in
the park). In return, the community received goods, money to fund cooperative credit, and technical
assistance to support a negotiated program of investments in physical infrastructure and in agriculture and
related activities.  Signing of the VCA by the community and the local government formalized the
commitment, rights and responsibilities of both parties and released the VCG to fund the village
development program. The grant was in the form of village infrastructure support, agricultural inputs, or
revolving funds for income generating activities (such as cattle fattening). This was expected to bring
incentives into line to result in both sustainable conservation of the forests and permanent improvements in
the living conditions and incomes of the villagers. The villagers would get the grant and local government
recognition of their land use, while the local government would get economic development and decreased
land-use conflicts.

4.2.11    Legal Status of the VCA: The legal status of the VCA (other than as a project-mandated
document during the project period) is not clear. Certainly, since the 2000 Regional Autonomy Law local
government recognition is more compelling than in prior years but there are no sanctions apparent for
breaking the covenant and local government recognition of use of National Park land for farming is of little
use. One view is that the VCA provided a platform around which to structure interventions, and its relative
advantage over other process instruments has not yet been demonstrated. Using simpler means to reach a
critical mass, or even all, of the villages in the buffer zone may have produced a better outcome in terms of
reaching the priority objective of biodiversity conservation. While elegant in concept, it consumed a lot of
"social energy" and good will but often led to failed expectations when promises could not be honored.


                                                       - 9 -

4.2.12     Process Achievements: While the process used for village engagement seems successful, the
project did not demonstrate either an effective process for using this involvement for long-run biodiversity
conservation or village development in buffer zones adjacent to sites of at-risk biodiversity which was part
of the overall area development strategy.

4.2.13    Outputs - Conservation Agreements: The main output indicator was the signing of the VCA.
The SAR target was to reach formal agreements with 134 of the (approximately) 460 villages in and
around the park. This was reduced to 75 at the MTR in 1999 because the slow progress in getting
communities to meet the conditions of the VCA made it clear that the target would not be reached by the
end of the project. At project closing, the actual achievement was 72 signed VCAs. Of these, three were
dropped from the program because of continued logging or other violation of the Agreement, to leave 69
with effective VCAs. Of these, 26 had met the conditions of receiving the grant by March 2001. The
remaining 46 met the conditions in the year prior to closing and were possibly rushed through following
concerns expressed by BANGDA (and WWF) that there were implied contractual obligations with
facilitated villages. Anecdotal evidence suggests that the default rate on these is high, given that there was
insufficient time for post-grant supervision and technical assistance prior to closing. At a maximum,
achievement of this output indicator of effective VCAs was 50 per cent of the SAR target (69 of 134).

4.2.14     Part of the ineffectiveness of the VCA lay in the difficulty in reaching a signed VCA. The
complexity of the process was caused by the uncertain relationship between the conservation requirements
and the development grant, and the institutional implications of the recognition of land-use rights in the
document. The VCA progressed through three drafts. The first of these required an agreement within the
community on present and future land use, not an easy thing to reach since the burden on incomes would
not have fallen equally. The second and third drafts were even more difficult since they required the
various government agencies to make decisions on land use and rights. It appears that the major delay was
in the National Park/MoFr clearance. Year I and II villages were even required to prepare five drafts.

4.2.15    Output Indicators for Conservation under VCAs: No direct indicators (or indirect indicators
such as market activity in NTFPs) seem to have been monitored under this component. It would have been
difficult to identify which NTFPs came from the park and which from the customary-use forests. Data
monitored in other components indicates that there was no difference in deforestation rates in villages with
VCAs compared to those without. The only output indicator proxy was the Participatory Monitoring
Report of WWF which indicates that many conservation activities defined in the VCAs were not being
carried out.

4.2.16      Output Indicators for Village Development - Infrastructure: Of the infrastructure, the
micro-hydro electricity generators and clean water/sanitation activities were the most effective and were
appreciated by the recipients. A definite benefit directly attributable to the project was the introduction,
acceptance and continuation of pricing of delivery of these services and using the income for operation and
maintenance. These appear likely to be maintained. Village roadworks were contentious and are unlikely
to be maintained. At project closing, infrastructure in nine villages remained unfinished. Project payment
to villagers for labor contributed temporarily to increased incomes.




                                                     - 10 -

4.2.17     Output Indicators for Village Development - Agriculture and Related Activities: No output
indicators were used to measure changed cropping patterns or technology. The report of the technical
assistance team estimated that 6 out of 72 participating villages showed clear improvement with project
assistance, while many of the others preferred to stay with traditional farming practices. This may have
been because of a reluctance to reallocate family labor from profitable cinnamon cropping in the forest to
the agreed cropping changes sponsored by the project which were mostly not financially competitive with
cinnamon/chili, cinnamon/coffee, or cinnamon alone.

4.2.18      Output Indicators for Revolving Funds: The detailed monitored output indicators for the
revolving funds reveal an unsatisfactory position. These show disbursements to revolving funds but data is
not shown for loan repayments to the fund, interest income, cash in hand or cash in the bank for most
villages. Either this has not been reported by the villages or the information has not been forwarded by the
coordination level. This is unsatisfactory and it is surprising that the M&E component would report a table
of these indicators with the most common entry being "Data Not Available" and let this pass without
comment. The narrative does report the expected corruption problems with revolving funds common in
Indonesia. Attempts were upgraded to resolve these issues in the final year of the project, but experience
has shown that revolving fund management requires several years of training followed by continuing
technical assistance. There were just too many villages receiving the VCG in the final year to be effective.

4.2.19     Output Indicators for Area Development: The process of area development, while preserving
biodiverse ecosystems, was not completed. Too few villages were involved to give a contiguous group that
could be aggregated into a region and the GOI institutions, principally the MoF, were not ready to negotiate
with communities in recognition of de facto land use and land-use rights. The ISPS report and maps
prepared at the project onset were never used or implemented by local governments.

4.2.20    Special Use Zones: The revised strategy for piloting ZPKs failed to appreciate that the magnitude
of long-run change that it proposed was not feasible within 18 months. This should have been clear after
four years of struggling with conservation agreements for sites outside the park. More importantly, the
strategy document promised land security and co-management in negotiated ZPKs within the park when by
then it was quite clear that the negotiation process on land-use rights was going nowhere and that
"co-management" within a gazetted National Park was ill-defined and without precedent. At project
closing, all three pilots had failed. The community at Sungai Kalau II refused to sign the VCA because of
a dispute over the VCG, the community at Muara Hemat was excluded after receipt of the VCG was
followed by a resumption of logging, and at Tanjung Kasri the community was unable to reach consensus
and sign the VCA by the Closing Date. Further, an illegal road to Tanjung Kasri (within the park) was
constructed by kabupaten authorities. All three villages were left with failed expectations and perceptions
of unfair treatment by the project. In fact, the only clear benefit as seen by the communities was the road
itself, in direct contradiction to all the project was trying to do.

4.2.21    Better Linkages with Local Government, NGOs and Researchers: The project had substantial
achievements in strengthening partnerships and networks with other agencies, especially local NGOs, and
increasing the park's profile among local government agencies and local communities. During the project
period, the KSNP was able to stop the expansion of roads and mining activities into the park and to raise
the issue of park fragmentation and development impact on the park to the level of provincial and
inter-provincial debate through the IPCC. As a result of the project, there is a constituency of Indonesian
conservation professionals who have good understanding of the values and issues of the KSNP and who are
likely to maintain their support and involvement in park conservation beyond the project lifetime. WARSI,
formed in the early 1990s, has participated actively in project implementation and has now "come of age"
as a widely-respected and active NGO. The regular IPCC meetings have proved an effective mechanism in



                                                        - 11 -

developing working relations between the park and local governments and a mechanism to raise issues of
common concern (such as illegal logging).

Component C: Integrating Biodiversity in Forest Concession Management

4.2.22    Only two of the four activities (biodiversity surveys and independent audits) initially identified
under Component C were undertaken. After the political change and economic crisis of 1998,
decentralization led to increasing pressure on forest resources and to illegal logging and lawlessness in
forest concessions.   Under these circumstances, it was no longer relevant to focus on training of
concessionaires and forestry staff in reduced impact logging techniques. Similarly, opportunities for
promoting community forestry were limited, but at least one kabupaten, Pesisir Selatan, was provided with
expert advice on the potential for community forestry within a previously logged concession area.

4.2.23   Independent audits were completed in all nine active concessions and reports were provided to the
BPK. In general, these audits showed that concessionaires were logging in an unsustainable manner and
not within their agreements. Several concessionaires were shown to be logging within the three km
"no-take" zone adjacent to the KSNP boundary and at least one concessionaire (DMT) crossed the
boundary and logged illegally within the park. In spite of these flagrant violations, the BPK took no action
to revoke these concessions or to use these audits as justification for repatriation of certain high
biodiversity areas within the concession (e.g., Rimba Kariya Indah Finger, Sipurak Hook) to the park.
Instead, BPK intends to reassess these nine concessions as a priority in 2003 using the project-financed
audits as a reference.

4.2.24    From 2001, the technical assistance under Component C focused on biodiversity assessments in
six concessions with good blocks of closed forest adjacent to the park and known to have high biodiversity
values (e.g., Serestra II, Rimba Kariya Indah and Bina Samaktha - an area important for elephants).
Technical memoranda were prepared justifying the return of high value forests to KSNP for Sipurak Hook
and Rimba Kariya Indah Finger, including economic valuation of their watershed benefits, and local
government support was enlisted for these repatriations. Nevertheless, the Sipurak Hook area (13,600 ha)
has still not been elevated to conservation status as part of KSNP, apparently because of the lack of
effective cooperation between BAPLAN and PHKA at the central level of MoFr. Changing the status of
these high biodiversity forests from production areas to park lands would slow inroads from illegal logging,
rationalize KSNP boundaries and support the biodiversity objectives of the project.          As with other
components, valuable work was done under Component C but there has been no effective follow-up from
PHKA or MoFr.

Component D: Monitoring and Evaluation

4.2.25   The M&E component supported a series of landscape monitoring activities, including field transect
walks, fixed-point photography, socio-economic surveys, hydrological studies, data collection on illegal
logging, and macro landscape monitoring based on Landsat and Spot GIS imagery and analysis. The park
has acquired remote sensing data for 1995- 2002 and resources have been allocated for annual acquisition
of digitized data. Several studies on modeling deforestation trends and predicting threats to the park were
also financed under this component. The component established a library and information center and has
also hosted and updated the park website (kerinci.org) which has received over 8,000 hits. A customized
"threat management" data-base was designed, but never functioned. The technical assistance provided
on-the-job GIS training to park staff, and the park is able to use the GIS data-base for landscape
monitoring. Three park staff were trained by the project, and a new sub-unit GIS center has been
established in Curup to cover the southern half of the park. The park has also approached several partners



                                                   - 12 -

to continue support for GIS capacity building. The GIS data-base appears of limited use for information
management or patrolling activities, as it is incomplete and cannot be operated. The GIS system is used for
printing basic field maps, or patrol activities.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

4.3.1   At appraisal, it was recognized that no economic analysis could be carried out for the project as a
whole because of the heterogeneous nature of the benefits sought and the near-impossibility of quantifying
many of them. Rudimentary estimates were made of the potential economic benefits accruing to specific
project activities and outputs. The biodiversity value of the park was estimated to have a Net Present
Value of between US$93 - 200 million; the costs (based on investment costs plus the logging benefits
foregone) were a total of US$93 million. Investments in park management and buffer zone protection were
estimated at appraisal to be about US$47.2 million and were considered to represent the minimum amount
(or "cost of entry") necessary to safeguard the integrity of the park, whose total area and physical
characteristics were dictated by the requirements of the predators and large herbivores the park was
designed to protect. The study intended to review the feasibility of establishing a permanent mechanism for
funding the recurrent and replacement investment costs of maintaining the park was dropped before
implementation of the project began.       The Area and Village Development (Component B) activities,
including both infrastructure and on-farm development, were made the subject of a separate economic
analysis at appraisal; even here, it was far from clear how farmers might be expected to adopt
income-improving technology, and a "best-estimate" of an Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of 16 per cent
was arrived at. In practice, the achievements under the component were so fragmentary that output
indicators for village and area development were not able to provide a reasonable basis for an ex post
re-calculation of the ERR. For Component C (Integrating Biodiversity in Forest Concession Management),
an ERR of 15 per cent was calculated; however, the actual achievements under the component were limited
to only two of the four programmed activities, and the limited results provide an inadequate basis for the
ex-post re-calculation of the ERR.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

4.4.1  No financial analysis was carried out for any of the project's components or activities

4.5 Institutional development impact:

4.5.1  The overall institutional development impact was modest. The park is established and staffed with a
fully-functioning GIS unit, significant numbers of staff, equipment and an operating budget. There is now
an established working relationship with local governments through the IPCC to resolve issues concerning
the potential impact of regional development on the park. The project, through its technical assistance and
training activities, has provided a range of stakeholders with new skills and information. However, basic
reforms in the way budgets are managed and in field staff performance are still limited. Law enforcement
on issues such as illegal logging and poaching remains weak. Though the WWF has closed its office in
Kerinci, WARSI was considerably strengthened under the project and is an active player in the province on
forest policy and community-based resource management.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

5.1.1     Several economic, political and legislative changes occurred during the project's life that had
significant impacts on project implementation.



                                                     - 13 -

         (a)      "Reformasi"- the fall of President Soeharto in 1997, a year after Loan Effectiveness,
resulted in significant political changes in local government and village administration. The "village
resilience councils" established by the New Order government were in the most part replaced by local
traditional decision-making bodies in areas such as West Sumatra (Nagari) and by elected village councils
in other provinces. This change in village administration and leadership had an impact on village-level
project administration and management as the new village councils had to be educated and socialized on the
project goals, further delaying the village conservation agreements.

         (b)      Economic crisis "Krismon" led to the devaluation of the rupiah from Rp 2,300 to the
US$ in 1996 to the current value of Rp 9,000. This led to the cancellation of US$9.0 million from the
loan and to the reduction of the target number of villages from 134 to 75.

         (c)      Decentralization -The GOI passed two major laws in 1999 (Laws 22 and 25) which
decentralized fiscal and political administration to the districts (Kabupatens); service delivery, previously
managed by central government agencies, was handed over to them. National Parks stayed under central
government control but their working relationships with local governments were not reconciled under the
revised Forestry Law. Currently, the head of National Parks is of a lower administrative status than the
head of the District Forest Service (Dinas Kehutanan) resulting in problems of coordination and joint
program implementation.

         (d)      Governance - the weakening of central government authority, linked with a break-down in
law enforcement, resulted in an increase in illegal logging and poaching in the park from 2000 onwards.
The impact included an increase in the number of illegal saw-mills around the park (83) and increased
violence and confrontation with park guards. In 2001, a complex of park building in Kabupaten Kerinci
was attacked and burned by a group of illegal loggers and several park vehicles have been attacked since
then. No-one has been prosecuted, so far, for these criminal acts.

Though project activities were revised to meet some of these new challenges, such as improved
communications and coordination with local governments, the overall policy environment did not create the
conditions necessary to implement a complex multi-institutional ICDP.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

5.2.1   Delays in the Budget: Funds flow has been a major issue throughout the project's life, with regular
delays in budget disbursements and no routine budget flowing from the Central Government Budget
(APBN) allocation between January and March, the beginning of the financial year. The KSNP also has
opportunities to access Reforestation Funds but, in the same way, these and other special budgets arrive
late in the financial year which limits their usefulness. Late release of budget is a generic problem across
all government institutions. The new Law (Law 42), which prevents multi-year budgeting, will further
exacerbate budget delays and operational activities.

5.2.2   Anti Illegal Logging and Law Enforcement: The integrated Kabupaten anti illegal-logging teams
confiscated over 2000 m3 of timber and 32 trucks, and closed 27 out of 83 (illegal) saw-mills. A number of
Kabupatens (seven out of nine) also issued specific local regulations (fourteen perdas) to combat illegal
logging and to close saw-mills. The most successful were Bengkulu Utara and Musi Rawas. However,
overall very few individuals responsible for financially backing the illegal logging networks have been
successfully prosecuted because of problems related to evidence and bureaucratic delays and to corruption
in the judicial process.



                                                     - 14 -

5.2.3   Finalizing Zonation and ZP: More detailed evaluation is necessary, but it appears from the initial
pilots that ZPK and Traditional Use Zone (ZPT) models are causing confusion, and other modalities should
be sought for addressing the issues involved in the rationalization of park boundaries and human
settlements within the park.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

5.3.1   Positive Factors:

         (a)     the PHKA established the park, increased the staff and budget, tried to establish a new
                 system of Forest Patrol Units (PCU), and allocated significant resources from its budget to
                 establish and maintain park operations (nearly US$2.0 million over 6 years).

         (b)     BANGDA/local governments increased support for the park through joint workshops,
                 planning activities, and improved communication.

         (c)     Local governments (provincial and Kabupatens) increased support for law enforcement,
                 some Kabupatens issued local regulations banning illegal saw-mills, and the four
                 provinces and nine Kabupatens issued a joint declaration supporting the park.         The
                 province of Jambi has established a permanent secretariat to continue to run the IPCC and
                 to ensure that regional development activities are better integrated with park management
                 and planning.

5.3.2   Negative Factors:


         (a)     Limited focus on project management and on the identification of ways to improve and
                 make more effective use of the budget and the technical assistance support provided by the
                 project.

         (b)     The PCU patrolling system has not been effective because of limited operational support.
                 Much of the infrastructure financed by the project has fallen into disrepair because of its
                 limited use and maintenance. Overall, park management performance has been poor.

5.4 Costs and financing:

5.4.1    See Annex 2.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:


6.1.1    The overall sustainability of the project is rated as "unlikely" mainly because of the lack of
regular budget and insufficient institutional capacity to implement the management plan.




                                                    - 15 -

         (a)      Institutional Sustainability: The KSNP has made some progress in ensuring institutional
sustainability by restructuring park management and delegating responsibility and budget allocations to the
four provincial sub-offices offices in Painan, Jambi, Lubuk Linggau and Curup. The proposal to raise the
overall status of the park to "echelon 2", for better and more equal collaboration with local government
departments, has not yet come about. The restructuring of field staff into PCUs should enable more
effective use of the current work-force and resources in addressing protection needs, but will only prove
effective with a concerted commitment to enforcement, including strong back-up and support from central
PHKA and local government. Staffing needs, including retention of critical staff and training of additional
staff in special skills (e.g., needs for GIS and awareness staff), still need to be addressed.

         (b)      Financial Sustainability:        The KSNP is building strong partnerships with local
government and other agencies, including tourism departments, and focusing on: (i) identification of new
partnerships, projects and development activities that could contribute to support for KSNP activities and
objectives; and (ii) identification of priority activities to be supported under the special forestry budget now
that Kerinci has become one of the nine Priority Parks. However, these funds have yet to be approved.

         (c)      Social Sustainability: Increased focus has been put on out-reach and extension activities
to build local support, including activities targeted towards local schools. The KSNP is also strengthening
partnerships and linkages to kabupatens and provincial government and NGOs, especially through sharing
information, resources and training opportunities.

         (d)      Joint Operations: Integrated Team (tim terpadu) collaboration against illegal logging
will be continued under provincial budgets.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

6.2.1   Overall, the transition arrangements to regular operations are limited.

Component A: Park Management

6.2.1.1   In spite of the economic crisis, the government maintained its budget commitment to the KSNP
but only limited funds are available for operational expenses. A major problem remains, however, with
delays and late disbursement of APBN routine and special budgets. This is a generic problem across all
government institutions.

Component B: Area and Village Development

6.2.1.2    The four provinces and nine Kabupatens issued a declaration in 2002 establishing a permanent
secretariat in Jambi to help coordinate IPCC activities, and several Kabupatens continue to finance the anti
illegal-logging teams. However, there appears to be little follow-up of VCAs or VCGs by Kabupaten
authorities.

Component C: Integrating Biodiversity in Concession Management

6.2.1.3   There has been minimal follow-up from the BPK on the results of the audits and field assessments.

Component D: Monitoring and Evaluation

6.2.1.4   The park GIS unit has adopted a partial cost-recovery system to cover its operational costs. The
unit charges local governments, NGOs and other parties full costs for printing maps and provides a range



                                                        - 16 -

of other services. This has enabled them to generate sufficient revenue to maintain operations. The unit
has three full-time staff, of whom two are on contracts and one is a regular park staff member, who
received on-the-job training from technical assistance provided by the project. The information center is
well used by local researchers and NGOs, and has contributed to strengthening local partnerships.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

7.1.1   The Bank's performance during project preparation was problematic, with four Task Team Leaders
managing the preparation process. The initial investment reports financed by the GEF/United Nations
Development Program preparation facility (1992-1993) were focused too much on the technical aspects of
the project and did not focus on developing community, NGO and local government ownership of the
design. The Bank attempted to rectify this through a subsequent preparation phase financed by a JGF
grant (1993-1995). This phase also focused on preparing background studies necessary to meeting the
Bank's environmental and social safeguards relating to resettlement and indigenous peoples. For example,
a detailed study on the impact of the ICDP on the nomadic Kubu people was commissioned, which helped
identify specific interventions to ensure that the design accommodated their needs. In addition, the regional
environmental assessment identified the impact of roads on the loss of biodiversity and the excision of
high-value biodiversity areas and their inclusion in forest concessions. This analysis also contributed to the
inclusion of a component to improve biodiversity management in the adjacent twelve forest concessions.

7.2 Supervision:

7.2.1    The Bank provided significant technical assistance to the implementing agencies during
implementation and made efforts to change and modify the project design to respond to the situation on the
ground. For example, the Bank cancelled US$9.0 million after the devaluation and reduced the number of
villages for facilitation, to improve implementation. The presence of the task management team in the
Resident Mission also contributed to regular contact and continuous supervision of the project and to the
maintenance of a close and effective working relationships with the project management team. It is now
clear that the Bank could have made better use of the MTR to restructure the village development
component. One area of weakness was the implementing agency follow-up on recommendations made by
Bank missions. This was often due to a lack of leadership at the implementing agency level.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

7.3.1  The Bank's performance in project identification and design was unsatisfactory. Supervision
performance was satisfactory. Overall Bank performance was unsatisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

7.4.1   Preparation of the overall ICDP was managed by BAPPENAS, which helped to coordinate between
the implementing agencies (MoHA and MoFr) and the four provinces and nine districts. The initial
preparation request - trying to prepare a large regional development intervention linked to a conservation
project - was unrealistic. This lack of clarity led to a prolonged preparation process. In the end, the Bank
agreed to finance a series of separate regional development projects in the four provinces to be linked to the
ICDP, but the Bank ultimately only financed the Bengkulu Regional Development Project and it was not
linked to the ICDP.



                                                     - 17 -

7.5 Government implementation performance:

7.5.1   During implementation, the central government agencies provided significant support to the park
through budgets for additional staff, boundary demarcation, vehicles and by passing legislation formally
gazetting the park. Overall financing by central government was 26 per cent of the project costs.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

7.6.1    At the national level, the key agencies involved (BANGDA, PHKA and BPK) provided varying
levels of support. What was lacking was the integration of activities at the center. A key example of this
was the lack of coordination between PHKA, BPK and the Bureau of Forest Planning (all located within
the MoFr) to ensure that the concession audits and biodiversity assessments were used to improve forest
management in the concessions and to repatriate areas of high biodiversity to the park. Of the three
agencies, PHKA also faced major problems in managing its budget and in overall project management.
One of the factors contributing to this were the multiple changes in the head of the national park and in the
project managers responsible for implementing project activities.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

7.7.1   The Borrower's overall performance is rated as unsatisfactory, mainly because of overall project
management and supervision.


8. Lessons Learned


8.1   A number of lessons was learned or reinforced during the implementation of the project. The most
important were:

        (a)      Project Design Needs to be Simple: The project was probably overly complex, with too
many activities and institutions involved and no overall coordination. The various institutions had different
(and sometimes conflicting) agendas.       Thus, BANGDA and provincial governments were primarily
interested in development whereas the PHKA's main goal was conservation, with VCGs grants simply
being a tool to achieve conservation. This lack of ownership of the conservation objective and the agenda
for development drove the whole VCG activity and led to the disbursement of grants even where villages
showed little commitment to conservation (i.e., the disbursement of the second tranche was driven by
developmental rather than environmental performance). Similarly, the ambivalence and tension between
development and conservation meant that neither conservation nor development objectives were
successfully met. The project design led to packaging of different components across different institutions,
a lack of integration, and the anomalous situation of village development and monitoring activities starting
long before the main park management component which they were supposed to support. There was little
attempt to integrate activities, especially at the park level. The IPCC was one mechanism to achieve
coordination at the provincial level.

        (b)      Linking Development with Conservation Goals: The original project design was an
ambitious attempt to integrate the national park and conservation objectives within regional and spatial
planning (the ISPS was designed to support this but plans were never utilized). As preparation continued,
the emphasis evolved away from major development planning to a focus on small-scale village development
based on the (flawed) assumption that poverty and the lack of alternative livelihoods were driving



                                                   - 18 -

deforestation and agricultural encroachment into the park (they might have been a contributing factor, but
were not the main one). In fact, some of the villages around Kerinci specifically targeted for ICDP
interventions are some of wealthiest villages in Sumatra. Development grants provided through the ICDP
were always regarded as supplementary rather than alternatives to high-earning cash crops, such as
cinnamon.

         (c)     Conservation Needs a Longer Time-Frame: The original project was conceived as a
first six-year time-slice of a much longer program. It was always clear that the project was highly
ambitious and would need a much longer time-frame to achieve real support for the park within the regional
context. Nevertheless, there was never any commitment from the Bank to a multi-phased project (e.g., as
might have been achieved via an Adaptable Program Loan) nor was any real strategy developed to ensure
that provincial/kabupaten governments could sustain integrated activities beyond the project's lifetime.

         (d)     Better Institutional Analysis: An overall institutional analysis was not undertaken as
part of project design. The institutional management structures, budget process, and coordination between
institutions contributed to overall project failure. Budget flows and delays in budget delivery were a
serious constraint which will be further exacerbated by the new Presidential Decree (Kepres 42) which
prevents multi-year budgeting.

         (e)     Ensure Integration of Activities in Project Design: There has been poor integration and
cooperation between institutions, even between different departments within MoFr (e.g., the failure of BPK
and BAPLAN to address concession violations and repatriation of forest areas to the KSNP). This is
directly related to the way that budgets flow and to the fact that there are no incentives for collaboration.
The new focus on special budget for collaborative interventions around nine priority parks may help to
address this problem, but only if the issues concerning budget flows and timeliness can be addressed.

         (f)     Analyze the Incentive Structure: Changing the behavior of societies is complex and
slow, and understanding the incentives for certain types of behavior is of key importance. Where forests
are also under threat from outsiders, unenforceable covenants of uncertain value are unlikely to be
successful. One conclusion is that the same conservation benefits might have been achieved by a simpler
project design focusing on interventions in all 460 villages and more directly concerned with conservation.

         (g)     Law Enforcement and Governance: The original project design recognized that a
multi-pronged approach was necessary, including enforcement. Law enforcement with respect to park
protection was poor even before reformation and decentralization. After decentralization, the break-down
in law and order, illegal logging and encroachment have proceeded unchecked and are uncheckable. Even
with Integrated Team activities, bupatis and kabupaten government have shown little commitment to
closing down illegal saw-mills. Illegal logging is a major national problem. Conservation cannot work in a
situation where there is no effective governance.

         (h)     Ensure Technical Assistance has Ownership:              Considerable amounts of project
resources were allocated for technical assistance, but there seems a general feeling of too much of it and too
little management or evaluation of its activities by the institutions responsible. Technical assistance
providors spent a lot of time on theoretical deliberations about management solutions, development of
guidelines, etc. but were not held accountable for delivery of action and the achievement of impacts on the
ground. This reflects a lack of serious ownership of technical assistance and its proposed activities by
government institutions.




                                                    - 19 -

         (i)     Monitoring: The project provided resources for establishing GIS capacity and data-bases
for monitoring, but neither the technical assistance providors nor park management have seriously
considered appropriate levels of monitoring to meet park management needs to be sustainable beyond the
project lifetime.

         (j)     Accountability: Project management combined a limited review and validation of project
expenditure with weak internal controls. The string of weaknesses reported by both the Government Audit
Agency (Badan Pemeriksaan Kuangan Pemerintah) audits and Bank supervision missions identified that
the level of accountability exercised was far from expected standards, resulting in potentially corrupt and
fraudulent expenditures.   A key feature of future project design should be better accountability and
transparency in the management of funds as part of project design.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

Translated from Bahasa Indonesia

9.1  Background

Kerinci Seblat National Park (KSNP) is a natural conservation zone which has a unique ecosystem and its
own management zoning system. The KSNP zones can support life and welfare of people, fauna and other
living creatures around it. For example, these zones function as water catchment areas so that river water
remains flowing even during the dry season.

One of the main threats for National Park conservation is pressure from communities living in the villages
around the area, as well as communities outside the region. The low level of community welfare and law
enforcement are predicted as potential threats to the conservation of the National Park.

Therefore, the management of KSNP and its buffer zone areas is using a program approach which is called
ICDP (Integrated Conservation and Development Project), i.e.an approach which harmonizes natural
resources conservation activities with integrated development and considers the social economic condition
of the village communities around KSNP, focusing on several main problems, i.e., KSNP boundaries which
are not recognized by some parties in the field, lack of quantity and quality of human resources, weak law
enforcement, major impacts on KSNP conservation caused by illegal logging, road construction through
KSNP, collection of wood and non-wood forest products, as well as poaching and mining.

The ICDP in KSNP has been implemented for six years, funded by the GOI and the World Bank, through
the Loan No.4008-IND and the GEF Grant No.28312 TF.

The objectives of the ICDP as mentioned in the SAR are to protect and conserve biodiversity contained in
KSNP and the surrounding area as well as stopping fragmentation of the habitat. This is implemented
through the efforts of improvement of management and protection of the park, involving local communities
in securing park boundaries and implementation of conservation actions in the support zone through
continuous land utilization, increasing welfare of local communities, as well as promotion of continuous
permanent forest management.




                                                    - 20 -

9.2   Project Design

The project design covers the overall objectives mentioned in the SAR, which is to strengthen institutions in
the Region through integrated planning, coordinating the implementation and monitoring, and enforcement
of rules in the Province and District; develop institutional capability through improvement of staff training
and up-grading; and improvement of resources and services management.               Project proposal to be
implemented in the six-year period consists of four main components: (a) park management, (b)
regional/rural development, (c) integration of biodiversity in HPH management and (d) monitoring and
evaluation through support activities which include: (i) policy and planning support, (ii) community
training and facilitation, (c) awareness campaign on the importance of conservation; and (d) biodiversity
research.

To achieve the above objectives, this project is divided into four main components:

       (a)        Component A:       Park Management (carried out by Directorate General of Forest
Protection and Nature Conservation, Ministry of Forestry). Main activities of this component is the
preparation and implementation of a park management plan, including zoning activities. This component
will strengthen protection of park, management, empowerment and participatory planning through
institutional strengthening including park personnel training and infrastructure support. This component
also supports park boundary rationalization activities, species data collection, ecological, socio economy
monitoring, and other studies which are considered necessary in supporting planning and management of
the park as well as the buffer zone. This Component is carried out by Park Manager together with his
staff, assisted by technical consultants, which consists of a Consortium of Park Management Consultants,
Kehati Biodiversity Foundation (Small Research Grant) and WWF and WARSI for Village Facilitating
NGO.


       (b)        Component B: Area and Village Development (carried out by the Directorate General of
Regional Development, Ministry of Home Affairs.) This component is planned to improve land utilization
planning, land utilization rights and community resources management in 134 selected villages in the
interaction zone around the park, including villages next to or located in the HPH areas adjacent to the
park. This Component is also based on participatory development processes by applying a four-step
process as follows: situational evaluation, village development planning, implementation and monitoring
and study as well as evaluation which will enable design revision to occur. The main objectives of this
participatory development process is to obtain VCAs which contain village community commitment to
support KSNP conservation. As appreciation of the village commitment, the community receives a VCG.

       (c)        Component C: Integrating Biodiversity in Forest Concession Management (carried
out by Directorate General of Forest Production, Ministry of Forestry.) There were two sub-components in
Component C (i.e., integrating biodiversity conservation and NTFP use in forest concession management)
and a separate sub-component C.2, the independent (logging) concession audits. PT Sarbi Moerhani
Lestari (national) implemented sub-component C.2, Jaakko Poryr Consulting (international) in
collaboration with PT Tritunggal (national) implemented sub-component C.1 (d).

         (d)      Component D: M&E is carried out by the Directorate General of Regional Development
of MoHA.       This component is intended to support planning and decision-making processes in each
Component to improve effective implementation of project management. Project monitoring activities
support three main functions of monitoring and management of resources: (i) monitoring of technical



                                                     - 21 -

progress and finance, (ii) impact analysis, and (iii) performance evaluation.


         (e)       Change in Project Design: On May 16, 2001 changes were made to the project design
(Strategic Framework) in order to comply with the situation and condition at that time which were quite
different compared to the time of project design. The summary is as follows:

·        Stabilization of boundary encroachment or opening of land and forest product utilization in focal
         areas through identification and management of joint management zones (ZPK and ZPT);
·        Stabilization of boundary encroachment or opening of land, and decreasing the level of forest
         resource utilization in ICDP villages through VCA and VGA processes through intensive activities
         in three focal areas;
·        Development of frame-works which integrate biodiversity through sustainable management of
         forest products in HPH areas and identifying areas which need repatriation based on the value of
         biodiversity and its ecological function; assist related agencies in fighting illegal logging by
         facilitating an Integrated Anti Illegal-Logging Team in the Kabupaten;
·        Increase support for KSNP management, especially the District Administration and Communities
         living within as well as around the park; and
·        Prepare a five-year management plan for the KSNP ecosystem and develop the capacity of the
         manager to implement the plan.

         (f)       Illegal Logging: These activities are: (i) anti illegal-logging campaign, (ii) eliminate
illegal saw-mill operating in the Kabupaten and stop issuing permits for new saw-mills, (iii) confiscate
illegal chain-saws, (iv) confiscate transport equipment with illegal logs and illegal non-wood forest
products, (v) close logging roads in the park, (vi) stop illegal movement of logs and non-wood trading
networks within the park area, and (vii) study and collect information related to log supply and demand in
the region.

         (g)       Project Location: The ICDP is implemented in the KSNP and its buffer zone. The
project area covers four Provinces (Jambi, West Sumatra, Bengkulu and South Sumatra) and nine
Districts: (i) Kerinci, (ii) Bungo (formerly part of Bungo Tebo District), (iii) Merangin (formerly part of
Sarolangun Bangko District), (iv) Solok , (v) Sawahlunto Sijunjung, (vi) Pesisir Selatan, (vii) North
Bengkulu, (viii) Rejang Lebong, and (ix) Musirawas. The park area is located in the four provinces is:
Jambi (32 per cent), West Sumatra (25 per cent), Bengkulu (25 per cent), and South Sumatra (18 per
cent).

9.3   Project Implementation

         (a)       Component A (Park Management): One of the main outputs from Component A was
the completion of the park's management framework for the period of 2002 - 2006.               In addition,
Component A has formulated park participatory management zones and special utilization zones and
traditional utilization zones and efforts for their implementation were tested in Sungai Kalu II Village in
Solok and Remah Kemumu Village, and Tanjung Kasri Village in Merangin.

Management of the ZPK and ZPT was implemented in focal areas which cover targeted activities which are
included in the intensive community awareness campaign. In addition to ZPK and ZPT, joint management
was carried out in forest areas. The legal status of the zoning (including ZPK and ZPT) was formalized
through a Decree issued by the Minister of Forestry so there are no gaps or legal reasons anymore for
forest violators to say that there are no clear boundaries. A strong legal base has been established for the



                                                      - 22 -

KSNP area.

         (b)      Component B (Area and Village Development): Component activities were supported
by WWF/WARSI because their activities are focused on village participation process in the planning and
utilization of village land, including provision of facilitators to ICDP Village community up to prepare a
VCA which is a pre-requisite for a village to receive a VCG. Other support included human resources
development in the village through training from Village Facilitators.

Out of the 134 target villages in the park buffer zone, only 75 villages could be facilitated. The reduction
was based on the result of a joint review by the World Bank and the GOI, which decided that to achieve
intensive assistance, the reduction of number of villages was needed. In the end, out of the 75 facilitated
villages only 72 could produce a VCA, because three villages were excluded from the ICDP facilitated
villages since no VCA could be reached.

All of the 72 villages have received a VCG stage I with a maximum amount of Rp.125,000,000 per village
and a total amount of Rp.8,499,865,427, allocated for 396 activities and divided into 312 income
generation activities and 84 physical and infrastructure activities. While for VCG stage II, only 19 villages
were given a total amount of Rp.5,013,830,070 allocated to 155 activities and divided into 119 income
generation activities and 36 physical and infrastructure activities.

VCG stage II could not be given to all facilitated villages because of several reasons, these include:

·        VCG stage I was considered not successful based on a joint evaluation by all components related
         to ICDP.
·        Non-compliance with the agreed VCA.
·        Misuse of VCG stage I funds, either by the community, ICDP or village administration apparatus.
·        Implementation time of VCG stage II which made it impossible considering implementation
         preparation including completion of VCG stage I.
·        Other factors which resulted in VCG stage II not being disbursed.

         (c)      Component C (Integrating Biodiversity in Forest Concession Management):              Based
on the SAR and the Strategic Frame-Work which became the project design for Component C, several
activities were implemented including biodiversity surveys in nine HPH/ex-HPH areas adjacent to the
KSNP, so that distribution as well as prediction of population of several key flagship species which are in
danger of extinction could be determined.

In addition to that, performance evaluation was also carried out on the nine HPH to find out how effective
were existing sustainable forest management practices.

         (d)      Component D (Monitoring and Evaluation): Activities carried out by Component D
included: monitoring of changes in landscape through remote sensing (GIS), monitoring changes in
environment through transect walks, development of a data-base, development of a Web Site, Fixed-Point
Photography, Data-Base, GIS, library development and management of the Web Site. To increase project
socialization to all parties, particularly decision makers in the Kabupatens, Component D carried out
"Road Shows" in all Provinces and Kabupatens related to the KSNP. Component D also conducted studies
related to monitoring of changes in forest cover, social economic study, river watershed area study of
priority watersheds.




                                                    - 23 -

9.4    Impact and Result of Project

Several results acquired as well as impact due to the implementation of the ICDP program could be seen
from the increase in community awareness concerning conservation and protection of environment,
particularly the national park, and changes in economic welfare in several ICDP-facilitated villages. On
the other hand, there was an increase in agricultural productivity, agribusiness, cattle breeding and fishery
in village community as a result of the ICDP facilitation.

While the results related to park management consist of training and research needs' assessments, children's
information center, park management framework, working maps of the park, trained staff, KSNP data,
regional folksong VCD as education material, eco-tourism guidelines, ZPT-ZPK agreements, management
facilities, social economic and flora & fauna studies, posters, magazines, calendar, butterfly book, children
magazine "si tapir" and the establishment of cooperation between KSNP and researchers from the local
university, which directly or indirectly support in park management.

Institutionally there was an increase of awareness of integrated         planning through the existence of
Inter-Provincial Spatial Planning (ISPS) and District Land Utilization plans which could be used in
planning environmentally-sensitive development models.

With the implementation of biodiversity surveys in all HPH/ex-HPH areas and the mapping of important
biodiversity characteristics in HPH area, data of potential biodiversity which could be utilized and
developed was identified clearly, in the framework of conservation of KSNP and other research activities.

HPHs outside the park have been comprehensively evaluated by an Independent Audit Team under the
coordination of Component C. The result of the evaluation concluded that most of the HPH areas around
the park were not suitable for sustainable management. These HPHs will be a priority for review by the
eco-labelling foundation, whose evaluation will provide the basis for extension of the logging permits.

With the development of a Park Information Center, the park could present accurate data about the rate of
damage to the park as well as predicting the level of damage in thefuture, which is very useful for the local
districts.

The existence of the GIS, as well as the capability of the staff of KSNP Office to operate it, was very
beneficial in looking for solutions of park areas overlapping with other land-use allocations.

The existence of the Web Site, which was managed professionally, represents the correct instrument for
promotion of the park locally and abroad.

The existence of KSNP Information Center was not only used by the the park but also by other parties
needing information about the park, so that it projects a positive image for the park.

An increasing commitment to eliminate illegal logging from the park can be shown by the existence of an
Integrated Anti-Illegal Logging Team in each District. In certain Districts, in addition to using project
funds, funds were also allocated from the Kabupaten budget.

The increasing awareness of Kabupatens about park conservation, including activities which were
considered to harm or cause fragmentation to the park, were comprehensively studied or even cancelled,
such as the construction of the Kambang Muara Labuh road in West Sumatra.



                                                     - 24 -

9.5  Follow-Up Activities

Activities which should receive priority for continuation includes:

·       Continue the monitoring program in ICDP villages, so that the VCA can become a binding tool for
        the existence of collaborative management.
·       Increase integration between related parties, starting from planning up to implementation to
        continue ICDP
        activities, for example activate a joint Secretariat as a communication and coordination forum.
·       Look for funding alternatives to follow up on the VCG program.
·       Follow-up KSNP management by formulating a policy on participatory management of natural
        resources and joint management.
·       Follow-up activities of the integrated team in handling illegal logging in the Kabupatens.
·       As one of the GOI commitments to conserve the KSNP and to continue important activities in the
        ICDP, MoFr has included the park as one of the priority parks among fourteen National Parks.
·       Continue with the ZPT-ZPK finalization processes in three focal areas, and identify other
        locations to be developed with the same management process.
·       Continue with increasing KSNP Office services to other parties by using the Information Center.
·       Follow up repatriation in (a) PT Serestra II area (Sipurak Hook) of an area of 13,410 ha; (b) HPH
        of PT RKI (finger area) of an area of 21,266 ha; and (c) an area in North Bengkulu (Ex HPH of
        PT Maju Jaya Raya and Bina Samakta) of an area of 18,497.5 ha.
·       Strengthen the KSNP Office and increase environmental education activities for children.
·       Continue the inter-Province and inter-District cooperation signed through a "Memorandum of
        Understanding" in Sungai Penuh, Kerinci District on February 27, 2002, for Protection, Security
        and Conservation of the KSNP.
·       Maximize and continue the Joint Secretariat which represents a follow-up to the agreement signed
        in Kerinci District.

9.6  Borrower Performance

Several problems arose internally which were mostly caused by the weak inter-ICDP related component
coordination, which from the beginning did not have a clear coordination umbrella. The function of the
National Steering Committee was only felt during the strategic frame-work and action plan revision for the
ICDP in 2001. The impact of this lack of coordination of the ICDP components resulted in disharmony in
policy-making at the implementation level and within each component.

The preparation of budget documents was complicated and took a long time also resulted in
non-conformities between planned and implemented activities. It often occurred that change in project
management staff resulted in the interruption of the project management plan so that the new staff made
new changes resulting in implementation delays.

9.7  The World Bank Performance

The World Bank provided a loan and a grant to the Government through IBRD Loan No.4008-IND and
GEF Grant No.28312 TF, and has the responsibility for the success of the project, therefore constructive
recommendations and opinions on the performance and progress of project from the time of the SAR was
made and the signing of loan and grant agreements up to the end of the project (closing date) are also the
responsibility of the World Bank.



                                                     - 25 -

The role of the World Bank was quite significant in the preparation of SAR up to the signing of loan and
grant agreements, which contained not quite perfect planning and implementation at the initial stage, so that
they had to be modified and corrected in the subsequent stages.

Modification and correction of project implementation concept carried out sometimes did not consider
various aspects and input from the many institutions related to ICDP, which gave the impression that the
modification and correction were only partial in nature.

Working mechanism of the World Bank did not give full authority and freedom to the GOI to plan and
implement practical activities in the field, and made it more difficult and slower in the implementation of
the program and achieving project objectives.

The World Bank gave too much authority to consultants and were too rigid in project design, which
resulted in weak project management creativity in response to implementation dynamics in the field. On the
other hand, the World Bank also did not quite understand the prevailing conditions in Indonesia and the
difficulties in project implementation.

For the executing agency, things mentioned in the aide memoire (as the result of the review mission) could
be misinterpreted, whether they were just recommendations or something binding and must be carried out
(for example provisions to limit or eliminate logging within three km from the KSNP boundary, is it valid
during project period only and automatically revoked after completion of the project?).

9.8    Project Experience. Lessons and experience related to project implementation which can be taken
for future project implementation are as follows:

         (a)      Community Participation: During the implementation of the ICDP there were many
things learned about the development and implementation of participatory processes. Nevertheless, a lack
of understanding still occurred in effective participation and involvement of the community participation of
many parties would only mean several forms of consultation; nevertheless, the real benefit from
participation only came from the distribution of power or local empowerment. Real participatory process
involves the local authority to make decisions and take the responsibility for the consequence of the
decision making.       If local executing agency did not have enough authority to make the decision,
participation will lead to a lack of mutual trust and the participants cannot fully appreciate the implication
of policy change.

As mentioned, the most important lesson is the importance of local community participation in managing
and getting benefit from resources being developed.           This needs incentives which will encourage
participation of the local community. As a consequence, the need to involve local communities in all stages
of the project plan, from planning up to implementation, is most important.

         (b)      Project Management and Organization: Experience with this project suggests that with
multiple implementing agencies involved in the implementation an overall coordinator is required to achieve
effective results. This is visible through effective leadership for coordination of management, especially if
each organization works with its different procedures.

There were several problems which needed confirmation from the World Bank, including which part of
HPH areas which are still active (particularly in the HPH area of PT Duta Maju Timber, PT Serestra II
and PT Rimba Karya Indah) should fall within the three km buffer zone from KSNP. Will this covenant
still be valid after the end of the project?



                                                     - 26 -

Referring to this three km buffer zone, in accordance with the objectives of the ICDP project concession
areas around the park should function as an effective buffer zone, logging should be prohibited within
three km from the park's border. And in accordance with the problems in the field, if this three km radius is
applied there will be several HPHs which could no longer be viable. This was an issue raised by the
concessionaires before the project started. What is important is the issue of law enforcement. According to
the current law, the buffer zone should be 500 m from the marked boundary and one km from an unmarked
boundary. Once the project is completed, the buffer zone should revert to this standard.

In addition, several lessons beyond the participatory approach to village facilitation are:

·       Strengthening KSNP protection in law enforcement only is not enough without identifying the
        social economic reasons for illegal logging.
·       It is very important to identify all groups involved in implementation at the local level and to
        involve them in planning and the implementation processes from the beginning of the project.
        Creating awareness and interest among groups represents the most important thing.
·       Relation between community development and natural resources protection and conservation must
        be clear.
·       Participation and empowerment of the community are time-consuming processes, but without
        enough time investment, local community can only become passive observers and will not be active
        in cooperation.
·       A process must be developed to identify the main problems of management along the park's
        boundary and buffer zone. This process must be participatory, develop community involvement
        and ownership of all decisions, using public consultation to ensure that local community interests
        are considered.
·       A process must be developed to analyze and explain all laws and regulations related to KSNP
        management and rural development. This must be interpreted into simple language to guide the
        responsibility of the people in the planning and implementation, and also for village organizations.
·       The ICDP has shown the importance of proper stages of activities and consequence of delay, which
        will influence the planning and full participation of the community in ICDP villages.
·       NGOs carried out activities in the ICDP, such as WWF Indonesia, KEHATI Foundation and
        WARSI. This often represented the first experience for these NGOs to work with the government.
        There were a number of complaints because of the complicated bureaucratic process in receiving
        payment, which was often late, and the NGOs had to pre-finance their activities.
·       Incorrect consultant recruitment and too many consultants caused obstacles in the implementation
        of project activities. On the other hand, improper inter-consultant coordination, as well as the
        results of the work of consultants which had to be discussed a lot, occupied a lot of time of the
        project implementing agencies .

        (c)      Project Design: Since the beginning of the project, project design was seen as very
complex and very ambitious in setting indicators for project progress without anticipation of the possibility
of changes in the future (for example, economic crisis and political instability as a consequence of
change/replacement of leaders at every level, reformation phenomenon, regional autonomy, etc.). This
became    worse    because    of  the    limited  personnel    capacity.     As     a  consequence,  project
implementation/achievement was evaluated as very low.

        (d)      Distribution of Project Funding: The close cooperation of the Directorate General of
PHKA for Component A, Directorate General of BANGDA for Component B and Component D and the



                                                    - 27 -

Directorate General of BPK for Component C, represents a positive thing. In addition to increasing project
absorption, it also increased a sense of responsibility and sense of belonging to the project process from
planning to its implementation. Nevertheless, locations of the project in nine Districts in four provinces
created problems in preparing consolidated report. Project location are within and outside the park area; it
provides a wider scope for many parties to understand and be involved in project implementation. But the
existence of some parties who did not understand project activities resulted in project objectives not being
met. VCA preparation process and channeling of VCG was quite long and complicated (for example,
communities must go through many stages of evaluation, and it was always possible that understanding
about conservation in the proposed activities was not quite clear).

        (e)      Communication: Direct communication of consultants with the World Bank created
confusion for the project implementing agencies, which gave the conclusion to the agencies that the World
Bank gave too much authority to consultants.

        (f)      Inter-Agency and Organization Coordination: It could not be denied that through ICDP
inter-agency coordination and communication have been established, particularly among project agencies.
These were a result of the routine IPCC forum meetings scheduled every three months. The Chair of the
IPCC was alternately held by the Chairman of the Regional Development Planning Board (BAPPEDA) at
Provincial level, while the Secretary of the IPCC was the Head of the KSNP Office. Therefore, all parties
agreed that this forum must be maintained, even though the ICDP has come to an end, through a Joint
Secretariat Forum (Sekber) with funds provided alternately by each agency.

The existence of the ICDP has motivated the local governments to declare support for KSNP conservation.
The commitment was realized in the Memorandum of Understanding of four Governors and nine
Kabupatens.

(b) Cofinanciers:

Not applicable

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

Not applicable


10. Additional Information


Results from three Surveys

1.      Results of Socio-Economic Study (Andalas University): This study was carried out by a survey
of fifteen ICDP and non-ICDP villages, and concluded that: (a) villagers know about the park and are
aware of its importance; (b) villagers resent the unilateral establishment of park boundaries that were often
inconsistent with traditional land-use practices; (c) any change in socio-economic practices will be very
slow; (d) project intervention and the establishment of the park are both seen as being externally driven
despite beneficiary consultation and facilitation; and (e) the VCGs caused jealousy both within and between
communities, and aggrieved groups or individuals are likely to resist conservation initiatives.

 2.     Results of the Participatory Monitoring Report (WWF):                 This study collected detailed
information, supplied by the village project working groups, on compliance with the agreed conservation



                                                     - 28 -

and development activities. The conclusions were that villagers claimed to be implementing 64 per cent of
agreed conservation activities and 58 per cent of agreed development activities after receiving the VCG and
just before project closing. It seems likely that this is an under-estimate of cheating, since it measures only
the admittance of cheating. Following the disappearance of monitoring, facilitation, and technical services
with project closure, non-compliance can be expected to rise sharply.

 3.      Beneficiary Survey (Nielsen): A Bank-financed beneficiary survey as part of the Learning ICR
was carried out in February 2003; interviews were carried out with 286 respondents in seven ICDP villages
and seven non-ICDP villages. Of interest is that in ICDP villages the distribution of benefits from the
project was uneven, with 49 per cent saying that they received direct benefits, another 40 per cent saying
that they received indirect benefits and 11 per cent saying that they were unaware of any benefits. Some 37
per cent reported a complaint of unequal benefits. This corroborates the findings of the socio-economic
survey of jealousy resulting from distribution of benefits. Only about 5 per cent of ICDP respondents
considered that improvement in their standard of living was directly due to the project. The survey
commentary says that the benefits are smaller than the estimation error (in other words, inconclusive).
Again, this corroborates the findings of the M&E ICR Report. The survey reported that only 48 per cent
of non-ICD respondents were aware of the existence of the National Park. This seems consistent with
complaints of ICDP villagers that activities violating the VCA were carried out by non-ICDP people.
Surprisingly, only 54 per cent of ICDP villagers were aware of facilitator activity in the village since the
facilitator is supposed to live either in the village or in one nearby. This is consistent with the findings of
the socio-economic survey which questioned the effectiveness of facilitation. The survey report concludes
that 89 per cent of ICDP beneficiaries value the program and considered that it should be continued when
both economic development and conservation are considered.




                                                      - 29 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                      1
                 Indicator/Matrix                 Projected in last PSR    Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Road Network (no construction/upgrading in               3                        1
sensitive areas)
2. Completion of forest concession audits                   9                        7
3. Action plan for improving forest concession              1                    Completed
management in each buffer zone concession
4. Numbers of forest rangers                              140                       180
5. Size of Park budget                                  $300,000                  $595,536
     1 End of project




                                                  - 30 -

  Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

                           Project Costs by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

                                                Appraisal      Actual/Latest     Percentage
         Estimated Cost by Component             Estimate       Estimate (a)     of Appraisal
                                               (US$ million)   (US$ million)

A. Park Management                                13.443             8.588          63.9
B. Area and Village Development                   25.864             6.301          24.4
C. Integrating Biodiversity in Concession          2.852             1.813          63.6
   Management
D. Monitoring & Evaluation                         3.812             2.113          55.4
Total                                             45.971            18.815          40.9

  Note: (a) Costs are subject to audit.




                                                 - 31 -

                Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (a)
                                          (US$ million equivalent)

                                                                Procurement Method
                                               ICB        NCB          Other (b) NBF (c)     Total Cost
         Expenditure Category
A.    Civil Works
      Buildings and Structures                  -         2.314           -          -          2.314
                                                -        (1.389)          -          -         (1.389)
      Village Infrastructure                    -           -           5.761        -          5.761
                                                -           -          (4.609)       -         (4.609)
B.    Equipment & Furniture
      Office/Field equipt. & furniture          -         0.634         0.066        -          0.700
                                                -        (0.507)       (0.053)       -         (0.560)
      Aerial photography                        -         0.604           -          -          0.604
                                                -        (0.484)          -          -         (0.484)
      Remote Sensing equipment                  -           -           0.047        -          0.047
                                                -           -          (0.038)       -         (0.038)
C.    Vehicles                                  -           -             -        0.987        0.987
D.    Training                                  -           -           3.085      0.289        3.374
                                                -           -          (2.651)       -         (2.651)
E.    Consultant Services                       -           -          12.723      0.144       12.867
                                                -           -          (11.480)      -        (11.480)
F.    Studies                                   -           -           0.826        -          0.826
                                                -           -          (0.743)       -         (0.743)
G.    Survey & Research                         -           -           4.579        -          4.579
                                                -           -          (4.121)       -         (4.121)
H.    Extension & Planning                      --          -           6.127        -          6.127
                                                -           -          (5.397)       -         (5.397)
I.    Agricultural & other inputs               -           -           1.453        -          1.453
                                                -           -          (1.163)       -         (1.163)
J.    Incremental Operating Costs               -           -           1.703      4.627        6.330
                                                                       (1.533)
      Total                                     -         3.553        36.370      6.047       45.970
                                                -        (2.380)       (31.787)      -        (34.166)


Notes: (a) Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by the Bank loan and the GEF grant.
        (b) Includes National Shopping, Direct Contracting (satellite imagery equipment) and Consulting
            Services/TA/Training following the Bank's guidelines
        (c) Not Bank Financed




                                                    - 32 -

              Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (a)
                                           (US$ million equivalent)

                                                                 Procurement Method
                                               ICB         NCB         Other (b) NBF (c)      Total Cost
         Expenditure Category
A.    Civil Works
      Buildings and Structures                    -        0.314          -           -        0.314
                                                  -       (0.223)         -           -        (0.223)
      Village Infrastructure                      -          -          0.625         -        0.625
                                                  -          -         (0.557)        -        (0.557)
B.    Equipment & Furniture
      Office/Field equipt. & furniture            -        0.162        0.094         -        0.256
                                                  -       (0.113)      (0.066)        -        (0.179)
      Aerial photography                          -        0.212          -           -        0.212
                                                  -       (0.175)         -           -        (0.175)
      Remote Sensing equipment                    -          -          0.098         -        0.098
                                                  -          -         (0.075)        -        (0.075)

C.    Vehicles                                    -          -            -          (d)         (d)


D.    Training                                    -          -          1.123       0.131      1.254
                                                  -          -         (1.076)        -        (1.076)
E.    Consultant Services                         -          -         10.185       0.115      10.300
                                                  -          -         (10.015)       -       (10.015)
F.    Studies                                     -          -          0.362         -        0.362
                                                  -          -         (0.251)        -        (0.251)
G.    Survey & Research                           -          -          0.439         -        0.439
                                                  -          -         (0.325)        -        (0.325)
H.    Extension & Planning                       --          -          1.924         -        1.924
                                                  -          -         (1.744)        -        (1.744)
I.    Agricultural & other inputs                 -          -          1.279         -        1.279
                                                  -          -         (1.110)        -        (1.110)
J.    Incremental Operating Costs                 -          -          0.562       1.190         1.752
                                                                                                 (e)
                                                                                                  -
      Total                                       -        0.688       16.691       1.436      18.815
                                                  -       (0.511)      (15.219)       -       (15.730)

Notes: (a) Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by the Bank loan and the GEF grant.
        (b) Includes National Shopping, Direct Contracting (satellite imagery equipment) and Consulting
            Services/TA/Training following the Bank's Guidelines.
        (c) Not Bank Financed
        (d) Data were not available
        (e) Excludes counterpart funds from local governments participating in the project.




                                                     - 33 -

                                  Project Financing by Component
                                      (in US$ million equivalent)


                                       Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest          Actual/Appraisal
                                                                     Estimate               Estimate (as %)
           Component                  Bank Govt.       GEF      Bank Govt.       GEF    Bank Govt.       GEF
A. Park Management                       -     4.937   8.505       -   1.958     6.630     -     39.7    78.0
B. Area and Village Development       16.602 4.696     4.566 5.352     0.949       -     32.2    20.2     -
C. Integrating Biodiversity in           -     1.612   1.240       -   0.178     1.635     -     11.0    131.9
    Concession Management
D. Monitoring & Evaluation            2.544    0.559   0.709 2.113        -        -     83.1      -      -
    Total                             19.146 11.804 15.020 7.465       3.085     8.265   39.0    26.1    55.0



Note: As of March 17, 2003, the amounts of the Bank's loan and the GEF grant disbursed were US$6.872
      million and US$6.948 million, respectively.




                                                 - 34 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 35 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              09/16/1991                5    Task Manager,
                                             Methodology/Project Design
                                             Specialist, Community
                                             Devt/Participatory Project Design
                                             Specialist, Buffer Zone
                                             Speciaslit, Biologist/Park
                                             Management Specialist
              12/12/1992                5    Task Manager, Mission Leader,
                                             Environment Specialist,
                                             Biodiversity Specialist,
                                             Anthropologist
              05/21/1993                4    Mission Leader, 2 Resettlement
                                             Experts, Community Planning
                                             Specialist
              12/03/1993                6    Task Manager, Mission Leader,
                                             Anthropologist, Community
                                             Planning/Biodiverisity Specialist,
                                             Intitutional/Administration
                                             Specialist, Natural Resource
                                             Economist
              03/07/1994                5    Mission Leader, Rural
                                             Development,
                                             Institutional/Administration
                                             Specialist, Community
                                             Planning/Biodiversiry Specialist,
                                             Natural Resource Economist
              10/14/1994                1    Forestry Specialist
              08/08/1994                1    Task Manager
              06/09/1995                3    2 Forestry Specialists,
                                             Community
                                             Planning/Biodiversiry Specialist

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              06/22/1995                6    Task Manager,
                                             Institutional/Administration
                                             Specialist, Community
                                             Planning/Biodiversiry
                                             Specialist, Rural
                                             Development Specialist,
                                             Legal Specialist, Tribal
                                             Issues Specialist

 Supervision

              12/13/1996                7    Road Engineer; Task Manager            S               S
                                             (TM)/Institutional Development



                                              - 36 -

                Specialist; Environmental
                Specialist; Biodiversity
                Specialist; Natural Resource
                Specialist; Participation
                Specialist
05/16/1997    5 Operations Officer; Forest           S    S
                Specialist; Task
                Manager/Institutional
                Development Specialist; Natural
                Resource Specialist; Regional
                Development Specialist
12/16/1997    4 Regional Development                 S    S
                Specialist; Resettlement
                Specialist; Natural Resource
                Specialist/TM; Park
                Management Specialist
06/29/1998    5 Regional Development                 S    S
                Specialist; Resettlement
                Specialist; Natural Resource
                Specialist; Biodiversity
                Specialist; Buffer-zone
                management Specialist
12/30/1998    4 Participation Specialist;            S    S
                Biodiversity Specialist; Park
                Management Specialist;
                Disbursement Specialist
04/29/1999    4 Natural Resource Management          S    S
                Specialist; Park Management
                Specialist; Operations Specialist;
                Biodiversity Specialist
03/10/2000    8 Natural Resources Management         S    S
                Specialist; Operations Officer;
                Sector Coordinator; Economist;
                Consultant (2); Team Assistant;
                GOI Official
12/08/2000    9 Natural Resources management         U    U
                Specialist (2); Operations
                Officer; Consultants (2); GOI
                Official ; Agricultural
                Economist; Team Assistant;
                Environmental Specialist
12/04/2001    5 Natural Resources management         S    S
                Specialist; Operations Officer;
                Consultant; Team Assistant; GOI
                Official
12/10/2001    8 Task Team Leader; Biodiversity       U    U
                Specialist; Operations Officer;
                NGO Development Specialist;
                Commercial Specialist;GOI
                Officials (3)
12/10/2001    2 Operations Specialist;               S    S
                Community Development
                Specialist



                - 37 -

 ICR

               06/06/2002                        6      Task Team Leader; Natural                           S
                                                        Resource Management
                                                        Specialist; Biodiversity
                                                        Specialist; Community
                                                        Development Specilaist;
                                                        Wildlife Conservation
                                                        Specialist; PA Specailist;
                                                        Monitoring & Evaluation
                                                        Specialist



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                            Actual/Latest Estimate
                                           No. Staff weeks                     US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                     216.3                              559.2
  Appraisal/Negotiation                            88.2                             221.9
  Supervision                                    194.4                              766.9
  ICR                                              17.4                             155.6
  Total                                          516.3                            1,703.6

Note: According to the Bank's accounting system, consultant weeks were recorded only until Fiscal Year 1999.
Input values include all expenses, including consultant staff-weeks (fees).




                                                       - 38 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 39 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 40 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

  A. Bank and Project Documents:
  Indonesia Country Assistance Strategy, February 27, 1995
  Indonesia Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report, July 25, 2002
  Indonesia: Kerinci Seblat Integrated Conservation and Development Project, Memorandum and
      Recommendation of the President, April 3, 1996
  Indonesia: Kerinci Seblat Integrated Conservation and Development Staff Appraisal Report,
      April 3, 1996
  Amendments to Loan Agreement: September 25, 2001
  World Bank Guidelines for Preparing Implementation Completion Report, June 1999
  Operational Policies (OP 13.55) for Implementation Completion Reporting
  Operational Directive (OD 13.05) for Project Supervision

  B. Bank Supervision Mission Reports:
  First Supervision Mission Report: May 16, 1997
  Second Supervision Mission Report: December 10, 1997
  Third Supervision Mission Report: June 29, 1998
  Fourth Supervision Mission Report: December 20, 1998
  Fifth Supervision Mission Report: April 29, 1999
  Sixth Supervision Mission Report: November 25, 1999
  Seventh Supervision Mission Report: March 10, 2000
  Eighth Supervision Mission Report: June 11, 2000
  Ninth vision Mission Report: December 8, 2000
  Tenth Supervision Mission Report: May 1, 2001
  Eleventh Supervision Mission Report: December 21, 2001
  Twelfth Supervision Mission Report: February 21, 2002
  Thirteenth Supervision Mission Report: June 6, 2002
  Final Supervision and ICR Mission, November 26, 2002

  C. Government/Project Reports:
  First Annual Progress Report
  Second Annual Progress Report
  Mid-term Review Progress Report
  Fourth Annual Progress Report
  Fifth Annual Progress Report
  Sixth Annual Progress Report
  Seventh Annual Progress Report
  ICR Reports for Components A, B, C and D
  Strategic Framework
  Beneficiary Survey
  GOI Draft ICR Report




                                                - 41 -

Additional Annex 8. Conservation Grants and Reforestation Data


                       CONSERVATION GRANT DISBURSEMENT PER KABUPATEN

        No               Villages            Total Villages          Funds Disbursed           Percentage
            1 Kerinci                                        15          2,730,793,770.00             28.99
            2 Merangin                                         7           671,898,810.00               7.13
            3 Bungo                                            4           334,100,405.00               3.55
            4 Solak                                            9         1,846,522,410.00             19.60
            5 Pesisir Selatan                                  9         1,402,102,800.00             14.88
            6 Sawahlunto Sijunjung                             3           314,569,500.00               3.34
            7 Rejang Lebong                                  10            607,383,250.00               6.45
            8 Bengkulu Utara                                   9           799,748,090.00               8.49
            9 Musi Rawas                                       9           713,136,540.00               7.57
               Total                                         75          9,420,255,575.00            100.00

               Source:                       Final Report Component B




                                  Changes in Kabupaten Forest Cover 1995-2001



         450,000.000




         400,000.000




         350,000.000




         300,000.000




         250,000.000


                                                                                                    TAHUN1995

         200,000.000                                                                                TAHUN2001




          150,000.000




          100,000.000




          50,000.000




               0.000

                      Bengkulu Bungo  Kerinci  Merangin MusiRawas Pesisir  Rejang  SWLJJ  Solok
                       utara                                      Selatan  lebong




                                                           - 42 -

Additional Annex 9. Park Management Effectiveness Matrix


Issue              Criteria                                  1996 2001 2002 ICR Score Comments/recommendations
                                                                           Score      (including consideration of
                                                                                      whether problems are
                                                                                      effectively outside the control
                                                                                      of the manager)
     General
1. Legislation    a. Problems with legislation or             x                  0    There are laws that regulate
                  regulations represent a major barrier to                            NP, but other institutions do
                  achieving management objectives                                     not acknowledge these. Even
                                                                                      the impact of autonomy other
                                                                                      local governments have issued
                                                                                      some regulations.
                  b. Problems with legislation or                       x    x   1
                  regulations are a significant but not
                  major barrier to achieving management
                  objectives
                  c. Problems with legislation or                  x             2
                  regulations are not a barrier to achieving
                  management objectives
                  d. Legislation or regulations are                              3
                  particularly effective in achieving
                  management objectives
2. Law            a. There is no effective capacity to        x                  0    Staff has capacity but not
enforcement       enforce protected area legislation and                              enough support from
                  regulations                                                         police/army/judiciary
                  b. There are major deficiencies in law           x         x   1
                  enforcement capacity (e.g. staff lack
                  skills, patrol capacity is low, problems
                  with legal processes)
                  c. Law enforcement capacity is                        x        2
                  acceptable but some deficiencies are
                  evident
                  d. Law enforcement capacity is excellent                       3
3. Planning       a. There is no management plan for the      x                  0
                  protected area
                  b. A management plan is being prepared           x             1
                  but Is not being implemented
                  c. An approved management plan exists                 x    x   2
                  but it is only being partially implemented
                  because of funding constraints or other
                  problems
                  d. An approved management plan exists                          3
                  and is being implemented
Additional points e. The planning process allows adequate          x    x    x   +1
                  opportunity for adjacent landholders and
                  other stakeholders to influence the plan
                  f. There is an established schedule and                    x   +1
                  process for periodic review of the
                  management plan



                                                       - 43 -

               g. Annual work programs and budgets            x x  x +1
               are based on the provisions of the
               management plan
4. Resource    a. Requirements for active management                  0
inventory      of natural/cultural resources of the area
               and efforts to acquire this information are
               limited
               b. Information on natural/cultural                     1
               resources is not sufficient to support
               planning & decision making & efforts to
               acquire this are limited
               c. Information on natural/cultural          x  x x  x  2
               resources is sufficient for key areas of
               planning/decision making or this
               information is being rapidly acquired
               d. Information concerning                              3
               natural/cultural resources is sufficient to
               support most of all areas of planning and
               decision making
5. Resource    a. Requirements for active management                  0
management     of natural & cultural resources (e.g. fire
               mgt, feral animal control, cultural sites)
               have not been assessed
               b. Requirements for active management       x  x x     1
               of natural & cultural resources are known
               but are only being addressed
               c. Requirements for active management               x  2
               of natural & cultural resources are only
               being partially addressed
               d. Requirements for active management                  3
               of natural & cultural resources are being
               fully or substantially addressed
6. Maintenance a. Little or no maintenance of                         0 For example, there are 10
               equipment/facilities is undertaken                       vehicles but maintenance
                                                                        budget only for the boss.
                                                                        Operational budget is only
                                                                        available for the central (NP)
                                                                        office and not for the others.
               b. Maintenance is only undertaken when      x  x x  x  1
               equipment/facilities are in need of repair
               c. Most equipment/facilities are regularly             2
               maintained
               d. All equipment/facilities are regularly              3
               maintained.
7. Neighbours  a. There is no contact between managers                0
               and individuals or groups who own or
               manage neighbouring lands and seas
               b. There is limited contact between         x          1
               managers and individuals or groups who
               own or manage neighbouring lands and
               seas
               c. There is regular contact between            x x  x  2



                                                    - 44 -

                  managers and neighbours but limited
                  co-operation in issues of mutual concern
                  d. There is regular contact between                    3
                  managers and neighbours and issues of
                  mutual concern are co-operatively
                  addressed
Additional points e. There is open communication and trust              +1 Under ICDP/ The rangers
                  between local people and protected area                  stated that local community
                  managers                                                 approach under ICDP have
                                                                           created difficulties for them
                                                                           to carry out their job (1st 10
                                                                           villages KKO gave "rights"
                                                                           to villages to collect wood,
                                                                           etc)
                  f. Programs to enhance local community         x x  x +1
                  welfare while conserving protected area
                  resources are being implemented
8. Economic       a. There is little or no flow of economic   x          0 Most people even the bupati
benefits          benefits to local communities from the                   don't acknowledge
                  existence of the protected area
                  b. There is some flow of economic              x x     1
                  benefits to local communities from the
                  existence of the protected area but this is
                  of minor significance to the regional
                  economy. People from the local
                  community are not generally employed in
                  protected area management
                  c. There is a flow of economic benefits to          x  2
                  local communities from the existence of
                  the protected area and this is of moderate
                  or greater significance to the regional
                  economy but most of this benefit accrues
                  from activities outside the park boundary
                  (e.g. spending by visitors getting to the
                  park)
                  d. There is a major flow of economic                   3
                  benefits to local communities from the
                  existence of the protected area and a
                  significant proportion of this derives
                  from activities on the park (e.g.
                  employment of locals by visitors getting
                  to the park)
9.Communication a. There is little or no communication                   0 Many meetings among
                  between managers and stakeholders                        policymakers and desa
                  involved in the protected area                           website, information center,
                                                                           children facilities
                  b. There is communication between           x          1
                  managers and stakeholders but this is ad
                  hoc and not part of a planned
                  communication program
                  c. There is a planned communication            x x  x  2
                  program that is being used to build
                  support for the protected area amongst



                                                       - 45 -

                   relevant stakeholders but implementation
                   is limited.
                   d. There is a planned communication                    3
                   program that is being used to build
                   support for the protected area amongst
                   relevant stakeholders.
10. Management     a. Problems with management systems         x          0 Problems: budget is always
systems            (e.g. budgeting, office procedures, staff                late, sometimes the activities
                   training) significantly constrain                        are created by the central
                   management effectiveness.                                offices
                   b. Problems with management system             x x     1
                   partially constrain management
                   effectiveness.
                   c. Management systems provide basic                 x  2
                   support to managers.
                   d. Management systems provide active                   3
                   and effective support to managers.
Additional points  a. There is a structured process for                  +1 However, oftentimes rules
                   developing and allocating annual budgets                 are not followed to adjust
                   for the area.                                            with the management
                                                                            priority
                   b. There are adequate systems for                   x +1
                   financial management and control,
                   record keeping and retrieval.
                   c. There is an active training program         x x    +1
                   that I addressing deficiencies in skills
                   and developing the potential of staff.
   Category I
11. Control over   a. Protection systems (patrols, permits,    x          0 Patrols and special operation
access/use of the  etc.) are ineffective in controlling access
protected area     or use of the reserve in accordance with
                   designated objectives.
                   b. Protection systems are only partially       x x  x  1
                   effective in controlling access or use of
                   the reserve in accordance with designated
                   objectives
                   c. Protection system are moderately                    2
                   effective in controlling access of the
                   reserve in accordance with designated
                   objectives.
                   d. Protection systems are largely or                   3
                   wholly effective in controlling access or
                   use of the reserve in accordance with
                   designated objectives
Categories II, III,
and V
12. Resident       a. Resident communities and/or                         0
communities        traditional owners have little or no input
and/or traditional into management decisions.
landowners
                   b. Resident communities and/or              x          1 In ZPT/ZPK
                   traditional owners have input into



                                                        - 46 -

                  management decisions but no direct
                  involvement in decision making.
                  c. Resident communities and/or                  x x  x  2
                  traditional owners directly contribute to
                  decision making in some areas.
                  d. Resident communities and/or                          3
                  traditional owners directly contribute to
                  decision making in all areas.
Additional points a. There is open communication and trust        x x    +1 Under ICDP
                  between local people and protected area
                  managers
                  b. Programs to enhance local community                 +1
                  welfare while conserving protected area
                  resources are being implemented.
                  c. Where permitted, harvesting of natural              +1
                  resources by local people is undertaken in
                  a sustainable manner
13. Visitor       a. No consideration has been given to the               0 Focus on Gn7/Gn Kerinci
opportunities     provision of visitor opportunities in terms
                  of access to areas of the park or the
                  diversity of available experiences
                  b. Some consideration has been given to      x  x       1
                  the provision of visitor opportunities in
                  terms of access to areas of the park or the
                  diversity of available experiences but
                  little or no action has been taken in this
                  regard
                  c. Consideration has been given to the               x  2
                  provision of visitor opportunities in term
                  of access to areas of the park and the
                  diversity of available experiences.
                  Policies and programs to enhance visitor
                  opportunities have been implemented.
                  d. Management of visitor opportunities is               3
                  based on research into visitors' needs and
                  wants. Plans to optimize visitor
                  opportunities have been implemented.
14. Visitors      a. Visitor facilities and services are                  0 New sign for Gn7/Gn
                  grossly inadequate (either do not meet                    Kerinci
                  the needs of most visitors or visitor use is
                  seriously damaging resources)
                  b. Visitor facilities and services are       x  x    x  1
                  inadequate (either do not meet the needs
                  of some visitor or visitor use is damaging
                  resources)
                  c. Visitor facilities and services are            x     2
                  adequate for current levels of visitation
                  d. Visitor facilities and services are                  3
                  excellent for current levels of visitation
15. Commercial    a. There is little or no contact between    x           0 Preliminary contact with
tourism           managers and tourism operators using                      established Pariwisata,
                  the protected area                                        Travel Guide Association.




                                                       - 47 -

                b. There is contact between managers          x  x  x  1
                and tourism operators but this is largely
                confined to administrative or regulatory
                matters
                c. There is limited co-operation between               2
                managers and tourism operators to
                enhance visitor experiences and protect
                park values
                d. There is excellent co-operation                     3
                between managers and tourism operators
                to enhance visitor experiences and
                protect park values
   Category IV
16. Management  a. Management interventions required to               0  Strength: Awareness,
intervention    maintain protected area resources are not                information, LSM network
                known or not being implemented                           were on: enforcement, fund
                                                                         raising
                b. Management interventions required to               1
                maintain protected area resources are
                known but are not being implemented
                c. Management interventions required to             x 2
                maintain protected area resources are
                known but are not being fully
                implemented
                d. Management interventions required to               3
                maintain protected area resources are
                being implemented.
   Category V
17. Control of  a. Mechanisms for controlling               x  x       0 Lack of local government
land uses and   inappropriate land use and activities in                 support for enforcement
activities      the protected are not in place or are
                largely ineffective
                b. Mechanisms for controlling                    x  x  1
                inappropriate land use exist but there are
                major problems in effectively
                implementing them
                c. Mechanisms for controlling                          2
                inappropriate land use and activities exist
                but there are some problems in effectively
                implementing them
                d. Mechanisms for controlling                          3
                inappropriate land use and activities exist
                and are being effectively implemented.
   Category VI
18. Sustainable a. Production activities in the area are            x  0 Kayumanis, vegetable
production      being conducted in a way that is seriously
                degrading natural values
                b. Production activities in the area are               1
                being conducted in a way that is partially
                degrading resource values
                c. Production activities in the area are               2
                being conducted in a largely sustainable



                                                    - 48 -

                 manner
                 d. Production activities in the area are         3
                 being conducted in a wholly sustainable
                 manner
19. Regional and a. The contribution of production                0 Hydrology systems supports
national         activities to development is minimal or            the provinces, 9 kabupatens
development      non-existent                                       but lack of understanding
                 b. Production activities in the area are         1
                 contributing locally to development but
                 not significantly at a regional scale
                 c. Production activities in the area are         2
                 significant to regional development but
                 are not nationally significant
                 d. Production activities in the area are      x  3
                 contributing significantly to national
                 development




                                                     - 49 -

- 50 -

