Page  1
CONFORMED COPY  
 
LOAN NUMBER7949-PL 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Third Employment, Entrepreneurship, and Human Capital  
Development Policy Loan) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF POLAND  
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated June 23, 2010 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7949-PL 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated June 23, 2010, entered into between REPUBLIC OF POLAND 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the 
Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Bank has decided to 
provide this financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (i) the actions which the Borrower has 
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; and (ii) the Borrower’s maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic 
policy framework.  The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one billion Euros 
(EUR 1,000,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 
of this Agreement (“Loan”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program 
in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Page  3
2
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when  due  and  such  non 
–payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III - PROGRAM 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end, and further to Section 5.10 of the General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of 
either party, exchange views on the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy 
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment, a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation 
that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Page  4
3
Program or any action taken under the Program including any action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that a 
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 
 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES; OTHER
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
u1. Swietokrzyska 12 
00-916 Warszawa  
Republic of Poland 
 
Cable: 
     Facsimile: 
 
MINF 
     (48) 
22 
6943070 
Poland 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction  
 
and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423(MCI) or 
(1) 202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
Page  5
4
Page  6
5
6.04. 
This Agreement shall be issued in two (2) signed originals. 
 
AGREED at Warsaw, Republic of Poland, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF POLAND 
 
By: /s/ Jacek Dominik 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Thomas Laursen 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  7
6
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 
Section I
.
Actions under the Program
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:
 
1. 
The Borrower has enacted the Law of July 1, 2009 on Alleviation of Implications 
of the Financial Crisis for Employees and Entrepreneurs (Journal of Laws of the Republic 
of Poland No. 125 of 2009, item 1035), thereby introducing a temporary measure to 
allow entrepreneurs to redistribute working hours over twelve (12) months instead of 
between one (1) and four (4) months during the period between August 22, 2009 and 
December 31, 2011. 
 
2. 
The Borrower has passed the Regulation of the Council of Ministers of August 
11, 2009 on the Amounts of Family Income and Student Income Used as the Basis for the 
Provision of Family Allowance and on the Amounts of Family Benefits (Journal of Laws 
of the Republic of Poland No. 129 of 2009, item 1058), thereby increasing the means-
tested child benefits by on average forty (40) percent.   
 
3. 
The Borrower has enacted the Budget Law for 2010 of January 22, 2010 (Journal 
of Laws of the Republic of Poland No. 19 of 2010, item 102) in line in form and 
substance with the provisions of the Law on Public Finance (Journal of Laws of the 
Republic of Poland No. 157 of 2009, item 1240). 
 
4. 
The Borrower has adopted a fiscal strategy to initiate medium-term fiscal 
consolidation as part of Convergence Program Update approved by its Council of 
Ministers on February 8, 2010. 
 
5. 
The Borrower has enacted the Law of June 26, 2009 on Amending the Law on 
the Organization and Operation of Pension Funds and on Amending the Law Amending 
the Law on Pension Funds and Other Laws (Journal of Laws of the Republic of Poland 
No. 127 of 2009, item 1048), thereby reducing the cap in contribution fees earned by 
fund managers by half. 
 
6. 
The Borrower has allocated adequate resources for financing the hospital 
corporatization program through the enactment of the Budget Law for 2010 of January 
22, 2010 (Journal of Laws of the Republic of Poland No. 19 of 2010, item 102). 
 
7. 
The Borrower has allocated adequate resources for the financing of educational 
programs for five (5)- and six (6)-year olds through the enactment of the  Budget Law for 
2010 of January 22, 2010 (Journal of Laws of the Republic of Poland No. 19 of 2010, 
item 102). 
 
Page  8
7
8. 
The Borrower has adopted the Resolution of the Ministry of Science and Higher 
Education of May 18, 2010 (Journal of Laws of the Republic of Poland No. 87 of 2010, 
item 560) to introduce a means-based sliding scale in subsidized student loan programs. 
 
9. 
The Borrower has enacted the Law of March 4, 2010 on Delivery of Services in 
the Republic of Poland (Journal of Laws of the Republic of Poland No. 47 of 2010, item 
278) on Delivery of Services in the Republic of Poland, thereby enhancing international 
competition in services in line with the EU Services Directive. 
 
Section II
.
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may 
specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts.
 
The Loan is allocated in a single withdrawal 
tranche, from which the Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds.  The 
allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(Expressed in EUR) 
 
Single Withdrawal Tranche 
 
1,000,000,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
1,000,000,000
C. 
Payment of Front-end Fee.  
No
 
withdrawal shall be made from the Loan 
Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee.  
 
D. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Condition.
 
No withdrawal shall be made of the 
Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank is satisfied: (a) with the Program being 
carried out by the Borrower; and (b) with the appropriateness of the Borrower’s 
macroeconomic framework. 
 
E. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts.
 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an 
account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and 
 
2.  
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into 
this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
Page  9
8
F. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures.  If the Bank determines at any 
time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded 
Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount 
equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon 
such request shall be cancelled.
 
G. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is December 31, 2010. 
Page  10
9
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
On each May 15 and November 15 
 
beginning on November 15, 2017  
 
through November 15, 2029 
 
on May 15, 2030 
 
3.85% 
 
3.75% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the table 
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment 
Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original Installment 
Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, such amounts repayable 
to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
 
Page  11
10
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts 
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the 
second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable 
on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on 
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall 
no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable 
on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination 
immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the 
amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency 
Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen 
Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each 
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
Page  12
11
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I
.
Definitions
1. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, 
or grant; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the 
Borrower: 
 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
 
112  Alcoholic 
beverages 
121 
 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or 
not containing tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious 
stones, unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; 
fuel elements (cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum 
group metals (except watches and 
watch cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares (including set 
gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding 
gold ores and concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
Page  13
12
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower 
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur. 
 
2. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
3. 
 “Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the letter dated May 14, 2010, from the Borrower to the Bank 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its 
execution. 
 
4. 
“Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the 
category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of 
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
Section II
.
Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows: 
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is not applicable to this Agreement. 
2. 
Sections 2.02 (Special Commitment by the Bank), 2.04 (Designated Accounts), 
2.05, (Eligible Expenditures), 2.06 (Financing of Taxes) and 2.07 (Refinancing 
Project Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee and Interest) and 2.08 
(Reallocation) are not applicable to this Agreement. 
3. 
Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), 5.02 (Performance under the Loan 
Agreement and Project Agreement), 5.03 (Provision of Funds and other 
Resources), 5.04 (Insurance), 5.05 (Land Acquisition), 5.06 (Use of Goods, 
Page  14
13
 
Works and Services; Maintenance of Facilities), 5.07 (Plans; Documents; 
Records), 5.09 (Financial Management; Financial Statements; Audits) and 
Paragraph (b) of Section 5.11 (Visits) are not applicable to this Agreement. 
 
4. 
Paragraph (b) of Section 5.08 is not applicable to this Agreement, and Paragraph 
(c) of Section 5.08 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.08 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the 
Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.” 
 
5. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put 
in support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures 
excluded pursuant to the Loan Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout 
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”): 
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan 
Agreement in support of which the Loan is made.” 
 
(d)  
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution Date (as 
herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower and accepted by 
the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, and as further specified in 
the Conversion Guidelines.”
Page  15
14
 
