Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5507 
Operation Name 
PL Third Programmatic Development Policy Loan (DPL3) 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
General education (20%); Health (20%); General finance sector 
(20%); General public administration (20%); Other social services 
(20%). 
Project ID 
P117666 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF POLAND 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
February 23, 2009 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
March 2, 2010 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
April 20, 2010 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Poland has shown remarkable resilience to the global financial crisis.
 In the decade leading up to the 
crisis,
 Poland’s increasing integration with Europe had brought about strong economic expansion and 
rapid convergence to European Union (EU) income levels.  As the crisis broke out, this integration made 
Poland vulnerable to the collapse in regional capital, trade, and labor flows.  Poland’s companies, 
workers, and households have so far weathered well the impact of the global financial crisis.  The good 
performance reflects, among other factors, a diversified and flexible economy, fairly strong 
macroeconomic balances going into the crisis, and a timely policy response of the Polish authorities 
during the crisis.   
While Poland has withstood the global financial crisis better than other countries in the region, it 
faces stark social and economic challenges.
 The short-term recovery remains fragile, with significant 
risks for businesses and families, and the medium-term growth and convergence prospects uncertain.  
Like other countries in Europe, Poland faces the challenge of advancing economic reforms needed to 
stay competitive in a world of reduced capital flows and discriminating financial markets.  It needs to 
bring about medium-term fiscal consolidation while safeguarding crucial social and infrastructure 
programs.   
The PL series is central to the Bank’s 2009-13 Country Partnership Strategy (CPS).
 
The 
overarchi
ng goal of the CPS is to support Poland’s convergence towards EU living standards, and is 
based on four pillars: (i) Growth and Competitiveness; (ii) Public Sector Reform; (iii) Social and Spatial 
Inclusion; and (iv) Regional and Global Public Goods. Reforms of public financial management, private 
sector development, labor markets and social sectors are key elements of the first three pillars of the 
CPS. 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
This is the third policy loan (PL3) in a program of three lending operations supporting 
Poland’s 
goal of convergence with EU living standards.
 
PL3 will continue to support Government reforms in 
the sectors of public financial management, labor markets, pensions, private sector development, 
Page  2
education, health, and social assistance.  The measures supported by PL3 are critical for achieving the 
three main objectives of the PL series: 
·
mitigating the social cost of the economic slowdown; 
·
strengthening public finance; and 
·
pursuing structural reforms. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
Following the s
econd policy loan, PL3 continues to support the Government’s successful policy 
response to the economic slowdown.
 PL3 will continue to support Government measures to mitigate 
the impact of the global crisis on households, workers and businesses.  With the recovery gaining speed, 
it also supports Government efforts to unwind the extraordinary anti-crisis policies and step up reforms 
to reinforce Poland’s convergence towards EU living standards.  
 
4. Environmental 
Aspects 
The proposed policy lending operation does not support any reforms with anticipated direct 
environmental impacts.
 
The Bank team is verifying with the authorities whether any unintended, 
indirect risks of negative impact to the environment and natural resources will be adequately mitigated 
by Poland’s existing safeguards as a member of the EU. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1350 
Total 1350 
 
6. Contact point 
 
Contact: Kaspar Richter 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: 48-22-520-8072 
Fax: 48-22-520-8001 
Email: krichter@worldbank.org 
Location: Warsaw, Poland (IBRD) 
 
