                                                                                  55894
INTERN AT10NAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
THE INSPECTION PANEL                                  1818 H Street, N.W.      Telephone: (202) 458-5200
                                                      Washington, D.C. 20433   Fax: (202) 522-0916
                                                      U.S.A.                   Email: ipanel@worldbank.org


     Roberto Lenton
     Chairperson



                                                                      IPN REQUEST RQ 10/06

                                                                                    July 23, 2010




       MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND ALTERNATES 

           OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK OF RECONSTRUCTION 

                         AND DEVELOPMENT 



       POLAND: Third Employment, Entrepreneurship and Human Capital Development
                        Policy Loan (IBRD Loan No. 7949-PL)




            Please find attached the Inspection Panel's memorandum entitled "POLAND: Third
     Employment, Entrepreneurship and Human Capital Development Policy Loan (IBRD Loan
     No. 7949-PL) - Notice ofReceipt ofa Request for Inspection and Decision Not to Register
     the Request" dated July 23, 2010.
INTERNA TIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNA TIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
THE INSPECTION PANEL                           1818 H Street, N,W,               Telephone: (202) 458-5200
                                                        Washington, D,C, 20433   Fax: (202) 522-0916
                                                                                 Email: ipane\@wor\dbank,org


Roberto Lenton
Chairperson


                                                                       IPN REQUEST RQ 10/06

                                                                                     July 23,2010




                 MEMORANDUM TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE
     THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT


                                   Re: Request for Inspection 

      POLAND: Third Employment, Entrepreneurship and Human Capital Development' 

                             Policy Loan (IBRD Loan No. 7949-PL) 

     Notice of Receipt of a Request for Inspection and Decision Not to Register the Request 



           Please find attached a copy of the Inspection Panel's memorandum entitled "POLAND: Third
    Employment, Entrepreneurship and Human Capital Development Policy Loan (IBRD Loan No.
    7949-PL) - Notice ofReceipt ofa Request for Inspection and Decision Not to Register the Request"
    dated July 23,2010.




      Enclosure



      cc:  The Executive Directors and Alternates
           International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
THE INSPECTION PANEL                         1818 H Street, N.W.                               Telephone: (202) 458-5200
                                                                     Washington, D.C. 20433    Fax: (202) 522-0916
                                                                                               Email: ipanel@worldbank.org



Roberto Lenton
Chairperson

                                                                                        IPN REQUEST RQ 10/06

                                                                                                       July 23, 2010




                   MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS OF THE
              INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT


                                          Request for Inspection 

          POLAND: Third Employment, Entrepreneurship and Human Capital Development 

                                  Policy Loan (IBRD Loan No. 7949-PL) 

          Notice of Receipt of a Request for Inspection and Decision Not to Register the Request 



               In accordance with paragraph 17 of IBRD and IDA Resolutions that established the
        Inspection Panel (the "Resolution"), I hereby inform you that on June 14, 201 0, the
        Inspection Panel (the "Panel") received a Request for Inspection (the "Request") related to
        the above-referenced operation.

                The Request for Inspection, dated June 8, 2010, was submitted by Dr. Irena Mausner
        and Mrs. Magda Acher as survivors of the holocaust and filing the Request on their own
        behalf and on behalf of the extended Fryman, Mirski, Mausner and Acher families.

                The Requesters state that their property at Chocimska 6 Warsaw, Poland, was
        expropriated in the 1970s without the payment of any compensation. They further claim that
        this property is likely to be "privatized" by the Polish Government with the active support of
        the World Bank through this operation. I The Requesters further state that they owned
        extensive tracts of agricultural land in Silesia and that land was also expropriated without
        payment of compensation. They claim that Polish Government refused to discuss either claim
        with them.

               The Requesters add that because only a two-page Public Information Document was
        available to them concerning this Loan, they endeavored, through their solicitor, to meet with
        Bank staff responsible for policy loans to Poland. They state that their requests for a meeting

1 The Requesters also state that their family home is now managed by a state-owned enterprise known as "DipServe"
that leased the property to the Dutch Government and used it as the Royal Netherlands Embassy.
        and information concerning the Bank's support to the privatization program of Poland were
        rejected.

                 The Requesters state that they are not complaining about the Polish Government's
        expropriation of the property in the 1970s but rather about what they believe to be the Bank's
        decision in 20 10 to provide significant funding and technical assistance to the Polish
        Government to privatize properties without even having checked the provenance of such
        properties. They add that it is this omission on the part of the Bank which is likely to have a
        material adverse effect on them, thereby making it more difficult for them to obtain
        restitution or compensation. The Requesters claim that the Bank failed to comply with its OP
        7.40 (Disputes over Defaults on External Debt, Expropriation, and Breach of Contract).

               Accordingly, they requested that the Panel recommend to the World Bank's Board of
        Executive Directors an investigation over the issues raised in this Request.

               The Panel reviewed the Request and the Program Document for the Loan, which was
        made public shortly after Board approval of the Loan on June 17, 2010. On July 9, 2010, the
        Panel met with Management to inquire about certain aspects of the operation, including to
        seek more information on activities supported by the operation.

                 On July 14, 2010, Management provided a note to the Panel with information
        concerning the activities supported under the operation. According to Management, the
        operation has impacts on six different areas of policy: labor markets, social assistance
        (pensions), public finance, health, education, and private sector development. Management
        further stated that the operation does not support any privatization with respect to individual
        companies or even the broader policy of privatization, and that the areas of policy supported
        do not involve the sale of any assets that are the subject of this dispute. Management added
        that, in this light, there is no nexus between this operation and the particular concerns raised
        in the Request.

                Management provided additional information regarding their understanding of OP
        7.40 (Disputes over Defaults on External Debt, Expropriation, and Breach of Contract) in
        relation to this situation, and past correspondence with the Requesters. Management stated
        while, in their view OP 7.40 does not apply in the present situation, they would be prepared
        to write to the Government of Poland informing them that the dispute was brought to the
        Bank's attention and expressing the hope that such disputes be resolved between the parties
        concerned, without passing any judgment on the merits.

                The Panel has reviewed the Program Document and other related information,
        including the information provided by Bank Management. The Panel Chairperson determines
        that there is no nexus between the Bank-financed operation and the claims concerning
        privatization in the Request for Inspection to the Panel. According to the Resolution
        establishing the Panel, the Panel shall not hear "complaints with respect to actions which are
        the responsibility ofother parties, such as a borrower, or potential borrower, and which do
        not involve any action or omission on the part of the Bank" 2 The Panel further wishes to

2 Paragraph 14(a), International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) Resolution 93-10, dated
September 22, 1993 (Hthe 1993 Resolution"). In addition, according to Paragraph 22 of the Inspection Panel

                                                        2

        note Management's willingness to write to the Government of Poland informing them that
        this dispute was brought to its attention and to express the hope that such disputes be
        resolved between the parties concerned, without expressing any view on the merits.

                In this light, and with the above explanations, the Panel Chairperson has determined
        that this Request should not be Registered. The Panel will inform the Requesters both of this
        decision of non-Registration and of the action proposed by Bank Management in relation to
        the concerns raised in their Request.




                                                       Roberto Lenton 

                                                        Chairperson 





         Enclosure: 

         Copy of the Request for Inspection 





         cc:     Messrs.lMmes. Andersen (SDNVP), Indrawati (MDI), Okonjo-Iweala (MDO), Le
                 Houerou (ECA VP), Harrold (ECCU5), Di Leva (LEGEN), Lintner (OPCQC)




Operating Procedures, 1994, the Panel Chairperson will not register a Request which is without doubt manifestly
outside the Panel's mandate.

                                                         3
    
                                                                                  .    1'!~1   I q AM II: 53


                                     Dr Irena Mausner                                 :.:::PECTIO:,J PANEL

                                     Mrs Magda Acher

                                  UI Maklakiewicza 11/85
i

                                      02642 Warszawa
                                          Poland
    
    
                                                                                          8 June 2010


!   
         Executive Secretary 


         Inspection Panel 



         The World Bank 




',
;..
j   .
          1818 H Street 

          NW Washington 20433 

          USA 




I''..     Dear Sirs
                                                BY FAX ON 001 202-522-0916 AND BY POST




':...
I




'I.
j
!




1
          RE:    THIRD PROGRAMMATIC DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN P117666
                 REQUEST FOR INSPEC"rlON/POLAND



i       1. INTRODUCTION
          We, Dr Irena Mausner (aged 75) and Mrs Magda Acher (aged 80) are survivors of the
!.        Warsaw Ghetto and the holocaust and file this Request for Inspection on our own behalf
!.        and on behalf of the extended Fryman Mirski and Mausner families and on behalf of the
          Acher family. Our property in Poland is likely to be Qprivatized" shortly by the Polish
I
         Government with the active support and encouragement of the World Bank even though



':..
I
          our property has been expropriated without the payment of any compensation. The
          World Bank has admitted that it has neither investigated the provenance of the
          properties it is actively encouraging the Polish Government to privatize nor is it intending
          to do so.




 '
I..
I



I

  
i
i
  .
 '


   2. PRIVATISATION IN POLAND

           2.1 We are concerned by the World Bank's failure to comply with its own policies

               in respect of the privatization component of the "Third Programmatic
                Development Policy Loan for Poland" (hereinafter referred to as 텾L3") and I

               or by the Polish Government's refusal to consult with us in our capacity as
                stakeholders. In this respect we also refer to the Country Partnership

               Strategy (2009~13) for Poland - Report No 48666~PL ("CPS") which sets out
                the World Bank's programme for Poland over the course of the next several

               years. We have suffered and are likely to suffer harm as a result of various
                omissions on the part of the Wortd Bank in planning and implementing PL3

               and in particular in respect of the World Bank's failure to ascertain the
                provenance of the assets the World Bank is encouraging the Government of

               Poland to privatize pursuant to PL3.


           2.2 We understand that PL3 is due to be considered by the Board of the World
                Bank on Thursday 17th June 2010. We should therefore be grateful if the

               Panel would be kind enough to give this Request its urgent attention.


           2.3 In addition the Wortd Bank's failure to improve communications between


               ourselves and the Government of Poland has meant that it has become or is
                likely to become even more difficult for us to secure a resolution of our


               dispute with the Government of Poland.




            2.4 We understand that PL3 will continue to support the Polish Governmenfs
                programme to privatise "enterprises and property" which was also

               supported by the First and Second Development Policy Loans. This has been
                confirmed by Mr Peter Harrold Director for Central Europe at the World Bank.

               On 19 March 2010 Mr Harrold wrote to our solicitor and informed him as
                follows:

                    tiThe World Sank's Development Policy Loan series

                    supports the Government of Poland's privatization project
                     as a whole, but the World Sank has had no Involvement in

                    the privatization of any specific enterpriSes or properties",


           2.5 The CPS for Poland covers the period 2009 to 2013 and makes various
                references to the privatization programme in Poland. For example the CPS

               states at paragraph 56 as follows: ~


                      "The Sank has played, and can continue to play, an
                       Important role in supporting the environment for private

                      sector development,.. In addition to technical assistance
                       and ESW the Sank is supporting the broader private

                      sector development agenda including privatization,
                       through its programmatic DLP. II



                                               2




     
     
     
        3. HARM SUFFERED OR blKELY TO QE SUFFERED QY US


             3.1 We have suffered, and are likely to suffer harm as a result of the World
                  Bank's failures or omissions in properly appraising and supervising PL3. The

                 World Bank's failure to comply with its own policies has had or threatens to
                  have a material adverse effect on us in that no enquiries have been carried

                 out by the World Bank to investigate the provenance of the property the
                  World Bank is encouraging the Government of Poland to privatize. We refer,

     
''..
                  in particular, to the World Bank's duty to properly appraise projects before
                  funds are granted and to Mr Peter Harrold's letter dated 12 April 2010 in
                  which he states
1
                         "With regard to your question on the provenance of the
i                        properties to be privatized, this is entirely in the purview

                        of the Polish authorities and Polish law".


             3.2 Our family home at Chocimska 6 Warsaw is now a state owned public


 
                  enterprise having been taken unlawfully from us (without the payment of
                  compensation) and transferred to a Polish Government entity known as


 
                  "DipServe". Interestingly it would appear that the privatization programme
                  extends to "properties" as well as public enterprises (see Mr Harrold's


                 enclosed letter dated 19 March 2010). Until recently our home was leased by
                  DipServe to the Dutch Government who used our home as the Royal


                 Netherlands Embassy. We also owned extensiVe tracts of agricultural land in
                  Silesia which land has been expropriated frem us without the payment of


                 compensation. The Polish Government refuses to discuss either claim with
                  us.

             3.3 The World Bank's failure to investigate the provenance of the properties to be

 
.1
                  privatized will or is likely to have a material adverse effect on us and our

:.
~
                  families in that it is likely that our property will be sold as part of the
                  privatization programme supported by PL3.

:.
i
              3.4 For the avoidance of doubt our complaint relates to the fact that the World



'.
I

!.
i
                  Bank's aforementioned omissions when appraising PL3 are likely to make it
                  almost impossible for us to obtain restitution of our property and/or to obtain
                  compensation from the Polish Government in the event that our properties
                  are included in the bundle of properties to be privatized with the active
                  support of the World Bank. We are not complaining in this Request about the

                 Polish Government's expropriation of our property in the 1970's but rather we
                  are complaining about the World Bank's decision in 2010 to provide

 
I



'.
                  significant funding and technical assistance to the Polish Government to sell
l                 privatized properties without even having checked the provenance of the
                  properties to be privatised. It is this omission on the part of the World Bank
1                 which is likely to have a material adverse effect on us thereby making it more

                 difficult for us to obtain restitution or compensation.



:.
I
'.
 i                                                 3




     



   4. THE WORLD BANK'S REFUSAL TO DISCLOSE INFORMATION


           4.1 The Wor1d Bank is refusing to disclose information relating to PL3 to us and

               the Polish Government has failed to consult with us in our capacity as
                stakeholders. Our solicitor has written to the management of the Wond Bank

               in Washington DC on several occasions (see enclosed correspondence). He
                has received no substantive response to his enquiries. As is apparent from

               the enclosures to this letter although our solicitor originally made enquiries
                regarding the Second Programmatic Development Policy Loan in April 2009



                the World Bank's management deliberately delayed its response to those
                enquiries notwithstanding numerous "chasingW letters until after the Policy
                Loan had been disbursed thereby preventing us from raising the issues



                referred to in this Request with the Inspection Panel insofar as the Second
                Development Policy Loan was concerned.



           4.2 Mr Harold's comments in his letter dated 19 March 2010 are surprising
                bearing in mind that one of the stated purposes of the three Polle;' Loans is to



                support the Government of Poland's privatization programme. It is apparent
                from the documentation available on the World Bank's website that the

               Second Programmatic Policy Loan stipulated that the Government of Poland
                should offer for sale the "first 80 public sector enterprises in the


               privatization programme". It is stated elsewhere in the Report that the
                privatization programme supported by the three policy loans encompasses


               the sale of 740 state owned enterprises in total. There are also numerous
                documents on the Wor1d Bank's website evidencing the fact that the World

               Bank is providing technical assistance to the Government of Poland in
                respect of its privatization programme. The penultimate paragraph of Mr

               Harold's enclosed letter dated 12 April 2010 is therefore perplexing.


   5. THE WORLD BANK'S REFUSAL TO MEET

           5.1 There is a paucity of available information insofar as PL3 is concerned. This

               is surprising bearing in mind the very significant amount of money to be
                disbursed (in excess of US$1.33 billion). The only publicly available

               document is a 2 page Public Information Document. For this reason we have
                through our solicitor endeavoured to meet with the individuals responsible at

               the Wor1d Bank for the Policy Loans to Poland. Our requests for a meeting
                have been rejected as have our requests for information about the World

               Bank's involvement in the privatization programme. Our solicitor attended in
                Washington DC in October 2009 and in May 2010 with the specific intention

               of meeting with the individuals at the World Bank responsible for the
                Development Policy Loan Series but as is apparent from the enclosed

               correspondence (17 February 2010, 17 March 2010, 19 March 2010, 23
                March 2010 and 5 May 2010) on both occasions somewhat surprisingly

               World Bank staff refused to meet with our solicitor.




                                                 4





    
    
                5.2 We believe that the World Bank has violated the principle of partnership
                     which the World Bank is supposed to adopt when dealing with members of

                    the public. There has also been a violation of the principle of transparency
                     and disclosure of information.

                5.3 By turning a blind eye to the problems we have identified and by continuing to

                    disburse funds the World Bank has caused and is likely to cause us harm.
                     The Polish Government refuses to discuss our claims with us as it knows the

                    World Bank is unconcerned by this issue which issue incidentally affects
                     thousands of claimants as a result of the nationalization of citizens' property

                    by the former Communist Government of Poland.


                5.4 We have also attempted to discuss our concerns with representatives of the
                     Polish Government in accordance with OP 8.60 which requires the

                    Government of Poland to consult with us as stakeholders. Our attempts to do
                     so have been rebuffed. We have notified the World Bank of the Polish

                    Government's refusal to discuss those issues.


                5.5 We submit that the World Bank is failing to be transparent in its dealings with
                     the public insofar as its strategy concerning privatization pursuant to PL3 in

    
''..
                     Poland is concerned.


I
         6.  THE POLICIES BREACHED BY THE WORLD BANK


                6.1 We submit that the World Bank has failed to comply with the following


                    poliCies and procedures in connection with the Development Policy Loans
                     and PL3 in particular:4




   
I
 ':..                OMS 2.20

                      OP 4.12
                                                      Project Appraisal

                                                       Involuntary resettlement




':..
                      OP 8.60                        Development Policy Lending

                      OPIBP 10,00                     Investment Lending
j

~.                     OPIBP 13.05                   Project Supervision
l
                      World Bank's Policy on Disclosure of Information dated June 2002
!
   
j

I''..                 World Bank's Guidelines on the Treatment of Foreign Direct Investment


                 6.2 For example OMS  2.20 (Project Appraisal) requires the World Bank to



 '. 
                     ascertain whether any properties to be privatized have been taken from their
                     former owners without compensation having been paid. The World Bank has
                     not complied with its own policy in this regard. Our rights have been and are


                                                      5

    
    
    


           likely to be directly affected by the World Bank's actions and omissions. If our
            property is sold as part of the privatization programme it will be far more

           difficult for us to seek restitution and/or compensation.



   7. OP 7.401 EXPROPRIATION


        7.1 In addition to and without prejudice to the matters set out above the World
             Bank is also in breach of OP 7.40. It has not a) facilitated c9mmunications

            between ourselves and the Polish Government as is required and b) it has



             not encouraged the Polish Government to submit the dispute between
             ourselves and the Government of Poland to either mediation or arbitration.


        7.2 We should add that we are US and French nationals respectively. We were
             foreign nationals at a/l relevant times. For the avoidance of doubt when the

            properties referred to above were expropriated we were the owners of the
             properties. Accordingly OP 7.40 clearly applies to our predicament as we

            were not Polish nationals when our property was taken from us. The World


            Bank has for reasons that we do not understand stated on several occasions
             that we cannot rely on OP 7.40 (see for example the World Bank's enclosed


            letter dated 6 January 2010) because according to the World Bank we had
             Polish nationality at the time the property was expropriated from us. This is




             not the case. Our solicitor has advised the World Bank that we are and were
             foreign nationals at all relevant times. The World Bank has consistently
             ignored this fact and refused to apply the clear and unambiguous wording
             contained in OP 7.40. We also wish to complain about the World Bank's


            unreasonableness and capriciousness in making such assertions about our
             status without ever having asked us for any clarification or supporting

            documentation. The World Bank has been, at all times, intent on giving itself
             the benefit of the doubt so as to be able to try and circumvent the

            requirements OP 7.40.



        7.3 We enclose congressional correspondence sent last year to Prime Minister
             Donald Tusk on behalf of ourselves and thousands of other dispossessed

            foreign nationals. We also enclose Concurrent Resolution 371 of the US
             House of Congress which calls upon the Polish Government to resolve all

            outstanding compensation issues. The Polish Government's refusal to pay
             compensation, submit our dispute to arbitration or even to djscuss our dispute

            constitutes a breach of public international law, the World Bank's policy on
             expropriation and the World Bank's Guidelines on the Treatment of Foreign

            Direct Investment.


        7.4 As a result of the World Bank's actions and/or omissions our rights and
             interests have been and are likely to be directly affected. The World Bank has

            continued to disburse loans notwithstanding the Polish Government's failure
             to compensate foreign investors in breach of the World Bank's policy.

        7.5 The World Bank's failure pursuant to. Operational Policy 7.40 to seek to

            improve communications between ourselves and the Government of Poland
             has materially affected our rights and in particular our ability to negotiate a

                                             6




    
'.               compromise of our claim. Our losses are likely to be directly attributable to
                  the World Bank's actions. By approving and implementing 톞his series of

                 Policy Loans the World Bank has indicated to the Government of Poland that
                  expropriatory acts of this kind (accompanied by a refusal to discuss the same

                 with the claimants) will not trigger the actions and sanctions stipulated by
                  both international law and the World Bank's own pOlicies. It Is of particular

                 concern to us that the World Bank is actually assisting the Government
                  of Poland to sell the expropriated property. OP 7.40 requires the World

                 Bank to encourage the parties to settle disputes of this type and it also
                  requires the World Bank to facilitate communications between the parties. It

                 is clear from the congressional correspondence and the Concurrent
                  Resolution that Poland's international credit standing has been damaged as a

                 result of its unlawful actions.


              7.6 Had the World Bank followed its own policies and procedures the World Bank
                   is required to: 

    
    
                  7.6.1  Suspend the disbursement of any further financial resources in
                         relation to the Policy Loans


                 7.6.2  Generally consider whether to continue lending to projects in Poland


    
'.
f
                   7.6.3   Investigate the provenance of the property it has asked the Polish
                           Government to privatise

                   7.6.4  Seek to improve communications between ourselves and the
                          Government of Poland


 
'.                7.6.5  Promote a prompt and adequate settlement of our dispute through
                          mediation or arbitration




       The World Bank has failed to take any of these steps.


       Accordingly we request that the Inspection Panel recommend that the World Bank's

 
'.
        Board of Executive Directors authorise an investigation of the issues raised in this



I.
        Request.

1
        Due to our age and for personal health reasons all correspondence should be sent to us

!.
I       clo Suttons Solicitors at the address set out below and marked for the attention of Dr
        Mausner and Mrs Acher.


 
I




    
'.
j




                                                  7

    
    
    





   We look forward to hearing from you.



   Yours faithfully,





   DR IRENE MAVSNER AND MRS MARGARET ACHER




   clo Mr Stephen 0 Sutton


   23 Bentinck Street
     London


   W1U 2EZ



   Tel: 44 207 935 5279
     Fax: 44 207 486 4426








   " . . . . . . . . . . . . II . . . . . . . . . . . . . . II " ' 11_"     II . . . . . . . . . II , . . . . . . . . . . .. 






   Sigr.~d                 by Dr Ireno M!!usn&r






































    VIle !I)oi( f':l!'Y!ard to hearing from you

    Yours fajthfully                               I






     OR IRENE fM.USNER AND MRS MARGARET ACHEF



    c/o Mr Stephen 0 Sutton


    23 Bentinck Street
     London


    W1U 2EZ



    Tel: 44 207 9355279 

     Fax: 44 207 486 4426 




'.

'.

     ,,,"~,,     ,,         '   f f f . . .      . . . ~ ....  . . . . ~,, ....    ....  


     Signed by 0 Irene Mausner





    . , . . . . . I . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . .  ....



     Signed by Mrs Margaret Achet
                                                                                        f   렁   * ................ ~ 렁렁 















       THIRD PROGRAMMATIC DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN P117666


       ENCLOSURES TO REQUEST FOR INSPECTION DATED 8 JUNE 2010



    1.  Our solicitor's letter dated 7 October 2009 addressed to Sereen Juma Acting

        Director at the World Bank;


    2.  Letter from Theodore O.Ahlers, Acting Director for Central Europe and the



         Baltic Countries, to Suttons Solicitors dated 15 October 2009;



    3.  Our solicitor's letter dated 21 October 2009 addressed to Theodore O.Ahlers
         Acting Director for Central Europe and the Baltic Countries along with an

        enclosure entitled 'Property Restitution in Central and Eastern Europe' as
         prepared by the Bureau of European and Eurasian Affairs, Washington DC

        dated 3 October 2007


    4. Letter from Theodore O. Ahlers dated 6 January 2010;


    5.  Our solicitor's letter dated 15 January 2010 addressed to Theodore O.Ahlers
         Acting Director for Central Europe and the Baltic Countries;

    6. Letter from Peter Harrold Director for Central Europe and the Baltic Countries,

       to Suttons Solicitors dated 16 February 2010;


    7. Our solicitor's response to Peter Harrold dated 17 February 2010;


    8. Our solicitor's letter to Peter Harrold dated 17 March 2010;


    9. Peter Harrold's letter of 19 March 2010;

    10. Our solicitor's letter to Peter Harrold dated 23 March 2010;

    11. Peter Harrold's letter of 12 April 2010;

    12. Our solicitor's letter to Peter Harrold dated 5 May 2010;

    13. Congressional correspondence addressed to Prime Minister Donald Tusk;

    14. Concurrent Resolution 371 of the US House of Congress.












                                                           I.J U        1.    1. U        1"J    i:)

                                            - - - - - - - ' 5 0 Ll CIT 0 R S : ; - - - - - - 


       STEPHEN D. SUITON                                                                                        23 BENTINCK STREET


       COllsult.aIlU:
                                                                                                                 LONDON WlU 2EZ



    
                                                                                                                 TELEPHONE: 020 7935 5279
        CAROLINE D. GRACE                                                                                        International: +44 20 7935 5279
        BRIAN B. HARRIS


    
        HOWARD SALTER
                                                                                                                 FAX: 020 7486 44Z6
                                                                                                                 International: +44 20 7486 44Z6


                        5JAJS/M015

    
        OUK REF
        YOURREl'



    
                Ms Sereen Juma . 

                 Acting Director 



    
                 Central Europe and the Baltic Countries 

                 Europe & Central Asia Region 

                 The World Bank

    
'.
                 1818 H Street, NW
                 Washington, DC 20433
                 USA


                                                                                                      1 (202) 622-2666 AND POST



                Dear Ms Juma,



                RE:       DR IRENE MAUSNER I GOVERNMENT OF PO


                Thank you for your letter of     ne 2009. Please find enclo                            py letter from Congressman


    
                 Robert Wexler and othe      ated 7                                                (ish Prime Minister.



  .
':.
,
,
                                                    ,ck1Jnlt'8 to th
                                                      d. I u
                                                                      letter the problems being experienced by my client Dr
                                                                  rsta d that the World Bank's Board of Executive Directors




                Further I note that the new Po .         includes support for the Polish Govemment's ongoing
                    v . tion programme. Has the World Bank investigated whether any of the property to be

  
'.
                 privatis (or already privatised pursuant to the previous Policy Loan) includes property that has
                 DBerNXmfiscated?

                           ...-'....n~hearing   from you.




'
!

  .              cc:       Mr Michel Mordasinl, Executive Director, World Bank

  
 >.
'.                                              This firm is regUlated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority



    
    
                                                                - ...... '" .1.,                               U



               STEPHEN D. SU'ITON
                                                       ~---s 0 11 C ITO R Ss----





'~
                C 렁 ~llll"nh:

                CAROLINE D. GRACE
                                                                                                                                       23 BENTINCK STREET
                                                                                                                                       LONDON WlU 2EZ

                                                                                                                                       TELEPHONE: 020 19l5 5219
                                                                                                                                       Intt'm.ltional: +C4 20 1935 5219

 
                BRIAN B. HARRIS
                HOWARD SALTER
                                                                                                                                       FAX: 020 7486 M2.6
                                                                                                                                       Intem.ltiorul: +44 20 1486 4U6

                                                                                                                                                 '\


 
                                                                                                                                                   i
                OUR REf                                                                                                                                \

                VOUilREF
                                     5/AJSIM015


                        Ms Sereen Juma


                        Acting Director
                         Central Europe and the Baltic Countries


 
                         Europe & Central Asia Region
                         The World Bank
                         1818 H Street, NW

                        Washington, DC 20433
                         USA                                                         ./'   . -......... ,.,


                                                                       . /}N,~~. O,\~1 (202, 5222566 AND POST

 
                      Dear Ms Juma, 


                         RE:         POLAND I POLICY LOAN P116125
                                                                        "'.
                                                                              \,
                                                                                     \
                                                                                         \,;
                                                                                              ./
                                                                                                      "

                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                        '.
                                                                                                                        J




  
\




'.
                                                                                '\                            ,./

,
,                        I refer to my letter dated 24 June 2009. a further ~ of                        ~.' is
                                                                                                         ich                      enclosed for your ease of
                         reference. I do not appear to have received a reply to
                                           .
                                                                                 mv\nclos
                                                                                     ,                                       letter.
                                                                                                   '.



                        In any event I will be att . . Washington DC next week.. an9"wondered if you hac! any time




i.
                         available for a meeting t discuss    matters raised by me Wmy previous correspondence. In


  
I                        particular I wish to d'    the Bank's econd Programmatic Policy Loan (P116125) to Poland
                         which I understand wa I appr~u the Board on 30 June 2009.
                                                      r.. . .
                                                          'V    ,


                         I am particularly         ed ~~nt~properly is about to be privatlsed with funding and
                         technical assistance fr   the         be.,ng mind that my clients' property was taken from them

  
 렁
                         by the GOvemment of
                         numerous requests the P .
                                                   nd          'I e lanatiOn or compensatiOn being provided. In spite of
                                                        MI' er of oland refuses to meet with representatives of my



    1.
                         clients to discuss the         ioned iss~ and the Government is also refusing to compensate
                         thousands of individuals whose ~s been conflSC8ted,
    I




                       ~
                             Ieaae    'Id you let me know whether you will be available for a meeting on Wednesday 14




    i.  
        
                   ( o;;i
                   \     I

                       \Y~~IY)
                                     at 9am?

                                 ~~{'e~Uing from you.


                         ~EJJ,.P.StJ'TTON
                                                                                                                                        .




        
        
        
         
        '.
        j




         
        !.

        '.
        I
            I
                              . .,___ ,.~ ..""'" 'IV" ,.... IJ lit: VllOPME NT         Washington, 0 C 20433        Cable Address INTBAFRAO



      INTERHATIONAl DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                                            USA                          Cable Address. INDEVAS


                                                                                                        October IS, 2009

                 Stephen lJ Sutton
                  Suttons Solicitors

                 23 Benlinek Street
                  London WI U 2EZ

                 Fax: +44 20 7486 4426


                 Dear Mr. Sutton,

                 Thank you for your letter of October 7. 2009 addressed to the Acting. Country Director for the

                 Central Europe and the Dallies.


                In response to your query aboutlhe Second Progammatic Policy Loan to Poland, please note in
                 accordance with applicable policies, the Bank may take a position on disputes over expropriations

                by a state to which the Bank has been providing lending only when:


                      (i)           such expropriations involve the property of aliens (which excludes cases of
                                     expropriation of assets held by nationals and by individuals who. at the time the

                                    expropriation or nationalization occurred, had the nationality of the expropriating.
                                     state);

                      (ii)          the member countly is not making reasonable efforts to settle; and 



                     (iii)         such expropriations are substantially hanning the country's international credit

                                    standing.


                When there are disputes over expropriations that., in the opinion of the Bank. the member country
                 is not making reasonable efforts to settle and that are substantially hanning the countly's

                international credit standing. the Bank considers whether to continue making new loans to or with
                 the guarantee of tile member countly. Hence, Bank action is discretionary. not mandatory. and is

                premised on clearly identified conditions.



                The case of Dr. Irene Mausner described in your letter does not meet the above-mentioned
                 conditions and therefore. the premise for Bank action is lacking.

                I trust you will find the above infonnation helpful and hope that you will reach a resolution to Or~

                Mausner's case in the near future.



                                                                        ~ /V'-
                                                                                 Sincerely,



 
                                                                     Theodore O. AhJers 

                                                                        Acting Director 



 
                                                             Central Europe and the Baltic Countries 




'.
                                                                Europe and Central Asia Region 


                 cc:                Mr. Michel Mordasini, Executive Director. World Bank


 

 
'.
 

 
                                                           ----:s 0

                                                                      Lie I TO R 8 - - - - - 

        STEPHEN D. SUlTON                                                                                23 BENTlNCK STREET

                                                                                                        LONDON WlU 2EZ


       CAROLINE D. GRACE
        BRIAN B. HARRlS
                                                                                                                               +"
                                                                                                         TELEPHONE: 020 7935 5279
                                                                                                         InternlHolYI: 20 7915 5179


       HOWARD SALTER                                                                                    FAX: 020 7486 4426
                                                                                                         Internalional: +44 20 7486 "26

                            51GNTIM015                                                                         ./
                                                                                                                     '\
                                                                                                                      \,
       OUR REF
        YOUR REf
                                                                                                               ,,

                                                                                                  219~~~~2\09 \.
                                                                                                                           .
                                                                                                                          '.




               Mr Theodore 0, Ahlers
                                                                                                  "..                          \


                Acting Director
                Central Europe and the Baltic Countries
                Europe and Central Asia Region

               The Wor1d Bank
                1818 H Street N.W.


               Washington D.C. 20433
                U.S.A                                                           ~   ..   --
                                                                       BYfo-~:'~~ 522 2666 & POST
                                                                      <-.  ',) ;
               Dear Mr Ahlers.
                                                                          "         V
                                                                                              <
                                                                                              /
               RE: SECOND PROGRAMMATIC POLICY LOAN TO ~D

                                                                                ~"Iowi~) 


              Thank you for your leiter of 15 October 2009. Pleaso note
                                                                                    .... .,,,.

                   (i)         Or Mausner and J;JeHrJsler Mrs Margaret Acher are arid were foreign nationals at aA
                                relevant time~/'         . "


                   (ii)       The Polish GoV8f1P1t'i14_ia
                               her slater
                                                                          to engage in any dialogue With Or Mausner and
                                                         lilltntlt'nlvBllflnr.... The enclosed extract from the US stale


                              Depattment
                               October 200
                                                                                      in Central and Eastern Europe dated 3
                                                                                  track record in this area;

                   (iii)           I also enc:Ioee       of the T        0ecIanIti0n dated 30 June 2009 which was

                                   signed following the       P        COnference along wilh a copy of Resolution 311
                                    passed by the 110" SesSi6ii CI the US House of Congress. The enclosed documents


 
                 /_..- -........... confirm beyond a Wtadow of doubt that the expropriations under discussion are
              /'                 . 'substantialy hanning (Poland's) International credl standing'.

                 nMt~
 
'.
          (     I      Bank to reconlider Its indefensible position regarding the Second Programmatic Policy
          .     ~ to Po1aod1filatst of the contents of this leiter and .. endo5ur...
          \',    \"'\
          ~Iook~~/~                             her
                           --
                                                      from you

               Y~.I1<*8IY. /

 
                             .........../




 
;.
 

 
;.
i
 
 ;.
    



    cc: Congressman Robert Wexler



    cc: Ambassador J Christian Kennedy (Office of Holocaust issues)



    cc: The Claims Conference




    cc: Mr Michel Mordaslnl, Executive Director. World Bank








                                                                      -'-,.
                                                                                ""   ..











                                                               \.
                                                                  I








                            l
                                  ;'






                          !
                          \\,                  \


                                     "
                                           )       )

















I.
i



 
 
l.
I
         property Restitution in Central and
    
        Eastern Europe
        Bureau of European and Eurasian Affairs

        Washington, DC 

         October 3,2007 


        Introduction

        During World War n, the Nazis seized property, real and movable, from organizations and

        individuals which the Nazi regime was persecuting - Jews, members of some Christian
         organizations, Roma, homosexuals, and others. Much of that property in Western Europe was

        returned during the post-war period - under occupation law in areas occupied by the Allies, and
         under the laws of individual countries. This was not generally possible behind the Iron Curtain,


    
         where the newly-established communist governments simply took over property seized ear1ier by
         the Nazis. Those governments also frequently confiscated additional property from their own
    e,   citizens.



        The collapse of communism in 1989-91 made it possible to restitute property in
         the fonner Iron Curtain countries. Many countries enacted legislation to provide

        for the restitution of both private and communal property. (Communal property is
         property previously owned by religious and other organizations. It in'cludes
    
'.      churches, synagogues. community halls, parochial schools, medical facilities.
         etc.)

         The United States has strongly supported efforts to restitute to rightful owners
         property confiscated by the Nazis 1933-45 and by the subsequent communist
렁       governments of Central and Eastem Europe. Positive action on property issues



'.
         was one of the criteria used to judge the progress of countries that aspired to
\.       North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) membership. The European Union
j
         (EU) also recognizes the relevance of property issues in applicant countries .
,
.
         A successful property restitution program is an indicator of the effectiveness of
         the rule of law in a democratic country. Non-discriminatory, effective property
         laws are also of crucial importance to a healthy market economy.

         We recognize that in rem property restitution may not be possible in all cases.
         Payment of compensation is the obvious alternative.




':.. 

         Property restitution is often complicated and controversial. Changing the 

,
,        ownership and use of buildings and land from one partY or purpose to another
         can cause major disruptions that already economically challenged countries can
1
I
 렁      ill afford. There is no single system of property restitution laws and procedures
         that can be applied to all countries. In encouraging restitution. the U.S.
         govemment bears in mind the following considerations:

i
 렁
j


 '.
    
    
                  Restitution laws should govern both communal property owned by
                    religious and community organizations and private property owned by

                   individuals and corporate entities.


                  To document claims, access to archival records, frequently requiring

                   government facilitation, is necessary. Reasonable alternative evidence
                    must be permitted if archives have been destroyed.                                I


                  Uniform enforcement of laws is necessary throughout a country. 



                  The restitution process must pe non-discriminatory. There should be no

                
                    residence or citizenship requirement.

                  Legal procedures should be clear and simple.

   .   ,
                   Privatization programs should include protections for claimants .


                  Govemments need to make provisions for current occupants of restituted



:.
                    property.

                  When restitution of property is not possible, adequate compensation



'.
                    should be paid.
!
                 Restitution should result in clear title to the property, not merely the right to



'.
                  .use the property.
j
                 Communal property should be eligible for restitution or compensation
!.
j
                  without regard to whether it had a religious or secular use. Some limits on
                  large forest or agricultural holdings may be needed.
I.

'.
I

l'
                 Foundations managed joinUy by local communities and international
                  groups may be appropriate to aid in the preparation of claims and to
                  administer restituted property.



';..j            Cemeteries and other religious sites should be protected from desecration
                  or misuse before and during the restitution process.

            The United States has been encouraged with the progress many countries have

           made on this difficult, complex and frequenUy controversial issue. Still. there is a
            great deal of work to be done in this area. Some countries still do not have
           property restitution laws. Others have laws in place but have found it diffICult to
            administer existing laws in a non-discriminatory manner. Achieving passage and
            effective, timely implementation of restitution laws and procedures is both a
            critical Indicator of rule of law in a democratic society and a crucial feature of a
            market economy.
              " ' 'IIIU-즊VO, me ::::;erbian National Assembly adopted the law on Return

             (Restitution) of Property of Churches and Religious Communities. The law calls
              for the creation of a restitution agency to adjudicate claims. 



             Poland


                
                 
                     Government has not yet passed private property legislation.
                     Communal property restitution well advanced, but slowing.

             Private Property



            There is no legislation governing the restitution of private property in Poland. 

              Parliament has made several attempts to enact such legislation and did pass a 


    
        law in early 2001, but President Kwasniewski vetoed it because of its budgetary

             implications. The legislation imposed a citizenship requirement that would have
              made most American citizens ineligible to file a claim. In 2006 the Polish

             government expressed its intention to draft and submit legislation regarding the
              restitution of private property, but the legislation was not enacted prior to the

             dissolution of Parliament for elections in October 2007. Some private property
              claimants have successfully acquired their property through suits in Polish courts.
        
'.
i
              While approximately 500 claims totaling $183 million have been settled in this '
              manner over the past 10 years, the Polish treasury estimates that 56,000
              potential claims valued at approximately $16.7 billion remain outstanding pending



'.
              the establishment of a fonnal claims process. ..

              The Conference on Jewish Material Claims Against Gennany. frequentty known
              as the Claims Conference, held its annual meeting in Warsaw in February 2007
              to press for urgent passage of a private property restitution law with more lenient

  
''..
              filing requirements. The group met with high level officials. including the Prime
,i            Minister. who made his first statement in support of compensation for private
              property stolen by the Nazis and the communist regime. The proposal the prime
              minister backed would provide 15 percent of the current value of property, a
              figure some in the Claims Conference indicated was too low. Action on private

             property restitution legislation now awaits the fonnation of a new government


 '.1
              following the October election.

              In 2006, the U.S. Second Circuit Court of Appeals ruled in the class action suit
              Garb v. Poland that, under the Foreign Sovereign Immunity Act, the Government
              of Poland has immunity against suits filed in U.S. courts to recover property
   
 '
 I..
    .
    "
              seized by the post-World War II communist government.

    i
              Communal Property

              During the 1990's, Poland passed legislation to provide for the restitution of
             property held before the war by Poland's major religious organizations. The

             legislation established five separate commissions, comprised of representatives


  '. 1




          
          
          
                  ot the government and the affected communities, to process the restitution
                 claims. At the end of 2006, approximately 2,959 of the 3,063 claims filed by the

                 Catholic Church had been concluded, with 1,420 claims settled by agreement
                  between the Church and the party in possession of the property (usually the

                 national or a local government); 932 properties returned through decision of the
                . commission on property restitution, which rules on disputed claims; and 632

                 claims rejected by the commission.

                The lutheran Church, for which the filing deadline was 1996, filed claims for

                1,200 properties. Of these, 842 cases were heard, 228 of which were resolved
                 amicably and 136 of which were restored.

    
''..
:
                 A total of 486 claims were filed with the commission by the Orthodox Church, of
                 which 215 have been closed in full or in part.

                Processing of Jewish claims remains active. Thousands of Jewish communal

               properties served Poland's 3.5 million Jews before the Holocaust. The law
                governing the restitution of Jewish communal property went into effect in May

               1991 and provided a May 2002 deadline for restitution applications. Because of
                the large number of properties and the small size of the current Polish Jewish ,
               community, the community sought the assistance of the World Jewish Restitution

               Organization (WJRO). A joint foundation between the Polish Jewish community


'.
I



                and the WJRO, known 'as the Foundation for the Preservation of Jewish Heritage
                in Poland (FPJHP) was established in late 2001. and registered in early 2002.
                The founding agreement provided that the Polish Jewish community would file
                claims in certain geographic areas, and the FPJHP would do so in areas not

               reserved for the Polish community. The Polish community filed nearly 2,000
                applications by the deadline, and the FPJHP filed nearly 3,500 claims. Four

               years after the filing deadline, fewer than 25 percent of the cases had been
                resolved.

 
1.
\               By the end of 2006 the commission had concluded 1,143 cases, of톣hich 316
                were settled amicably and 336 properties were restored. The remaining cases
I

               are still making their way through the system.


I              Many of the properties to be restituted are "heritage properties," primarily
                cemeteries. nle maintenance of these properties represents a potential cost of
 
''..i
                considerable magnitude. The Foundation and the community may sell properties
                not needed by the community in order to meet these expenses.

                Some observers have complained about the slow pace of restitution and the
                reluctance of the government to return valuable properties in some cases. In

               contrast, restitution of Jewish communal properties appears to be progressing


 :.;
                well in cities like Warsaw and lodz where local governments are supportive of
                these efforts. The laws on communal property also do not address instances
                where those properties are now owned by private third parties, leaving several


   .
 'i..
    l

    !


        !
        '




    
            

      controversial cases unsettled. 



       Romania


              Implementation of Law 1012001 (private property) continues at a slow

           
                pace.
                Implementation of Law 50112002 (religious property) and Law 6612004

           
                (communal property) began late, and is proceeding slowly.
                Property fund not yet operational. 



             Greek Catholic Church claims remain unresolved.


       Private Property

       Romania did not pass fonnal property restitution legislation until 2001 for urban


.'
        dwellings (legislation was passed regarding farm and forest lands in 1991 and
        2000, respectively). For the first decade following the fall of the Ceausescu
        regime, a series of court decisions, laws and decrees governed the return of

       property seized during Wortd War II and under communist rule. These decisions, 

        laws and decrees were frequently contradictory and led to considerable 



      confusion. 



       In February 2001, Romania enacted Law 10 to govern private property restitution
        for properties confiscated during the 19451989 period. While this law provides a
       systematic approach to private property restitution, it is complex and places a

       considerable burden on claimants. Initially, the law provided an application period
        of just six months. There was no notification program outside of Romania, so

       potential claimants found it difficult to learn about the application process.


       At the suggestion of the United States, the Romanian government extended the

       deadline, first to November 2001 and then to February 14, 2002. But the



;.

I
        overseas notification program was not implemented until late 2001, making it
        hard for claimants to meet the application deadline. Law 10 does not allow for the
        restitution of agricultural or forested properties, which were covered by laws
        1811991 and 112000. Nor does Law 10 cover the restitution of properties
        belonging to religious communities or minority groups. Article 16 of Law 10.
       which exempted properties used for public purposes (such as hospitals, schools,


1.
       kindergartens, theaters, museum~, and other such institutions) from restitution in
        rem, was amended by Law 247/2005 to allow the restitution of such buildings.
        The rightful owners have the obligation to let public and cultural institutions use
        the buildings as tenants for three years, and health care and educational
       institutions for five years, after the restitution of the buildings. The owners are

       exempted from property taxes during this period and receive rent.


'
:..
I
        Law 10 required that applicants submit claims to municipal authorities through a
        court having jurisdiction over the property in question. This made it difficult for



'.
        applicants who left Romania at an earty age or for heirs to know where to submit
I




    
    
    
       ~unons Solicitors
        23 Bentinck Street

       London WIU 2EZ
        England

       Fax: +44 20 74864426


                                     Re:     Secood Programmatic Policy Loan to Poland 



       Dear Mr. Sutton: 



       We are in receipt ofyour foJlow톟p letter on the above톜eferenced matter dated October 21,2009. 



       We have reviewed your letter and the issue at hand again and the Bank's conclusions remain the 

        same as conveyed to you in my letter ofOctober 15,2009. The case ofOT. Irene Mausner does not 

       meet the conditions that must be present for the Bank to intervene and take a position in the dispute 

        described in your letter. 

                                                          to
       We would like to avail oflbis opportunity reiterate that, in accordance with applicable policies,
        the Bank may take a position on disputes over expropriations by a state to which the Bank has been

       providing lending only when:


              (i)        such expropriations involve the property of aliens (which excludes cases of
                          expropriation of assets held by nationals and by individuals who, at the time the

                         expropriation or nationalimtion occuJ1"ed, had the nationality ofthe expropriating state);


    
'.
               (ii)       the member countly is not making reasonable efforts to settJe; and

               (iii)      such expropriations are substantially hanning the countly's international credit standing.


    
;.
        When there are disputes over expropriations that, in the opinion of the Bank. the member country is
        not making reasonable efforts to settle and that are substantially harming the country's international
i      credit standing. the Bank considers whether to continue making new loans to or with the guarantee
        of the member countly. Hence. Bank action is discretionary. not mandatory, and is premised on
        clearly identified conditions, which are not present h~.

       Since the premise fo~ Bank action is lacking, the Bank has no grounds to reconsider its position

       regarding the alleged dispute.


'.  
        1 wish you every success in resolving your client's case.

                                                                Sincerely.


    
    
'.  
                                                     Theodore O. Ahlers 

                                                       Acting Director 

                                            Central Europe and the Baltic Countries

                                               Europe and ContraI Asia Region


I      cc:           Mr. Michel Mordasini. Executive Director, World Bank


    
'.
                                                  ...... (302) 47J..14J1 " .." (HI) '11-1$U

I
                                                                                                                 TOTA... P.01!




'.
                                                                                                                             r

i
                                    - - - - t i 0 LI eITO RS - - ' - - 

       STEPHEN D. SUlTON                                                                            23 BENTINCK STREET


       Con.ult,nh:
                                                                                                     LONDON W1U 2EZ




                                                                                                     TELEPHONE: 0207935 5279
        CAROUNE D. CRACE 
                                                                           International: +44 207935 5279
        BIUAN B. HAItRIS 




        HOWAIm SALTER                                                                                fAX: 020 7486 26
                                                                                                     Intemation;ll: +44 20 7486 Kl6


                  5/GNT/M015


        OUR REf
        YOURI.EF



         Mr Theodore O. Ahlers

         Acting Director
          Central Europe and the Baltic Countries
         Europe and Central Asia Region

         The Wond Bank
          1818 H Street N.W.

         Washington D.C. 20433
          U.S.A


         Dear Mr Ahlers,




i

                                                               on expropriation. Adopting your numbering


                      Dr Mausner a           her siste Mrs Margaret Acher ~ and were foreign


;.
                       nationals at all rele        . es. If you would like any further information on
               ---..--... L.is issue I would be happy to provide the same;

                     t is well documented that Poland is the only country in Europe that has failed


'.
1
                      to      with claims for compensation follaNing the expropriations by the
                                Communist regime. The US House of Representatives has
                                that Poland 'Is not making reasonable efforts to seWe' these




:.
;.  i
                           documents that I enclosed under cover of my previous letter confirmed
                      beyond a shadow of doubt that the expropriations under discussion Sf!:!
                      'substantially hannlng [Poland's} credit standing'. Resolution 371 of the


:.  I                 110 Session of the US House of Congress (a further copy of which is
                      enclosed for your ease of reference) is an extraordinary document which you
                      appear to have ovenooked.



i.
    ,
렁  l




    j
                                     This firm Is regulated by the SoIiciIon> Regulation AuIhoriCy




렁  !



'. i
            렁 _ ........ ,1\I,;Uurse, a sUDJect of international law and is required to comply with
                                 1.::1, VI




          principles of international law and not just its own intemal policies. International law
            stipulates that where there has been an expropriation there should be 'prompt. adequate


          and effective' compensation. The Bank's policy on expropriation is intended to reflect
            this important principle which should be borne in mind when the Bank exercises its


          discretion.



          Might I respectfully suggest that the Bank, in accordance with its policy on expropriation,


          assist Dr Mausner in communicating with the Polish Government (see paragraph 8 of
            OP 7:40). In addition to 'Improving communications between the                    ies and


          impressing on them the desirability of a settlement' OP 7:40 also re mm nds that
            the Bank promote a settlement through, inter alia, mediation or arbitr tion. For the


          avoidance of doubt Or Mausner would be happy to participate in eith a m iati n or an
            arbitration. To date the Polish Government has rebuffed all eft s               pa of Or

           Mausner to engage in a substantive dialogue.




            When I am next in Washington D.C. I would very much like to meet with yo
            this important issue and the ways in which the Bank could aSSist the parties in achi
            a settlement in accordance with OP 7.40. Please could you let me have details




            availability for a meeting between now and the en     arch 2010.











';...
            I look forward to hearing from you
I




 '
            Yours sincerely,


1           STEPHEN 0 SUTTO



                                                         tor, World Bank




'. 

\




;. 

1




'.
i




'.
'. ;




        
    
                                                                        February 16. 2010

    
     Stephen D. Sutton, Esquire

    
     Suttons Solicitors


    
           23 Bentinck Street
         . London WI U 2EZ

    
'.
           England, UK
           Fax: +44 2074864426



    
                      Re:     Second frogrammatic Policy l&a.n to Poland

    
   Dear Mr. Sutton:

    
   Thank you for your letter of 14 January 2010.

    
        We have carefully reviewed your letter and the issue at hand again and the Bank톝
l

         conclusions remain the same as conveyed to you in our letters of 15 October 2009 and 6

        Janwuy 2010. 



        The Third Programmatic Policy Loan is cunently under preparation. A Project. 

         Infonnation Docwnent should be sent to the InfoShop by the middle of next month. 

    

'.       I wish your client every success in resolving her case.


                                                 Sincerely,



:.
렁

1

~



                                                Peter Harrold 


 
'.
                                                 Director 

1                                 Central Europe and the Baltic Countries 

                                     EW'Ope an~ Central Asia Region 




'.              Mr. Michel Mordasini, Executive Director, World Bank
    
         ct:


    
    
    

    

                                                                                                  TOT~   P.I



    

    

    

         STEl1 HEN D. SUITON                                                 23 BENTINCK STREET





         Consultants:
         CAROUNE D. CRACE
         BRIAN B. HARRIS
                                                                             LONDON WIU 2EZ


                                                                             In~rnationaJ:+"
                                                                             TELEPHONE: 020 7935 5279
                                                                                            20 7935 5279



       HOWARD SALTER                                                        FAX: 020 7486 4426
                                                                              In~mationaJ: + 20 7486 4426




                      51AJSfM015


       OUR REf
         YOUR REF






         Mr Peter Harrold


         Director
           Central Europe and the Baltic Countries


         Europe and Central Asia Region
           The Wor1d Bank


         1818 H Street N.W.
           Washington D.C. 20433


          U.S.A




          Dear Mr Harrold,
                                                                      2) 522-2566 AND BY POST



          RE:




                                                   I if you or one of your colleagues \I\IOUld be


                                                     n , will be in Washington DC. Please could








    ,.                       to hearing from you.









         cc:      Congressman Jerrold Nadler (by email)


                  Mr Michel Mordasini (by email)







 

 

 

 


t
                    STEPHEN D. SUTION

                    Consultants:
                                                                                          23 BENTINCK STREET
                                                                                          LONDON WlU 2EZ


                                                                                                           +"
                                                                                          TELEPHONE: 020 7935 5279


                   CAROUNE D. GRACE
                    BRIAN B. HARRIS
                    HOWARD SALTER
                                                                                          International:
                                                                                          FAX: 020 7486 t426
                                                                                                                20 1935 5279



                                                                                         International: + 20 7486 t426



                   OUR REF    5/AJS/M015



                    YOUR REF





                     Mr Peter Harrold
                      Director

(
.                     Central Europe and the Baltic Countries
                      Europe and Central Asia Region
                      The World Bank


                     1818 H Street N.W.
                      Washington D.C. 20433
                      U.S.A
    
                                                                               02) 522-2566 AND BY POST

        
';I..
                      Dear Mr Harrold.
I
                      RE:                                                       Y LOAN TO POLAND

                      I refer to my previous
I


  :..
    i




  i.
  :.
    i
        '

        I


            j
                      I note that the Third Progra     i     licy Loan for Poland continues to support the
                          ~-r.;ro~mment톝 ongoing privatisation programme. The queries raised in my letters
                                     7 October 2009 (copy enclosed) remain unanswered,




   '.
                        y cr nts wou 'ke to know whether the Wood Bank has investigated the provenance
            \
                      o the rope to         privatised by the Polish Govemment (or of the properly which has
                                   n priv tised pursuant to the previous Policy Loans) and whether that
                                              ts that have been confiscated from their original owners without
                                          clients are concerned that their property (which was expropriated
                      without l"~ARAt'&ation by the Polish Government) will be privati sed with funding and

                     technical assistance from the World Bank.


                    The Prime Minister of Poland refuses to meet with representatives of my clients to
                     discuss the aforementioned issue and the Government of Poland is also refusing to

                    compensate my clients and thousands of other individuals whose properly has been


                
                
                
                
                
                          . ____ ___'I   ,,,W ",,,","II;)I,,Cl''OU Cl;:';:''O';:' al'O U'OIII!:I IJ"YCl\I;:,'OU WIU I   \1 U:; ClI,,\IY'C

      support and encouragement of the World Bank.

      Please could you treat this letter as a formal request for disclosure of information and
      documents relating to the World Bank's involvement in the Polish Government's
      privatisation programme pursuant to the World Bank's policy on disclosure of Information
     dated June 2002 and pursuant to OP/BP 8.60 (Development Policy Lending).


,     It is important that the Bank is transparent and accountable in its development policies
      and it is also important that infonnation is shared by those affected by Bank programmes
      of this type, It is clear that there has been a lack of transparency and a fusal to
      disclose information given the numerous requests that I have now made f cia' lcation
t     regarding the World Bank's involvement in the Polish Governme t's ngoing
      privatisation programme.
t

     r look forward to hearing from you.

     Yours Sincerely


     STEPHEN D SUTTON


     cc:    Congressman Jerrold Nadler (bye

            Mr Michel Mordasini (by email)









 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
    
                                                                            March 19,2010


       Stephen D. Sutton, Esquire
        Suttons Solicitors

       23 Bentinck Street


       London WI U 2EZ
        England, UK

       By fax: +44 20 7486 4426


                           Re:     Third Programmatic Policy Loan to Poland
       Dear Mr. Sutton,
    
       Thank you for your letters of 17 February and 17 March 20 IO. I am travelling among
        client countries throughout March 20 IO.

    
'.
!




!   
        We have no further infonnation to add to the response provided in our letters of 4 June
        2009. IS October 2009, 6 January 2010 and 16 February 2010. In the absence of any
        new infonnation, we would respectfully suggest that there is little value in scheduJing a
        meeting.

       The World Bank's Development Policy Loan series supports the Government of Poland's
        privatization project as a whole, but the World Bank has had no involvement in the
        privatization of any specific enterprises or properties. The program documents relating to
        the first two loans in this Development Policy Loan series are already publicly available



''..
        at www.worldbank.ora. The program document for the third loan in the series will be
I       made publicly available only once it has been approved by the World Bank's Executive
        Board. In the meantime, a summary Public Infonnation Document is publicly available
l       from the World Bank's Infoshop.



                                                 Sincerely.


    
    
                                             Peter Harrold
                                                 Director

                                 Central Europe and the Baltic CO\U1tries
                                     Europe and Centra] Asia Region

    
    
        Attachment: PID


       cc:     Mr. Michel Mordasini. Executive Director, World Bank


                                       I'll-. (101) 47~1 Fax (1011 SU1SU




    
    
    
    
                                              ~     U      J.    J. VI'" ,:::J

                                 - - - - - 5 OLI CITO R S - - - - 

    STEPHEN D. SUITON                                                                               23 BENTINCK STREET
                                                                                                     LONDON WlU 2EZ

    Consultanh:
                                                                                                     TELEPHONE: 0207935 5279


    CAROUNE D. GRACE
     BRlAN B. HARRIS
     HOWARD SALTER
                                                                                                     International: +4120 7935 5279

                                                                                                     FAX: 020 7486 4426

                                                                                                    International: +41 20 7486 4426



    OUR REF
                5/AJS/M015


    YOUR REF




      Mr Peter Harrold 


      Director 

       Central Europe and the Baltic Countries 


      Europe and Central Asia Region 

       The World Bank 


      1818 H Street N.W. 

       Washington D.C. 20433 


      U.S.A



      Dear Mr Harrold,


      RE:      THIRD PROGRAMMATIC DEVELOPMENT POll Y LO                                    TO POLAND




      Whilst indeed your Dep 

       enquiries that I raised i



      privatisation programme 

       letter of 19 March 2010 is             mm




       refers to the issue of privatis 'on in




       In that letter you state that the     k '    had no Involvement In the prlvatisatlon of any
       sfJ8C.        terprlses or properties. With respect the question that I raised in previous
       co sponde         was whether the Bank has investigated the provenance of the property to be

      p vati
          nfi
                      the Polish Govemment and whether that property includes assets that have been
                ted from their owners without compensation. 






      Yours sincerely


      STEPHEN D SUTTON


      cc: Mr Michel Mordasinl (by email)


                                    This firm is regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority






                                                              ____  ",... , .. t     VVct::t:'UllytUII, LI.v.   ~~~~         vClUIt.' I"\UU't:~~,   al'l J Cl"\rf'V'\U





   ". I ... ".'" Ilu"'~L   ut:.VtilOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
                              U.S.A.                                  Cable Address: INDEVAS




                                                                                                                        April 12,2010


                        Stephen D. Sutton, Esquire
                         Suttons Solicitors

                        23 Bentinck Street
                         London WI U 2EZ
                        England, UK

                        By fax: +44 20 74864426


                                                     Re:     Third Programmatic Policy Loan to Poland


                        Dear Mr. Sutton:


                        Thank you for your letters of 17 February, 17 March and 23 March 2010.

                        We have no further infonnation to add to the response provided in our letters of 4 June

                        2009, 15 October 2009, 6 January 2010, 16 February 2010 and 19 March 2010.


                        As previously mentioned, the Bank may take a position on disputes over expropriations by a


                         state to which the Bank has been providing lending only when:


                        1) such expropriations involve the property of aliens (which excludes cases of
                            expropriation of assets held by nationals and by individuals who, at the time the

                           expropriation or nationalization occurred, had the nationality of the expropriating state);



                         2) the member country is not making reasonable efforts to settle; and
                         3) such expropriations are substantially hanning the country's international credit standing.


'.





                         As previously noted, the Bank has detennined that these conditions are not present and
                         therefore has no grounds to reconsider its position regarding the alleged dispute.




'.
                         With regard to your question on the provenance of the properties to be privatized, this is
t                        entirely in the purview of the Polish authorities and Polish law.



                        As there is no new infonnation to convey, I would respectfully suggest that we close this
                        ,correspondence.

                                                              Sincerely,


                                                                                    ,~/~;{
'.
                                                                       Peter Harrold
                                                                           /
                                                                           Director

                                                           Central Europe and the Baltic Countries
                                                               Europe and Central Asia Region


                        cc:          Mr. Michel Mordasini, Executive Director, World Bank



                                                                  Phone(202)473~ Fax (202) 522-2566'




 
 
    

                                                      -    .&.   ...   -   .....   '-'" 


                                                          SOLICITORS



        STEPHEN D. SUlTON                                                                  23 BENTINCK STREET
                                                                                            LONDON WlU2EZ


        Consultanls:
                                                                                            TELEPHONE: 020 7935 5279
                                                                                            International: +44 20 7935 5279

    
         CAROUNE D. GRACE 

         BRIAN B. HARRIS 

         HOWARD SALTER 
                                                                    FAX: 020 7486 4426


                   5/AJS/M015
                                                                                            International: +44 20 7486 4426



        OUR REF



    
         YOUR REF




    
          Mr Peter Harrold 

           Director


          Central Europe and the Baltic Countries



'.  
           Europe and Central Asia Region
           The Wond Bank
           1818 H Street N.W.
           Washington D.C. 20433
           U.S.A

    
    
    
'.
           Dear Mr Harrold,

           RE:      DR IRENE MAU

    
:.
,
I   
           Thank you for your lette




:. 

i
                    ODN'aFtl to hearing from you. 





i.렁 

,
                                   N



    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
                                ",-,UUil'   t뻣 U lor
                                                 l-          ~nllru ~unr



                                             .a~lJil1gton,   1D( 20515


                                                   April 7, 2008

           The Honorable Donald Tusk

           Prime Minister
            Sejm

           Poland


           Dear Prime Minister Tusk:

           AB Members of Congress firmly committed to strong bilateral ties between the United.

           States and Poland, we want to thank you for your recent public commitment to advance
            legislation addressing the issue of private property restitution in Poland.

           We are heartened that your government is leading an effort to ensure that individuals 



          seeking restitution of property seized, stolen or confISCated by the Nazis during the WWII
            and by the subsequent communist governments receive just and proper compensation. 



          The swift introduction and implementation of an equitable and fair property restitution
            law wOuld be a significant demonstration of your government's commitment to address
           outstanding restibltion issues.                                      .

           A just resolution of this issue is of critical importance. Many of the individuals who

           would rece;,ve restitution are in their waning years. Despite numerous assurances in the
            past. claimants have experienced delays and roadblocks in their efforts to obtain

렁          restitution or compensation in Poland. The enactment of com.prehensive property
            restitution legislation would bring closure to one of the most painful chapters of the

           Holocaust - a chapter that should have been brought to an end many years ago.

          As property restibltion legislation advances in your parliament. we urge you to ensure



           that non-citizeDs will be able to submit claims for property restitution alongside Polish



:.
           citizens. As you know, many Poles fled their homeland during the horrors of the
           Holocaust as a consequence of the threats to their life and their family, and in this process

I
           lost their property and all possesSions. Fair and just legislation should .take this into



'
:..
           acCount. and allow non-citizens to be eligible for restitution and compensation.
l
           Prime Minister Tusk, previous Polish governments have made statements in support of
I          addressing outstanding property restitution claims but have not passed the necessary



'l..
           legislatiOn. To that end, we hope that under your leadershlp just, fair and comprehensive
j          property restitution legislation will be enacted ~d our mutual efforts to provide a
           measure of justice to those individwils whose property was unlawfully sei~ stolen or


                  . . ' . '.. " ,., '.. . ".' ,"
 . ;
           confiscated will finaliy come to fruition.




    ll;;;r;iam;;j]i~                                I
                                                             ..




    
    
    
    
    
           As you know the United States and Poland share the strongest of relations and we greatly

           value this special partnership which has blossomed over the past two decades. We look
            forward to building on this success and to working with you to address key bilateral

           issues that will further enhance our partnership.


           We greatly appreciate your efforts to resolve the outstanding issue of property restitution
            and we look forward to your response to this letter.

    
                                                   Sincerely.

    
    
                                                                       Elton Gallegly
                                                                       Ranking Member

                                                                   Subcommittee on Europe

               ~~A                                                                    L'~
            ~Howard Berman
               Chairman                                                    Chainnan

 
!
                      fy~"-UIJw'ttee   n


렁
I




    
i.  
                           AlceeHa,~~
                              Ch .
                   Commission on SecuritY and
                     Cooperation in Europe

  
''..
~


i
               4~
:.
j

;
 렁
            ~2J~~
                       Member of Congress




  
'.
,                         Dan Burton 

                       Member ofCongress





    ~I~~. f:lm~;
       
                                                                                                          i
                                                                                                          


    
    
    




                                       쥿\, L.[~.)

                                             .EhotEngel

                                          Member of Congress



                 Gus Bilirakis 


               Member of Congress 



        ~.~                           

         Steve Chabot 


                                             Jerold Nadler
                Member of COngless 
       Member of Congress






                     CbrisSmith 

               Member of Congress 

 
 
 
 
 
-.
 
'
-..
,
I




'iiiiI   lUll IlL 2        L                                    1111 F   11
                                                                                     4




                                                                                 l3111 ,
                                                                                          ,
                                                                                          i




 
    
    
    
                                                        .t4: 20515
                                       7Qla!bington,



                                                 June 23, 2009


        The Honorable Donald Tusk


       Prime Minister
         Chancellery of the Prime Minister


       AI. Ujazdowskie 113
         00-583 WaI'Szawa


       Poland



       Dear Prime Minister Tusk:




       As friends of Poland in the United States Congress. we are writing you again to raise the
         issue of property restitution for individuals who had their properties seized or confiscated

 
      by the Nazis during the Second World War and by subsequent communist governments.
         While we greatly appreciate your public commitments to advance legislation addressing


       this important issue. we are hopeful that you will follow through on these commitments
         and move forward with fair and just property restitution and/or compensation legislation.

 
      As you know. at the end of this month. your government. along with others in Europe,

 
      will have an historic opportunity to commit to resolving the issue of property restitution
         when the Czech government hosts the 'Prague Conference on Holocaust Bra Assets.' a
 
      follow-up Conference to the 1998 Washington Conference on Holocaust Era Assets. We
         believe that the Prague Conference may represent the last and best opportunity to resolve
 
      outstanding Holocaust-era issues during the lifetime of Holocaust survivors. Survivors

 
      and their heirs are paying close attention to this Conference, and rightfully expect the
         participating governments to Q)IllIIlit to resolving issues that have remained outstanding

 
      for over six decades.


        As you may be aware. on September 23. 2008. the U.S. House of Representatives voted
         unanimously in favor of House Concurrent Resolution 371. a resolution strongly

        supporting an immediate and just restitution or compensation of property lllegally
         confiscated during the last century by Nazi and Communist regimes. Specificall y. the

  

;.
         resolution called on the government of Poland to immediately enact fair. comprehensive,


I
 렁      and just legislation so that Holocaust survivom or their heirs are able to receive either
         restitution or compensation of their propeny. The resolution also urges your government
         to ensure that such legislation establishes a non-bureaucratic. simple. transparent. and
         timely process. 80 that it results in a real benefit to those individuals who suffered from

I       the unjust confiscation of their property.


 
'.
1




                                             _      OIIIIIEaa.쥵_




    

    
    
                It is our understanding that during the Prague Conference, the intenlational community will

                fonnulate principles to guide future property restitution/compensation efforts. The Conference is
                 an opportunity for your government to publicly re-commit to introducing. passing, and

                implementing equitable and fair property restitution legislation which will provide victims of
                 Nazi and Communist persecution with at least a small measure ofjustice during their lifetimes.


                 To that end, we respectfully request that you and your government provide a clear timeline at the
                 Prague Conference for resolving this issue, a date when you expect legislation to be introduced

                and passed by the Polish Parliament, and infonnation about how your government plans to
                 implement this law. once enacted. Given the importance of this issue, it is our hope that the

                legislative and implementation process will be completed by the end of the calendar year.
                  Providing this pertinent infonnation at the Prague Conference would be welcome by claimants

                and members of Congress, considering that past commitments to resolve this issue have not been
                 met.

    
'.
l

    
                 Prime Minister Tusk, as you know, an overwhelming majority of European governments have
                 already signed into law property restitution/compensation legislation. In doing so, they sought to
                 rectifY historic injustices that impacted millions ofindividuals across Europe in the last century.
                 The Prague Conference is the right venue for your government to follow the example of your
                 neighbors and take bold steps toward enacting and implementing comprehensive property


    
                 restitution legislation



                Over the past two dec:ades, tbe U.S.-Polish strategic partnership has expanded and blossomed .



'.   
                 We greatly value this special friendship whicb will continue to grow, and look forward to
                 working with you and your government at the Prague Conference to address the property
                 restitution/compensation issue which is ofcritical importance to many ofour constituents across
                 the United States.



     
    :.                                                        Sincerely.




    !
     
                    1L~       Robert Wexler 

                                                 'W..J.
                             Member ofCongress

                  Chairman. House Subcommittee on Europe


        
                     ~~
                      =ber
                                    ofCongress

        
                     Chairman. House Committee on Foreign
                                       Affairs


             
        '.
        ,



        1.
        ,




        '.
        ,\




             
             
             

      /LML ~4--: ~~~
         Debbie WasselTDan Scbultz           Ron Klein 


           Member of Congress             Member of Congress 



        ~CIf.~~

              lIyson . wartz
             Member ofCongress

       ~11&.
               Rush Holt

        ~(}~
             Member ofCon~



             Mary Jo Kilroy
            Member of Congress
                                              Paul Hodes 

                                           Member ofCongress 


       ~~~                           ,~              L.~
             Edw    Markey                     Eliot Engel 


            Member ofCongress             Member ofCongress 




       ~Q~ ...                           ~~,,--
             HenryW     an
             Member ofCongress
                                           Mem~~
      ~~J~
                                      (\
                                      
                            0
       Steven Rothman                            lyuMaIo

                                     uu2diJd7-.....---

             Member ofCongress



                                                                 "7 '
                                            Alcee L. Hastmgs
                                            Member ofCongJeSS

  
 ;.
 ,

  
  
  
 '.
  
  
   




                         Steve Israel                               Jesse L. ] ackson, Jr.

              @-:~1r?
                                                                     Member of Congress



                    Dan Burton 

                 Member ofCongress 


                                                                                             I




'.       Cc:                                                                                  \
                                                                                              I.
                                                                                              (
         Secretary of State HiliaI)' Clinton
         Ambassador J. Christian Kennedy. U.S. Special Envoy for Holocaust Issues
         Ambassador Robert Kupiecki







 
i
1
 '   .
 
        110TII CONGRESS
           2n SESSION
                             H CON RES 371
                                                   



                 CONCURRENT ROOLUflON
        Strongly supporting all immediate and just restitu
          tion of, 01' (lOmpellsatioll fOf, property ilJegal.Iy
          collfiscated during the last century by Nazi and
          Communist regimes.




렁렁렁렁렁렁렁렁렁렁렁렁렁 렁렁














                      H CON RES 371

   110THCONGRESS
       2D SESSION                              





       CONCURRENT RFSOLUTION
   Whereas the United States strongly supports an immediate

      and just restitution or compensation of property illegally

      confiscated during the last century by Nazi and Com
       munist regimes;

   Whereas the wrongful and illegal confiscation of property per
       petrated by Nazi and Communist regimes was often an
      integral part of the persecution of innocent








                 people due to their religion, nationality, or social origin,
                01' the expression of a yiew that differed from that of the


                luling regime;

            Whereas the protection of and respect for property rights is

               a basic principle tenet for all democratic governments

    

'.
                that operate according to the rule of law;
             Whereas the participating countries of the Organization for


               Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) have agreed
                 to achieve or maintain full recognition and protection of
        
       all types of property, including private property, and the

        
       right to prompt, just, and effective compensation in the

        렁       event private property is taken for public use;

            Whereas the Paris Declaration of the OSCE Parliamentary

        

i
                Assembly (OSCE Assembly) in July 2001 noted that the
                process of restitution, compensation, and material repara
               tion of victims of Nazi persecution has not been pursued

        

'.
                with the same degree of comprehensiveness by all of the
                OSeE participating countries;
             Whereas the OSeE Assembly passed a resolution during the

        
      10th session that urged the OSeE participating countries
                to ensure that they implement appropriate legislation to
        
      secure the restitution of, or compensation for, both prop
        
i.
                erty loss by victims of Nazi persecution and property loss

\       
      by communal organizations' and institutions or their suc
                cessors during the Nazi era, irrespective of the current


':...
1


i

I'
                citizenship or place of residence of victims or their heirs,
                or the relevant successor to communal property;
             Whereas the Government of the United States has, since



:.
                1947, with the passing of Military Law 59 in the occu
                pied American Zone of Germany, supported the return of
!

!

 'r.
 I..I
                   -BOON 371 Ell




  '.
    I

       property looted during the National Socialist era to the
         rightful O\\'ners, or the heirs, of such property;



   Whereas during the last decade, Congress has passed resolu
        tions that endorsed, reiterated, and emphasized the long

      standing support of the United States for the restitution


      and compensation for property illegally confiscated dur


      ing the Nazi and Communist regimes;


   Whereas some post-Comm~mist countries 10 Europe have


      taken steps toward compensating victims whose property
       was seized and confiscated by the Nazis during World

     War II or subsequently seized by Communist govern

     ments after World War II;


   Whereas the legislation addressing the (-eturn of or com


      pensation for such confiscated property enacted by post


      Communist countries in Europe has, in various instances,
        not been implemented in an effective, transparent, and

      timely manner;

   Whereas private properties were seized and confiscated by the

      Nazis in occupied Poland during the Nazi era and by the


      Communist Polish government after World War II;


   Whereas Poland, virtually alone among post-CommWlist


      countries, has failed to enact any legislation that provides


      for a process for the restitution of, or compensation for,
        private property seized and confiscated by the Nazi and

      Communist regimes;


   Whereas Jewish communal properties were seized and con


     . fiscated by the Nazis in Lithuania during the Nazi era


       and by the Communist Lithuanian government after


       World War II; and



   Whereas Lithuania, virtually alone among post-Communist
        countries, has failed to implement legislation that pro



         -BOON 371 ED











            vides for the restitution of, or compensation for, Jewish
             communal property seized and confiscated by the Nazi
            and Communist regimes: Now, therefore, be it

        1       Resolved by the House of Representatives (the Senate

        2 concurring), That Congress
        3            (1) praises the efforts by those countries in

        4        Centra] and Eastern Europe that have enacted legis
        5        lation for the restitution of, or compensation for,
        6       private and communal religious property improperly
        7       confiscated during the Nazi and Communist eras
        8       and urges each of those countries to ensure that the
        9       legislation is effectively and justly implemented;
    
       10            (2) urges the countries in Central and Eastern


       11       Europe which have not already done so to return


       12       looted and confiscated properties to their rightful


       13       owners or, where restitution is not possible, pay eq


       14       uitable compensation, in accordance with principles

       15       of justice and in an expeditious manner that is just,

    
'.
        16       transparent, and fair;
t
        17            (3) caUs on the Government of Poland to-

    
;.
        18                   (A) immediately enact fair, comprehensive,
        19            and just legislation so that persons (or the heirs


:.
!
1
        20
        21
                      of such persons) who had their private property
                      seized and confiscated by the Nazis during


1.
       22            World War IT or subsequently seized by the'



:.
        23            Communist Polish government after the war



1.
I             -BOON 371 EB




    
    
    
              1            are able to obtain either ,restitution of their
    
        2            property or, where restitution is not possible,
    
        3            fair compensation should be paid; and
    
        4                   (B) ensure that such restitution and com
    
        5            pensation       legislation       establishes    an
    

    
        6            unbureaucratic, simple, transparent, and timely


             7            process, so that it results in a real benefit to


'.
I




    
              8
              9
                           those many persons who suffered from the un
                           just such confiscation of their property, many

i           10            of whom are well into their 80s or older;

    
       11            (4) calls on the Government of Lithuania to im

    
       12      mediately implement, fair, comprehensive, and just
~

!           13      legislation so communities that had communal and

            14      religious property seized and confiscated by the

    
1
             15      Nazis during World War       n      or subsequently seized
             16      by the Communist Lithuanian government after
             17      World War II (or the relevant successors to the com



'1..
1.
j


I

t
             18
             19
             20
                     munal and religious property or the relevant founda
                     tion) are able to obtain either restitution of their
                     property or, where restitution is not possible, fair
             21      compensation;
i.

 ;.
 렁 I
    !
             22
             23
                           (5) calls on the President and the Secretary of
                     State to continue to engage in an open dialogue with



 :.
 \.
    I.
    I
             24
             25
                     the Governments of Poland and Lithuania sup
                     porting the adoption of legislation requiring, in Po


                  -BOON 3'11 ED

        

        

        

        

        



                2
                3
                        restitution of, or compensation for, private property
                        that was seized and confiscated during the Nazi and

               4       Communist eras and, in Lithuania, the fair, com


              5       prehensive, and just restitution of Jewish communal

               6       and religious property that was seized and con
              7        fiscated during the Nazi and Communist eras; and
              8             (6) calls on the Secretary of State to deliver a
              9        report to Congress, every six months, regarding the
              10       implementation of this concurrent resolution.
                       Passed the House of Representatives September 23,
                   2008.
                       Attest:
 
!. 

 
                                                                       Clerk.


 
 
 
i



 
''..
1


~




i
 i.
,
I



1  .
 ';.

  '.
    I
                     .KOON 1T1 BH




        
        
        . 

