Document of
The World Bank
Report    16476-ME
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MEXICO
AQUACULTURE DEVELOPMENT PR()JECT
March28, 1997
Mexico Department and the
Sector Leadership Group
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CIJRlRtNCY fQUIVAJ EN 'S
Currency UJnit = Mexican Nc  1'eso (N$)
IJS$I = N$7.965
(March H,1997-
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - I)ecembeC 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I meter (ni) - 3.28 feet (ft F
1 kilometer (km) t= ( 62 mile mn)
I hectare (ha) = 10,00(() n2 -- 2 4 7 acres
I square kilometer (km2) = 0.38 square milr s (mi2)  I CU lia
I metric ton (ni ton) = 2,205 poinids
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AOI'              Annual Operating Plan                               NAI L'A         Northl American Free I'rade AgrLemLnt
1ANCOMFXT    Foreign 't'rade 13ank of Mexico (Banco Nacional Ie   "('l               National Competitive 13idding
Comercio Exterior)
COPl.ADE          State l'lanning Commission                         \N P             Net l'resent Value
C'NA              National Water Commission (Coomisioii Nac ai'lt dc   1' 1'         1'rotect Implementation Plan
Agua)
FA                Fnvirolnmental Asscssment                           1.              Post-larvae
F .RR             Economic RZate of Return                            P 1'( l IIPA    Attoney e(icneral's 01itice lor I nvirominental
lProt (Procuradura del Medio Amnbienlte)
IDiA              (jeneral Directorate lbr Aquaculltuire (Direccion   S \             Special AccoUIt
(Generale de Acuacultulra)
['IRA              [rUst Fund for Agriculture (Iondo de (iaratia v    S V(IAR         Ministry ol'Agriculture, Livestock and Rural
l'omento para la Agr icultLura( Ganaderia v                        D)evelopmenmt
Avicultura)
FONAES            National f'und tbr Solidarity Enterprises (Eondo    SI'lPlSCA       Founier Secretari t of I ishelries (Secretaria de
Nacional de Empresas de Solidaridad')                              Pesca)
(GiM              G1overnment of' Mexico                              SilD)t'S()I.    Ministry ot'Social D)evelopmcnt (Secretaria dce
l)esarollo Social)
I JACC'I          I lazard Analysis Critical Control lointis          S     \, INAI '   Ministry of Environnment, Natural Resources
and l'ishleries (Secretaria de Mcdio Amhbieite,
Reciursos Naturales N Plesca)
IC13              Lntemnational Competitive I3idding                  Si li('l        Ministry of, Finance (Secretarial de I lacienda y
Ciedito P'ublico)
ICRM              Integrated Coastal Resource Management              SO)I:           Statement of l;xpenditure
I1{N             Inlections I lypodennal and I lemotopoictic Necrosis    Si1R        Specitic Pathogen  Resistanit
INE               National Ecology Institute (Instituto Nacional de  Ip               l 1 Iargeted Investmiienlt lund
Ecologia)
l.(iEl`PA         General Law on Ecological Fquilibrium and             )R           'I'eleiis of' Reterenl(c
Ernvironmental Plrotectioni
IJJCP             Land tJse Capability I'lans
Vice President                    Shahid Javed ]3urki
Director                          Olivier lafourcade
Manager                           Michael 13axter
StatY Member                      Louise Cord
Thle followring individuals contributed to the preparation of the Mexic, > Aquaculture I)evelopment Project
Messrs [Mines. Louise Cord, Mark Cackler, Rudy van Puvmbroeck Charles di lIeva, Silvia Castro, D)ouglas Olson, Adollo
13rizzi, 'I'eresa Roncal, Rodrigo Chaves, Nonni Riskaer, Auguista Molnar, Stefan Keoberle and Maria Conriia (World Bank).
Philippe Vergne, D)onald Robaduie. Kevin Fitzsimmons, Mark llardin. Billie de Walt, Andrew Kaelin and l)onald l.ightner-
Lidia R. Vidal, Carlos Wiinaun (Consultants). Peer reviewers were Messrs. /.iWeg, Vaii Santen, anld Ms Scura lProduction
assistance was provided by Platricia lyenga and Margarete Ro(Lousaki,



MEXICO
AQUACULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ....................................................i
1. AQUACULTURE IN MEXICO .I. ...... I
INTRODUCTION .               ........................................  ,                                      I
AQUACULTURE PRODUCTION AND MARKETING .................................................,, 2
INSTITUTIONAL AND REGULATORY FRAMEWORK ...                                                                   3
SOCIAL FRAMEWORK                                  ............................................ 6
ENVIRONMENTAL CHIARACTERISTICS.................                                   8................,.,      . 8
LESSONS LEARNED ................................ I                                                          10
RATIONALE FOR WORLD BANK INVOLVEMENT ...                                                                ....  11
2. THE PROJECT .1...............                                         ,                                  ,, 13
PROJECT GOAL AND PURPOSE .........................                                                          13
PROJECT DESCRIPTION                                                                                         13.................. . , ....  3
Regulatory Framework and Public Goods ....................................                        13
Social Sector Development Component. ...                                                          18
ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES....                                                                                     2
PROGRAM OF TARGETED INTERVENTIONS . ... 29
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANcING PILAN . .,,                                                     .... 29
Project Costs                                 ..........  ,, 29
Financing .,,, ,    30
Cost Recovery and Cost Sharing ..................................,,.,,,.,,.. 31
PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMFNT ......................................... 32
Project Implementation ...................... 32
Procurement ......                   .......                                                      34
Disbursement .                                                                                    37
Accounts and Audits .                                                        ,, 39
Implementation Monitoring and Evaluation .40
World Bank Supervision and Mid-Term Review .41
PROJECT BENEFITS AND ECONOMIC EVALUATION  ............................................,.41
PROJECT RISKS ............,., .,                                                        ,                   44
3. AGREEMENTS  AND  RECOMMENDATIONS.46 ..............................................                                 46



LIST OF TEXT TABLES
Table I Estimated Project Costs
Table 2 Procurement Arrangements
Table 3 Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table 4 Estimated Schedule of IBRD Disbursements
ANNEXES
A      Environmental Risks and Management Plan
B      Project Economic Analysis and Benefits
C      Project Costs Summary
D      Flow of Funds
E      Lessons Learned from Past Experience
F      Project Logical Framework
G      List of Documents in the Project File
H      Glossary of Terms
I      Aquaculture Production and Marketing in Mexico
MAP
IBRD No. 26690       Mexico-Aquaculture Development Project



MEXICO
AQUACULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Banco Nacional de Comercio Exterior (BANCOMEXT)
Guarantor:                United Mexican States
Implementing              Ministry of Environment, Natural Resources, and Fisheries
Agency:                   (SEMARNAP)
Direct Beneficiaries      Approximately 7,800 low-income and poor aquaculture
of Physical Project       producers and their families
Investments:
Poverty Category:         Program of Targeted Interventions. Approximately 90% of the
project's beneficiaries will be marginal producers and their families.
See para 2.57.
Loan Amount:              US$40 million
Terms:                    Standard amortization term, grace period, and interest rate for fixed
rate US$ single currency loans with an expected disbursement
period of 3-6 years.
Commitment Fee:           0.75% on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver
Project Cost              US$58.8 million (see paras 2.58-2.65)
and Financing Plan:
Economic Rate             35% (for 83% of project costs: AcuaMexico subprojects,
of Return:                AcuaMexico Management Contract, Regional Diagnostic
Laboratory Network, Research Fund, Environment and Coastal
Resources Management Subcomponent, and Park Training and
Monitoring Program. See para 2.99 and Annex B.
Map:                      IBRD No. 26690
Staff Appraisal           Report No. 13898-ME
Report:






MEXICO
AQUACULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1. AQUACULTURE IN MEXICO
INTRODUCTION
1.1   The aquaculture sector in Mexico is small, contributing less than 15% of total
fisheries production and less than 1% of agricultural GDP and exports. However, it offers
significant growth potential. Mexico's rich natural resource base includes abundant coastal
and inland water resources with a wide range of water temperatures and salinities. Added
to this base, there are large tracts of coastal lands well suited to aquaculture and unsuitable
for agriculture. The aquaculture sector itself has an attractive regulatory and policy
framework. Starting with the 1986 revision of the Fisheries Law and culminating with the
1993 Foreign Investment Law, a series of legal and regulatory changes have been designed
to facilitate private and foreign investment in aquaculture and increase Mexico's access to
international seafood markets (Box 1). These efforts are a good start; however, the
Government of Mexico is working to make furthur improvements in the following areas.
1.2   First, the Government of Mexico is modifying its regulatory framework and public
goods role to promote private sector-led involvement. In particular, it is seeking to:
strengthen the framework for aquatic health, and review the regulatory framework for
permits, licenses, and authorizations for aquaculture activities. Second, the Government is
striving to provide the key public goods and services (research, laboratory diagnostic
facilities, etc.) necessary for development of the sector. These should be accessible to
sector's social sector producers (residents of ejidos, cooperatives and communal land
groups (mainly indigenous people) and other economically disadvantaged producers) as
well as its commercial producers. Third, the Government is seeking to carry out the above
services and investments using limited fiscal resources combined with cost recovery
mechanisms to create a sector that contributes to the country's economic growth.
1.3   Moreover, as aquaculture expands it will face a series of social and environmental
challenges. For example, the developing aquaculture industry could exclude the social
sector despite the fact that they comprise the majority of the sector's producers and own
most of the coastal lands suitable for aquaculture. The recent changes in the regulatory
framework are likely to increase private sector access to the resources traditionally held by
the social sector. Although social sector producers currently possess an estimated 70-90%
of the suitable coastal lands, many lack the capital and technology to fully exploit these
areas for aquaculture. Private sector producers may now purchase these lands from social
sector producers, which the previous legal framework did not allow, and may also enter
into joint investment arrangements with social sector producers more easily (Box 1). But



2
despite the potential for profitable outcomes, a large influx of private sector investments
into coastal areas could create tensions for existing communities. Another possible
problem may be the difficulty social sector producers have in complying with the
requirements for legal licenses and permits for aquaculture. The complexity and costs of
the application process might place social sector producers at a disadvantage in gaining
legal access to aquaculture resources.
1.4    Another set of problems that could emerge with a rapidly growing aquaculture
sector concerns the environment. While the majority of aquaculture production is from
inland water bodies, the sector's greatest potential lies with coastal aquaculture, especially
for shrimp. If coastal aquaculture is developed without regard for the environment, coastal
ecosystems, wildlife and communities that have traditionally resided in these areas could
be negatively affected. Therefore it will be necessary to reinforce the environmental
institutions created by the law, target the environmental safeguards more specifically to
aquaculture, and strengthen the capacity of state and local governments to use
environmental tools for resource allocation decisions in coastal areas (para 1.24).
1.5   The sector is poised for growth, but it faces the above issues. Because of their
importance, how the Government addresses these challenges could provide useful models
and lessons to be applied to similar issues in other areas of natural resource management
and agriculture policy. The first chapter in this report describes the aquaculture sector in
Mexico in a fuller context, evaluating the principal changes in the relevant regulatory
framework and assessing the main environmental and social issues. The chapter concludes
with a section on lessons learned by the World Bank and other donors in aquaculture and
coastal areas development and a rationale for World Bank support of the Mexico
Aquaculture Development Project.
AQUACULTURE PRODUCTION AND MARKETING
1.6    Aquaculture is defined as the raising of aquatic species in a controlled environment
(Annex H). Aquaculture production in Mexico is characterized by a large, traditional
sector that includes reservoir restocking (also known as inland capture fishing) and small
pond rural aquaculture, and a small, but rapidly growing, high-yield modern commercial
sector (Annex I).
1.7    Aquaculture is a relatively recent activity in Mexico. It has been dominated by the
production of freshwater species (tilapia, carp, catfish, charal and trout) in inland water
bodies located in Mexico's coastal states. Total aquaculture output represents about 14%
of total fisheries production in the country and places Mexico 14th in the world for
aquaculture production. The majority of the sector's output is tilapia (46%), followed by
oysters (18%), carp (15%), and shrimp (9%). Mexico currently has 65,000-70,000 ha in
aquaculture production, of which 16,000 ha are shrimp farms. In the case of shrimp, this
represents less than 10% of the estimated total area suitable for shrimp farming.
Aquaculture production is concentrated in the 17 Pacific and Gulf coastal states, which
account for 80% of total output.



3
1.8   There are factors that constrain the productivity of aquaculture production in
Mexico. First, aquaculture is limited by the inadequate technical knowledge of social
sector producers, which has led to poor site selection for ponds and difficulties in holding
and reproducing juvenile forms, and has encouraged the quasi-exclusion of social sector
producers from commercial aquaculture. Second, aquaculture is constrained by disease
risks, such as the IHHN virus that reduces growth rates, production and market value as
well as other diseases with the potential to cause high losses among the affected
populations. Third, the development of aquaculture has been restrained by limited support
services, particularly research and diagnostic laboratories.
1.9   Almost all of Mexico's aquaculture production is either marketed nationally (55%-
60%), or consumed directly by the producer (34%-39%); only 6% of the total output is
exported. Rural aquaculture production is mainly for on-farm consumption with small
surpluses sold in the local community. Restocking production is consumed directly by the
producers or sold in local and regional markets. Commercial aquaculture production is
directed toward specific urban markets (especially Mexico City, Guadalajara, Monterrey),
and the better quality output is exported. Shrimp accounts for about 85% (in value) of
total aquaculture exports, and the remainder consists of small amounts of tilapia, oysters,
scallops, and abalone. The United States is the destination for most exports.
1.10  There are two sets of constraints to the marketing of aquaculture output. First,
many of Mexico's processing plants, which until recently were almost exclusively in the
public sector, lack up to date technology, infrastructure, and sanitary conditions.
However, the expanded opportunities for private sector investment in production and
processing activities under the new regulatory framework, coupled with the current
favorable export opportunities, and the Government's promotion program to assist
enterprises to meet HACCP (Hazard Analysis Critical Control Points) guidelines -- all
provide increased incentives for investments in marketing infrastructure.
1.11   Second, Mexico faces competitive world markets, particularly in the medium term.
While export opportunities remain very attractive for shrimp and tilapia over the next two
to three years, medium- to long-term market conditions include increasing competition.
The tilapia market will face increasing production from Costa Rica, Columbia and Taiwan.
Similarly, the attractiveness of the shrimp market will depend on the extent to which
China's and India's shrimp production recovers from the recent disease epidemics and the
speed at which other competitive producers (e.g., Vietnam and Thailand) are able expand
their exports.
INSTITUTIONAL AND REGULATORY FRAMEWORK
1.12  In December 1994, the responsibility for policy on the environment, natural
resources and fisheries was assigned to the Ministry of Environment, Natural Resources
and Fisheries (SEMARNAP). The new Ministry merges the former Ministry of Fisheries
(SEPESCA) and several other institutional bodies previously under the control of the
Ministries of Agriculture, Livestock and Rural Development (SAGAR) and Social Affairs
(SEDESOL). The SEMARNAP has the challenging task of implementing the new



4
regulatory and policy framework for environment, forestry, water, and fisheries. These
four sectors are highly intertwined and significantly affect the social fabric of Mexico's
rural sector. With respect to aquaculture, this new institutional framework is expected to
facilitate access to water for aquaculture and create a more environmentally and socially
integrated approach to aquaculture development.
1.13   Since 1986, and especially since 1992, the overall body of laws affecting the
aquaculture and fisheries sectors has undergone significant changes (Box 1). The revised
regulatory framework is designed to stimulate environmentally sustainable fishery
production. With respect to aquaculture, there are three principal elements in the
legislation. First, the new framework allows for a greater role for the private sector by: (a)
eliminating the exclusive rights of the social sector in the cultivation of most high-value
aquaculture species; (b) eliminating restrictions that precluded private sector
aquaculturalists from collecting wild shrimp post-larvae (PL) and other juvenile forms
(Annex H); and (c) opening up access to ejido lands, which include much of the country's
coastal lands suitable for aquaculture, either through direct purchase or joint investments
with ejidatarios (Annex H).
1.14   Second, the new framework promotes investment in the sector by: (a) adopting
favorable fiscal incentives (reimbursable value added tax (VAT), accelerated depreciation
schedule, and reduced profit taxes) for aquaculture investments; (b) facilitating access to
key aquaculture inputs (especially imported inputs), and (c) lifting restrictions on levels of
foreign investment in the sector.
1.15   Third, the Fisheries Law stresses sustainable fishing by linking permits and licenses
to the biological capacity of fisheries resources, and by regulating the areas and the
numbers of juvenile forms (PL, fingerlings, offspring, etc.) that may be collected from the
wild. The law requires that the Government issue: (a) authorizations to collect wild
juvenile forms; (b) licenses for commercial fishing (5-20 years) and aquaculture (5-50
years); and (c) permits for commercial fishing, which provide the same rights as licenses
but have simpler processing requirements (technical studies are not required), and are for a
shorter period of time (1-4 years). Authorizations to collect wild juvenile forms are
granted by number and area, while permits and licenses are granted by area, vessel, and in
some cases, by fishing unit effort or aquaculture unit effort.



5
Box 1. Regulatory Framework for Fisheries and Aquaculture
The principal changes in the regulatory framework affecting aquaculture began in 1986
with the Federal Fisheries Law and cumulated in the 1993 Foreign Investment Law. The
principal changes are summarized below (see paras 1 .24-1.25.) for changes in
environmental regulatory framework):
1986 Fisheries Law facilitated private sector investment in aquaculture by creating a
mechanism for private sector investors to enter into business agreements with cooperatives
to develop shrimp farms.
1992 Fisheries Law sought to:
promote private investment in aquaculture, by lifting restrictions that permitted
only the social sector to cultivate and process many high-value species (e.g.,
shrimp, oysters, clams, lobster, abalone), thereby facilitating flows of private
capital into the sector. Similarly, the natural breeding grounds of shrimp post-
larvae, which previously had been exclusively reserved for the social sector, were
opened to private producers, and
provide greater investment security, by extending the maximum aquaculture
concession from 20 years to 50 and facilitating the transfer and renewal of
concessions. The law establishes biological and economic criteria as the basis to
grant concessions and licenses.
Reform of Article 27 of the Constitution (1992) promotes private sector involvement by
facilitating joint ventures between private investors and ejidos, mainly in coastal areas, and
by allowing ejidos to sell their land to non-ejidatarios.
1992 Water Law sought to: increase the sector's access to water by removing restrictions
on the use of water for aquaculture and giving water for aquaculture the same priority as
other productive uses of water. It also permits the use of irrigation canals for cage
aquaculture and lifts the requirement for licenses for aquaculture farms (cage culture) in
the sea or working floating cages in inland bodies of water.
Fiscal Reforms (1989) sought to create a favorable environment for investing in the sector.
In particular, individuals, cooperatives and firms involved exclusively in aquaculture
activities have a 50% exemption of their income tax; reimbursement of the value added tax
VAT) when the producer pays duty on imported inputs; and accelerated depreciation or
write-offs for up to 62% of the initial infrastructure investment and for up to 89% of the
investment in machinery and equipment.
North American Free Trade Accord (NAFTA) and Trade Policy (1992) established a
zero duty on imports of basic inputs for aquaculture including fingerlings, seeds and post
larvae. In addition, tariffs on imports of feed for aquaculture species were reduced.
Machinery and specialized equipment for export-oriented aquaculture farms qualify for
promotion mechanisms such as the Temporary Imports for Export Program. NAFTA also
expands Mexico's access to the United States and Canada.
1993 Foreign Investment Law permits foreign participation up to 100% for investments in
aquaculture production, processing and marketing.



6
1.16   The Fisheries Law defines five key areas of responsibility for the Government with
respect to aquaculture: (a) promotion of research and extension services, (b) granting of
permits, authorizations, and licenses for aquaculture, inland capture fisheries and the
collection of wild juvenile forms; (c) promotion of aquaculture parks and hatcheries; (d)
promotion of financial support programs; and (e) identification of areas suitable for the
development of aquaculture.
1.17   To implement its new regulatory framework, the Government developed the
National Program for Fisheries and Aquaculture for 1995-2000. The main elements of the
program are to: (a) develop aquaculture parks through the provision of shared
infrastructure; (b) develop new technological models for aquaculture, together with
research and educational institutions and the private sector, particularly for shrimp
cultivation; (c) support aquaculture research mainly through collaborative arrangements
with public and private research institutions; (d) develop regional diagnostic laboratories
for aquatic diseases; (e) expand land use planning in areas with high aquaculture potential;
(f) improve the management and restocking of endangered species, such as abalone; (g)
promote aquaculture production in social sector communities; and (h) complete the
regulatory framework for aquatic health.
1.18   Although the above regulatory and institutional changes and policy developments
rationalize the framework for the sector and open it up to allow for a greater role for
market forces, the Government is working to address several remaining issues. First, the
Government is continuing to shift from investing directly in the sector toward regulatory
and public goods activities. Second, it is working on developing a clearer strategy to
promote aquaculture among social sector producers and to effectively deliver public goods
and services to this group. Third, the regulatory framework for fishing and aquaculture
permits and licenses needs to be further simplified and disseminated to promote increased
aquaculture investment, particularly among social sector producers. As discussed in
Chapter II, the proposed project has been designed to support Government efforts to deal
with these issues.
SOCIAL FRAMEWORK
1.19   The main populations around the large reservoirs and coastal areas most suited to
aquaculture are predominantly small producers and fishermen, the majority of which are
from the social sector. During the land reform program, many ejidos were granted
communal lands (mud flats and salt flats) in coastal areas that were unsuitable for
agriculture (para. 1.3). Most of the producers in rural/restocking aquaculture have divided
their time between aquaculture/fishing and agriculture/livestock activities. They are almost
exclusively involved in rural aquaculture (small pond) and restocking aquaculture (inland
fishing), with almost no direct involvement in high-yield aquaculture, given the significant
capital and technological requirements of this activity. The exception has been high-yield
cage culture operations in inland water bodies, which have attracted an increasing number
of small rural producers.



7
1.20  Women have an important role in aquaculture. They mainly are involved in the
processing and marketing of oysters and shrimp. Women generally do not fish or cultivate
aquaculture products directly, with the exception of the collection of wild PLs.
Commonly, the main job of women in aquaculture is to remove the oysters from their shell
or to peel shrimp, activities that are generally carried out in the house. Women are also
often involved in the commercialization of shellfish and finfish in local markets.
1.21  In addition, indigenous people have an important role in aquaculture. While the
majority of these people are concentrated in the inland areas at higher elevations, a
significant indigenous population is found along the coastal areas or in ejidos and
indigenous communities near lakes, rivers, or large, seasonal water bodies, which are
important for restocking aquaculture. Furthermore, upland indigenous farmers are
increasingly becoming engaged in rural and restocking aquaculture as the population
increases and land use intensifies. Currently, rural and restocking aquaculture are mainly a
subsistence activity to supplement the traditional indigenous diet.
1.22  The social assessment carried out for the project identifies four sets of potential
social issues likely to affect Mexico's aquaculture sector during the next decade. They are:
(a)    Coastal Aquaculture
(i)    The recent changes in the regulatory  framework  affecting
aquaculture seek to stimulate investment in the sector, particularly in high-
yield modern aquaculture (paras 1.13 and 1.14). However, some social
sector producers may not be able to participate in commercial aquaculture
due to insufficient capital and technology.
(ii)   Other coastal residents, not directly involved in aquaculture, could
be adversely affected by the development of the sector. They may lose
access to coastal resources to which they have traditional use rights. For
example, the increased collection of wild PL and associated by-catch of
juvenile finfish and crustaceans for aquaculture ponds may be perceived as
a problem by many traditional coastal fishermen and aquaculturalists.
(iii)   The development of coastal aquaculture in some countries has led
to the degradation of fragile coastal wetlands and lagoon systems due to
poorly planned dredging, road construction, shrimp farm layouts, and
discharge systems. This has affected the quality of the local resource base
and the livelihoods of local residents leading to tensions between them and
aquaculturalists.
(iv)   Coastal and inland reservoir aquaculture investments have been
negatively affected by pesticide run-off or soil erosion caused by
agriculturalists, thereby creating tensions between the aquaculturalists and
nearby farming communities.



8
(b)   Permits and Licenses. The current system for allocating permits and
licenses for aquaculture (cage culture) and restocking aquaculture (inland capture
fisheries) is complicated, expeiisive and not fully disseminated to all aquaculture
producers. These processes may make it difficult for some social sector producers
to get permits, even though the Fisheries Law does mandate that producers
currently exploiting the fisheries resource (many of whom are from the social
sector) have priority in receiving official permits and authorizations.
(c)    Marketing/Processing. A portion of the small-scale informal marketing
system for fish and seafood products may be negatively affected by the
modernization of aquaculture and fishing. Large-scale marketing associated with
high-yield aquaculture may reduce the market niches traditionally filled by the
informal sector.
(d)   Institutional Framework. In the past, public sector agencies that dealt
with fishing and aquaculture were not fully effective in resolving social concerns
associated with aquaculture, despite the fact that the social sector's involvement in
aquaculture was highly protected by the regulatory framework. Moreover, civil
society groups, universities, technical institutes, advocacy groups, and other
organizations working in the aquaculture sector were not effectively incorporated
into the Government's aquacultural investment and monitoring activities.
ENVIRONMENTAL CHARACTERISTICS
1.23   The impact of most of Mexico's aquaculture activities on the environment has so
far been negligible (Annex A). Almost all of Mexico's aquaculture production is from
inland water bodies and rural ponds, which have very little impact on the environment.
Most of the negative impacts of aquaculture in Mexico relate to high-yield commercial
shrimp farming, which remains a relatively recent and limited activity.
1.24  Notwithstanding the fact that aquaculture has so far had a limited impact on the
environment, the Government has taken several important steps to mitigate potential
negative impacts. First, in 1996 it revised the General Law on Ecological Equilibrium and
Environmental Protection (LGEEPA), which reinforces the previous regulatory
framework and defines with greater clarity the attributes of the three levels of government.
In particular this law and associated regulations obligate SEMARNAP to the sustainable
management of aquatic flora and fauna and make the National Ecology Institute (INE)
responsible for the evaluation of the environmental impact of fishery and aquaculture
activities. Second, the Attorney General's Office for the Environmental Protection
(PROFEPA) was created in 1988 to ensure compliance with requirements listed in
environmental assessment (EA) reports for particular investments and with federal
Government regulations. This agency has offices in all states, jurisdiction over most
aquaculture operations, and strong legal powers.
1.25   Third, a "Single Window" system was created in 1990 to assist potential investors
obtain the various required permits and approvals for an aquaculture project, which may



9
involve up to 20 separate reviews, authorizations or permits from different agencies.'
Under the Single Window system, the Subsecretariat of Fisheries is the only point of
contact between the project promoter and the Government in the procurement of all
permits. Fourth, the Subsecretariat of Fisheries and INE have initiated Land Use
Capability Plans (LUCP) for the nation's coastal zones. The LUCPs provide an a priori
indication of the preferred use of coastal lands, including aquaculture. An operational
LUCP should facilitate the environmental assessment process for aquaculture investments,
help regional and local planners avoid the siting of non-aquaculture operations that may
harm or be harmed by aquaculture, and if properly designed with local input, avoid social
problems related to the expansion of aquaculture. Under the direction of INE, the
Subsecretariat has thus far undertaken LUCP baseline studies in six states, including five
of the seven states that would be included in the project.
1.26   Despite these significant institutional and policy advances, there are problems that
hinder their full and satisfactory implementation:
(a)    Principal constraints to the effectiveness of the environmental assessment
methodology developed under LGEEPA include a large backlog in the evaluation
of EA reports by INE's office in Mexico City, insufficient personnel to review EA
reports, insufficient field review of projects by INE reviewers, and unclear
requirements for data in the EA format.
(b)   PROFEPA  has been preoccupied with monitoring the most serious
environmental problems in the country and needs to give more attention to
aquaculture development.
(c)    The Single Window program  remains quite lengthy and cumbersome.
Evaluation of permit documents is often delayed due to the geographic dispersion
of agencies and the need to physically relay the body of documents from one office
or region to another.
(d)    Current LUCP methodology, although identifying mangroves as a forest
category, neither distinguishes between the various classes of mangrove forest nor
classifies inter-tidal mud flats. Despite the recognized value of mangrove forests
and mud flats and the fact that they offer great potential for shrimp aquaculture
development, Mexico does not have a comprehensive inventory of either habitat
type. This limits the effective monitoring of the impact of aquaculture and other
activities on these areas. Moreover, participation needs to be incorporated into the
design and upkeep of these plans if they are to be fully implemented.
Some of the permits that are required are: an aquaculture concession from SEMARNAP; a water
use concession from the National Water Commission or an authorization of agricultural viability
from the Agrarian Reform Ministry for all investments done by social sector producers;
documentation confirming the status of private sector investors from the Ministry of Foreign
Relations; and approval of the environmental assessment from INE.



10
(e)   Mexico does not have a coastal management policy or program. Little
attention has been given to an integrated approach that would network the
responsibilities of the many federal and state agencies charged with governing
coastal ecosystems. The many issues and interested actors affected by the
transformation of coastal lagoons due to changes in freshwater inflows,
overfishing, dredging, and the manipulation of inlets and sedimentation require a
participatory approach to resource management.
1.27  In short, despite significant improvements in the regulatory and institutional
framework for environmental issues relevant to aquaculture, both the institutions and the
instruments designed to monitor the impact of aquaculture on the environment could be
strengthened.
LESSONS LEARNED
1.28  The World Bank has limited experience in aquaculture and coastal areas
development (Annex E). Since the first fishery project in 1964, there have been fewer than
fifteen projects with a significant aquaculture component. Similarly, there is little
experience with coastal areas development as there are only two ongoing coastal areas
development projects, both outside the Latin America region. Nonetheless, some
important lessons can be drawn from the World Bank's experience in aquaculture and
fisheries development. First, the sector requires an attractive regulatory and policy
framework for successful development. Second, within an appropriate public sector/goods
framework, the private sector is capable and interested in aquaculture investments and its
role should be fully considered in project design. Third, cost recovery from producers has
not always been successful given the high-risk nature of aquaculture investments and the
inappropriate use of funds on some projects. Producer access to technical assistance and
close monitoring are required to ensure cost recovery. Fourth, intensive staff training and
technical assistance should be incorporated into project design. Fifth, the land tenure rights
of social groups residing in coastal areas should be reflected in project design. Sixth, to
avoid risks of disease epidemics with highly vulnerable aquaculture species (such as
shrimp), land use planning, early diagnostic services and specific disease free post-larvae
production technologies should be incorporated into project design. All of the above
lessons have been taken into consideration and are reflected in the design of this project.
1.29  The principal lessons from the World Bank's limited experience in coastal area
development projects include the need for: significant institutional strengthening; high-
level political support given the complexity of the issues involved; and involvement of only
a few institutions to facilitate planning and implementation and avoid interagency rivalry.
Pilot interventions have been more successful than large-scale coastal zone management
projects. Previous non-World Bank experience with the development of coastal
aquaculture in a number of countries, including Mexico, has demonstrated the need to plan
investments in broader planning frameworks developed to reduce conflicts among
potentially competing uses and users in coastal zones.



I1
RATIONALE FOR WORLD BANK INVOLVEMENT
1.30  The aquaculture sector is at a critical juncture in Mexico. It faces considerable
institutional, environmental, social and technical challenges. Aquaculture, and especially
coastal shrimp farms, will continue to expand in Mexico with or without the proposed
project. The project, however, provides the World Bank with an opportunity to assist
Government put in place some key public goods and services to promote overall sectoral
growth and poverty alleviation and to address the potential social and environmental
issues while still in their early stages.
1.31  The proposed loan is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy that was
discussed by the Board on December 17, 1996. In particular, the project would support
the Strategy's objectives of poverty reduction, enhanced rural productivity, and
environmental management as described below.
1.32 Poverty Reduction and Enhancement of Rural Productivity. The World
Bank's most successful projects in rural poverty alleviation in Mexico have focused on the
provision of (i) basic infrastructure in poor regions (e.g., First and Second
Decentralization and Regional Development Projects, (Loans 3310-ME and 3790-ME
respectively, and PRODERITH, Loan 2658-ME), and (ii) technical assistance to social
sector producers via government extension programs (e.g., PRODERITH, Rainfed Areas
Development Project, Loan 3778-ME, Chiapas Agricultural Development Project, Loan
2526-ME). An important challenge faced by the World Bank in its efforts to alleviate rural
poverty in Mexico has been to find appropriate instruments for supporting productive,
income-generating investments by social sector producers.
1.33  The proposed project would test a variety of mechanisms for involving social
sector producers in productive aquaculture investments. For example, the proposed seven
aquaculture parks and hatcheries (para. 2.24) would benefit social sector producers, while
a targeted investment fund would use a variety of civil society and public sector
institutions to target small-scale investment and technical assistance support to social
sector aquaculture producers (para. 2.38). Overall, the project would raise the
productivity of the resources owned by social sector producers to assist them in
accumulating the necessary capital and technical skills to invest in commercial, as well as
rural and restocking aquaculture. While the Government may have undertaken some of
these production investments without the project, the involvement of the World Bank has
helped to ensure that the investments are targeted to the social sector, that they take into
account social and environmental risks that may emerge during aquaculture development,
and that they incorporate well-defined principles of cost recovery and cost sharing.
1.34  Environmental Management. The project would support the World Bank's
objective of environmentally sustainable development by improving the quality of and
access to tools for the proper environmental management of aquaculture resources
(coastal lands and waters, endangered species, etc.) at the federal, state and local levels
(para. 2.8). The project would also support the development of a community-based,
integrated coastal resource management pilot to assist the Government in addressing



12
issues related to the use of fragile coastal resources in an integrated and participatory
manner. The investments supported by the project will provide useful models to the
Government and civil society on how to incorporate social and environmental concerns
into productive rural sector investment projects.
1.35  The project will complement other proposed and ongoing World Bank activities in
Mexico, which have a focus on promoting environmentally sustainable growth in the rural
sector and rural poverty alleviation. For example, it will support the On-Farm and Small-
Scale Irrigation Networks Improvement Project's (Loan 3704-ME) efforts to reorient
saline lands away from agriculture toward other productive uses such as aquaculture. The
environmental component would expand ongoing efforts of the Northern Border Area
Environmental Project (Loan 3750-ME) and the Mexico Environment Project (Loan
3461-ME) to strengthen the capacity of state and municipal governments to better
monitor environmental issues. Further, the various models to promote productive
investment among social sector producers will provide useful examples for the proposed
Sustainable Development Project currently under preparation. Finally, the project is in line
with the recommendations of the Mexico Rural Poverty Green Cover Study (Report No.
1 5058-ME) which calls for the piloting of matching grant programs to support productive
investments by economically disadvantaged producers and for the provision of technical
assistance to community groups to improve their production, management and marketing
practices.



13
2.   THE PROJECT
PROJECT GOAL AND PURPOSE
2.1   The objective of the proposed project would be to promote sustainable
aquaculture development by increasing the productivity of the aquaculture sector within a
framework of social consensus and environmental soundness -- thereby contributing to
economic growth and poverty alleviation in Mexico.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
2.2   The proposed project has two components:
(a)   The Regulatory  Framework  and  Public  Goods and  Services
Component would assist the Government in completing and implementing its
regulatory framework and would provide key public goods to stimulate productive
sector (private and social) investment in the sector. This component includes four
subcomponents: (i) regulatory framework, (ii) environmental and coastal resources
management, (iii) public goods and services, and (iv) institutional strengthening
and project coordination.
(b)   The Social Sector Development Component (incorporates the Social
Strategy and Indigenous Peoples Development Plan) would support productive
investments and training for social sector producers and develop an appropriate
institutional framework that creates a more level playing field for social sector
participation in aquaculture. This component includes two subcomponents: (i)
social aquaculture production, and (ii) institutional development.
2.3   Project activities would focus on seven states Baja California Sur, Tamaulipas,
Veracruz, Oaxaca, Chiapas, Sinaloa, and Nayarit, although many project activities,
particularly those supported by the regulatory framework and public goods component,
would benefit aquaculture producers, traders and processors throughout Mexico.
Regulatory Framework and Public Goods Component (US$13.0 million, 25% of
base costs)
2.4   The regulatory framework and public goods component assists the Government in
providing a proper regulatory framework and key public goods and services.



14
Regulatory Framework Subcomponent (US$0.8 million, 1% of base costs)
2.5   This subcomponent would provide support for two  programs to  assist
SEMARNAP in: (a) simplifying and improving the procedures for granting aquaculture
concessions, and (b) completing the regulatory framework for aquatic health.
Aquaculture Permitting Study and Registry System (US$0.5 million, 1% of
base costs)
2.6   The regulatory framework to authorize aquaculture concessions and permits needs
to be further simplified and improved to facilitate investments in aquaculture. The project
would provide technical assistance, workshops and computer equipment to develop: (a)
new procedures for aquaculture permitting (that would be published in Mexico's Diario
Oficial), (b) a dissemination and training program to explain the new procedures to
SEMARNAP's state delegations and to social sector producers; and (c) an on-line expert
system and permit registry for the state SEMARNAP delegations to maintain up-to-date
information on permit holders and the status of permit requests. A detailed description of
the study and registry system as well as the terms of reference for the technical assistance
contract to carry-out the program are presented in Annexes A. 0 and A. I of
SEMARNAP's Project Implementation Plan (PIP).
Aquaculture Regulations Program (US$0.3 million, 0.5% of base costs)
2.7   To complete the regulatory framework, principally in the area of aquatic health,
the project would finance the development and publication of six new aquatic health
regulations. The project would support: (a) technical assistance to develop the regulations,
(b) their publication and translation into French and English, as required by NAFTA; and
(c) seminars for aquatic health staff with their counterparts in the U.S. and Canada to
ensure the consistency of the regulations within NAFTA. Annex A. 2 of the PIP contains a
detailed description of the proposed regulations.
Environment and Coastal Resources Management Subcomponent (US$5.1 million,
10% of base costs)
2.8   The overall objective of the environment and coastal resources management
subcomponent is to create a framework for the sustainable development of aquaculture by
increasing the capacity of the federal, state and local government, as well as civil society
groups to monitor and manage the natural resources affected by aquaculture production.
In particular, the proposed project aims to: (a) develop instruments for planning
aquaculture development and monitoring its impact on the environment; (b) increase the
participation of community groups, the productive sector, and civil society in the design
and use of tools for environmental decision-making; and (c) promote an integrated
approach to the management of coastal resources. To meet the objectives of the
subcomponent, the project would support: (a) an integrated and participatory coastal
resource management pilot; (b) coastal wetlands inventories and regular water quality



15
monitoring; and (c) improved environmental planning and review processes. Specific
environmental issues related to physical project investments will be addressed in the
feasibility studies and environmental assessments scheduled for each investment subproject
(para. 2.3 5).
Integrated Coastal Resource Management Pilot (US$2.7 million, 5% of base
costs)
2.9   The integrated coastal resource management (ICRM) pilot in Lagoon Tamiahua,
Veracruz would assist the Government in developing a national ICRM policy by
demonstrating practical, participatory methods for managing and resolving conflicts over
coastal resources (para. 1.22). In particular, the project would:
(a)   provide technical assistance, workshops and training to prepare and
formally adopt an ICRM plan for the Lagoon Tamiahua;
(b)   finance matching grants to communities and user groups to test ICRM
policies and techniques during the development of the plan and to implement
priority elements of the ICRM plan once it is formally adopted;
(c)   provide equipment and technical assistance to develop and disseminate
tested tools (lagoon models and lagoon ecological histories) for managing lagoons
and their associated ecosystems;
(d)   provide sustained public education and dissemination programs to create
awareness and interest in coastal resource management issues and the new
management initiatives; and
(e)   carry-out regular water quality monitoring of the lagoon.
The ICRM pilot will be carried-out with a single technical assistance contract that will
include the provision of equipment, goods and the matching grant fund. The Terms of
Reference for the technical assistance contract are included in Annex B. I of the PIP.
Monitoring of Coastal Wetlands and Water Quality (US$1.8 million, 4% of
base costs)
2.10  To identify the impact of aquaculture on the management and quality of coastal
resources, the project would support a baseline inventory and repeated monitoring to
develop the needed quantitative and descriptive databases of critical coastal wetlands and
lagoon water quality.
2.11  The coastal wetlands program would inventory wetlands in Sinaloa, Nayarit,
Tamaulipas, Veracruz and Chiapas, as these states have the largest mangrove forests. The
inventory would produce photographs, transparencies, atlases, digitized information, and
maps. The project would cover the costs of the necessary ground truthing and the
production of the final information products (procurement and processing of images,



16
publication, and technical assistance) for each state. The inventories would be carried out
at the start of the project (Years One and Two) and would be repeated at the end of the
project (Years Four and Five).
2.12  The coastal water quality program  would initiate quarterly assessments, on
average, of coastal water quality and would demonstrate the value of monitoring to
potential local consumers of such information. Water quality monitoring would be carried
out in Sinaloa and Nayarit, the states with the most significant water quality problems, and
in Tamaulipas to provide baseline and on-going water quality data in conjunction with the
implementation of the San Andres Shrimp Park (para. 2.26). In each of these states, one
coastal lagoon would be selected for the program via a two-step participatory process that
would take into account the general characteristics and overall productivity of the area.
Following an initial review of relevant research to identify problem areas, a state-level
workshop would be conducted, in which local environmental agency personnel,
aquaculturalists, civil society organizations and other parties interested in environmental
quality would identify the targeted lagoon system. The output would include a regional
atlas that interprets water quality trends and geographic information system-type database
files. Funds would be provided for technical assistance, publications and dissemination
costs. Annex B.0 of the PIP describes the inventory and water quality monitoring
programs in more detail and Annex B.5 contains the terms of reference for the water
quality monitoring contract.
Environmental Planning and Assessment (US$0.6 million, 1% of base costs)
2.13   To strengthen the capacity of SEMARNAP to address potential environmental
issues related to aquaculture, the project would reinforce two existing planning and
assessment programs for aquaculture: the Land Use Capability Program (LUCP) and
environmental impact assessments (EAs).
2.14 Land Use Capability Program. The program would develop land use capability
plans for Veracruz and Baja California Sur, the only two project states currently lacking
LUCP plans. The studies would be carried out in accordance with the methodology
approved by [NE and SEMARNAP, and would include public participation in their design
and implementation. The input of local business leaders, government, universities, and
coastal resource user groups would be sought to define the issues and review the draft
LUCP documents, including the policy recommendations. To develop these plans, the
project would support: technical assistance, materials, workshops, and LUCP publications
for Veracruz and Baja California Sur. The methodology to implement the land use plans
and the specific objectives for the plans for Veracruz and Baja California Sur are described
in Annexes B.0 and B.2 of the PIP.
2.15  Environmental Impact Assessments. This activity would improve the quality of
INE's environmental assessments for aquaculture by developing criteria and guidelines for
EA preparation specific to aquaculture with the provision of technical assistance,
workshops and materials. Annexes B.0 and B.3 of the PIP explain in more detail the
guidelines to be developed.



17
Public Goods and Services Subcomponent (US$4.5 million 9% of base costs)
Research Fund (US$1.1 million 2% of base costs)
2.16   To encourage the generation of new technologies in aquaculture, the project
would support a regional aquaculture competitive research program giving priority to
Chiapas and Oaxaca, states which traditionally have had less access to research support.
An operating manual for the research fund is included as Annex C.0 to the PIP. The
proposed project would fund incremental recurrent research costs (reactive agents, inputs,
materials, small equipment, etc.), but would not fund salaries, administrative costs or
large-scale infrastructure costs. Recipient researchers would contribute these costs as cost
sharing, which they would itemize in their budget proposals (para. 2.63), which would be
annexed to their signed contract with SEMARNAP. Contracting of short-term support
staff for up to the duration of the research activity would also be financed. Public and
private institutions would be permitted to submit proposals for research funding.
Regional Diagnostic Laboratory Network (US$3.4 million, 7% of base costs)
2.17   Mexico is developing a network of diagnostic laboratories to perform laboratory
tests, treat diseases, conduct applied research, and carry out training activities. Such a
laboratory network could play a significant role in disease prevention and control and the
promotion of high-yield aquaculture. The project would equip the regional diagnostic
laboratories to stimulate their involvement in aquaculture on the condition that they adopt
a cost pricing policy to recover all operation, maintenance and depreciation costs. The
network would be comprised of a central reference laboratory and at least two regionally
specialized private or public laboratories. The central reference laboratory would: (a)
oversee the laboratory network; (b) serve as a reference for diagnostic and analytical tests;
(c) develop and perform unusual, diagnostic or analytical tests and/or research; and (d)
provide training and technical assistance to the regional laboratories. During the mid-term
review the involvement of public and private sector facilities in the network would be
assessed as well as the policy requiring full cost recovery for services provided by the
regional laboratories.
2.18   The project would finance: diagnostic equipment, a database on aquaculture
research case studies, technical literature, publications, and the preparation of industry
manuals on disease. In addition to the above, the project would finance travel and training
costs for the staff from the regional laboratories to attend courses at the central aquatic
laboratory. In exchange for the equipment and training, the regional laboratories would
carry out research, prepare manuals, and would offer technical assistance and laboratory
testing to productive sector producers with full cost recovery (para. 2.64). Terms of
reference for the regional laboratory program are included in Annex D. I to the PIP.



18
Project Coordination and Institutional Strengthening Subcomponent (US$2.6 million,
5% of base costs)
2.19   The objective of this subcomponent is to strengthen the capacity of the
SEMARNAP to implement the project and increase its overall effectiveness. This
subcomponent would strengthen the General Directorate of Aquaculture (DGA) and the
federal delegations in the seven project states. The implementation arrangements for the
project are discussed in greater detail below (paras. 2.65 to 2.70) and in Annex E. 1 of the
PEP.
2.20  While there will be no project coordination unit to assist the DGA implement and
supervise project activities, the project would finance an administrative director, four
technical promoters, one monitoring and evaluation expert, one environmental
coordinator, two social scientists, and six months of technical assistance to assist with
project implementation as needed (project evaluation studies for mid-term review, project
monitoring system). These staff could be consultants, contractors, retrained from within
the DGA, or re-assigned from other parts of SEMARNAP. In addition, the project would
finance computer and communications equipment, furniture and staff travel costs. To
strengthen the management and communication skills of the DGA, the project would
support staff training courses in management, computer science, English, and social
science. The project would also finance purchases of relevant databases, journal
subscriptions and textbooks for the Department's library, as well as technical assistance to
assist the department in addressing critical areas of concern as they arise.
2.21  As a condition of project effectiveness, SEMARNAP shall have employed and
ready to assume their functions an administrator, two social scientists and an
environmental specialist all acceptable to the World Bank.
Social Sector Development Component (US$38.4 million, 75% of base costs)
(incorporates the Social Strategy and Indigenous Peoples Development Plan)
2.22   The social sector development component aims to find successful mechanisms to
promote the involvement of social sector producers in aquaculture. It is a pilot strategy,
whose implementation will be well monitored. In particular, this component would: (a)
raise the productivity of the assets owned by social sector producers (mainly land and
labor) via joint investments in aquaculture parks and hatcheries, as well as other small-
scale aquaculture activities, and via training and technical assistance; and (b) create a
financial and institutional framework to facilitate and monitor the involvement of social
sector producers in aquaculture using well-defined principles of cost recovery and cost
sharing. However, if and where the social sector is not competitive in aquaculture, the
project provides the mechanisms for increased private sector participation. This
component addresses the issues raised in the project's sectoral social assessment (para.



19
1.22) and incorporates the management plan developed in the social strategy and
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (SS/IPDP) prepared by the Government. 2
2.23   Social Strategy and Indigenous Peoples Development Plan. The SS/IPDP aims
to: (a) avoid potential sector wide and project related conflicts (para. 1.22); and (b)
promote the involvement of social sector producers in the aquaculture sector. To achieve
the above objectives, the SS/IPDP included the: (a) provision of social institutional
strengthening to the DGA to expand its capacity to address social concerns related to
aquaculture development; (b) promotion of beneficiary monitoring systems and training
programs around subproject investment sites to assist communities participate in and
monitor project activities; (c) carrying-out of feasibility studies before implementing
project investments in commercial aquaculture to identify potential social issues associated
with the investments and to design a management plan, if necessary; (d) establishment of
a targeted investment fund to test mechanisms to provide social sector producers with
investment resources, technical assistance and training; and (e) creation of a wild post
larvae program to improve the collection and handling of wild post larvae and to reduce
conflicts associated with their harvest. The social aquaculture component described below
incorporates the above activities, with the exception of the wild post larvae program,
where SEMARNAP already had an existing similar program.
Social Sector Aquaculture Production Subcomponent (US$32.8 million, 64% of base
costs)
Aquaculture Parks and Hatcheries (27.2 million, 53% of base costs)
2.24   The project would support investments in aquaculture parks and hatcheries.
Aquaculture parks provide potential investors and the Government with many advantages,
some of the most important being: lower investment and operating costs due to shared
infrastructure; group acquisition of permits, land and inputs; and controlled aquaculture
development that lowers disease and environmental risks. The objective of the park
investments would be to build environmentally and financially sustainable, commercial
aquaculture enterprises in which, after an initial transition period, investors from the social
sector would be able to purchase all or a significant portion of the company's assets or sell
them to the private sector. In addition, the parks would provide a model on how to
properly incorporate social and environmental concerns into modern commercial
aquaculture.
2.25   The project would support the creation of four aquaculture park enterprises and
three hatcheries, together with interested investors from the social and private sectors (in
the case of the specific pathogen resistant shrimp hatchery). This would involve support
for feasibility, engineering, and environmental impact studies in accordance with Mexican
law, the on-farm and shared infrastructure costs of the parks and hatcheries, as well as the
2 The original SS/IPDP was submitted to the World Bank by the Government on October 20, 1994.
It was further developed during the appraisal and post-appraisal missions by a joint World
Bank/GOM team.



20
environmental and social management plans, and initial operating costs. The project would
also fund training activities for park and hatchery investors to ensure that they have the
proper technical and management skills to ultimately assume a significant managerial
responsibility (para. 2.44). The institutional, financial and management arrangements for
the parks and hatcheries are discussed below with the AcuaMexico Fund (para. 2.47) and
in the cost sharing section (para. 2.63). The section below details what the project would
finance with respect to the four aquaculture parks and three hatcheries.
2.26   The construction of one shrimp park (San Andres, Tamaulipas), and in particular:
(a) the construction of the shared park infrastructure (canals, access roads and bridges,
pumping stations, power supply systems, equipment, basic infrastructure, and land
purchase costs); (b) the construction of individual park ponds/farms (land purchase costs,
nursery and grow-out ponds, intake and outlet structures, basic infrastructure, and
equipment); (c) park operating costs for the first two years (park management, technical
staff, labor, electricity, fuel, materials, chemicals, crop insurance and maintenance) (80%
in 2000 and 50% in 2001) ; (d) technical assistance for studies (feasibility, engineering,
environmental assessments); and (e) the implementation of the environmental and social
management plans, as necessary.
2.27   The construction of three tilapia parks (Vicente Guerrero, Tamaulipas; El
Portillo, Chiapas; and Cerro de Oro, Oaxaca). In particular, the project would support: (a)
docks, boats and cage installations; (b) operating costs for two years (labor, materials and
inputs) (80% in 2000 and 50% in 2001); (c) technical assistance for studies (engineering,
social, environmental and feasibility); and (d) the implementation of the environmental
and social management plans, as necessary.
2.28   Specific Pathogen-Resistant Shrimp Hatchery. One of the critical factors facing
shrimp farming in Mexico is the spread of infectious diseases (para. 1.8). Infected PLs are
one of the main sources of transmission of shrimp disease. The use of specific pathogen-
resistant (SPR) broodstock in the production of shrimp PLs helps to ensure that PLs are
resistant to certain diseases. The main difference between a SPR and non-SPR hatchery is
the technology and protocol used to manage the laboratory. An SPR population is
developed through exposing animals to specific pathogens. The progeny of the surviving
animals are then used as broodstock. Great care is used to construct SPR hatcheries in
isolated areas to reduce possibilities of contamination from other activities. There are
several successful SPR hatcheries in the United States However, importing SPR PLs is
not a desirable option, as the international market for this commodity is very thin and
unstable, and international trade in PLs, even SPR PLs, provides a way for disease to
spread.
2.29  The project will support the construction of one SPR hatchery to produce SPR
PLs, nauplii and broodstock to accelerate the introduction of this new technology in
Mexico. The Government's involvement in the hatchery will be limited in time and
resources. The investment will be undertaken jointly with the productive sector and
privatized within one year after it is operational. During the first year, the disease resistant
broodstock will be developed and there will be a training program in the SPR protocol and



21
a testing program to ensure the disease resistance of the SPR Pis. The testing program will
be done with a laboratory with an international reputation specialized in shrimp pathology
and the SPR technology. The objective of this investment is for the Government to serve
as a catalyst to ensure the rapid introduction and adaptation of this technology to Mexico's
shrimp industry. The SPR hatchery would be constructed using a turnkey contract which
would include the: (a) civil engineering to construct the SPR hatchery and broodstock
facilities (indoor maturation tanks, feed storage areas, seawater well, etc.), (b) technical
assistance for feasibility, engineering and environmental studies; (c) equipment; (d) a
technology fee; (e) contracts with shrimp pathology laboratories to provide technical
assistance, training and testing services); and (f) the implementation of the environmental
management plan, if necessary. In addition, the project would cover a maximum of 51% of
the 1999 operating costs.
2.30   The rehabilitation of one abalone hatchery (Punta Eugenia, Baja California Sur)
and in particular: (a) investment costs to rehabilitate an abalone hatchery (pumps, blowers,
tanks basic infrastructure, vehicles, etc.); (b) technical assistance for engineering and
feasibility studies; (c) partial operating costs for the first two years3; and (d) the
implementation of the environmental and social management plans, if necessary.
2.31   The construction of one pen shell scallop hatchery in Sinaloa. The hatchery
would restock designated areas for seeding of pen shell scallops that would be off-limits
for exploitation. The restocking program would benefit the entire Pacific coast. There is
no other pen shell scallop hatchery in Mexico and supply has decreased due to over-
exploitation. The project would support technical assistance for engineering,
environmental and feasibility studies, land purchase costs, civil works, equipment, boats,
and the implementation of the environmental and social management plans, as necessary.
2.32   The four parks and three hatcheries were selected from among 29 potential park
sites proposed by the seven state task forces and reviewed during appraisal by a joint
World Bank/Government working group. The final investment subprojects parks were
selected according to technical, economic, environmental and social (level of organization,
interest of local community, and general income level of local communities) criteria.
Prefeasibility technical and environmental studies were carried out during preparation for
each site.
2.33   Feasibility Studies. Feasibility studies will be prepared for each park and hatchery.
Terms of reference for the San Andres Shrimp Park and the SPR hatchery are included in
Annexes F. 1. and F.2. to the PIP. The feasibility studies for the other AcuaMexico
investments will be carried out using similarly designed terms of reference as for the San
Andres park. The feasibility studies will consider technical, basic engineering (general
3 The 1992 Fisheries Law requires that abalone producers who are almost exclusively social sector
producers in isolated coastal communities, restock this specie. However, there is no functioning
abalone hatchery in Mexico to assist producers comply with the law and imports are difficult to
obtain as the international market for abalone spat is very thin



22
construction plans, layout, etc.) economic, financial, institutional, social and environmental
aspects to define and detail a project plan that best meets the project's purpose (para. 2.1).
The feasibility studies will specifically take into account relevant social and environmental
aspects in the evaluation of alternative plans and will include measures necessary to
prevent and address any negative environmental or social impacts identified during the
planning process.
2.34   Creation of Limited Liability Corporations. Concurrent with the preparation of the
feasibility studies, the Management Company (para. 2.53) responsible for overseeing the
implementation of the parks and hatcheries will assist project beneficiaries in forming
limited liability corporations to operate the parks and hatcheries. This will involve the
preparation and registration of Articles of Incorporation for each park corporation, as
appropriate.
2.35   The feasibility studies, including the environmental and social management plans
(and the Best Practices Manual for the shrimp park) as well as the Articles of
Incorporation for each park, would be agreed with the World Bank before the World
Bank and SEMARNAP would agree upon the terms of reference for the detailed
engineering studies and the Mexican environmental impact assessments. If a subproject
was determined to be not feasible from an environmental or other standpoint, the
resources for the concerned park could be reassigned toward another suitable park
investment.
2.36 Environmental Assessments. Mexican law requires that an environmental impact
assessment be carried out after the engineering study is completed. Consequently, prior to
the construction of each park and hatchery, environmental impact assessments will be
prepared in accordance with GOM regulations. These assessments will take into account
environmental aspects and include management and prevention measures where necessary.
Terms of reference for the assessments for the San Andres Shrimp Park are included in
Annex B.4. of the PIP. As a result of the Mexican environmental impact assessment, the
social and environmental management plans developed during the feasibility studies may
only be strengthened and may not be weakened.
2.37   Preliminary environmental analysis of the specific subproject investments carried-
out during preparation revealed the following potential environmental issues with the
shrimp and tilapia parks (no major environmental issues were identified for the hatcheries):
(a)    Shrimp Park. The shrimp park presents some environmental risks,
although they are minimal as it is located on 800 ha of grassland (Annex A). Some
of the general environmental problems that may affect the shrimp park are: (a)
siting and construction impacts, (b) organic loading in pond discharge; and (c)
predator control operations, which may impact aquatic birds. The shrimp park will
have a Category A environmental rating. There will be an environmental
assessment carried out as a part of the feasibility study (paras. 2.33-2.35), as well
as an environmental impact study that will be carried out upon competition of the



23
engineering study (para. 2.36)4. The terms of reference for the feasibility study for
the San Andres shrimp park will include the preparation of a management plan and
a "Best Practices" Manual in accordance with Mexican law to assist park
management make environmentally appropriate decisions.
(b)    Tilapia Parks. The principal environmental issue with the three tilapia
parks is the use of tilapia spp., a non-native but already introduced species, in the
cage culture operations located in inland reservoirs (Annex A). However, the
introductions will take place in relatively new reservoirs that show little
resemblance to natural, freshwater aquatic communities and where tilapia are
already present. An additional potential environmental risk with the tilapia parks is
increased rates of eutrophication, as excess feed and waste contribute to the
organic load of the parent water body. However, this is not expected to be a
problem, as the cage culture area is limited in scope. The project will support the
introduction of 100 cages at each park. For the three tilapia aquaculture parks,
environmental assessments (and management plans if necessary) would be
prepared as a part of the feasibility studies prior to initiation of the engineering
studies. In addition, Government will carry out a separate environmental impact
assessment upon the completion of the engineering study, in accordance with
Mexican law.
Targeted Investment Fund (US 5.6 million, 11% of base costs)
2.38   The targeted investment fund (TIF) aims to test different mechanisms to promote
aquaculture development among social sector producers who lack sufficient land, capital
and technical skills to participate in an aquaculture park. The targeted investment fund
would concentrate its activities in the states of Nayarit, Chiapas, Oaxaca and Veracruz
where there is a larger proportion of economically disadvantaged social sector aquaculture
producers compared to other project states.
2.39  In particular, the targeted investment fund would finance: (i) individual or
community aquaculture investments (rural ponds, cages, the renovation of coastal shrimp
impoundments, wild PL collection and storage centers, etc.); (ii) technical assistance for
individuals or communities in preparing management plans, studies and other required
documentation for obtaining concessions and permits or for follow-up assistance for an
on-going investment project financed by the TIF; and (iii) workshops organized and run by
producer groups to transfer experiences and best practices.
2.40   The TIF would be implemented by civil society associations and public sector
organizations which have an internal governing body and are able to maintain separate
accounting records for the resources of the fund. Interested participants would submit
well-defined proposals to the Fisheries Subcommittee of the COPLADE (State Planning
Commission) in each state for a pre-selection on a semi-annual basis as indicated in the
4 The subproject environmental and social assessments were not carried out prior to project appraisal
because the specific subproject investments were not selected until the appraisal mission.



24
PIP. This pre-selection committee will include at least two representatives from civil
society organizations. The final selection of the projects to be funded will be done by a
technical committee within SEMARNAP.
2.41   SEMARNAP would assume responsibility for the environmental analysis of the
TIF's investments in accordance with Mexican law and the state INE representative would
participate in the COPLADE selection committee. The environmental and social impact of
the proposed subprojects as well as proposed management activities would be evaluated
before the support is authorized. Moreover, the funding proposal would include monthly
environmental and socio-economic monitoring indicators for the proposed TIF investment.
During the regular supervision and mid-term review missions of the World Bank, the
TIF's review processes for environmental and social issues would be reviewed. The
implementation and environmental screening arrangements for the TIF are presented in the
operating manual in the PIP.
2.42  A total of US$5.6 million would be allocated to the TIF. The resources are
expected to be split between investment activities; technical assistance; and workshops in
accordance with the procedures in the PIP. The resources will be targeted toward
economically disadvantaged social sector producers and will be provided on a grant basis,
although beneficiary cost sharing will be required for the investment project in the form of
labor, land, local materials, and cash (approximately 25% of investment costs). The
maximum cost of each contract is US$50,000 and the average would be US$40,000. An
estimated 150 proposals would be supported by the project. The proposals will contain a
detailed budget for expenditures which will be annexed to the signed contract with
SEMARNAP.
Institutional Development Subcomponent (US$5.6 million, 11% of base costs)
2.43  A principal objective of the project is to remove key constraints that have made it
difficult for social sector producers to get involved in aquaculture. A critical constraint for
these producers has been a lack of financial resources, technological skills and
management know-how. The project would support training and technical assistance
programs and would provide an innovative financial and institutional framework with the
AcuaMexico Fund to assist social sector producers get access to and manage aquaculture
investments over time.
Training and Monitoring (US$1.4 million, 3% of base costs)
2.44  Park Investor Training. To provide the park investors with the necessary technical
and management skills, the project would fund workshops, long-term formal training
scholarships, park councils and foras. The objective is to develop the capacity among
community investors to play a significant role in park management, especially once the
Government privatizes its share in the parks. The project would support a fund for
scholarships to provide formal management and technical training to park investors and
their families. Candidates would have to be nominated by their respective communities.
Following the completion of their training, the recipients would be required to work at the



25
park for a time equal to the time spent in training, or to pay back to the Fund the cost of
the training. An operations manual for the scholarship fund is presented in Annex H. 1. to
the PIP. The project would also finance bi-annual workshops for each aquaculture park
to train the park investors in selected management and technical topics.
2.45  To assist the park investors in gaining experience in park management, the project
would support the creation of a five-member park council in each project-supported
park. The council members would: participate in management decisions (review
procurement and audit documents); serve as a liaison between the park investors and
management and between outside actors and the parks, and monitor social sector
ownership in the parks. To establish and support the councils, the project would finance
technical assistance to set up the park councils and identify their work program, and small
stipends for council members (US$250/year). The park council members, together with
the AcuaMexico Management Company, would organize bi-annual foras for all park
participants to discuss the overall direction of the park. Interested outside participants
may be invited to the fora to discuss their concerns about the park. Annex H.O. to the PIP,
describes the operation of the park councils, park fora, and park workshops.
2.46  Park Management Training. The project would also train the management staff of
each park. To ensure that the parks are well managed during the critical start-up years, the
project would provide an intensive course of training and internships for the park
managers (one per park), farm managers (three to five per park), and technicians (ten per
park). The project would finance course fees, per diem, travel costs as well as a training
coordinator, printing of manuals, classrooms, dormitories, and teaching ponds. The park
management training arrangements are also summarized in Annex H.0 of the PIP.
AcuaMexico Fund (US$4.2 million, 8% of base costs)
2.47  The AcuaMexico Fund, would be created to carry out the investments in the
aquaculture parks and hatcheries. The AcuaMexico Fund would also finance the training
and monitoring activities for park managers and investors. The AcuaMexico Fund would
support direct investments in aquaculture by:
(a)   promoting a high level of social sector participation in economically viable,
commercial aquaculture enterprises (e.g., the aquaculture parks);
(b)   promoting the introduction of new  technology into the commercial
aquaculture sector (e.g., the SPR hatchery); and
(c)   creating an institutional and financial framework that will secure the
privatization of government investments in high-yield productive aquaculture.
2.48  The AcuaMexico Fund will be created by SHCP  as a mandate fund.
BANCOMEXT would be the mandate holder and would have the responsibility of
managing the Fund's finances and ensuring that its resources are spent in accordance with
the objectives of the Mandate. SHCP would transfer the resources to BANCOMEXT,



26
however, because the Fund would be sectoralized under SEMARNAP (SHCP cannot
directly support federal investments in aquaculture), the resource flows to the
AcuaMexico Fund would be included in SEMARNAP's regular investment budget.
2.49  The AcuaMexico Fund, together with resources from the productive sector (social
sector and private investors), would finance investment and operating costs for the seven
aquaculture park and hatchery corporations. These seven investments will be referred to as
the AcuaMexico subprojects. Under the terms of the SHCP mandate, a Mandate
Committee would be responsible for the overall management of the resources of the
AcuaMexico Fund and would provide appropriate instructions to BANCOMEXT.
Accordingly, the Mandate Committee would be responsible for the initial operation and
eventual privatization of the aquaculture parks (as long as the BANCOMEXT holds the
majority of the park corporation's share as the AcuaMexico Fund mandate holder) (para.
2.53). A technical secretariat will support the Mandate Committee in the day to day
management and follow-up of project activities. In order to obtain the necessary technical
expertise and manpower, the Mandate Committee will obtain, through BANCOMEXT,
the services of a management consulting firm experienced in aquaculture management and
development, particularly among social sector producers (referred to as the management
company).
2.50  The specific responsibilities of the Mandate Committee and the Management
Company are briefly described below (paras. 2.51-2.53) and in the Mandate Contract, the
AcuaMexico Fund Operating Rules and the terms of reference for the Management
Company found in Annexes 1. 1, 1.2, 1.3 of the PIP. AcuaMexico will operate according to
the principles, objectives and procedures outlined in the deed, and the content of the deed,
operating manual and management contract will not be changed during the life of the
project unless agreed with the World Bank. Prior to disbursements for technical
assistance for the SEMARNAP subprojects, the deed, operating rules, and Management
Contract must be signed by all relevant parties and agreed with the World Bank.
2.51   The Mandate Committee will approve, inter alia: the Annual Operating Plan
(including the budgets for the park corporations); the projects to be financed with the
Fund's resources; changes to the AcuaMexico Deed and Operating Rules; the selection of
the Management Company; and the privatization plans for the AcuaMexico investments.
The Mandate Committee would consist of the SEMARNAP Subsecretaries of Fisheries,
Planning and Natural Resources, International Affairs and Budget/Accounting Controls;
the SHCP Subsecretary for Expenditures; the Federal Environmental Protection
Procurator; the Presidents of the National Fisheries Institute (INP) and INE; the Director
General of CNA; and the Directors General of FIRA and FONAES. In addition, the
committee would have three invited members: one representative of private commercial
aquaculture, one from the social sector and one from the park corporations formed
through the Mandate. From time to time, representatives from the seven project state
SEMARNAP delegations, civil society organizations, the National Agrarian Development
Institute, the National Indigenous Institute (INI), the National Council of Science and
Technology (CONACYT) and BANCOMEXT may be invited to attend meetings of the
Mandate Committee.



27
2.52   The Management Company would be selected according to competitive bidding
and would need to satisfy, inter alia, the following criteria: (a) technical capacity in salt
water and inland aquaculture; (b) experience working with indigenous groups and
cooperatives; (c) management experience in Mexico; (d) privatization experience in
Mexico; (e) experience in the assessment of the environmental and social implications of
aquaculture; (f) experience finance and rural credit; and (g) knowledge of world wide
aquaculture markets and marketing practices. It is not likely that a single firm will meet all
of these criteria, instead a consortium of different firms will most likely be most
appropriate. The specific responsibilities of AcuaMexico Management Company would
include, inter alia,
(a)    contracting out the feasibility, engineering and environmental impact
studies, according to the conditions stated above (paras. 2.33-2.36);
(b)   ensuring that the management plans outlined in the feasibility studies are
properly carried out prior to and during the construction and implementation of the
AcuaMexico investments;
(c)   finalizing the participants in the park and hatchery investments, based on
the results of the above studies; in the case of the shrimp SPR hatchery, it would
issue a request for proposals for investors interested in participating;
(d)   assisting the ejidatarios in obtaining final legal title to their land for the
shrimp park;
(e)   legally establishing the limited liability park and hatchery corporations with
the productive sector investors and the preparation and registration of the Articles
of Incorporation;
(f)    assisting the park corporations contract out and supervise the construction
of the parks and all procurement;
(g)   hiring the park management; periodically reviewing the financial statements
of the parks as well as monitoring their overall financial performance; and
providing technical, administrative and financial backstopping to the park
management (as long as the AcuaMexico Fund is the majority shareholder);
ensuring that all park management participate in the training program as stipulated
in its operating manual;
(h)   ensuring that all park management participate in the training program as
stipulated in its operating manual;
(i)   ensuring that park councils are established at each park and that a non-
voting member is elected from among all the councils to sit on the Mandate
Committee; the Management Company staff for the AcuaMexico Fund would also
attend the meetings of the park councils and ensure that social concerns raised by
the parks are frlly addressed by the park management;



28
(j)    overseeing the implementation of the investor training program (e.g.,
establishing the park councils, the on-the-job training program, bi-annual
workshops/corporation, scholarship fund, bi-annual park foras), together with park
management and the park councils, to ensure that the social sector investors get
the necessary management and technical skills to assume significant management
responsibilities for the parks (para. 2.44), and
(k)   maintaining an information database for each park on basic indicators.
2.53   Privatization arrangements. In the case of the aquaculture parks and abalone and
pen shell scallop hatcheries, BANCOMiEXT, as mandate holder would sell the
AcuaMexico shares when the parks are financially viable (estimated to be three years after
they are operational), while in the case of the SPR hatchery, it would sell its shares after
the first year it is operational. The privatization arrangements for each of the AcuaMexico
subprojects would be reviewed annually. BANCOMEXT is expected to privatize
AcuaMexico's shares in the parks and hatcheries via a public offering and sell its SPR
hatchery shares via a strategic privatization (to the investor that contributed 49% of the
capital costs). Should after a reasonable period of time, an AcuaMexico investment not be
profitable, BANCOMEXT (acting on advice from the Mandate Committee) may privatize
the particular investment at a loss, in which case the producers might lose some or all of
their capital and labor returns - this risk would be fully explained to the social sector
producers at the time their park corporation is created.
2.54  Prior to their privatization, park investors could buy AcuaMexico shares from
BANCOMEXT at book value. Also prior to the privatization, the park investors could
buy and sell shares among themselves and BANCOMEXT. If at the time of privatization,
the social sector investors do not have a minimum 51% of the park corporation shares,
BANCOMEXT would place the difference (51% minus the percentage of shares owned
by the ejido park investors) into an escrow account. The social sector investors could buy
the shares in the escrow account at their market or book value - whichever is less
expensive. A portion of the social sector's dividends from its shareholdings could be used
to buy shares in this escrow account. While in the escrow account, the Mandate
Committee would maintain voting rights over these shares. BANCOMEXT, also acting on
instructions from the Mandate Committee, would use its recuperated resources to reinvest
in the social and/or high technology sector. BANCOMEXT may not invest AcuaMexico
resources in any existing government enterprise or parastatal in which the Government has
a financial interest. These privatization arrangements are described in Annexes 1. 1. and 1.2
of the PIP.
ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES
2.55   A  primary focus of the project is to promote environmentally sustainable
development by strengthening the regulatory and institutional framework and through the
promotion of specific assessment and amelioration efforts as needed. The project has a
Category A environmental rating, as some investments occur in or near environmentally
sensitive areas. A sectoral environmental assessment (SEA) report was prepared and



29
submitted by the Government to the World Bank (Annexes A and G). On a sectoral level,
the environmental and coastal resources management subcomponent strengthens the
capacity of the federal, state and local government and resource user groups to manage
and evaluate the environmental impact of aquaculture (para. 2.8). At the subproject level,
the project supports environmental assessments that will be carried out as part of the
feasibility studies as well as a Mexican environmental impact study for all new
constructions (aquaculture parks, SPR and pen shell scallop hatcheries), and the
implementation of the environmental management plans, where necessary (para. 2.37).
PROGRAM OF TARGETED INTERVENTIONS
2.56  The investments supported under the targeted investment fund (10% of total costs)
would be specifically targeted toward approximately 7,500 social sector aquaculture
producers (para 2.38). In addition, the estimated initial 600-800 investors in the
aquaculture parks and hatcheries (44% of total costs) would be mainly ejidatarios from the
social sector. Ejidatarios comprise 83% of Mexico's subsistence rainfed farmers and on
average earn less than half of the farm income of non-ejido producers. It is expected that
at least 90% of the project's beneficiaries would be social sector producers.
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
Project Costs
2.57   Total project costs are estimated at US$58.8 million, including  contingencies
(14%), incremental recurrent costs, duties and taxes (Table 1). Baseline costs are
estimated at US$51.4 million and contingencies at US$7.4 million. Annual price increases
were applied to foreign costs in all categories in US dollar terms at a rate of 2.6%. Annual
price contingencies for local costs were calculated using the projected NP inflation rate.5
Physical contingencies were calculated at I0% for civil engineering and 5% for equipment,
vehicles, and on-farm investments. Throughout the project, the exchange rate is estimated
to adjust for domestic inflation without any additional peso depreciation. The main
expenditure categories include civil works, equipment, technical assistance, training,
operating costs, a turnkey contract, and grants for the research fund and the TIF. The
costs are summarized in the table below.
Inflation rates for local costs are 1996 - 28.9%; 1997 - 12.4%; 1998 - 8.1%; 1999 - 5.5%; and 2000
-4.7%



30
Table 1
Estimated Project Costs
(US$ million)
(US$ Million)
%     % Total
Foreign   Base
Local Foreign  Total  Exchange  Costs
A. Regulatory Framework and Public Goods
1. Regulatory Framework
Aquaculture Permitting                                  0.3     0.3     0.5        53       1
Aquaculture Regulations Program                         0.1     0.2     0.3        72       1
Subtotal Regulatory Framework                             0.3     0.5     0.8       59        2
2. Environment and Coastal Resources Management
Integrated Coastal Resources Management Pilot           0.4     2.3     2.7        85       5
Monitoring of Coastal Wetlands and Water Quality        1.8       -     1.8         -       3
Environmental Planning and Assessment                   0.6       -     0.6         -       I
Subtotal Environment and Coastal Resources Management     2.8    2.3      5.1       45       10
3. Public Goods
Research Fund                                           1.1       -     1.1         -       2
Regional Diagnostic Laboratory Network                  0.9    2.5      3.4       73        7
Subtotal Public Goods                                     2.0    2.5      4.5       55        9
4. Project Coordination and Institutional Strengthening   2.5     0.1     2.6         6       5
Subtotal Regulatory Framework and Public Goods             7.6     5.4    13.0       41       25
B. Social Sector Development
1. Aquaculture Production
Parks and Laboratories                                 24.5     2.6   27.2         10      53
Targeted Investment Fund                                5.6       -     5.6         -      11
2 Institutional Development
AcuaMexico Fund                                        0.6     3.6     4.2        85       8
Training and Monitoring                                1.3    0.1      1.4         4       3
Subtotal Institutional Strengthening                     1.9    2.7      5.6        65      11
Subtotal Social Sector Development                        32.0     6.3    38.4        16      75
Total BASELINE COSTS                                       39.7    11.7    51.4       23      100
Physical Contingencies                                    1.8    0.2      2.1       12        4
Price Contingencies                                       4.4     0.9     5.3        17      10
Total PROJECT COSTS                                        46.0    12.8    58.8       22      114
Numbers do not add up due to rounding
Financing
2.58   The World Bank loan of US$40.0 million would have the standard amortization
term, grace period, and interest rate for fixed rate US$ single currency loans with an
expected disbursement period of 3-6 years. The World Bank and the Government of
Mexico would finance approximately 66% and 16% of project costs, respectively.
Beneficiaries would finance approximately 18%.
2.59   The loan would not finance vehicles (boats and cars) or land purchases. The loan
would finance 100% of all foreign exchange costs and 70% of the domestic currency costs
(Annex C). The relatively high share of financing for domestic costs is explained by their
high proportion in the overall budget (78% of total costs) and by the project's strong focus
on economically disadvantaged social sector producers. The loan would be made to



31
BANCOMEXT as the borrower, which would transfer the loan proceeds to SHCP, which
would in turn, transfer them back to BANCOMIEXT (as mandate holder for the
AcuaMexico Fund) and SEMARNAP (Annex D). The loan will be guaranteed by the
United Mexican States.
2.60  In the past, inadequate counterpart funding has been a principal cause for the slow
and partial implementation of World Bank projects in Mexico. During project preparation
this issue was discussed fully with Government and the project size was modified to reflect
the likely availability of Government counterpart resources, especially in light of the 1995
economic crisis in Mexico.
2.61   Operating Costs. The project includes US$8.6 million of recurrent costs,
representing 15% of total project costs. The loan would finance US$4.9 million or 42% of
these costs. Operating costs for the parks and the abalone and pen shell scallop hatcheries
would be financed 80% by the project in year 2000 and 50% by the project in year 2001.
The productive sector investors would finance the remaining operating costs. The project
also would finance 51% of the operating costs during the first year of operation of the
SPR hatchery (1999). The remainder of the SPR hatchery operating costs in 1999 would
be financed by the investors. The project would not finance any operating costs after 1999
for the SPR hatchery, as it is to be privatized after the first year of operation. The park and
hatchery operating costs include: park management, technical staff, labor, electricity, fuel,
materials, chemicals, crop insurance and maintenance.
2.62  The project also includes US$1.5 million of recurrent costs for the regional
diagnostic laboratories which will be entirely financed by the participating laboratories via
fees charged on services provided to users. The remaining project operating costs are for
maintenance, travel, supplies, and utilities for the DGA for overall project management.
These costs would be financed by the loan on a decreasing basis and the balance by the
Government. In 1997 and 1998, the loan would finance 90% of the operating costs, 50%
in 1999 and 2000, and 10% in 2001 and 2002. Recurrent government salaries are not
financed by the project.
Cost Recovery and Cost Sharing
2.63  The project involves a high element of cost recovery and cost sharing to ensure the
development of a sustainable and efficient aquaculture sector. The provisions for cost
sharing include:
(a)   Beneficiaries of the Research Fund would contribute cost sharing which
would include the salaries of researchers and the administrative and infrastructure
costs of the research institutions. These costs are estimated to be at least 50% of
the total cost of the research grants (para. 2.16).
(b)   Beneficiaries of the Targeted Investment Fund would provide labor and
local materials for the investment subprojects, which are estimated to cover about
25% of the investment costs of the projects financed by the fund (para. 2.38).



32
(c)   Beneficiaries of the ICRAMtpilot practical exercises will provide at least
30% in matching contributions (para. 2.9).
(d)   The AcuaMexico subproject investments would involve both cost sharing
and cost recovery. The investors in the aquaculture parks and pen shell scallop and
abalone hatchery would have to contribute about 10% of total investments costs,
either in the form of land (shrimp park); investment capital (tilapia parks and pen
shell scallop hatchery); or the existing hatchery infrastructure (abalone hatchery).
The investors in the SPR hatchery would contribute 49% of the investment costs.
In addition, the beneficiaries of the parks and hatcheries would contribute
operating costs. In the case of the parks and the pen shell scallop and abalone
hatcheries, the investors would contribute 20% of the operating costs in year one
and 50% in year two. Year one operating costs for the SPR hatchery will be split
between the productive sector investors (49%) and the AcuaMexico Fund (51%)
(para. 2.61).
2.64 Cost Recovery. SEMARNAP, through BANCOMEXT, would recover its
investments in the park corporations and the abalone and pen shell scallop hatcheries
through the sale of its assets (para. 2.53). Initially, they would be sold at book value to the
original park investors, however, after the park is commercially viable, the shares would
be sold to the public at market value. The SPR hatchery would be sold to the productive
sector investor at market value after the first year of operation. There would also be cost
recovery provisions for the regional diagnostic laboratories, as the latter would recover
their operating and investment costs through the fees they will charge users (para. 2.17).
The cost sharing and cost recovery arrangements are described in the PIP.
PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Implementation
2.65  Overall responsibility for the project lies with SEMARNAP. The implementation
responsibilities are outlined below and are summarized in the PIP. The supreme decision
making authority will be the Project Committee. Among the committee's responsibilities
will be the approval of the annual work program, budgets and investment plan, as well as
the approval of any modifications to the PIP. The Project Committee would consist of the
SEMARNAP Subsecretaries of Fisheries, Planning and Natural Resources, International
Affairs and Budget/Accounting Control; the Federal Environmental Protection Procurator,
the Presidents of the National Fisheries Institute (INP) and INE; the Director General of
CNA; and representatives from the seven state delegations plus other invited guests as
warranted. Prior to effectiveness, the SEMARNAP project committee will be functional.



33
2.66  The Project Committee will be assisted by the DGA, which will serve as its
technical committee. In particular, the DGA will be responsible for the implementation
and supervision of the project, which will include:
(a)   project planning, including the preparation of the AOP(Annual Operating
Plan) and budget;
(b)   project monitoring and supervision through: (i) the maintenance of a
computerized project monitoring system that would monitor: the log frame
indicators (Annex F); the detailed impact, implementation and financial monitoring
indicators that are included in the PIP; and the specific projects funded by the
research fund and the TIF; (ii) the preparation of twice-yearly progress reports for
the World Bank; (iii) the preparation and implementation of the mid-term review
and the project launch seminar; (iv) assisting the World Bank organize and carry-
out twice-yearly supervision missions; (v) assuring the involvement of specialized
environmental, social and administrative staff and technical assistance as needed to
implement and supervise the project; (vi) overseeing procurement, including the
review of all terms of reference for contracts and technical specifications of
equipment; and
(c)   implementation of all project activities, with the exception of the
AcuaMexico investment projects and the training and monitoring activities.
2.67 In addition, there would be eight SEMARNAP working groups composed of
relevant staff from SEMARNAP and its sectoralized agencies (e.g. CNA, INE, etc.) that
would assist the DGA in the implementation of their respective project activities. The
working groups would be for: aquaculture permitting, aquaculture regulations,
environment, research and technological development, diagnostic laboratory network,
AcuaMexico, Targeted Investment Fund, and training and monitoring.
2.68  The AcuaMexico Fund would finance, under the Mandate Committee's guidance
and with operational support from the management company: (i) the aquaculture parks
and abalone and pen shell scallop hatcheries together with social sector investors; (ii) the
SPR shrimp hatchery together with productive sector investors; and (iii) the park investor
and management training and monitoring program with assistance from the individual park
management.
2.69  Civil society organizations, educational institutions, productive sector actors
and public and private research institutions would participate in: (i) the Targeted
Investment Fund; (ii) the regional diagnostic laboratory network (together with the central
aquaculture laboratory); (iii) the aquaculture parks and hatcheries; and (iv) the Research
Fund.
2.70  PIP. During negotiations assurances were obtained that the project will be
implemented in accordance with the PIP, which will be modified to reflect the changes
agreed to during negotiations and submitted to the World Bank prior to the submission of



34
the project to Board. The AOPs for the coming year will be prepared by the DGA, for
further review and approval by the World Bank by September 30 of each year. The AOPs
will outline each component's objectives for the coming year, the implementation schedule,
and the specific human resources and financial allocations required. Adherence to the
AOPs would be reviewed annually. An acceptable 1997 AOP will be part of the final PIP.
Procurement
2.71  All project components financed under the proposed World Bank loan would be
procured in accordance with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank loans
(January 1995, revised January and August 1996) and as further described below. Table 2
below summarizes procurement arrangements. The project would finance civil works,
technical assistance, turnkey contracts, grants, equipment (laboratory, computer, office,
construction), studies, training, and recurrent costs. Vehicles, including boats and motors,
would be procured by the Government and would not be reimbursable against the loan.
Standard Bidding Documents agreed by the World Bank and the Government would be
used for procurement of goods and works under NCB.
2.72  Civil works would consist of the construction of aquaculture parks, hatcheries and
teaching facilities. No international competitive bidding (ICB) is expected due to the size
of contracts. NCB procedures satisfactory to the World Bank would be used, although
interested foreign bidders would be allowed to participate. Small works valued at less than
US$350,000 would be procured on the basis of lump-sum fixed priced contracts awarded
on the basis of quotations from at least three qualified domestic contractors, provided they
do not exceed an aggregate amount of US$1.5 million.
2.73  Goods. Wherever possible, goods would be packaged into contracts valued at
US$350,000 or more to be procured under ICB procedures. Goods to be procured under
ICB include the information technology equipment, laboratory equipment, geographic
information system equipment and specialized materials. Contracts of goods expected to
cost more than US$50,000, but less than US$350,000, would be procured under NCB in
an aggregate amount not exceeding US$700,000. Office equipment, furniture and other
similar goods expected to cost less than US$50,000 per contract would be awarded on the
basis of price quotations from at least three suppliers, provided they do not exceed an
aggregate of US$400,000.
2.74  SPR shrimp hatchery. Because of the complexity and importance of integrating
design, implementation and startup, the SPR shrimp hatchery would be procured as a
turnkey operation according to the ICB procedures.



35
Table 2
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Procurement Method
International   National
Category                Competitive    Competitive
Bidding       Bidding     Other   N.B.F.    Total
A. Civil Works                         -          17.3      1.5        -      18.8
(I 1.4)    (1.1)    ~~(12.5)
B. SPR Hatchery /a                   2.7             -        -        -       2.7
(1.5)                                   (1.5)
C. Goods /b                           2.8          0 7      0.4        -       3.9
(2.4)       (0.6)    (0.3)              (3.3)
D. Vehicles and boats                  -             -               0.I       0.1
E. Technical Assistance                -             -     14.3               14.3
(12.2)            (12.2)
F. Training                                                 0.9                0.9
(0.7)             (0.7)
G. Grants
Research Fund                                             1.2        -       1.2
(0.6)             (0.6)
TIF                                                       6.1                6.1
(4.6)             (4.6)
H. Land                                -             -        -      2.2       2.2
I. Recurrent Costs                     -             -      6.9      1.5       8.5
(3.5)    (0.1)    (3.6)
Total                                 5.5          18.0    31.4      3.8       58.8
(3.8)       (12.0)   (23.0)    (0.1)    (40.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IBRD
\a Turnkey contract
\b Equipment, furmiture and publications.
2.75    Consultants, Training, and Studies. The World Bank's "Guidelines on the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency"
(August 1981) would govern all consultancies financed under the project. Employment of
consultants would be carried out using a standard letter of invitation agreed with the
Government and a World Bank-issued standard form of contract.
2.76    Research Fund. Grants for the development of new  technologies in aquaculture
would be awarded to national research institutions on a competitive basis and would be
subject to the signature of a research contract. No contract would exceed the amount of
US$50,000. Expenditures would be made against a standard contract between
SEMARNAP and the research institution, which specifies the detailed budget breakdown
and the work program. Eligibility criteria for the institutions participating in the Research
Fund and the standardized contract are in the Research Fund Manual attached to the PIP.
2.77 The Targeted Investment Fund (TIF) would consist of matching grants to
communities to test different mechanisms to promote aquaculture development among



36
economically disadvantaged social sector aquaculture producers. The TIEF would finance:
(i) individual or community aquaculture investments (rural ponds, cages, the renovation of
coastal shrimp impoundments, wild PL collection and storage centers, etc.); (ii) technical
assistance for individuals or communities, including assistance to prepare management
plans, studies and other required documentation for obtaining concessions and permits;
and (iii) workshops organized and run by producer groups to transfer experiences and best
practices. Expenditures would be made against a standard contract between the
SEMARNAP delegation and the promoter, specifying the detailed budget breakdown and
the work program. No contract would exceed the amount of US$50,000. The TIF would
be implemented by civil society organizations and qualified public sector groups. Strict
eligibility criteria for the private and public promoters, and for the eligible projects, as well
as the standardized contract are included in the TIF Manual that is part of the PIP.



37
2.78   Prior Review by the World Bank. Table 3 summarizes the thresholds to be
applied:
Table 3
Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
(US$)
Category         Contract Value    Procurement Method    Contracts Subject to
(Thresholds)                             Prior Review by
World Bank
Works                  < 10,000,000             NCB                   First 3
< 350,000       Lump-sum contracts           None
Goods                    > 350,000              ICB                    All
50,000 - 350,000         NCB                   First 3
< 50,000        National shopping           None
SPR Hatchery             > 350,000        Turnkey contract             All
Consulting Services
Firms                 > 100,000       Selection according to        All
Consultants Guidelines
< 100,000                                  TORs only
Individuals            > 50,000                                     All
< 50,000      __                          TORs only
Grants under the       Up to $50,000      National shopping      Selection criteria
Research Fund                            Lump-sum contracts       only of Research
Institutions
Grants under the TIF   Up to $50,000      National shopping     Selection criteria of
under contracts with   civil society and public
civil society and public    organizations only
organizations    I      _I
* Exemption from prior review does not apply to consultants contracts below the thresholds in cases of: single
source selection of firms, assignments of critical nature, and amendments to contracts raising contract value above the
thresholds.
Disbursement
2.79 All disbursements will be handled by BANCOMEXT. Prior to effectiveness,
signed contractual arrangements between BANCOMEXT and the Government,
acceptable to the World Bank, will be in place. Disbursements would take place over the
six project years (Table 4). The project completion date would be July 1, 2002. The loan
closing date would be December 31, 2002.



38
2.80  The loan would be disbursed against eligible project expenditures at the rates of
(i) 70% for civil works; (ii) 85% for goods; (iii) 51% for the SPR Hatchery; (iv) 100%
for technical assistance, training and studies; (v) 100% for grants for the Research Fund;
(vi) 100% for grants under the TIF; (vi) operating costs for parks at 80% in 2000 and
50% in 2001; (vii) operating costs for SPR Hatchery at 51% in 1999; and (viii)
incremental recurrent costs on a declining basis, 90% in 1997 and 1998, 50% in 1999 and
2000 and 10% thereafter (Annex C).
2.81  Documentation of Expenditures. Disbursements would be made on the basis of
full documentation for all expenditures made under contracts requiring prior review by the
World Bank and amendments to contracts raising the value of such contracts above the
prior review limits (Table 3). For all other expenditures disbursements would be made
against Statements of Expenditures (SOE) for which supporting documents would be
maintained by SEMARNAP and would be available to the World Bank for staff review.
2.82 Special Account. The borrower, BANCOMEXT, would establish a Special
Account (SA) in the Banco de Mexico with an authorized allocation of US $2.5 million,
with an initial deposit of US$ 2.0 million to correspond to estimated project expenditures
during the first four to six months of project implementation. The borrower may not use
funds from the Special Account for expenditures under disbursement categories with
disbursement conditions, until the World Bank has confirmed that the conditions have
been met. As a condition of effectiveness, the Borrower and the Guarantor would sign an
agreement acceptable to the World Bank for the transfer of the loan proceeds. The SA
would be replenished monthly on the Borrower's request (but no less frequently than
every three months), or whenever one third of the authorized amount has been withdrawn,
whichever occurs first.
2.83  Documentation. The DGA  would be responsible for submitting regular
replenishment requests with appropriate supporting documents for expenditures under the
project. The documents would include: (i) a standard withdrawal application (Form 1903)
for the total amount of eligible project expenditures to be replenished into the Special
Account with a copy of the monthly bank statement for that account; (ii) the SOE form
which will provide the summary of category expenditures including grants to communities;
(iii) standard summary sheets (designed for each sub-project and included in the
disbursement letter) and supporting documentation for all expenditures above the
procurement prior review thresholds; and (iv) a reconciliation statement for the SA. The
use of grants by the beneficiaries would be checked through auditing procedures, the
monitoring systems and project supervision arrangements.



39
Table 4
Estimated Schedule of IBRD Disbursements
(US$ million)
World Bank FY    FY98    FY99    FY00    FY01    FY02    FY03
Annual            3.1       4.8      5.3      112       12.6     3.0
Cumulative        3.1       7.9      13.2     24.4     37.0      40.0
2.84  Retroactive Financing. There will be retroactive financing for expenditures for
goods, training, incremental operating costs and technical assistance related to: the
regulatory framework subcomponent; the environment and coastal resources management
subcomponent; institutional strengthening and project coordination; and the establishment
of the AcuaMexico Fund. To qualify for retroactive financing, the expenditures must be:
carried out in accordance with World Bank guidelines; incurred after December 31, 1996;
and less than US$4 million.
Accounts and Audits
2.85  Project Financial Statement and Financial Reporting. Project financial
statements to be prepared by SEMARNAP would include a statement of sources and uses
of funds, and a register of project assets or balance sheet where appropriate. The funds
flow statement would indicate sources (the World Bank, as well as counterpart financing)
and expenditures in accordance with the main project components and disbursement
categories. Project financial statements would show actual and pending payments against
those budgeted.
2.86 SEMARNAP and BANCOMEXT, operating both in its capacity as borrower and
as mandate holder for the AcuaMexico Fund, would maintain separate central accounts
with respect to all project expenditures (Annex C). The state delegations of SEMARNAP
would also maintain separate accounts for project expenditures incurred by them. All
accounts would be subject to SEMARNAP's and BANCOMEXT's internal and external
audits: they would adequately reflect expenditures made for the project, in accordance
with sound accounting practices agreed with the World Bank. Financial documents in
support of disbursement requests would be reviewed by SEMARNAP and
BANCOMEXT before submission to the World Bank.
2.87 A certified copy of the project audit (for both SEMARNAP and BANCOMEXT),
to be done by independent external auditors acceptable to the World Bank and in
accordance with the March 1982 World Bank "Guidelines for Financial Reporting and
Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank," and in line with the November 1991
audit agreement with SECODAM would be submitted to the World Bank not more than
six months after the completion of each Government financial year. The audit report
would include a separate opinion by the auditor on disbursements against certified SOEs
and the Special Account.



40
Implementation Monitoring and Evaluation
2.88 Implementation Monitoring. The SEMARNAP Project Committee together with
the DGA would be responsible for monitoring project implementation. The principal tools
they would use are: (a) implementation, impact and financial indicators as presented in the
PIP; (b) regular meetings of the Project Committee, the Technical Secretariat and the
working committees, (c) regular field visits by DGA staff, (d) the annual operating plan
prepared by the DGA, (e) the DGA database on all proposals funded by the Research
Fund and the Targeted Investment Fund and (f) regular reports from the management
company for the AcuaMexico Fund.
2.89  The DGA would maintain the computerized project monitoring system updated
and issue semestrial monitoring reports presenting the various monitoring indicators that
would be accessible to the borrower and the World Bank. In addition, the DGA would
update the monitoring system every two months to support the internal discussions of the
technical secretariat and the working groups. The DGA also would maintain an updated
computerized database on each proposal funded under the Targeted Investment Fund and
the Research Fund. Similarly, the management company for the AcuaMexico Fund would
maintain detailed indicators on financial, technical and social indicators for each of the
seven AcuaMexico subprojects. The project would install a computerized system of
project monitoring to be maintained by the DGA, which would be operational as a
condition of project effectiveness. These monitoring arrangements are described in the
PIP.
2.90 The Government would provide the World Bank with a semestrial report within 30
days of the end of each semester. The report to the World Bank would include: (a) the
semestrial status report of the financial, physical, and impact indicators; (b) an updated
project logframe (Annex F), (c) a summary of key events and activities that occurred
within the past six months; and (d) a discussion of any problems or concerns with the
project.
2.91   Project Evaluation. External evaluations would be conducted of each project
component by a team of external experts prior to the end of the second full year of project
implementation, which would be a key input into the mid-term review. In addition, there
would be external evaluations of each component in Year Five of the project. The purpose
of the evaluations would be to provide input to SEMARNAP regarding problems to be
addressed and modifications to be made in operating guidelines and project
implementation practices, and to identify progress made and positive experiences that
might be generalized beyond the project. Government would also prepare and review with
the World Bank, not more than six months after the close of the project, a plan for the
future operation of project activities.
2.92  There would also be outside evaluations of activities financed by the AcuaMexico
Fund in Years Two and Three in order to analyze the Fund's ability to address the
particular needs of the park communities and to incorporate the ejidatarios in
management decisions for the particular parks. This evaluation would be carried out by a



41
local group with social sector representation, together with an international firm/university
with social science expertise. The seven above-mentioned evaluation studies are discussed
in the PIP.
World Bank Supervision and Mid-Term Review
2.93  During negotiations, assurances were received that World Bank supervision
would take advantage of three important sets of project reports: (a) the annual work
plan, prepared by component, which would be prepared by SEMARNAP and discussed
and agreed upon with the World Bank September 30 of each year; (b) the semestrial
monitoring reports; and (c) prior to the submission of SOEs, SEMARNAP would provide
the World Bank information about the subprojects and expenditures contained on the
SOE, including sufficient information to allow the determination of project eligibility.
There would be World Bank reviews twice a year, which would focus on: (a) the full set
of impact and implementation indicators; (b) the technical quality, and economic, social
and environmental sustainability of physical investments (parks, SPR hatchery, ICRM pilot
practical exercises and Targeted Investment Fund); (c) procurement, disbursements, and
audit procedures; (d) management of the AcuaMexico Fund, the Targeted Investment
Fund, the practical ICRM exercises, the Research Fund, and the regional diagnostic
laboratories; (e) the extent of social sector participation in the park management and
ownership; and (f) any other issues that may arise.
2.94 During negotiations, assurances were received that there would be a project mid-
term review to analyze the first two years of implementation experience and to confirm
the investment program for the remainder of the project. Input to the mid-term review
would include: (a) the semestrial monitoring reports; (b) the second year evaluation of
each project component; (c) the first independent evaluations of AcuaMexico in project
Year Two; (d) and annual workplans for the first two Project Years. The mid-term review
would assist SEMARNAP and the participating states and agencies, as well as the World
Bank, identify project successes and problems to be addressed and needed modifications
to project procedures and investments for the second half of the project. The mid-term
project review would be held no later than December 31, 1999, according to terms of
reference agreed with the World Bank. Thereafter, SEMARNAP will take all such actions
as agreed with the World Bank for the efficient execution of the project and the
achievement of its objectives.
PROJECT BENEFITS AND ECONOMIC EVALUATION
2.95  Benefits and Beneficiaries. Aquaculture producers, and in particular, social
sector producers would be the primary direct beneficiaries of the project. About 300 social
sector producers would benefit from the aquaculture parks and hatcheries, while
approximately 7,500 economically disadvantaged social sector producers would benefit
from the targeted investment fund. In the case of the aquaculture parks, the project would
provide social sector producers with an opportunity to participate, as investors and
without direct subsidies, in commercial aquaculture. This would be accomplished with the



42
financing structure of the aquaculture parks, and the technical assistance and training to be
provided by the AcuaMexico Management Company and the park management. The
aquaculture parks and hatcheries would also provide employment for social sector
producers and their families (Annex B).
2.96  In the case of the Targeted Investment Fund, economically disadvantaged social
sector producers would expand their involvement in small-scale aquaculture with
investment and technical assistance. This would provide them with additional income,
food and employment opportunities. The institutional strengthening of SEMARNAP and
the park councils would also expand the capacity of the Government and its programs to
attend to the needs of economically disadvantaged producers. Finally, the aquaculture
permitting study would evaluate and facilitate access to aquaculture permits in the current
regulatory framework for aquaculture producers, including economically disadvantaged
and indigenous producers.
2.97  The project would also benefit directly all aquaculture producers via: (a)
investments in key public goods and regulatory framework (Research Fund, diagnostic
laboratories, aquatic health regulations, and aquaculture permitting), which would increase
the productivity of aquaculture, expand the sector's access to attractive urban and export
markets, and reduce the risk of disease epidemics; and, (b) the environmental and coastal
resources subcomponent, which would increase the capacity of the federal and local
governments as well as local interested actors/beneficiaries to address environmental
issues associated with aquaculture.
2.98  Economic Analysis. The economic rate of return (ERR) and the net present value
(NPV) are calculated for each AcuaMexico subproject investment and in addition a
comprehensive ERR/NPV is prepared for all the investments and the SPR shrimp hatchery
(Annex B). The comprehensive ERR/NPV reflects 83% of project costs. In addition to the
park and hatchery investments, it includes the costs of the AcuaMexico Management
Contract; the training and monitoring program, the regional diagnostic laboratory
network, the Research Fund, and the environment and coastal resources management sub-
component. The data was collected using 1994 prices. Prices and costs were adjusted to
reflect 1995 levels, according to whether or not they are a tradeable or non-tradeable or
some combination thereof The analysis assumes constant 1995 prices and expenditures.
The market value of all inputs and outputs is assumed to reflect the economic value. The
base model uses an average exchange rate of 6.5 NP/IJS$. Sensitivity analysis was carried
out to determine the impact of changes in the exchange rate, output prices, and production
on the economic viability of the investments. In addition, the impact of possible
implementation delays, which would affect production levels in Year One and Year Two
of the project were estimated.
2.99  The cumulative base case ERR is 35%  (AcuaMexico subprojects and public
goods) and the base case ERR is 45% (AcuaMexico projects only). Exchange rate
fluctuations have a minimal impact on economic viability, as the benefit of higher output
prices is offset by the higher input prices. Given possible medium-term declines in shrimp
and tilapia prices, the model estimated the impact of a 10% decline in output prices. The



43
latter would reduce the base case ERR (AcuaMexico projects only) to 35%, while a 33%
decline in output prices would drop the base ERR to 12% and cause the NPV to become
negative. Also in light of the volatility of aquaculture production, particularly shrimp, the
model assessed the impact of changes in production levels on the economic viability of the
operations. A 10% decline in production levels for all species brings the base ERR to
37%, while a 39% decline in production brings the base ERR to 12% and causes the NPV
to become negative. The model also tests for the impact of production delays during the
start-up phase of the investments. A 20% reduction in production in Year One coupled
with a 10% reduction in Year Two causes the base ERR to fall to 41%. Finally, a
combined scenario was tested involving a 15% devaluation, a 10% fall in output prices
and start up delays causing output reductions of 20% and 10% in Years One and Two
respectively. This causes the base ERR to drop to 33%.
2.100 Project Sustainability. In the past 15 years, Mexico has undergone two deep
macro-economic upheavals. The 1982 debt crisis catalyzed the adoption of significant
macro economic reforms in the areas of fiscal policy, financial sector reform, exchange
rate policy and trade liberalization. Similarly, the 1995 exchange rate crisis appears that it
will deepen many. of the financial reforms. However, sectoral and micro-economic
reforms have often lagged behind the macro policy changes, partially explaining the limited
response of the economy to the reforms. This project provides a needed impetus for the
Government to push forward some critical sector reforms in the aquaculture and fisheries
sector, thereby putting in place the framework for a fiscally, environmentally and socially
sustainable aquaculture and fisheries sector.
2.101 The regulatory framework and public goods supported by the project provide the
Government and the productive sector with the tools to manage the environmental, public
health and disease risks that have so undermined the aquaculture sectors in other countries
in Latin American and Asia. Moreover, the emphasis placed on finding effective
mechanisms to raise the productivity of the assets owned by low-income and poor
producers and to expand the capacity of the Government to deal with social sector issues
contributes toward rural poverty alleviation, without which sustained and equitable growth
will not be possible in Mexico. Similarly, the importance placed on cost recovery and cost
sharing in the delivery of public goods in the project strengthens the fiscal sustainability of
the Government's aquaculture policy and promotes an efficient allocation of public and
private resources in the sector. In addition, the project's strong support for applied
research (Research Fund and regional diagnostic laboratory network) promotes the
generation of new technology appropriate for the varied aquaculture conditions in Mexico,
providing a significant impetus for long-term growth. Finally, the project puts into place
an institutional framework with well-defined roles for the public and private sector and
with a strengthened government capacity to address the technological, social and
environmental issues that are likely to arise as the sector expands.



44
PROJECT RISKS
2.102 The project is an innovative operation that aims to tackle important social,
technical and environmental issues in a difficult sector. As such, there are risks related to
project design, the overall macro situation in Mexico and the project's institutional
demands. However, project design has been modified to take these into account and to
provide the World Bank and the Government with the opportunity to respond quickly and
flexibly to any issues should they arise.
2.103 The proposed project poses several risks:
(a)    Project Design Risks: (i) social sector investors may lack the capital,
technical and managerial resources to acquire and manage a controlling share of
the park and hatchery corporations; (ii) a disease epidemic could wipe out an
aquaculture park, particularly the shrimp farms; (iii) social and environmental
problems could undermine the effectiveness of and support for the AcuaMexico
subprojects, and (iv) the ability of the AcuaMexico Fund not to become a drain on
the government budget is uncertain as it calls for the creation of a new
Government Fund and its financial health depends upon the successful privatization
of its investments.
(b)    Macro Economic Risks: (i) the economic crisis coupled with past World
Bank experience in Mexico suggest that the project may encounter problems in
receiving sufficient counterpart funds; and (ii) high real interest rates for the
operating costs may make the parks financially not viable.
(c)   Institutional Risk: the limited management capacity of SEMARNAP
could undermine its ability to adequately implenment/supervise the project.
2.104 It is not possible to completely eliminate these risks, but their impact on the project
has been minimized by the following provisions:
(a)    Project Design Risks: (i) SEMARNAP will not sell park shares to the
private sector until the parks are financially viable -- this will give the social sector
investors time to amass the necessary financial resources and will facilitate their
access to credit; moreover, if at the time of privatization, the social sector
investors do not own at least 5 1% of the park corporation shares, the difference
will be placed in an escrow account to allow the investors additional time to
purchase these shares; and finally, SEMARNAP will provide on-the-job and formal
training to the social sector park investors in aquaculture and business management
practices to assist them develop the necessary skills to manage the park
corporations. (ii) The investments in aquatic health, LUCPs, the SPR shrimp
hatchery and the diagnostic laboratories provide new and innovative strategies to
reduce disease risks that, as yet, have not been applied in other countries; in
addition, shrimp park management staff will received specialized training in shrimp
disease; also, the shrimp park will have production insurance, which covers disease



45
epidemics; and finally, the density of shrimp farms in Mexico is much lower than in
other major shrimp producing countries that have experienced diseas epidemics.
(iii) The feasibility studies for each park (including social and environmental
management plans, if necessary), the park councils, the AcuaMexico Management
Company, the park management staff and the social scientist staff of the DGA will
help to identify and address social problems that may emerge. Similarly, the
potential negative environmental impacts will be identified and controlled by: the
feasibility studies and the environmental impact assessments for each park; the
agreement with the Government to drop or modify park design, if a management
plan is too costly or not effective; and, the overall strengthening of the capacity of
federal, state and local government and user groups to address environmental
issues related to aquaculture. (iv) The specific legal charter under which
AcuaMexico will be created does not allow this particular type of fund to have
government staff, consequently, the work of the fund will be carried out by a
Management Company which will have a fixed term contract; moreover, the fund's
operating rules indicate that investments which are consistently not profitable may
be privatized at a loss, which could limit the opportunity for specific investments to
drain the fund's resources.
(b)   Country Specific Risks: (i) The Government and the World Bank can
modify project size as necessary. Moreover, the scope of the project has been
drastically reduced from the first proposed US$670 million (July 1994), which
included 29 aquaculture parks, to US$58.8 million for seven subprojects in order
to reflect reasonable projections on the availability of fiscal resources. (ii) The park
corporations will not borrow operating capital until 1998 at the earliest, and by
that time real interest rates are expected to come down. Moreover, the project will
contribute to the AcuaMexico subproject operating costs in years one and two.
(c)   Institutional Risk: First, SEMARNAP will not be the sole implementor of
the project. A Management Company will be contracted to implement the
AcuaMexico investments and the monitoring and training activities. Second, the
DGA will receive assistance from other areas and agencies of SEMARNAP
through the Project Committee and the working groups. Third, the DGA will
receive institutional strengthening in project management, as well as in
environmental and social issues.



46
3. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
3.1   During Negotiations, the following assurances were obtained:
(a)   the project will be implemented in accordance with the PIP as indicated in
para. 2.70; and
(b)   reporting and review arrangements for the project will be carried out by
SEMARNAP as indicated in paras. 2.93 and 2.94.
3.2   The following are special conditions of effectiveness:
(a)   the DGA is staffed as indicated in para. 2.21, the DGA monitoring system
is operational, and the SEMARNAP Project Committee has been constituted
(para. 2.70);
(b)   signed contractual arrangements between BANCOMEXT and Government
acceptable to the World Bank (para 2.79).
3.3   Prior to disbursements for technical assistance for the AcuaMexico subprojects,
the following documents must be signed by the respective parties and agreed with the
World Bank: (i) the AcuaMexico deed, (ii) the AcuaMexico Operating Rules and (iii) the
AcuaMexico Management Contract (para. 2.50)
3.4   Recommendation. With these agreements and conditions, the project would be
eligible for a single currency fixed rate US Dollar IBRD loan of US$40.0 million.



ANNEXES
Annex A       Environmental Risks and Management Plan
Annex B       Project Economic Analysis and Benefits
Annex C       Project Costs Summary
Annex D       Flow of Funds
Annex E       Lessons Learned from Past Experience
Annex F       Project Logical Framework
Annex G       List of Documents in the Project File
Annex H       Glossary of Terms
Annex I       Aquaculture Production and Marketing in Mexico






Annex A
Page lofli
Environmental Risks and Management Plan
Background
1.     The  Mexico  Aquaculture  Development Project has a  Category  A
environmental rating for the Bank, as some investments occur in or near
environmentally sensitive areas and, in some cases, may involve the permanent
conversion of these areas. A sectoral environmental assessment (SEA) report was
prepared and submitted by the Government to the World Bank. It assesses the
environmental risks associated with the expansion of aquaculture in Mexico,
evaluates the legal and institutional framework to address these risks, and proposes
several project investments to ensure the sustainable development of the sector.1
Preliminary environmental analysis of the specific subproject investments carried-
out during preparation revealed no major environmental risks, with the exception
of the coastal shrimp park. This subproject has a Category A environmental rating
and an environmental assessment study will be carried out as part of the overall
feasibility study, according to terms of reference agreed with the Bank. No major
environmental risks were identified among the three tilapia parks, the rehabilitation
of the abalone and the construction of the pen shell scallop hatcheries, as well as
the construction of a specific pathogen resistant shrimp hatchery. However, an
environmental assessment will also be carried out for these investments as part of
the overall feasibility studies. In addition, the shrimp park, the tilapia parks, the
pen shell scallop hatchery, and the SPR hatchery will have a Mexican
environmental impact study (the rehabilitation of the abalone hatchery will not
require an environmental assessment under Mexican law).
2.     This Annex first summarizes the environmental risks related to the
aquaculture sector and the capacity of the regulatory and institutional framework
to address these issues.  Second, it reviews the specific environmental risks
associated with the subproject investments. Third, it presents the environmental
and coastal resource management subcomponent, which is the management plan
that addresses the issues identified in the SEA and in the prefeasibility
environmental analysis of the specific subproject investments.
I Mark Hardin, "Sectoral Environmental Assessment for the Mexico Aquaculture
Development Project", KBN Engineering and Applied Sciences, Inc., May 1994. The SEA
is based on findings from two missions to Mexico, covering the periods November 29 to
December 11, 1993, and January 23 to February 13, 1994. Extensive interviews with
representatives from key federal agencies, as well as federal and state government offices in
all seven project states were conducted as preparation for the sectoral environmental
assessment. In addition, workshop sessions were held with groups of fishermen and
aquaculturists to discuss environmental quality issues affecting the success and
sustainability of aquaculture in Mexico.



Annex A
Page 2 of 11
Aquaculture and the Environment
3.    Sectoral Environmental Risks of Aquaculture. The impact of most of
Mexico's aquaculture activities on the environment has, so far, been relatively little.
Almost all of Mexico's aquaculture production is from rural grow-out ponds and
inland water bodies, which have very little impact on the environment. Almost all
of the limited negative impacts of aquaculture in Mexico relate to semi-intensive
shrimp farming, which remains a relatively recent and limited activity.  The
potential negative effects of aquaculture on the environment are outlined below, as
well as an assessment of the relative importance of each issue in Mexico:
(a)   Displacement of coastal mangrove estuaries by shrimp ponds, with
consequent loss of ecosystem production, was a serious problem in
many countries during the 1960-1970s.  This has not been a
significant problem in Mexico, in light of Mexico's land use
regulations and as the discovery of mangrove soils' poor suitability
for aquaculture in the 1980s. Moreover, most shrimp farms are
located in areas where there are few mangrove forests: 83% of
Mexico's 15,600 ha of shrimp farms are in the states of Sinaloa and
Sonora, which have only 17% of the country's mangrove forests.
(b)   Alteration of local hydrology due to construction of pond dikes,
access roads and the dredging of water supply channels has
occurred in some cases due to the construction of agriculture farms.
The extent to which such problems are associated with aquaculture
is relatively limited, given the recent introduction of industrial
aquaculture in Mexico.
(c)   Eutrophication  from  pond  water effluent discharged  during
drainage or routine exchange can enrich receiving waters, resulting
in local degradation in water quality and loss of ecosystem function
and diversity. This occurs primarily when there is a high density of
shrimp farms in areas with restricted hydrology. There have been
no studies associating shrimp farm effluent with local water quality
degradation, and no mention was made of the problem in numerous
interviews. This could change as the density of farms on coastal
lagoon systems increases, as the latter are characteristically plagued
with restricted hydrology.  Mitigating this threat is Mexico's
recognition of the problem that Ecuador and Honduras have
experienced, and the observed tendency towards master-planning
regional shrimp farm development.
(d)   Eutrophication from waste feeds may arise near large cage-culture
and net-pen culture operations that are sited in areas of
hydrologically restricted water exchange. Again, this issue has not



Annex A
Page 3 of 11
emerged yet in Mexico on any significant scale, given the relatively
recent introduction of cage aquaculture.
(e)    Aquaculture may endanger vulnerable wildlife.   For example,
capture fishing in inland reservoirs (restocking aquaculture) with
gill nets has entangled and drowned american crocodiles
(Crocodylus acutus) in one known reservoir in Mexico.2  Other
examples are the overfishing of pen shell scallop and abalone along
the Pacific coast in Mexico.
(f)    The introduction of exotic species such as tilapia may displace
native organisms by direct competition or the introduction of new
pathogens. Tilapia were widely introduced to Mexico in the 1 960s
and 1970s, and now occupy every watershed in the country.
Artificial reservoirs account for 97% of the freshwater in Mexico,
and 100% of these reservoirs have established populations of
tilapia. Though endemic aquatic species have been negatively
affected by the introduction of tilapia, the major trauma occurred
decades ago, and the surviving endemic species have long
established an equilibrium state with the new species.
4.     Environmental Risks for Aquaculture Development. Aquaculture is
also influenced by the quality of the surrounding environment:
(a)    Water contamination from  agricultural chemicals is a particular
concern in Chiapas and Sinaloa. Fertilizers seem to be the most
problematic in Mexico. Mexico is in the process of phasing out the
most persistent organochlorine pesticides to organophosphorus
pesticides that have less environmental impact.
(b)    Deforestation  and  erosion  of  watersheds  results  in  the
sedimentation of river and estuarine channels and connections to
open water. Chiapas and Oaxaca are experiencing high rates of
2 According to the International Union for the Conservation of Nature's (IUCN) 1994
"Red List of Threatened Animals," C. acutus are considered "vulnerable" throughout a
range that includes the Pacific coast from Mexico to Ecuador, as well as the Atlantic
drainage from Guatemala to Florida. According to IUCN terminology, "vulnerable"
indicates that a species could become endangered unless present trends are reversed. Data
on worldwide numbers of C. acutus are virtually nonexistent due to their occurrence in
isolated populations over a wide geographic range. Mexican law classifies C. acutus as a
"special management" species within the INE's four-tiered rating system, a status that
allows captive propagation for conservation purposes. Finally, the International
Commission on the Trade in Endangered Species (CITES) includes the species in their
Appendix 1, indicating a categorical prohibition on commercial trade in products derived
from wild animals (i.e., products from cultivated animals may be allowed).



Annex A
Page 4 of 11
erosion from deforestation or conversion of permanent tree crops
to other types of agriculture in upper watersheds.
(c)   Reduction in freshwater inflow to estuaries, as a result of damming,
degrades coastal water quality and coastal morphology. This has
occurred in most coastal states of Mexico.
(d)   Contamination of residual waters with domestic sewage is an
important problem in the coast of the Gulf of Mexico. The Pacific
coast is also beginning to experience sewage pollution problems in
certain areas, but the situation is less critical at the moment. Bivalve
shellfish quality has been severely degraded, particularly in
Veracruz and Tamaulipas.
(e)   Toxic effects on fisheries of fugitive oil contamination from
petroleum extraction and transportation in coastal areas,
particularly in Veracruz, has led to reduced populations and
degraded quality of shellfish and shrimp.
(f)    Entrainment at thermal power plant cooling intakes has led to the
destruction of large numbers of juvenile aquatic forms.
5'.    Regulatory and Institutional Framework. To address the above issues,
the GOM has taken several key steps to mitigate the impact of aquaculture on the
environment. First, it revised the General Law on Ecological Equilibrium and
Environmental Protection (LGEEPA) in  1996.   This law  and associated
regulations obligate SEMARNAP (previously SEPESCA) to the sustainable
management of aquatic flora and fauna, and makes fNE responsible for the
evaluation of the environmental impact of fishery and aquaculture activities.
Second, the Attorney General's Office for Environmental Protection (PROFEPA)
was created within the past three years to assure compliance with EA conditions
and federal government regulations.  This agency has jurisdiction over most
aquaculture operations, and is backed by fairly powerful legal authority.
6.    Third, the "Single Window" system was created in 1990 to address the
administrative complexity of the permitting process for fisheries and aquaculture,
which may involve up to 20 separate reviews, authorizations or permits from
different agencies. The new system made the Subsecretariat of Fisheries the only
point of contact between the project promoter and government in the procurement
of all permits. Fourth, the Subsecretariat of Fisheries and INE have initiated a land
use capability planning (LUCP) program for the nation's coastal zones. The
LUCPs provide an apriori indication on the natural vocation and preferred use of
coastal lands, including aquaculture. An operational LUCP should facilitate the
environmental assessment process for aquaculture investments, helps regional and
local planners avoid the siting of non-aquaculture operations that may harm or be



Annex A
Page 5 of 11
harmed by aquaculture, and if properly designed with local input, an LUCP can
avoid social conflicts associated related to the introduction of aquaculture. Under
the direction of INE, SEMARNAP has thus far undertaken LUCP baseline studies
in six states, including five of those proposed in the Aquaculture Development
Project.
7.    Despite these significant institutional and policy advances, several problems
hinder their full and satisfactory implementation:
(a)   Principal constraints to the effectiveness of the environmental
assessment methodology developed under LGEEPA include a
serious backlog in the evaluation of EA reports by INE's office in
Mexico City, a lack of personnel to review the EA reports, a lack of
field review of projects by INE reviewers, and unclear requirements
for data in the EA format.
(b)   PROFEPA has been preoccupied with monitoring the most serious
environmental problems in the country and has been able to give
aquaculture development relatively little attention.
(c)   The  single  window  program  remains  quite  lengthy  and
cumbersome, reportedly requiring up to 30 months from initiation
to completion in some cases. Evaluation of permit documents is
often delayed due to the geographic dispersion of agencies and the
simple need to physically relay the body of documents from one
office or region to another.
(d)   Present LUCP methodology, although identifying mangroves as a
forest category, neither distinguishes between the various classes of
forest (i.e., dwarf/sparse vs. high/dense), nor classifies intertidal
mudflats. Despite the recognized value of these areas, Mexico does
not have a comprehensive inventory of either habitat type for those
regions where the potential for shrimp farm development is
greatest.  The lack of such information can limit effective
monitoring and planning of these valuable ecosystems (mangroves
and mudflats) in the face of intensified coastal aquaculture.
Moreover, community participation needs to be incorporated into
the design and upkeep of these plans to ensure their sustained and
full implementation. Finally, funding is not available to implement
the LUCP program in all states with aquaculture potential.
(e)   Mexico does not have a coastal management policy or program.
Little attention has been given to an integrated approach that would
network the responsibilities of the many federal and state agencies,
charged with governing coastal ecosystems. The many issues and
groups affected by the transformation of coastal lagoons due to



Annex A
Page 6 of 11
changes in fresh water inflows, overfishing, dredging, and the
manipulation of inlets and sedimentation, require a participatory
approach to coastal resource management.
Direct Environmental Impacts of Project Activities
8.    The majority of the environmental risks related to project investments are
linked to the shrimp aquaculture park, San Andres. This park is located on pasture
lands and playons (elevated mud flats). The principal environmental issues will be
the planned use of exotic species in culture operations (P. vannamei) and a
significant need for dredging to improve lagoon water quality.
9.    Three areas on the Laguna San Andres lagoon shoreline are considered as
sites for the San Andres Park. Two sites are on the south and north sides of the
mouth of the Rio Tigre, and the third is near the municipality of La Presita. The
San Andres lagoon is subject to a tidal amplitude of less than 60 cm, and the
shoreline is in fact more prone to flooding from wind rather than tidal action. The
intertidal zone throughout the lagoon is accordingly narrow, ranging from
approximately 200 to 500 m, and has the sparse cover of dwarf Avicennia,
Sesuvium, Salicornia, and Sporabola ssp. and other holophytic vegetation that
characterizes poorly inundated areas. Just inland of the intertidal zone, the flat
coastal plain has either been converted to pasture land or left with the native
thorny scrub composed chiefly of huisache, mesquite or ebony (Acacia, Prosopis,
and xx spp. respectively). Given the abundance of flat uplands with clay soils,
shrimp farm construction can avoid the intertidal wetland fringe (with the
exception of the effluent and intake canals).
10.   The principal environmental issue with the three tilapia parks is the use of
tilapia spp, a non-endemic specie, in the cage culture operations located on inland
reservoirs. The introductions will take place in relatively new reservoirs that show
little resemblance to natural, freshwater aquatic community structure or species
composition and where tilapia are already present. An additional environmental
problem that could arise in the tilapia reservoirs is the risk of eutrophication, as
excess feed and waste contribute to the organic load of the parent water body. In
addition, the project will support the rehabilitation of an abalone hatchery and the
construction of a pen shell scallop hatchery, and a shrimp specific pathogen
resistant hatchery. These subprojects present no major environmental problems,
although an environmental assessment will be prepared for each investment project
as part of the feasibility study, and there will be an Mexican environmental impact
study after the detailed engineering design, except in the case of the abalone
hatchery, which is a rehabilitation project.



Annex A
Page 7 of 11
Environmental and Coastal Resources Management Subcomponent
11.   The overall objective of the environment and  coastal resources
management subcomponent is to strengthen environmental policy for aquaculture
and to avoid any potential negative effects due to the sector's expansion and the
specific subproject investments.   To strengthen environmental policy for
aquaculture the proposed project aims to: (a) decentralize environmental decision-
making to the state and community levels; (b) increase participation of community
groups, the private sector and civil society organizations in the design and use of
tools for environmental decision making; (c) expand the availability of high quality
data for environmental monitoring of aquaculture and other activities that occur in
fragile coastal lands; and (d) promote an integrated approach to the management
of coastal resources. To meet these objectives, the project will support one coastal
resource management pilot, improved evaluation and planning procedures for
aquaculture, and monitoring of coastal wetlands and water quality.
Integrated Coastal Resource Management Pilots
12.   The objective of the integrated coastal resource management (ICRM) pilot
in the Lagoon Tamiahua in Veracruz is to develop innovative approaches for
integrated and participatory ICRM at the local and state levels. This area faces:
over harvesting and gear conflicts in coastal and lagoon fisheries; and water
circulation and quality problems, aggravated by past dredging and breachway
construction, coastal flooding, loss of mangrove ecosystems, urban development
and water pollution. Oyster culture and lagoon fisheries dominate the lagoon area.
13.   The ICRM pilot aims to resolve resource use conflicts, identify appropriate
utilization of coastal systems, and to demonstrate practical, participatory methods
for applying the existing framework of environmental decision making (land and
shore use planning, environmental impact assessments, one-stop permitting, and
law enforcement). To achieve these objectives, the pilot will:
(a)   Prepare and formally adopt a site-specific ICRM plan. The plan will
guide case-by-case decision making, as well as stimulate restoration
and conservation initiatives. To develop the plan the project will
provide technical assistance, workshops and training.
(b)   Test new  policies, procedures and management practices by
sponsoring "practical exercises" in community based coastal
resources management and by providing matching grants to
communities and user groups to implement priority elements of the
ICRM plans.
(c)   Develop and disseminate tested tools for managing lagoons and
their associated ecosystems, which will be a key input into the
ICRM plan. A lagoon model will be developed to assess lagoon



Annex A
Page 8 of 11
conditions and predict changes to the ecology over time, and an
ecological lagoon history will be prepared using scientific and
technical reports, census data, the LUCP study and interviews with
long-time resource users and elders, newspaper files and historical
records. The report will document how people have used the
coastal ecosystem over time, track trends in the productivity and
conditions of the system, and provide the social and environmental
context for current issues and potential solutions. Portions of the
plan will serve as addenda to the existing regional development
plans and state and local ordinances.
(d)   Provide sustained public education programs to create awareness
and interest in the resource management issues and the new
management initiatives (annual outreach strategy, press releases,
organization of public meetings to discuss ICRM outputs,
coordination with other public and private environmental groups).
(e)   Carry out regular water quality monitoring in the lagoon.
Environmental Planning and Assessment
14.   To  strengthen the capacity of SEMARNAP  to  address potential
environmental issues related to aquaculture, the project would reinforce two
existing planning and assessment programs for aquaculture: Land Use Capability
Program (LUCP) and environmental impact assessments (EAs).
15.   Land Use Capability Program. The program would develop land use
capability plans for Veracruz and Baja California Sur, the only two project states
currently lacking LUCP plans. The studies would be carried out in accordance
with the methodology approved by INE and SEMARNAP, and would include
public participation in their design and implementation. The input of local business
leaders, government, universities, and coastal resource user groups would be
sought to define the issues and review the draft LUCP documents, including the
policy recommendations. To develop these plans, the project would support:
technical assistance, materials, workshops, and LUCP publications for Veracruz
and Baja California Sur.
16.   Environmental Impact Assessments. This activity would improve the
quality of INE's environmental assessments for aquaculture by developing criteria
and guidelines for EA preparation specific to aquaculture with the provision of
technical assistance, workshops and materials.



Annex A
Page 9 of 11
Monitoring of Coastal Wetlands and Water
17.   To identify the impact of aquaculture on the management and quality of
coastal resources, the project would support a baseline inventory and repeated
monitoring to develop the needed quantitative and descriptive databases of critical
coastal wetlands and lagoon water quality.
18.   The coastal wetlands program would inventory wetlands in Veracruz,
Sinaloa, Nayarit, Tamaulipas and Chiapas, as these states have the largest
mangrove forests. The inventory would produce photographs, transparencies,
atlases, digitized information, and maps. The project would cover the costs of the
technical assistance and the production and dissemination of the final information
products (procurement and processing of images) for each state. The inventories
would be carried out at the start of the project (Years One and Two) and would be
repeated at the end of the project (Years Five and Six).
19.   The coastal water quality program would initiate, on average quarterly
assessments of coastal water quality and would demonstrate the value of
monitoring to potential local consumers of such information. Water quality
monitoring would be carried out in Sinaloa and Nayarit, the states with the most
significant water quality problems, and in Tamaulipas to provide baseline and on-
going water quality data in conjunction with the implementation of the San Andres
Shrimp Park. In each of these states, one coastal lagoon would be selected for the
program via a two-step participatory process. Following an initial review of
relevant research to identify problem areas, a state-level workshop would be
conducted, in which local fisheries and environmental agency personnel,
aquaculturalists, civil society organizations and other interested actors in
environmental quality would identify the targeted lagoon system. The output
would include a regional atlas that interprets water quality trends and geographic
information system-type database files. Funds would be provided for technical
assistance, publication and dissemination.



Annex A
Page 10 of 11
SECTORAL ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES AND MANAGEMENT PLAN
Etwim nme~a   RikLqlC~s                                                                        int/                              Projot~
Fraiwmwork                      Li~~mitation
Hydrological Modification                   -Forestry Law                               -Insufficient Baseline Data                 -Wetlands Inventory
(indirect wetlands degradation)           -General Environmental Law                  -EA methods                                  -EA strengthening
* Environmental Assessment (*)                 not specific on issue                       guideline Development
-Specific Environmental Law                 -EA application                                  decentralization
* Mangrove Protection (*)                     lack of EA field review                      OD 4:01
Wetlands Conversion                         -Forestry Law                               -Insufficient Baseline Data                 -Wetlands Inventory
(Direct)                                   -General Environmental Law                   -EA Methodology                             -EA strengthening
EA (*)                                   -Lack of EA field review                        guideline Development
LUCP                                     -Insufficient LUCP coverage                     decentralization
-Specific Environmental Law (*)             -LUCP methodology                               OD 4:01
mangrove protection                                                                  -LUCP extension  (to BCS & Vc)
protected areas                                                                      -LUCP methodology (participation)
-International Treaties (*)
Migratory birds
RAMSAR
NAWCC
-INE institutional policies
* priority wetlands list
Eutrophication                              -Water Law (CNA enforcement)                -Insufficient baseline Data                 -Support of Park concept
-Environmental Law                          -EA methodology                             -Water quality monitoring
I EA (*)                                                                               -EA methodology
-Fisheries Law (-)                                                                          guidelines development
Predator control                            -Environmental law (t*)                     -lack focus on the issue                    -Best Practices
-Wildlife/Hunting laws (SAGAR)              -lack of knowledge
Seed Capture                                -Fisheries Law (*)                          -Awareness                                  -Training
* INP supervision                                                                      -Best Practices
Introduction of Exotics                     -Fisheries Law (*)                          -EA application                             -EA strengthening
-Environmental Law (*)                                                                  -Training and monitoring
-EA
(*) denotes enforcement by PROFEPA



Annex A
Page 11 of 11
Subproject Environmental Issues and Management Plan
Potential Envirormental Issues                                                          Management
General Iasuea                                     a. Project to supports EAs for each park that will include Bank review,
a.    siting and construction impacts (hydrology and wetlands)                             and extensive analysis of hydrological parameters and wetlands issues.
b.    Organic loading from pond discharge water                                        a.  San Andres Park to be sited on non-wetland area.
c.    Increased capture of wild seedstock and incidental by-catch                      b.   Park concept allows master planning of discharge canals such that maximum
destruction                                                                           dilution and minimal impact occurs.
d.    Predator control operations may impact aquatic birds                             b.   Nutrient loading will be modeled during EA.
e.    Cultivation of tilapia in cages in inland reservoirs could threaten              c.  SPR hatchery is supported to minimize wild seed capture.
endemic species
d.  Training and Best Practice Manual will focus predator control away from most
specie, and emphasize non-lethal methods.
e.  Since tilapia is well established throughout Mexico, little increase is anticipated
in long-term standing fish stocks, and the stocking will occur in artificial
environments; the incremental environmental risk posed by these projects is
considered to be very small
San Andre- (Tamaulipas)                                                         a. EA preparation team will ensure development of exotic species management plan.
a.  use of exotic species in culture operations                                          a. Pacific white shrimp have already been accidentally introcuced along Gulf coast
(P. vannamei)                                                                            from Texas-based culture facilities.
b.Significant need for dredging to improve lagoon water quality.                         b. LA preparation team will ensure dredging impacts are adequately addressed.
Tilapia Parka  (reservoir)                                                      a. Large size of most impoundments ensures minimal organic loading and risk of
a. Contribution of organic load to parent waterbody from excess feed                        eutrophication.
and wastes.
b. Use of exotic culture species.                                                        b. Tilapia is already established in all Mexican reservoirs and watersheds.
c. Viua/astetcderaatonfomflatngcgeadenc. Low use for 'scenic" tourism or residential communities minimizes significance
c. Visual/aesthetic degradation from floating cages and pens.I                              of aesthetic impacts of cage culture in reservoirs.






Annex B
Page 1 of 5
Project Economic Analysis and Benefits
1.    This Annex presents the economic rate of return (ERR) and net present value (NPV) for
the AcuaMexico subprojects. It also identifies incremental production, employment, and major
project beneficiaries.
Economic Analysis
2.    ERRs and NPVs are calculated for each of the seven AcuaMexico subprojects. In
addition, a comprehensive ERR and NPV is calculated for the seven subprojects, which also
includes the cost of the permitting study, the environment and coastal resources management
subcomponent, the research fund, the regional diagnostic laboratory network, the training and
monitoring program  and the management contract for the AcuaMexico Fund.   This
comprehensive ERR/NPV reflects 83% of project costs. Most of the data was collected using
1994 prices. Prices and costs were adjusted to reflect 1995 levels, according to whether or not
they are a tradeable or non-tradeable or some combination thereof The analysis assumes constant
1995 prices and expenditures. The market value of all inputs and outputs is assumed to reflect the
economic value.
3.    The base model uses an average exchange rate of 6.5 NP/US$. The domestic inflation rate
is assumed to be 40% for 1995. Sensitivity analysis was carried out to determine the impact of
changes in the exchange rate, output prices, and production on the economic viability of the
investments. In addition, the impact of possible implementation delays, which would affect
production levels in Year One and Year Two of the Project were estimated. Shrimp and PLs are
assumed to be fully tradeable, while only 30% of the tilapia is assumed to be tradeable (the
remainder is not of an sufficient export quality). The abalone and pen shell scallop spat are non-
tradeables as well as the depurified oysters. Appendix Table I presents the net present value
(NPV) (in millions of NP$) and the economic rate of return (ERR) for each scenario. The
production and cost assumptions are shown in Appendix Table 2. The detailed farm models are in
the project file (Annex G).
The base case ERRs are 45% (AcuaMexico subprojects only) and 35 % (including other
public goods). Exchange rate fluctuations have a minimal impact on economic viability, as the
benefit of higher output prices is offset by the higher input prices. Given possible medium-term
declines in shrimp and tilapia prices, and the uncertain price of abalone and pen shell scallop spat,
the model estimated the impact of a 10% decline in output prices. The latter would reduce the
base ERR to 35% (for the AcuaMexico subprojects), while a 33% decline in output prices would
drop the ERR to 12% and cause the NPV to approach zero. Also in light of the volatility of
aquaculture production, particularly shrimp, the model assessed the impact of changes in
production levels on the economic viability of the operations. A 10% decline in production levels
for all species brings the ERR (for AcuaMexico subprojects) to 37%, while a 39% decline in
production brings the ERR to 12% and causes the NPV to become negative. The model also tests
for the impact of production delays during the start-up phase of the investments. A 20% reduction
in production in Year One coupled with a 10% reduction in Year Two causes the ERR to fall to
41%. Finally, a combined scenario was tested involving a 15% devaluation, a 10% fall in output



Annex B
Page 2 of 5
to fall to 41%. Finally, a combined scenario was tested involving a 15% devaluation, a 10% fall in
output prices and start up delays causing output reductions of 20% and 10% in Years One and
Two respectively. This causes the cumulative ERR to drop to 33%.
Incremental Production
4.     Table C. I compares the national estimated production of shrimp and tilapia in 2005 with
and without the project (calculated using the average 91-94 growth rate). Overall, the incremental
contribution of the project to production is small, less than 1% for tilapia and shrimp. However, it
is not clear that the 1991-94 growth rate for shrimp is sustainable, although the sector has
significant potential. Similarly, the incremental impact of the project on tilapia is small due to the
importance of this species in Mexican aquaculture (46% of total production). The contribution of
the SPR shrimp hatchery is also estimated to be relatively small (7%). However, this facility is
included in the project to provide as a model for the SPR technology and to catalyze other
private/social sector hatcheries to adopt this technology. The hatcheries to produce abalone and
pen shell scallop spat will be the first of their kind in Mexico.
Table C. l: Incremental Project Production (metric tons)
National                National  Incremental
National  Production w/o   Project   Production  Increase due
Production   Projecta    Production  with Project  to Project
Product              1994        2005         2005       2005
Shrimp (tons head   15,509      923,914      2,185      926,099      0.2%
on) 
Tilapia (in tons)   81,490      105,780       895       106,675      0.9%
Shrimp
(in millions of PL)  875         2,496        173        2,669        7%b
a. Based on average 1991-94 growth rates for shrimp and tilapia. The 1991-94 average growth rate was 45% for
shrimp and 2.4% for tilapia.
b. Assumes that PL production increases at 100/o/year.



Annex B
Page 3 of 5
Beneficiaries
5.      The project would benefit 7,810 low  income and poor aquaculture producers via
investments in the aquaculture parks and the TIF and via the training programs. The project
would create a total of 139 permanent employment positions with the majority from the
aquaculture parks. Table C.4 provides a summary of these beneficiaries.
Table C.2: Beneficiaries
1        3         1      l Pen Shell      1
Indicator       Shrimp   Tilapia   Abalone     Scallop       SPR      TIF b/   Total
Park     Parks   Hatchery    Hatchery    Hatchery
Employment
Generated (# of    80      20         7          12          20         n/a     139
jobs created) a/
Direct            250      60        n.a.        n.a     owners SPF
Beneficiaries (#                                           company    7500
of people) c/                                            plus shrimp   7       7,810
producers
who
purchase the
SPR PLs
n.a. Data not available.
a. Defined as number of jobs created in the management and operation of each park or hatchery.
b. Assumes 150 TIF proposals for an average of US$40,000 will be funded with an average of 50 direct
beneficiaries per contract.
c. Expected number of social sector investors.



Annex B
Page 4 of 5
Appendix Table C.1:
Base Option (1)  Production                          Exchange Rate                          Output Prices                Implementation    Scenario (3)
Plus 10%       Minus 10%       15% Depreciation       15 % Appreciation    Plus 10 %        Minus 10%    Delays (2)
San Andres Shrimp Park
NET PRESENT VALUE AT 12 %           116,735,192    142,353,740      91,116,644            138,699,852           94,770,532      148,476,593    84,993,791       111,305,058   96,792,976
ECONOMIC IRR (%)                            49             56              41                     50                   46               58           39                 45          38
Cerro De Oro Tilapia Park
NET PRESENT VALUE AT 12 %             2,507,465      3,915,055       1,099,875              2,098,286            2,916,644        3,915,055    1,099,875         2,074,250      201,264
ECONOMIC IRR (%)                            39             55              24                     33                   47               55           24                 31          14
Vincente Guerrero Tibpia Park
NET PRESENT VALUE AT 12 %             2,507,465      3,915,055       1,099,875              2,098,286            2,916,644        3,915,055    1,099,875         2,074,250      201,264
ECONOMIC IRR (%)                            39             55              24                     33                   47               55           24                 31          14
El PortMio Tigapia Park
NET PRESENT VALUE AT 12 %             2,507,465      3,915,055       1,099,875              2,098,286            2,916,644        3,915,055    1,099,875         2,074,250      201,264
ECONOMIC IRR (%)                            39             55              24                     33                    47              55           24                 31           14
Panta Eugenia Abalone Hatchery
NET PRESENT VALUE AT 12 %             5,581,248      7,721,197       3,441,299              3,970,324            7,192,172        7,721,197    3,441,299         4,761,873    1,092,937
ECONOMIC IRR (%)                            35             45              26                     27                   46               45           26                 30          16
Pen Shell Scallop Hatchery
NET PRESENT VALUE AT 12 %             7,514,353      9,646,503       5,382,203              7,769,256            7,259,449       9,646,503     5,382,203         7,072,978    5,031,194
ECONOMIC IRR (%)                            31             35              26                     29                   32               35           26                 29          23
SPR Hatchery Facility (shrisp
PL)
NET PRESENT VALUE AT 12 %            13,066,929     16,643,917       9,489,941             15,236,173           10,897,686       16,643,917    9,489,941        12,081,622   10,102,843
ECONOMIC IRR(%)                             45             54              35                     45                   43               54           35                 40          32
ADl AcuaMexico Subprojects
NET PRESENT VALUE AT 12 %           146,734,422    184,492,636     108,976,208            167,810,553          125,658,292     190,615,489   102,853,355       137,622,972  109,245,492
ECONOMIC IRR (%)                            45             53              37                     45                   44               54           35                41           33
AcuaMexico Subprojects and public
goods (4)
NET PRESENT VALUE AT 12 %           107,257,926    139,954,729      74,561,124            123,793,977           90,721,875     145,176,791    69,339,061        98,282,092   72,134,706
ECONOMIC IRR (%)                            35             42              28                     36                   34               43           27                32           25
(1) Base option assumes 1995 constant prices; 6.5 NP/US$ exchange rate and 40 percent inflation rate (the latter is assumed to be 40 percent of the depreciation/appreciation of the NP).
(2) Implementation delays refers to a 20 percent production loss in year I and a 10 percent production loss in year 2.
(3) Scenario assumes a 15 % depreciation, a 20 % and 10 % implementation delay in year I and 2, respectively, and a 10 % decline in output prices.



Annex B
Page 5 of 5
Appendix Table C.2: Production and Cost Assumptions for Economic Analysis
All tilapia in  Pen Shell    Punta         SPR Shrimp
Indicator                 San Andres        cages (b)        Scallop      Eugenia       Hatchery
Species                   Shrimp            Tilapia         Pen Shell     Abalone Spat  SPR PL
Scallop Spat
Production Area (ha)a     800                100 cages (6.5   N/A         N/A           N/A
M3 each)                                                  I
Investment Costs 1995     85.9               1.4            7.1             8.5          11.2
million NP$
Operating Costs 1995     38.5               2.2             2.0             1.9          2.0
million NP$ (a)
Output Price              36.4 NP/kg         8.4 NP/kg      293 NP/ha    5.2 NP/000    41 NP/000
restocked
Crops/Year(&)            2                  2               20,000 Ha       1             12
restocked
Stocking Densities (a)   17                  1 80/m3        N/A             n/a          n/a
Survival Rates (a)       60-75% variable    85% after 50g   N/A             n/a          40%
(after nursury pond)
Yield                    2.73 mt/ha/yr      459/kg/m3       N/A           600,000       173 million PLs/
kg/yr/spat
Feed Conversion Ratio     1.8:1              1.8:1          N/A            N/A          N/A
a. At full production.
b. Includes Cerro de Oro, El Portillo, Vincente Guererro.






Annex C
Page 1 of 9
Components Project Cost Summary
(NS '000)                    (USS '000)
%       % Total
Foreign     Base
Local    Foreign      Total     Local   Foreign    Total   Exchange   Costs
A. Regulatory Framework and Public Goods
1. Regulatory Framework
Aquaculture Pemiittmg                                    2,003 1    2,219 5     4,222 6    253 6     280 9    534.5          53         1
AquacultureRegulationsPrograrn                            624.9    1,6163      2,241 2     791      204.6    283.7          72        1
SubtotalRegulatoryFramework                                 2,6280    3,8358      6,4638      3327     485.5    818.2           59        2
2. Environment and Coastal Resources Management
Integrated Coastal Resources Management Pilot            3,160 4   17,908.9    21,0693     4001   2,2670   2,667.0           85        5
MonitoringofCoastal Wetlands and WaterQuality           13,935 6          -    13,935 6   1,764.0        -   1,764.0           -       3
Environmental Planning and Assessment                    4,935 1          -     4,935 1    624.7         -    624.7                     I
Subtotal Environment and Coastal Resources Management      22,031 1   17,908 9    39,940 0   2,788 8   2,267.0   5,055.7        45       10
3. Public Goods
Research Fund                                            8,769.0          -     8,7690   1,1100          -   1,1100            .       2
Regional Diagnostic Laboratory Network                   7,231.3   19,608.2    26,8395     915.4   2,482.0   3,397.4         73        7
Subtotal Public Goods                                      16,0003    19,608.2    35,608 5   2,0254   2,482.0   4,507.4         55        9
4. Project Coordination and
Institutional Strengthening                               19,407.2    1,152.5    20,559 8   2,456.6    145 9   2,602.5          6        5
Subtotal Regulatory Framework and Public Goods                60,066 6   42,505 4   102,572 0   7,603 4   5,380.4  12,983.8       41        25
B. Social Sector Development
1. Aquaculture Production
Parks and Laboratories                                 194,103.1   20,812.4   214,9156  24,570.0   2,634.5  27,2045          10       53
Targeted Investment Fund                                43,888 5          -    43,888 5   5,555,5        -   5,555.5           -      11
Subtotal Aquaculture Production                           237,9916   20,812.4   258,8040  30,125 5   2,634.5  32,760.0           8       64
3. Institutional Development
AcuaMexico Fund                                          5,003 4   28,352.7    33,356 2    633.3   3,589 0   4,222 3         85        8
TrainingandMonitornng                                   10,653.9      470.1    11,1240   1,348.6      59.5   1,408.1          4        3
Subtotal Institutional Development                         15,657.4   28,8228    44,4802   1,981 9   3,648.5   5,630.4          65       11
Subtotal Social Sector Development                          253,6489   49,6352   303,284.2  32,107.5   6,282.9  38,3904            16       75
Total BASELINE COSTS                                         313,715 6   92,140.6  405,856 2  39,710 8  11,663.4  51,374 2         23      100
Physical Contingencies                                     14,583.3    1,956.9    16,5403    1,846.0    2477   2,0937           12        4
Price Contingencies                                       189,697.0   44,439.9   234,1369   4,394.3    8969   5,2912            17       10
Total PROJECT COSTS                                          517,9959  138,537.4   656,5333  45,951 1  12,8080  58,759.1           22      114
Table C.1



Annex C
Page 2 of 9
Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Summary
(NS '000)                   (USS '000)
%      % Total
Foreign    Base
Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign   Total   Exchange   Costs
1. Investment Cosb
A. Civil Works                                      120,571.0        -  120,571.0  15,262.2       -  15,262.2          -        30
B. Turnkey Contract                                   9,020.2   9,020.2   18,0404   1,141.S   1,141.S   2,283.6       50         4
C. Goods
LabEquipment                                       3,271.4  18,538.1   21,809,5    414.1   2,346.6   2,760.7       85         5
Office Equipment andPublications                     418.4    104.6      523.0     53.0      13.2     66.2         20         -
Furniture                                            177.8        -      177.8     22.5         -     22.5           -        -
Computers                                          2,445.8  2,445.8    4,891.7    309.6    309.6    619.2          50         1
Subtotal Goods                                        6,313.4  21,088.5   27,401.9    799.2  2,669.4   3,468.6        77         7
D. Vehicles                                            711.0         -      711.0     90.0        -      90.0           -
E. Consultants and Technical Assistance
International Consultants                         10,863.0  61,557.1   72,420.1   1,375.1   7,792.0   9,167.1      85        18
Local Consultants                                 28,967.3      4.7   28,972.1   3,666.8      0.6   3,667.4          -        7
Subtotal Consultants and Technical Assistance        39,830.3  61,561.8  101,392.2   5,041.8  7,792.6  12,834.5       61        25
F. ResearchFund                                      11,925.1        -   11,925.1   1,509.5       -   1,509.5          -         3
G. PTIF                                              43,888.5        -   43,888.5   5,555.5       -   5,555.5          -        11
I. Training and Workshops
Intemational training                                 83.0    470.1      553.0     10.5      59.5     70.0         85         -
Local training                                     6,173.1             6,173.1    781.4         -    781.4           -        2
Subtotal Training and Workshops                       6,256.0    470.1    6,726.1    791.9     59.5    851.4           7         2
I. Land                                              15,800.0        -   15,800.0   2,000.0       -   2,000.0          -        4
Total Investmnent Costs                                254,315.5  92,140.6  346,456.1  32,191.8  11,663.4  43,855.2      27       85
L Recurrent Costs
B.OperatingCostsforParks                             49,797.7        -   49,7977   6,303.5        -   6,303.5           -       12
C. Operating Costs for Laboratories                   1,794.9        -    1,794.9    227.2        -    227.2                     -
D. Incremental Recurrent Costs                        7,807.6             7,807.6    988.3        -    988.3           -         2
Total RecurrentCosts                                   59,400.1        -   59,400.1   7,519.0        -   7,519.0          -       15
Total BASELINE COSTS                                   313,715.6  92,140.6  405,856.2  39,710.8  11,663.4  51,374.2      23       100
Physical Contingencies                               14,583.3   1,956.9   16,540.3   1,846.0    247.7  2,093.7        12         4
Price Contingencies                                 189,697.0  44,439.9  234,136.9   4,394.3    896.9   5,291.2       17        10
TotalPROJECTCOSTS                                      517,995.9 138,537.4  656,533.3  45,951.1  12,808.0  58,759.1      22       114
Table C.2



Annex C
Page 3 of 9
Project Components by Year -- Totals Including Contingencies
(US$ '000)
Totals Including Contingencies
1997       1998      1999       2000       2001       2002       Total
A. Regulatory Framework and Public Goods
1. Regulatory Fromework
AquaculturePermitting                                       564       3068       959        1161          -          -       575.1
Aquaculture Regulations Program                            62.5       66.1       68.0       70.0       37.9          -      304 5
Subtotal Regulatory Framework                                119.0      372 9      163.9      186.0       37.9                 8 879.7
2. Environment and Coastal Resources Management
Integrated Coastal Resources Management Pilot              541 1      556.8     573.0      589.6      606 7                2,867.2
Monitoring of Coastal Wetlands and WaterQuality            2141       3361       304.0     753.8      3025           -    1910 6
Environmental Planning and Assessment                      227.8     245 9       66.8       56.6       58.2          -      655 3
Subtotal Environment and Coastal Resources Management        9829      1,1389      9438      1,400.0     967.5                5,4332
3. Public Goods
Research Fund                                              225.2      231.8     2385       2454       252.5          -    1,193.3
Regional Diagiostic Laboratory Network                     693.7     677.2      723.4      778.5      954.0                3,826.8
SubtotalPublicGoods                                          918.9      9089       961.9    1,023.9    1,206.5          -    5,020.1
4. Project Coordination and
Institutional Strenthening                                  616.9      546 5      554.5      538.1      551.6          -    2,807.6
Subtotal Regulatory Framework and Public Goods                2,6377     2,967 2    2,624.1    3,148.1    2,763.5         -   14,1406
B. Social Sector Development
1. Aquaculture Production
Parks and Laboratories                                   2,648 7    1,587 6    1,593.2    9,493.6   12,407.1    4,639.8   32,369 9
TargetedInvestmentFund                                     1860      522.0    1,014.5    1,965.1    2,445.4                6,132.9
Subtotal Aquaculture Production                             2,834.7    2,109 5    2,607.7   11,458.7   14,852.5    4,639.8   38,502.8
3. Institutional Development
AcuaMexico Fund                                           507.3    1,043.9    1,133.9    1,007.1      859.4          -    4,551.6
Traimngand Monitorng                                        89.4     216.0      857.8      193.8      207.1          -    1,564.1
Subtotal Institutional Development                           596.6    1,2599      1,991.8    1,200.8    1,066.5              6,1157
Subtotal Social Sector Development                            3,431.3    3,369.4    4,599.4   12,659.5   15,919.1    4,639.8   44,618 5
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                 6,069.0    6,336 6    7,223.5   15,807.7   18,682 6    4,639.8   58,759.1
Table C.3



Annex C
Page 4 of 9
Expenditure Accounts by Years -- Totals Including Contingencies
(US$ '000)
Totals Including Contingencies
1997       1998       1999       2000        2001       2002        Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                                           -           -      5067      8,9344     9,365.0          -    18,806.2
B. Tumnkey Contract                                  1053      1,206.5    1,3453           -           -          -    2,657.1
C. Goods
Lab Equipment                                     420.2       548 1      626.7       682.9      862.5          -    3,140.4
OfficeEquipmentandPublications                      29.1       194        11.3         6.5        6.7          -        72.9
Fumiture                                            16.0          -          -         8.7          -          -        24.7
Computers                                          315.7      110.8      111.4       130.6       12.4          -       681.0
Subtotal Goods                                       781.0       678.3      749 4      828.7       881.6          -    3,919.0
D. Vehicles                                           63.9        32 9          -          -                      -        96.8
E. Consultants and Technical Assistance
Intemational Consultants                         1,436.9    2,271.7    1,9314      2,222.2    2,008.9          -    9,871.1
Local Consultants                                  735.7      864.9      652.4    1,071.1       612.5          -    3,936.6
Subtotal Consultants and Technical Assistance       2,172.6    3,136.6    2,583.8    3,293.3    2,621.4           -    13,807.7
F. Research Fund                                     244.9       278.8      347.2      368.4       391.8          -     1,631.2
G. PTIF                                              186.0       522.0    1,014.5    1,965.1     2,445.4          -    6,132.9
H. Training and Workshops
Intemational training                                 -           -       75.2           -          -          -        75.2
Local training                                     118.8      243.9      183.8       126.6      165.0          -       838.1
Subtotal Training and Workshops                      118.8       243.9      259.0      126.6       165.0          -      913.2
I. Land                                             2,191.3          -          -          -           -          -    2,191.3
Total Investment Costs                                5,863.9    6,098.9    6,805.8   15,516.4   15,870.4            -   50,155.4
11. Recurrent Costs
B. Operating Costs for Parks                             -           -      152.3          -    2,499.3    4,639.8      7,291.4
C. Operating Costs for Laboratories                   49.0        51.7       52.9       48.3        41.5          -       243.3
D Incremental RecurrentCosts                         156.1       186.0      212.5      243.0       271.4          -     1,069.0
Total Recurrent Costs                                   205.1      237.7       417.6      291.3    2,812.2    4,639.8    8,603.7
Total PROJECT COSTS                                    6,069.0    6,336.6    7,223.5   15,8077    18,682.6    4,639.8   58,759.1
Table C.4



Annex C
Page 5 of 9
Expenditure Accounts by Financiers
(US$ '000)
Local
IBRD             GOM             Productive Sector       Total               For.      (Excl.   Duties &
Amount   %       Amount       %       Amount    %        Amount    %         Exch.      Taxes)    Taxes
A. Civil Works                         12,495.1  664       5,976.4    31 8       3346    1 8    18,806.2   32.0            -   15,985.3   2,820.9
B. SPRHatchery                          1,355.1  51.0         0.0        -      1,3020  490       2,657.1    4.5      1,328.6    930.0      3986
C. Goods
Equiprnent                            3,329.2  84.9       589.8    15.1            -     -     3,919.0    6.7      3,024.4     306 7     587.8
SubtotalGoods                           3,329.2  84.9       589.8    151             -            3,9190     67      3,0244      3067       5878
D. Vehicles
I Vehiclesandboats                         -     -         96.8   1000            -      -        96.8    0.2           -       823       145
Subtotal Vehides                              -     -        96.8   100.0            -      -       96.8    0.2            -       82 3      14 5
E. Technical Assistance                10,542.3  85.0      1,860.4    15.0           -      -    12,402.8   21.1     6,774.3    3,768.0   1,860.4
F. Technical Assistance forParks        1,6168  85.0        285.3    15.0            -      -     1,9021     32       1,616 8        -      2853
G Training                                725.8  85.0        128.1    150                   -       8539     1 5        639       661 9     128 1
HL Grants
1. Research Fund                       596.7  500            -        -       596.7  50.0      1,193.3    2.0           -    1,014.3     1790
2. PTIF                              4,599.7  75.0          0.0       -      1,533.2  25.0     6,132.9   10.4           -    5,213.0     919.9
Subtotal Grants                         5,196.3  70.9         0.0        -      2,129.9  29.1     7,326.2   12.5           -   6,227.3    1,098.9
L Operating Cost
Operatingcosts for PARQUES            2,999.3  50.0         0.0       -      2,9993   50.0     5,998.6   102            -    5,0988      8998
OperatingCostsforLabs                      -     -          00        -      1,383.9  100.0    1,3839     24            -    1,1763      2076
OperatingCostsforSPRHatchery            777  51.0             -       -         746   490        1523     03            -      1295       228
Incremental recurrent costs            545.7  51.0        523.3    49.0           -      -     1,069.0    1 8                  908.6     160 3
Subtotal Operating Costs                3,622.7  42.1       523.3      6.1      4,457.8  51 8     8,603.7   14.6           -    7,313.2    1,290.6
J. Land                                       -     -           -        -      2,191.3  100.0    2,191 3    3 7           -    1,862.6     328 7
Total                                   40,033 4  662      9,460.1    16.1     10,415.6  177    58,7591   1000       12,808.0  37,137.2    8,8139
Table C.5



Annex C
Page 6 of 9
Components by Financiers
(US$ '000)
Local
IBRD            GOM        Productive Sector    Total          For.    (Excl.  Duties &
Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount  %   Amount  %               Exch.   Taxes)    Taxes
A. Regulatory Framework and Public Goods
1. Regulatory Framework
Aquaculture Permitting                                   488.9  85.0      86.3  150          -    -    575.1   1.0   302.7    186.2         86.3
AquacultureRegulationsProgram                            258.8  85.0      45.7  15.0         -    -    304.5   0.5    216.8       42.0      45.7
SubtotalRegulatoryFramework                                 747.7  85.0     132.0  15.0         -    -    8797    1.5    519.5    228.2    132.0
2. Environment and Coastal Resources Management
Intepated Coastal Resources Management Pilot           2,437.1  85.0    430.1   150          -    -  2,867.2   4.9  2,437.1          -    430.1
MonitoringofCoastalWetlandsandWaterQuality              1,624.0  85.0    286.6  15.0         -    -  1,910.6   3.3         -   1,624.0    286.6
EnvironrnentalPlanningandAssessment                      557.0  85.0      98.3  15.0         -    -    655.3   1.1         -    557.0       98.3
SubtotailEnvironmentandCoastalResourcesManagement    4,618.2  85.0          815.0  15.0         -    -  5,433.2   9.2  2,437.1   2,181.0    815.0
3. Public Goods
Research Fund                                            596.1  50.0         -      -    596.7  50.0  1,193.3   2.0        -   1,014.3    179.0
RegionalDiagnosticLaboratoryNetwork                    3,045.9  79.6    537.5  14.0    243.3  6.4  3,826.8   6.5  2,816.0    436.8    574.0
SubtotalPublicGoods                                       3,642.6  72.6     5375   10.7    840.0  167   5,020.1   8.5  2,816.0   1,451.1    753.0
4. Project Coordination and
Institutional Strengthening                              1,939.3  69.1     868.3  30.9         -    -  2,807.6   4.8    157.2   2,229.3    421.1
Subtota RegulatoryFrameworkandPublicGoods                   10,947.8  77.4   2,352.8   16.6    840.0  5.9  14,140.6  24.1  5,929.9   6,089.6   2,121.1
B. Socel Sector Development
1. Aquaculture Production
ParksandLaboratonries                                 18,213.6  56.3   6,114.0  18.9  8,042.3  24.8 32,369.9  55.1  2,945.4  24,569.1   4,855.5
Targeted InvestmnentFund                               4,599.7  75.0       0.0      -  1,533.2  25.0  6,132.9  10.4        -   5,213.0    919.9
SubtotalAquacultureProduction                           22,813.2  593   6,1140   15.9  9,575.6  24.9 38,502.8  65.5  2,945.4  29,782.0   5,775.4
3. Institutionl Development
AcuaMexicoFund                                         3,868.9  85.0    682.7   150          -    -  4,551.6   7.7  3,868.9          -    682.7
TrainingandMonitoring                                   1,253.5  80.1    310.6  19.9         -    -  1,564.1   2.7      63.9   1,265.6    234.6
Subtotal Institutional Development                        5,122.3  83.8    993.4  16.2                   6,115.7  10.4  3,9328   1,265.6    917.4
Subtotal Social SectorDevelopment                           27,935.6  62.6   7,107.4  15.9  9,575.6  21.5  44,618.5  75.9  6,878.1  31,047.6   6,692.8
Total Disbursement                                          40,033.4  662    9,460.1  161  10,415.6  17.7 58,759.1  100.0  12,808.0  37,137.2   8,813.9
Table C.6



Annex C
Page 7 of 9
Local/Foreign/Taxes by Financiers
(US$ '000)
IBRD                      GOM                 Productive Sector               Total
Amount          %         Amount    %              Amount           %         Amount          %
I Foreign                        12,808.0      100.0             -          -               -          -        12,808.0       21.8
II. Local (Excl. Taxes)          27,225 4       70.2       3,602.7        9 7         7,459.2       20.1        37,137.2       63.2
III Taxes                               -          -       5,8574        66.5         2,956.4       33.5         8,813.9       15.0
Total Project                       40,033 4        66.2       9,460.1       16.1       10,415.6        17.7       58,759.1      100.0
Table C.7



Annex C
Page 8 of 9
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ Million)
Procurement Method
International         Local
CompetiUve        Competitive       Ial           Direct        Consulting
Bidding           Bidding       Shopping    Contracting        Services      N.B.F.       Total
A. Civil Works                                     -             17.3         1.5                -              -           -        18.8
(11.4)       (I1)                                                  (12.5)
B. SPR Hatchery /a                               2.7                -                                                                 2.7
(1.4)                                                                                (1.4)
C Goods /b                                       2.8              0.7         0.4                -              -           -         3.9
(2.4)           (0.6)        (0.3)                                                   (3.3)
D Vehicles and boats                               -                -           -                -              -         0.1         0.1
E Technical Assistance                             -                -           -              0.4           13.9           -        14.3
(0.4)         (11.8)                  (12.2)
F. Training                                        -0.9                                                         -                     0.9
(0.7)                                  (0.7)
G. Grants
Research Fund                                   -                -           -                -             1.2          -          1.2
(0.6)                   (0.6)
PTIF                                            -                -           -                -            6.1           -         6.1
(4.6)                   (4.6)
H. Land                                            -                -           -                -              -         2.2         2.2
1. Reciurent Costs                                 -                -           -              7.1              -         1.5         8.6
(3.5)                     (0. 1)       (3.6)
Total                                            5.5             18.0          1.9             8.4            21.2        3.8         58.8
(3.8)          (12.0)        (1.4)           (4.6)          (17.0)      (0.1)      (40.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IBRD
\a Turnkey contract
\b Equipment, furniture and publications.
Table C.8



Annex C
Page 9 of 9
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
IBRD
(US$ '000)
Disbursement
Loan Amount                         %
A. Civil Works                                      11,200.0                         70.0
B. Goods /a                                         3,000.0                          85.0
C. SPR Hatchery                                     1,200.0                          51.0
D.Technical Assistance                              9,500.0                          100.0
E. Technical Assistance for Parks                   1,500.0                          100.0
F. Training                                          700.0                           100.0
G.Grants
1. Research Fund                                  500.0                           100.0
2. Targetted Investments Fund                     4,100.0                          100.0
H. Recurrent Costs
1. Operating Costs Parks                          2,700.0                80% in 2000 and 50% 2001
2. Operating Costs for SPR Hatchery                100.0                        51% in 1999
90% in 1997 and 1998, 50% in 1999
3. Incremental Recurrent Costs                     500.0               and 2000, 10% in 2001 and 2002
Unallocated                                         5,000.0
Total                                               40,000.0
Loan arnounts financed by IBRD
\a Equipment, furniture and publications
Table C.9






Annex D
Page 1 of I
Project Flow of Funds
EXTERNAL FUNDS                                                    FEDERAL FUNDS                                                          OTHER FUNDS
I                     I                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Producers, Commercial
I                     I  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ak,Research
World Bank                                                   SHCP - SEMARNAP                                                          InstRutions, etc.
AcuaMexico Programs
[   ACUAMEXICO      16[SEMARNAP
Investment and Operating Capital
(Parks, Hatchenes,                                            General Directorate of Aquaculture
Training and Monitonng)                                   - Aquaculture Permitting
Aqu
_Oro-.                                             - Aquatic Health
San Andres                                                                                           Producers local communities and
- Pilot ICRM Project (with Veracruz)        9    ---government
Punta Eugenb                                     - Coastal Inventory and Monitonng
Cerro de Oro                                    - Environmental Planning and Assessment
El Porto                                        Regional Diagnostic Labs                              University and Other Labs
Vincente Guerrero                                 - Research Fund                             .4         Research institutions
-Project Coordination and Institutional
SPR Hatchery                                     Strengthening
Penn Shel Scao,o Hatchen                              - Targeted Investment Fund (with states)   4 -     Producers/civil society/public institutions
Producers (Land and Capital)
Commercial Banks (Operating Costs)






Annex E
Page lof 11
Lessons Learned from Past Experience
Aquaculture Development
1.    Background. Since the first fishery project in 1964, the Bank has supported
97 projects involving fisheries, totaling US$616.5 million in Bank loans. Of these
projects only 35 focused on fisheries; in the other projects, fisheries development was
just a component. By 1984, when the first review of Bank experience in fisheries was
done, aquaculture components amounted to 10% of overall Bank lending for fisheries;
there were eight closed and ongoing projects with an aquaculture component and only
two had aquaculture development as the main target. Aquaculture has grown
significantly in recent years as has Bank involvement in the activity. At present, there
are more than ten ongoing projects financed by the Bank promoting aquaculture
development. All Bank aquaculture projects are in Asia, reflecting the fact that 80% of
the reported world cultivated fish output in 1987 came from Asia, 12% from Europe
and 8% from Latin America and Africa.
2.    In general, all projects have similar components: (a) off-farm  public
infrastructure for the construction or rehabilitation of embankments, canals, reservoirs,
water control structures, and other facilities to supply farms with fresh water; (b)
credit lines to farmers to finance on-farm infrastructure (e.g. minor canals, ponds,
pumps, etc.); (c) credit lines to private firms or to public firms for support facilities,
especially hatcheries, feed mills, and marketing services (ice plants and cold storage);
and (d) institutional support, technical assistance and training for project and
government agencies' staff and beneficiaries (Annex Tables F. 1 and F.2).
3.    Lessons Learned.  The Operations Evaluation Department (OED) work
"Review of Bank Experience with Fisheries Development" (1984) found that the
overall performance of the Bank's fisheries portfolio had been poor; 46% of the
completed fisheries projects were judged by OED audits to have failed to achieve their
major objectives. Although there is no specific reference to aquaculture, the report
offers good lessons for fisheries projects, which may also be applied to aquaculture
investments. Almost all problems encountered could be attributed to administrative
and managerial weaknesses in the implementing agencies; weak project concept and
design; low technical, extension, and other staff recruitment; and the lack of a coherent
Bank approach to the sector due to a shortage of in-house fisheries technical staff.
4.    As mentioned, Bank experience with aquaculture projects is limited, most
aquaculture projects are at appraisal or at implementation, and only two projects are
completed: the Inland Fisheries Project implemented in India from 1980 to 1989 and
the Fisheries Credit Project implemented in Indonesia from 1974 to 1981. Their PCRs
highlight important lessons learned during implementation.



Annex E
Page 2 of 11
5.    The Inland Fisheries Project was highly successful in reaching its objectives
according to the PCR. Incremental carp production surpassed 220,000 mt (appraisal
target was 200,000 mt). The ERR was 65% and exceeded the appraisal estimate
(42%), mainly due to higher than expected producer prices. The project also resulted
in important employment generation for over 200,000 people and benefits for lower
income groups, and contributed to the foundation of a new fish seed industry.
Nevertheless, project implementation was delayed due to poor public hatcheries
design, shortage of technical staff in the implementing agencies as well as in the Bank,
and failure to recognize the private sector role.
6.    The Indian project had an unsuitable design of hatcheries that produced
problems in finding adequate sites for them and delayed construction. Once the poor
design was evident, the Bank was rigid in accepting modifications to the original
design. Finally, when the hatcheries were ready, they were large and difficult to
manage, especially as there was not enough trained and experienced staff Private
sector investors with technical help from the government compensated for the bad
performance of the public hatcheries and ensured the overall success of the project.
7.    Private entrepreneurs' involvement in the project was not considered at
appraisal, but when public hatcheries' failure delayed aquaculture development, the
government was glad to technically support investors interested in this profitable
activity with adequate size and good management. The private sector also performed
extremely well in other areas not included in the project that were not government
supported, such as feed production, ice production, cold storage, and other support
activities and marketing services.
8.    At appraisal, the Government of India considered a subsidy to cover 25% of
investment and first year inputs cost for the poorest farmers. Later, during
implementation, the government tried to ensure the fastest possible development of
aquaculture. It decided to extend the subsidy to every farmer, not only the poorest,
and to cover any cost or investment, not just the 25% considered at appraisal. The
cost incurred for this subsidy had a negative effect on the government's budget and
farmers could take up fish farming without any equity. It is doubtful whether it was
necessary to promote aquaculture to such extent given the industry's relatively high
profitability.
9.    The Fisheries Credit Project implemented in Indonesia from 1974 to 1981 also
provides some good lessons. Contrary to the previous example, production was less
than estimated due to insufficient credit. Individual loan amounts were insufficient to
cover the cost of the necessary improvements. Consequently, farmers could not reach
the expected technical requirements to ensure a high production.
10.   Cost recovery of the Indonesian project was poor due to low fishpond
productivity (para. 9); farmer's lack of understanding of long-term loans; and most of



Annex E
Page 3 of 11
the farmers spent their money in other needs and used poor climatic conditions and
other excuses for non payment. To ensure a good cost recovery an automatic
mechanism of deduction from farmers' fish sales was introduced in a later aquaculture
project in Indonesia (Annex Table F. 1)
11.   Summarizing, nearly all the most serious problems faced by aquaculture
projects, as well as fisheries projects (para. 3), reflect inadequate technical preparation
and weaknesses in the implementing agencies, mainly because there was not
experience promoting aquaculture and a shortage of specialized and experimented staff
in the area. The Bank also suffered from similar weaknesses, and lacked a coherent
approach to the sector and sufficient fisheries technical staff. Lessons learned from
previous projects suggest an extensive preparation and a realistic evaluation of
technical and administrative capacity of national fisheries agencies. For projects
introducing a new technology in a country a pilot phase or small-scale initial phase
should be considered. Finally, participation and involvement of the private sector
should be encouraged. Private investors have been extremely successful and helpful
involving in support activities and marketing services.
12.   Lessons from Previous Experience with Fisheries in Latin America Latin
America and the Caribbean amounted to only 10% of the Bank fisheries lending. When
the OED reviewed Bank experience in fisheries development, the region had no
project under active consideration. The Bank has not financed any aquaculture project
in the region. The report cites the following important lessons from fisheries projects
implemented in the Latin American region: (a) with proper legislation and the right
incentives, a strong private sector can emerge; (b) the private sector should be
involved in project design and implementation; and (c) special attention should be
focused on effectiveness of legislation and soundness of pertinent policies and
institutions concerning the sector.
13.   In 1992, a Bank paper, "Strategy for Fisheries Development," cautions Latin
American governments and producers from over-specializing in one or two high value
export species, such as shrimp and oyster. The risk is that producers will become too
exposed to international price trends. In contrast, aquaculture farmers in Asia produce
a variety of fish for the domestic market and are less vulnerable to international price
fluctuations.
14.   Three agricultural projects implemented in Mexico have had a small fisheries
components. The projects covered many different activities, such as livestock,
agriculture, fruits, forestry, agro-industries, etc. Fisheries was, in each of the projects,
a small component (about 1% of the total project cost). The fisheries components
financed: off-shore facilities, such as docks and repair shops; marketing services, cold
storage, ice plants and refrigerated trucks; and training courses and extension
activities. In general the projects were judged over ambitious and too dispersed.
Coordination among the numerous agencies involved was more difficult than
expected. The performance of the fisheries components were unsatisfactory. Major



Annex E
Page 4 of 11
problems were a weak appraisal design and a lack of technical assistance. Most of the
equipment financed was repossessed by the National Fisheries Bank (BANPESCA), or
became inoperative due to poor maintenance. There also were many complex social
problems regarding fisheries rights, as under the old Fisheries Law only cooperatives
and ejidos were allowed to exploit the highest value species.
15.   A report for USAID on the socioeconomic development of the shrimp industry
in Honduras highlights that steps must be taken to address the social problems caused
by converting common resources into concessions for private gain. Local people were
denied to access to those areas used as common resources for hunting, fishing and
firewood collection that were given in concession for shrimp culture to private fans.
Coastal Areas Management
16.   There has been no Bank lending specifically for coastal area management in
Latin America and experience in other regions is limited (Annex Table F.3). There are
two projects now at appraisal in Africa. First, these projects concentrate on the
creation or strengthening of existing governmental environment agencies through staff
development, training, provision of facilities, and funds for studies. Second, the
projects support the development of environmental information systems, which
includes the collection, interpretation and presentation of data, in such areas as, land
ownership, topographic conditions, meteorological information, etc. Third, they seek
to promote public awareness and environmental education through electronic media,
print campaigns, etc. Finally, they include pilot programs to improve environmental
resources management with the participation of local governments and communities.
17.   The Latin America and the Caribbean Technical Department has proposed the
following recommendations after studying some cases in the Caribbean: (a) set-up an
effective coastal zone management agency in each country; (b) include environmental
concerns and studies in the early stages of project development; (c) various studies are
often necessary to understand the natural system and thus design the most appropriate
and cost effective solution. The study also gives recommendations on the most
important functions of a coastal area management agency. They are: environmental
planning and permit regulation; monitoring of coastal systems; environmental
awareness and education; and legislation, surveillance, and enforcement of legislation.
18.   Finally, some Asian agencies' have done case studies on Coastal Area
Management Programs (CAMPS) in Southeastern Asia. This work highlights several
constraints to the successful implementation of CAMPS.
The Ministry of Science, Technology and Environment, Kuala Lumpur; Johor State Economic
Unit Planning, Johore Bahru, Malaysia; and International Center for Living aquatic Resources
Management, Manila, Philippines.



Annex E
Page 5 of 11
a. Interagency rivalry. Agencies feel threatened by losing authority or budget,
if many are involved.
b. Ineffective law enforcement. Bureaucracy, insufficient trained manpower
and budget are main reasons for this constraint.
c. Lack of political will. The inability to obtain support of political leadership
makes it difficult to implement CAMPs. Political leaders
should view CAMPs as programs that provide long- term
solutions to multiple-use resource conflicts.
d. Lack of alterative livelihoods. Many inhabitants of coastal areas who are
heavily dependent on coastal resources lack any other way
to earn a living.
e. Insufficient budget and institutional capabilities. A smaller geographical
area for CAMP implementation has a greater chance of
success, especially when funding is a major constraint.



Annex E
Page 6 of 11
Table F.1: Background Information on Projects with Significant Aquaculture Components
Project           Shrimp and Fish Culture        Coastal Land Development        Fisheries Support Services        Inland Fisheries Project
Country           India                          China                           Indonesia                         India
SAR Date          1991                           1988                             1986                             1979
Total Project Cost   US$ 95 million              US$ 217 million                 US$ 41 million                    US$ 67 million
Bank Loan         US$ 85 million                 US$ 100 million                 US$ 24.5 million                  US$ 19 million
Components and    - Construction of off-farm and  - Aquaculture development,     - Off-farm infrastructure         - Construction of government
Share of Total    on-farm facilities (61%)       construction of ponds hatcheries,    rehabilitation (40%)         owned and managed hatcheries
Project Cost      - Line of credit to entrepreneurs   ice plants, feed mills, cold storage,  - On-farm facilities improvement  (16%)
for hatcheries, feed mills, ice  etc. (77%)                    (47%)                            - Line of credit for farmers to
plants, and other support     - Animal husbandry development,   - Training and technical assistance    improve on-farm facilities (32%)
facilities (18%)              breeding stocks, on-farm facilities,  on hatcheries (2%)          - Subsidy for on-farm facilities
- Line of credit to farmers for  feed mills, market facilities, etc  - Line of credit to a private firm to    improvement and first year inputs
first year inputs (9%)        (12%)                            improve cold storage and ice     (48%)
- Project management, training,    - Agricultural development,  production (2%)                 - Training centers and technical
extension, and technical support   establishment of fruit and nuts  - Restructuring of a public fisheries   assistance (4%)
tbr project staff and beneficiaries   production and support facilities    firm, technical development and
(12%)                         (6%)                             support, and coastal zone pilot
- Aquaculture animal husbandry,    project (a suitable institution
and agriculture technology      provides inputs and poor fishermen
development and extension (5%)    labor) (7%)
Economic Rate of   30%                           Aquaculture 30 to 45%, animal   26%                               42% in SAR, 65% at evaluation
Return in SAR                                    husbandry 28 to 43%, agriculture
16 to 25%
Cost Recovery     Credits on comnmercial         Farmers, entrepreneurs and state    Farmers would repay through   Hatcheries through commercial
basis;other components full cost   enterprises would pay loans  automatic deduction from fish sales,  operation; subsidies were not
recovery through leasing      according to schedules determined   private firms on conmmercial basis,   recovered
by local governments; extension  no cost recovery on the other
and training through service fees    components



Annex E
Page 7 of 11
Table F.1: Background Information on Projects with Significant Aquaculture Components (Cont.)
Project            Shrimp Culture                   Freshwater Fisheries             Third Rural Credit                 Fishenies Credit
Country            Bangladesh                       China                            China                              Indonesia
SARDate            1985                             1986                             1987                               1983
Total Project Cost   US$ 36.7 million               US$ 198 million                  US$ 340 million                    US$ 16.8 million
Bank Loan          US$ 22 million                   US$ 60 million                   US$ 170 million                    US$ 6.5 million
Components and    - Embankmnents and water control   - Construction and improvement of  - Aquaculture development,     - Provision of boats and other
Share of Total     structures and hatcheries for    existing off-farm facilities, ponds,   construction of ponds hatcheries, ice   goods for a public enterprise and
Cost               demonstration and commercial     canals, water controls, etc. (70%)    plants, feed mills, cold storage, etc.   fishermen's cooperatives (28%)
purposes (39%)                   - Construction of hatcheries, feed    (10%)                        - Construction of support
- Line of credit for farmers for on-   mills and other support facilities  - Livestock development, breeding    facilities such as ice plants, and
farm facilities (24%)            and marketing services like cold    stocks, on-farm facilities, feed mills,  cold storage (40%)
- Line of credit to private      storage (29%)                    market facilities, etc (16%)      - Line of credit to farmers for
entrepreneurs for hatcheries, feed    - Training and technical assistance   - Agricultural development,  improvement of ponds and other
mills, ice plants, etc. (8%)     for farmers (I%)                 establishment of fruit, rubber, tea,    facilities for shrimp culture
- Institutional strengthening and                                 and support facilities (33%)      (32%)
technical assistance (29%)                                        - Agro-processing development,
fruit, rubber, tea, meat, and oilseeds
processing plants (40%)
- Training and technical assistance
for farmers (1%)
Economic Rate of   27%                              28%                              24%                               24% for the aquaculture
Return in SAR                                                                                                          component in SAR, 29% at
evaluation
Cost Recovery      Full cost recovery through       Farmers, entrepreneurs and state    Farmers, entrepreneurs and state  Farmers and cooperatives would
licensing fees and export tax    enterprises would pay loans      enterprises would pay loans       repay according to schedules
according to schedules determined   according to schedules determined    coordinated with harvest, public|
by local governments; extension  by local govermnents; extension and   enterprise through commercial
and training through service fees    training through service fees  operation



Annex E
Page 8 of 11
Table F.2: Economic and Social Benefits and Environmental Impact on Projects with Significant Aguaculture Components
Project            Shrimp and Fish Culture           Coastal Land Development       Fisheries Support Services     Inland Fisheries
Country            India                             China                          Indonesia                      India
Economic Benefits   Increase in shrimp production    Increase in production of      Increase in shrimp and skipjack    Increase in carp production
shrimps, levier, minks, goat,  production
ducks, fruit, and nuts
Poverty Alleviation   Higher incomes for 14,200 families   Increase in living standards of  Creation of 4.3 million man-  Creation of 4,000 full-time jobs
from the poorest sections of the  115,000 families              day/year employment            and 10,000 part-time jobs
population
Environmental      - Revegetation with mangroves to  - The project would not affect  - Support coastal fisheries   Reduction of unutilized water
Effects            compensate necessary removal      wildlife                       intensification rather than the  bodies which are breeding grounds
- Monitoring wild shrimp seed    - Agro-processing plants' design    creation of new ponds to preserve  for mosquitoes that carry malaria
collection and training on shrimp  would include waste control  the habitat of many wild species
and fish conservation                                           - The pilot component will be
- Construction of sluices gates for                             carried out with sound
effective water management                                      environmental procedures
- Test of shrimp flesh for potential
contamination from heavy metals
and other contaminants from near-by
industries
Implications for   - Join ownership of ponds by      The input and marketing service   The input and marketing service   Not indicated in SAR
Women              husband and wife would be required  industries would provide     industries would provide
- The input and marketing service  extensive labor opportunities for   extensive labor opportunities for
industries would provide extensive    women                     women
labor opportunities for women
Implications for   NA                                NA                             NA                             NA
Indigenous Groups                                                                 I



Annex E
Page 9 of It
Table F.2: Economic and Social Benefits and Environmental Impact on Projects with Significant Aquaculture Components (Cont.)
Project             Shrimp Culture                    Freshwater Fishenes            Third Rural Credit               Fisheries Credit
Country             Bangladesh                        China                          China                            Indonesia
Economic Benefits   Increase in shrimp production    Increase in fish production     Increase in production of tea,   Increase in fish and shrimp
rubber, fruit, meat, fish, and other   production
products
Poverty Alleviation   Increase in living standards of 3,700   Creation of 16,800 temporary  Creation of 326,000 full-time  Creation of 750 full-time
families and employment generation  jobs and 6,600 full-time     permanent jobs                   permanent jobs
permanent jobs
Environment Effects  Elimination of salt water from   No adverse effects on          Improvements to reduce erosion   Not indicated in SAR
agricultural land                 environment
Implications for    Not indicated in SAR              Not indicated in SAR           Not indicated in SAR             Not indicated in SAR
Women
Implications for    NA                                NA                             NA                               NA
Indigenous Groups



Annex E
Page 10 of 11
Table F.3: Background Information on Coastal Zone Management Projects
Project         Egyptian Red Sea Coastal and Marine Resource Management        Environmental Resource Management
Country         Egypt                                                          Ghana
SAR Date         1992                                                          1992
Total Project   US$ 5.73 million                                               US$ 35.9 million
Cost
Bank Loan       Grant                                                          US$ 18.1 million
Components      - Preparation of the Coastal Zone Management Plan              - Strengthening of existing institution: human resources development,
and Share of    - Development of government agencies to evaluate, regulate, and  environmental education, collection and monitoring system development (62%)
Total Project   monitor the impact of coastal area development, staff training, and  - Introduction on a pilot basis of improved land and water management to reduce
Cost            facilities                                                     land degradation with participation of local governments and communities
- Development of facilities to monitor and enforce marine pollution  (18%)
control                                                       - Demarcation of five coastal areas for seabird habitat conservation,
- Promote training and public awareness                       development of a Wetland Management Unit, inventory and monitoring oh the
ecology, study of forms of development preserving environment, construction of
a marine out-fall sewage (20%)
Econoznic Rate   NA                                                            NA
of Return I
Economic and    - Allocate resources and promote policies for sustainable economic  - Improve management of environmental resources, improve availability of
Social Benefits   development and income generation from tourism, oil, fishing, and  information required to make decisions, better understanding of environmental
nature conservation                                           implications, and early warning of pollution and degradation
- Protection of egyptian reefs and other coastal habitats and actions to   - Promote the management of their own environmental resources by
mitigate pollution                                            communities
- Preservation of ecosystems in coastal wetlands, identification of development
options that are compatible with ecological integrity



Annex E
Page 11 of 11
Bibliography
Chua, Thia-eng, and Daniel Pauly. Association of Southeast Asian Nations. Coastal area
Management in Southeast Asia: Policies, management strategies, and case
studies. Kuala Lumpur Ministry of Science, Technology, and the
Environment, 1989.
DeWalt, Billie R. Environmental Study of the Gulf of Fonseca Region, Honduras. Consulting
Report for USAID/Honduras. Report still in process.
Loayza, Eduardo A. A Strategy for Fisheries Development. World Bank Discussion Paper.
Washington D.C., 1992.
The World Bank. Environmental Resource Management Project - Republic of Ghana - SAR.
Document of The World Bank, Report No. 10691, 1992.
. Egyptian Red Sea Coastal and Marine Resource Management Project - Egypt - SAR.
Document of The World Bank, Report No. 11131, 1992.
-. Shrimp and Fish Culture Project - India - SAR. Document of The World Bank, Report
No. 10046, 1991.
Inland Fisheries Project - India - PCR. Document of The World Bank, Report No. 9415,
1991.
-.  Inland Fisheries Project - India - SAR. Document of The World Bank, Report No. 2496,
1979.
F. isheries Credit Project - Indonesia - PCR. Document of The World Bank, Report No.
4468, 1983.
Fisheries Support Services Project - Indonesia - SAR. Document of The World Bank,
Report No. 6290, 1986.
Shrimp Culture Project - Bangladesh - SAR. Document of The World Bank, Report No.
5561, 1985.
Fresh Water Fisheries Project- China - SAR. Document of The World Bank, Report No.
5976, 1986.
Coastal Land Development Project - China - SAR. Document of The World Bank,
Report No. 6986, 1988.
. Third Rural Credit Project - China - SAR. Document of The World Bank, Report No.
6903, 1987.
. Pider II Integrated Rural Development Project - Mexico - PCR. Document of The World
Bank, Report No. 6333, 1986.
Pider III Integrated Rural Development Project - Mexico - PCR. Document of The
World Bank, Report No. 9175, 1990.
Seventh Agricultural credit Project - Mexico - PCR. Document of The World Bank,
Report No. 7931, 1989.
. Coastal Zone Management: Case studies from the Caribbean. Latin America and the
Caribbean Technical Department, Regional Studies program, Report No.
26, 1992
. Harvesting the Waters - A Review of Bank Experience with Fisheries Development.
Operations Evaluation Department, Report No. 4984, 1984.
. The World Bank and the Environment. A progress Report, Washington D.C., 1991.






Annex F
Page 1 of 4
Project Logical Framework
Narrative               V Verifiable Indikators                Nia of                Inuportant Assumptions
Summar                                                              O
Economically,          1I A minimum 10 % real increase in the   1.1 AcuaMexico and
environmentally and   income of social sector investors in the  individual park corporation
socially sustainable   project's parks and hatcheries by EOP  annual reports
aquaculture           (end of project).
development
1.2 The commercial aquaculture parks  1.2 INE documents accepting
comply with Mexican environmental law    enviromnental assessments
at all times,                        and periodic environmental
audits dunng project as
required by INE.
1.3 70% and 60% of the completed      1.3 Mid-term and final
projects of the Targeted Investnent Fund   project reviews
are operational without external support
(except technical assistance) at the mid-
term review and at EOP review,
respectively.
Pu= ae                       ==__ ___._..___._._...
Increase productivity of   1. I By EOP, 1500 mt of shrimp, 900 mt    1. I Annual AcuaMexico,  (Purpose to Goal)
the aquaculture sector    of tilapia and 600,000 abalone spat  aquaculture enterprise reports  1. I Demand for aquaculture products
within a framework of    produced:                           and monitoring indicators.    remains stable (or increases) and real
social consensus and          (a) with AcuaMexico and social                            prices do not decline by more than
environmental          and private investors; and,                                      10%V.
soundness.                    (b) according to the                                      1. I There is no major disease
environmental procedures defined by INE,                         epidemic (especially for shrimp
the parks' best practices manuals, the                           production) affecting project areas.
environmental assessments and in light of                        1 I Input prices for commercial
the water quality and planning data                              aquaculture production do not
produced by the project.                                         increase by more than 100/o in real
1.2 120 rural aquaculture investment  1.2 Semestrial project     terms.
projects operational with social sector  monitoring reports.
investors. X
o utp ts                                              _ _ _  _  _  _  _  _ _ _     _  _  _  _ _ _  _  _  _  _ _
. Regulatory           I. la Time between submission of permit  1. Ia Md-term and fmnal  (Output to Purpose)
framework improved     request and receipt final of pernut reduced  project reports and  1. I ncreased demand for aquaculture
and operational       to 140 days by December 1998.          monitoring indicators.     permits from producers (including
l. I b New permitting procedures adopted   1. I b SEMARNAP directives   social sector producers)
by SEMARNAP by July 1998.                                        1. I Adequate enforcement and
1. Ic New permitting procedures       1. Ic Dissemination        monitoring systems exist to enforce
disseminated to aquaculture producers by   publications and monitoring    permiitting requirements.
December 1998 (including social sector    indicators.            1.2 Adequate government capacity
producers).                                                      exists to enforce new regulations.
1.2 Two new regulations on genetics and   1.2 Diario Oficial     1.2 U.S. and Canada agree to
chemical substances adopted by                                   Mexican regulations
I SEMARNAP July 1998.                 1                          1
tAssumes that 20 percent of the total 150 investment projects supported by the fund are not operational by the end of
the project.



Annex F
Page 2 of 4
Narrative        j        erifiable Indicators          |       Means of               Important Ass"gtlons
Summary                                                        Verification                                   .
2. Management of       2. la Integrated coastal zone management   2. Ia Publication in Veracruz   2.1 Communities and state and
environment and coastal  plan for Laguna Tamihahua adopted by  Diario Oficial.           municipal governments have
resources improved.    Veracruz State Congress by January 2000                           adequate resources and interest to
2. lb Integrated coastal zone management  2. lb Annual report of  implement ICZM plan.
plan is being implemented by local    technical assistance firm
communities with state and municipal  (implementing the pilot)
government assistance starting in January  indicating amount of money
2000.                                 spent by local governments
2.2a Quarterly water quality monitoring    and communities to
program operational in Sinaloa, Nayarit   implement plan.
and Tamaulipas in 1998 with public
dissemination program of results within
three months of each sampling.
2.2b Coastal wetlands inventories     2.2 Semestrial project      2.2 Producers and communities use
undertaken twice (1998 and 2000/01) in    monitoring reports and water  the wetlands inventory and water
Sinaloa, Chiapas, Nayarit, and Tamaulipas  quality and coastal inventory   monitoring data in their natural
and results disseminated to local     publications and            resource management and investment
communities and interested civil society    dissemination materials.  decisions.
organizations within six months of each
inventory.
2.3a Land use plans developed in      2.3a Published land use plans  2.3 Producers, communities and
Veracruz and Baja California Sur by   for Veracruz and Baja       government officials (municipal, state
December 1999.                        California Sur.             and federal) use the land use plans to
2.3b New guidelines adopted by INE to    2.3b SEMARNAP directive    guide their resource allocation
assess envirownental impact of        publishing new guidelines.    decisions.
aquaculture investmnents by July 1998.
3. New and improved    3.1 30 research proposals implemented    3.1 Semestrial project
public goods and       by 2001 with support from the Research    monitoring reports and
services operational   Fund and results disseminated in      review of research
publications/final reports. Not more than   institutions publications
8 proposals are for commercial        during mid-term.
aquaculture. 2
3.2 At least two laboratories are     3.2 Semestnal project
incorporated into the regional diagnostic    monitoring reports.
laboratory network by Decemnber 1999
4. Expanded capacity    4.1 Three tilapia parks, one shrimp park,   4.1 Annual reports of park  4.1 and 4.2 Social sector producers
for commercial and rural  one penn shell hatchery, one SPR hatchery  enterprises and semestrial  have sufficient interest, capital and
aquaculture involving  and one abalone hatchery operational with  project monitoring reports.    resources (e.g. land) to participate in
social sector          social sector and AcuaMexico Fund                                 the aquaculture enterprises.
participation in place  investment (excluding the SPR hatchery
which may not involve social sector
investment) by December 31, 2000.
4.2 150 rural aquaculture investment
projects with economically deprived social  4.2 Semestrial project
sector producers supported by Targeted  monitoring reports, and mid-
Rural Investment Fund by EOP 3        term and final project reports. I
2Assumes the average proposal will be for US$37,000 and that the total fund budget is US$ 1.1 10 million.
3Assumes the average project size for the targeted investment fund is US$35,000 and that US$300,000 of the allotted
US$5.5 million is for technical assistance.



Annex F
Page 3 of 4
Narrative                Verifiable Indicators                     Means of                Important Assumptions
Summary                                                           Verification
5. Institutional        5.1 70 % of social sector producers in the   5 1 Mid-term review and
framework in place to    parks maintain that they have received  final project reviCW
support social sector and  adequate technical assistance and training
innovative commercial   to understand operation of the enterprise
aquaculture investments  during the mid-term and final project
reviews.
5 2 Aquaculture parks are efficiently   5 2 Mid-tenn and final
managed and disease, enviromental and    project reviews. AcuaMexico
social risks are minimized throughout the   arunual reports, and enterprise
life of the project.                    aninual reports
5.3 New aquaculture investment
5.3 2 new aquaculture enterprises       5 3 AcuaMexico lund annual  projects and investors are identified
supported by AcuaMexico Fund by         reports                      that are in accordance with the
December 2001                                                        AcuaMexico mandate contract
4
Activities:                   Inputs (US$)
I. I a SEMARNAI1 to     (1.1) 50(),0()0                                                      (Activity to Output)
develop and disseminate
new guidelines for                                               ,       - rm.l                 I to 5.2 I'he Directorate General of
aquaculture permiting                                            PIroject annual budget       Aquaculture has sufficient material
lI.b SEMARNAP to                                                submitted to SHCP for        and human resources to implement
establish on-line permit                                         prograrmed expenditures iI  the project.
registry                                                         D)ecember anid SeMeStrial
1.2 SEMARNAP to         (1.2) 300,000                           fdinancial moiitoring
develop and adopt six                                            indicators lo: actual
new aquatic health                                               cxpenditures
regulations
2.1 Develop, formally    (2.1) 2,700.000
adopt and initiate
implementation of
coastal zone pilot
mangement plan in
Veracruz with local
community and
municipal govemnnent
involvement
2.2 Establish regular   (2.2) 1,800,000
water quality monitoring
program and wetland
inventory and publish
and disseminate results
4Without physical and price contingencies



Annex F
Page 4 of 4
.arrative                Verifible Iiiiators                     Means of    .          Imp orant A        mptoni
SummEnary                              .               : .  .   Verificataon. 
Activities:                   Inputs (US$):
2.3 SEMARNAP to        (2.3) 600,000
contract, adopt and
disseminate new
guidelines for EA
preparation for
aquaculture
investments.
3.1 Establish and      (3.1) 1,100,000
operate research fund
3.2 Equip and train staff  (3.2) 3,400,000
in at least two regional
public or private
diagnostic laboratories
and in the central
aquaculture laboratory.
4.1 Project coordination   (4.1) 2,600,000
and institution
strengthening
5.1 Construct 7 new    (5.1) 27,200,000                                                    5.1 Social sector producers have
commercial aquaculture                                                                     sufficient interest and resources to
production facilities and                                                                  participate, there are no land tenure
operationalize with                                                                        problems or important difficulties
social sector                                                                              with interested actors.
participation (except the
SPR facility).
5.2 Establish and      (5.2) 5,600,000                                                     5.2 Interest and quality proposals are
operate Targeted                                                                           put forth.
Investment Fund.
6. la Design and       (6.1) 1,400,000
implement park investor
training and monitoring
program (scholarship
fund, bi-annual
workshops, park
councils and bi-annual
fora).
6. lb Design and
implement park
management training
program (includes
construction of training
facilities).
6.2 Establish          (6.2) 4,200,000                                                     6.2 Receive sufficiently qualified
AcuaMexico Mandate                                                                         proposals with appropriate
Fund and hire                                                                              experience and skills mix.
management company



Annex G
Page I of I
List of Documents in Project File
GOM Documents
Mexico Fisheries Law, 1992.
Programa de Acuacultura Rural (Marzo de 1993)
Programa de Desarrollo Integral de la Acuacultura (1990-1994)
Parques Acuicolas-Modelo Administrativo y Operativo
Acuerdo Nacional para la Modernizacion en la Acuacultura
Plan Para el Desarrollo Social y de Comunidades Indigenas (October 27, 1994)
Sectoral Environmental Assessment for the Mexico Aquaculture Development
Project, May 1994.
Programa de Pesca y Acuacultura 1995-2000
Project Working Papers
Working Paper No. 1:     Review of Aquaculture Financing in Mexico, August
1993.
Working Paper No. 2:     Aquatic Health in Mexico, November 1994.
Working Paper No. 3:     Environmental and Integrated Coastal Resources
Management Components.
Working Paper No. 4:     Economic Analysis Tables, February 1997.
Working Paper No. 5:     Project Cost Tables, February 1997
Working Paper No. 6:     Aquaculture Development in Mexico Technology
Integration and Resource Management,
December 1994
Working Paper No. 7:     Social Assessment of Mexico Aquaculture Project,
April 1994.
Working Paper No. 8:     Social Strategy and Indigenous Peoples
Development Component (Annex A of
Yellow Cover, Staff Appraisal Report),
March 6, 1995.
Working Paper No. 9:     Informe de Trabajo sobre Mexico Aquaculture
(Fundacion Chile), (June 1995)
Working Paper No. 10:    Mexico Aquaculture Development Project,
Marketing Component, Pre-appraisal report,
September 1994






Annex H
Page 1 of 3
Glossary of Terms
Aquaculture Farming of aquatic plants or animals.
Aquaculture Research
Basic Aquaculture Research analyzes nutritional, growth, reproductive and environmental
requirements of aquaculture production. Disease issues may also be addressed.
Rural Aquaculture Research analyzes issues associated with reservoir and small pond,
river, and canal aquaculture (carrying capacity, effluent management, stocking levels,
identification of locally available resources, etc.).
Environmental Aquaculture Research assesses: (a) the impact of aquaculture on the
surrounding environment (water quality, wetlands ecosystems, etc.); (b) the impact of the
environment on aquaculture (mainly water quality issues associated with deforestation,
agro-chemicals and sewage); (c) issues related to endangered and overexploited
aquaculture species.
Commercial Aquaculture Research evaluates issues related to operating a successful
commercial aquaculture enterprise (farm design, costs and impact on financial viability,
disease management and prevention, etc.).
Battered Fish product that has been coated with a flour-based product.
Broodstock Male and female adult forms of shrimp or fish used in hatcheries to spawn larvae.
Butterflied A shrimp tail that has been split in half and flattened.
Cage aquaculture Farming of aquatic animals, typically fish, in cages made of wood or other
water-resistant materials, immersed in areas of large water bodies such as reservoirs, lakes, or
bays that are protected from strong wind and wave action.
Catch per unit effort A measure used in capture fisheries to assess the average volume of catch
(measured in tons or kilograms) per unit of fishing time for a known gear type and vessel class.
Communal land communities A community created under Spanish rule that consists of a
special charter of land allocated mainly to indigenous groups. The special rights and charters of
communal lands were recognized by the agrarian reform legislation of 1915 and 1992.
Depuration Holding filter-feeding bivalve mollusks, such as oysters, in clean water for a period
of approximately 1-2 days to remove any pathogens that may have accumulated in the gut.



Annex H
Page 2 of 3
Ejidatario A member of an ejido.
Ejido Land and water resources the title of which has been given to a village as a whole (since
the Agrarian Reform of 1915) and which are exploited collectively or individually by the members
of the village. The revised Article 27 of the Constitution grants ejidos ownership rights over their
landholdings and allows them to sell their land to non-ejido members.
Fingerlings Small, juvenile form of fish, just after egg-fry stage when the egg sack has been
absorbed.
Fisheries The hunting and gathering of wild aquatic species.
Growout ponds Earthen ponds used to grow shrimp to market size. These ponds can be stocked
directly with PLs or with larger animals transferred from nursery ponds.
Commercial Aquaculture Relatively large-scale, high-yield farming of aquatic plants or animals,
typically done as semi-intensive or intensive mono-cropping.
Infectious Hypodermal and Hematopoietic Necrosis (IHHN) Virus A virus causing infection
and disease, of varying severity, that occurs among all commonly cultured species of shrimp
world wide. IHIHN virus was most probably introduced to Mexico in the mid-1980s with
imported stocks of P. vannamei, the shrimp species most commonly cultured in the Western
Hemisphere. Runt deformity syndrome in P. vannamei has been linked to IHHN virus infections.
Hazard Analysis Critical Control Points (HACCP) A management system designed to
control, at each critical point in the production and processing chain of seafood, the biological,
chemical or physical hazards that present unacceptable risks to the consumer.
Nauplii The larval from of shrimp just prior to metamorphosis to the PL form. Nauplii are
sometimes sold by larger hatcheries to smaller hatcheries for the production of post-larvae.
Nursery ponds Small, earthen ponds used to grow shrimp from PL to juvenile form, typically to
a size of 1 gram or less. These ponds are used to facilitate more accurate stocking of grow-out
ponds.
Peeled butterflied A shrimp tail with the carapace removed.
Post-larvae (PL)   An early juvenile benthic (bottom-dwelling) form of shrimp just after
metamorphosis from the larval, planktonic form. PLs, either collected from the wild or produced
by hatcheries, are the typical form of shrimp used to stock nursery or grow-out ponds.
Restocking aquaculture Release of hatchery produced fingerling fish into open water bodies,
such as reservoirs, for later capture by fisherman using boats and nets. Also known as inland
fishing in Mexico. Outside Mexico, commonly known as capture fisheries enhancement stocking.



Annex H
Page 3 of 3
Rural aquaculture Relatively small-scale, low-yield farming of aquatic plants or animals, often
integrated with terrestrial crop and livestock production or other nonagriculture income-
generating activities. Also known as integrated agriculture-aquaculture.
Small pelagic fisheries Offshore, open water fishing activities targeting small fish, such as
sardines and anchovies, that live at medium depths.
Social sector producer A producer who is a member of an ejido, cooperative, communal lands
community, as well as any economically disadvantaged producer.
Spat  Juvenile, benthic form  of mollusks, including bivalves such as oysters, just after
metamorphosis from larval, planktonic form. Spat settle out of the water column onto the bottom
or other suitable substrate where they then grow to adult size.
Specific Pathogen Resistant (SPR) shrimp hatchery   A shrimp hatchery specially designed
and stocked with SPR broodstock, and operated under strict quarantine protocols to produce PLs
that are resistant to specific pathogens.



I



Annex I
Page 1 of 3
Aquaculture Production and Marketing in Mexico
Production
Aquaculture is defined as the raising of aquatic species in a controlled environment (Annex
H). Aquaculture production in Mexico is characterized by a large, traditional sector that includes
reservoir restocking (also known as inland capture fishing) and small pond aquaculture, and a
small, but rapidly growing, high-yield modern commercial sector. The three main forms of
aquaculture practiced in Mexico are:
(a)    Restocking aquaculture or inland capture fishing takes place in large, natural or
constructed (reservoirs, irrigation canals) water bodies. There are 13,535 dams and
reservoirs in Mexico, covering approximately 1.2 million ha, although 72% of the
restocking output is from a few (23) large dams with surfaces exceeding 10,000
ha. Restocking aquaculture accounts for the majority of the sector's output (64%),
and Mexico is the largest reservoir fish producer in Latin America. Government-
supported fingerling stations (hatcheries) annually stock hundreds of reservoirs and
dams with finfish fingerlings (mainly tilapia and carp). Government aquaculture
policy in the 1970s and 1980s focused on restocking aquaculture and built most of
the existing hatcheries. The actual harvest is by small artisanal and commercial
fishermen and is a form of capture fisheries. Many social sector families exploit
restocked reservoirs, as this business requires a minimal investment and only basic
technical skills.
(b)    Rural aquaculture is often combined with agricultural efforts by small farmers.
Rural aquaculture is based on the introduction of juvenile forms into small,
permanent or temporary bodies of water, which may also be used for livestock and
small-scale irrigation. Only a relatively small fish population can be supported in a
given water body with rural aquaculture, as it relies upon no inputs other than
those provided by nature. Rural aquaculture is most common among subsistence-
oriented producers.
(c)    High-yield commercial aquaculture was introduced in Mexico in the 1980s and
occurs in specific areas designed for semi-intensive and intensive aquaculture
production. It requires skilled labor, as well as significant capital investments, and
involves relatively high operating costs (mainly feed, electricity and diesel fuel).
Coastal shrimp farms and inland reservoir cage culture are the most important
forms of high-yield commercial aquaculture. Commercial aquaculture offers the
greatest potential for growth. Thus far, private investors dominate this type of
aquaculture.



Annex I
Page 2 of 3
2.     Aquaculture is a relatively recent activity in Mexico. It has been dominated by the
production of freshwater species (tilapia, carp, catfish, charal and trout) in inland water bodies
located in Mexico's coastal states. Total aquaculture production in 1994 was 176,200 tons. This
represented about 14% of total fisheries production in the country and placed Mexico 14th in the
world for aquaculture production. The majority of the sector's output is tilapia (46%), followed
by oysters (18%), carp (15%), and shrimp (9%). Mexico currently has 65,000-70,000 ha in
aquaculture production, of which 16,000 ha are shrimp farms. In the case of shrimp, this
represents less than IO% of the total area suitable for shrimp farming.
3.    Aquaculture production is concentrated in the 17 Pacific and Gulf coastal states, which
account for 80% of total output. The 11 Pacific coastal states account for the majority of tilapia
production and almost all of shrimp output. Oysters are the principal contribution of the six Gulf
coastal states. The share of the inland states in total output is 20% and has risen slightly since the
late 1980s, reflecting the increased production of freshwater species (especially trout and carp).
4.     Aquaculture production increased steadily during the 1980s, but with the exception of
shrimp and trout, has either stagnated or declined in the 1990s. Since 1990, captures of
freshwater fish in inland water bodies have stagnated, reflecting declining production of
fingerlings by government hatcheries, as well as overexploitation of inland water bodies. In
contrast, trout production has increased due to greater private sector involvement and better
management of government trout hatcheries, which have traditionally charged for trout
fingerlings. Oyster harvests have also declined, dropping by 55% between 1989 and 1993,
reflecting the reduced demand for oysters during the cholera epidemic in 1991-92 on the Gulf
coast, which produces 91 % of all oysters. Data for 1995 suggest that oyster output has started to
recover as the epidemic has been brought under control. In contrast, shrimp production increased
by more than five time between 1989 and 1993, although it remains a small share of total
aquaculture production (9% in 1994). The rapid expansion of shrimp production reflects its
attractive economic prospects and the lifting of restrictions on private sector involvement in
shrimp.
5.     Several factors constrain the productivity of aquaculture production in Mexico. First,
aquaculture is limited by the inadequate technical knowledge of social sector producers, which has
led to poor site selection for ponds and difficulties in holding and reproducing juvenile forms, and
has encouraged their quasi-exclusion from commercial aquaculture. Second, aquaculture is
constrained by disease risks, such as diseases similar to the Taura syndrome that causes
cumulative losses of 50% to 90% of the affected populations and the IHHN virus that reduces
growth rates, production and market value. Third, the development of aquaculture has been
limited by inadequate support services, particularly research and diagnostic laboratories.
Marketing
6.     Almost all of Mexico's aquaculture production is either marketed nationally (55%-60%),



Annex I
Page 3 of 3
or consumed directly by the producer (34-39%); only 6% of the total output is exported Rural
aquaculture production is mainly for on-farm consumption with small surpluses sold in the local
community. Restocking production is consumed directly by the producers or sold in local and
regional markets.
7.    Commercial aquaculture production is directed toward specific urban markets (especially
Mexico City, Guadalajara, Monterrey), and the better quality output is exported. Shrimp accounts
for about 85% (in value) of total aquaculture exports, and the remainder consists of small
amounts of tilapia, oysters, scallops, and abalone. The United States accounts for most exports
However, small amounts of oysters and abalone are exported to Asia (mainly Japan and Hong
Kong), and small amounts of shrimp are also exported to Canada and Europe Processing
activities remain fairly basic and most of the shrimp are exported frozen/headless/shell-on, as
opposed to peeled/frozen/ headless, peeled/butterflied, or battered/butterflied, all of which offer
greater value added.
8.    Prior to 1992, most exports were through processing and marketing companies owned by
the Government (e.g., Ocean Gardens), and to a lesser extent, the social sector. Since the
adoption of the 1992 Fisheries Law (Box 1), private producers may have their own processing
facilities and may engage in direct sales. As a result, in the last two years many private investors
have purchased facilities owned by Ocean Gardens or the social sector to form integrated
production, processing and marketing companies, particularly for shrimp
9.    There are three sets of constraints to the marketing of aquaculture output. First, many of
Mexico's processing plants that until recently were almost exclusively in the public sector, have
out-of-date technology, infrastructure, and sanitary conditions. Many of these plants will not be
able to satisfy the HACCP (Hazard Analysis Critical Control Points) program guidelines,
developed for the European Union (EU) and US markets, which are expected to be adopted in
Mexico in 1997. After 1998, Mexican firms that do not meet HACCP criteria will not be able to
export to the US or the EU However, the expanded opportunities for private sector investment in
production and processing activities under the new regulatory framework, coupled with the
current favorable  export opportunities, provide increased  incentives for investments in
infrastructure.
10.   Third, Mexico faces competitive world markets, particularly in the medium term. While
export opportunities remain very attractive for shrimp and tilapia over the next two to three years,
medium- to long-term market conditions include increasing competition. The tilapia market will
face increasing production from Costa Rica, Columbia and Taiwan. Similarly, the attractiveness of
the shrimp market will depend on the extent to which China's and India's shrimp production
recovers from the recent disease epidemics and the speed at which other competitive producers
(e.g.. Viet Nam and Thailand) are able expand their exports






IBRD 2669oR
100'                                                                        90,
BAJAnod   -SFlp                                                      J
-N~~~~~-1
-                                          UNITED    STATES    OF    AMERICAPid-Nq-~
BAJA           C0 N            d0 9   A    CHIHUHUAHUA                                                                                                                          SATE
I                                                                                                                           2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  
All        I~ ~ ~ ~~~~~-- -
CAIFRI                      N1~                                                                                                                                       ALO  EHAH  PR ST
_         *   oLoPenLo,'                                                                                  AQU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LEN  nACULTURK RES POJC
G-                                                                                                                     NATr(NocoMrc.  ~PONEALAIA
Obregac                                                                                                         S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  SAECPTATES
21 CALIFORNIA  <2      oNoaoIQoK                                                              I  .h ,6 0U RA    G                                                RICALLO  CITESHCH  PARK SITES
'N -.                         I                 % Macglean ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GurrC                                 - -SHRIMP PONARKITES
3  '~~~   ILODEIL&OtA  OGcccen*         Tnrrtr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  S~~~hIkC              d    NATERNALTAIONALBUDRE
'CC   ~~  *Ca~~c6c  CUBA  NOC            A    SAN>LUI PO        .                                                    a    PINIPAACTIS O  TWN
_)S., L- P.   Ma                                       -  --  NTENAIONLcoUDRE
/  /    TAMALJIJPAS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~YCAA
Cabc San iaann0                                             SAN LUIS 9070Sf                    (I'B Son AndreaP                                                                            COZUME
20, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~tA AI'.:%L                                                                                 SCd Mode P..R-n0
r~~~~~~r
PACIFIC                     OCEAN                                        JALISCO                                         I          F 0   Y '/'                                               C-nSccr        \
Marsha   ~ ~ ~~.(UELA:Bay c-Campeche                                                           QI QINTANA
'                         MEXICO~~~~m .>, I ~LAXCe,LU 0( BWOO
miCHOACAN    Tlc                                  Vran
MrCniLIMnoA \         Apo-,g-n       IEIO 0F                  CarJb                                       Cd dd          CAWPCE        htrrIH
L...,.Vono                      'I          ;        k    \2       L~             TABASCO -'      '
Cardcn8s-  ~         ~           ' -~'           ~                       ' cIIaherm N          -----
GUERRBERO             '~ CsciOi'o                                        '
Zihucrena1oa  hipoan ~c\  -             )           L.......                                           BELIZE
KILOMETERS 0    100      200     300     4 00 00                                                                                                 ?          j
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _A                                                                        c ap alcn                          O A X A C A 
I                                                                                                                                                                                 Porglo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~     2Q>a.  aD
MILES 0          100          200           300/
/   GUATEMALA
The bc.4c -- decenen aa 
-'.  ~~~ - ga -  ~F -v  5                                                                                                                                                                       o      n                          '    HONDURAS
110'                                                                                     900' r
FEBRUARY 1997






I



iMAGING
Report No.:          16476   ME
Type:      SAJR



