Environmental                      l°
Assessment/Analysis
Reports
Report E0057
Mexico -
Aquaculture Pr oject
EA Category A
Environmental Assessment
June 1994
This report has been prepared by the Borrower or its Consultant



MEXICO AQUACULTURE PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Mexico Aquaculture Project has a Category A Enviromnental Rating because some
investments occur in or near environrentally sensitive areas (e.g., wetlands) and in some cases may
involve the permanent conversion of these areas. A Sectoral Enviromnental Assessment (SEA) report
was prepared by the Govermnent with technical assistance from an outside consultant. It was
submitted to the World Bank by the Government on June 27, 1994.' 2 Extensive interviews with
representatives from key federal agencies, as well as federal and state govermnent offices in all seven
project states were conducted as preparation for the sectoral environmental assessment. In addition,
workshop sessions were held with groups of fishermen and aquaculturalists to discuss environmental
quality issues affecting the success and sustainability of aquaculture in Mexico. The sessions were
apparently viewed as a venue for heightening SEPESCA's awareness of producer concerns for general
environmental degradation and its impacts on their livelihoods.
2.     As necessary, individual environmental assessments will be prepared for subprojects with a
major impact on land or water resources, according to terms of reference agreed upon by the Bank
and the Govermment. Furthermore, to mitigate the potential negative impact of the Aquaculture
Project on the environment, an environmental mitigation plan was prepared and will be funded under
the project as the coastal zone and environmental management component.
3.     The main purpose of this Executive Summary is to summarize the SEA and the environmental
mitigation plan. The first section briefly describes the Mexican aquaculture sector, while the
relationship between aquaculture and the environment in Mexico is reviewed in the second section.
The existing policy framework in Mexico to manage environmental issues associated with aquaculture
is assessed in the third section. The fourth section briefly outlines the description of the project and
the environmental mitigation plan is presented in the fifth section.
1.    Mark Hardin, 'Sectoral Environmental Assessment for the Mexico Aquaculture
Development Project." KBN Engineering and Applied Sciences. Inc.. May 1994.
The SEA is based on findings from two missions to Mexico, covering the periods
November 29 to December 11, 1993, and January 23 to Februarv 13, 1994.
2.     A separate Social Sector Assessment was prepared for the project. 'Billie R.
DeWalt and Alejandro Toledo. 'Social Assessment of Mexico Aquaculture Project.'
April 1994. Issues raised in the social assessment are addressed in the project's
'Social Strategv and Indigenous People's Development Plan, which will be funded
under the project.



2
Aquaculture In Mexico
4.    Aquaculture is a relatively recent activity in Mexico, which thus far, has been dominated by
the production of freshwater species (tilapia, carp, catfish, charal, trout) in the coastal states. Total
aquaculture production in 1993 was 176,200 tons. This represented about 14% of total fisheries
production in the country and placed Mexico 14th in the world for aquacult'ire production. The
majority of the sector's output is tilapia (46%), followed by oysters (18%), carp (15%), and shrimp
(9%). Aquaculture production is concentrated in the 17 Pacific and Gulf coastal states, which
accounted for 80% of total output in 1992. The I 1 Pacific coastal states account for the majority of
the tilapia production and almost all the shrimp output. Oysters are the principal contribution of the 6
Gulf coastal sutes. The share of the inland states in total output is 20% and has risen slightly since
the late 1980s, reflecting the increased production of freshwater species (especially trout and carp) in
inland states.
5.     Aquaculture production increased steadily during the 1980s, but has either stagnated or
declined in the 1990s, depending on the species, with the exception of shrimp. Since 1990, the
production of freshwater fish has stagnated reflecting the declining production of fingerlings by
government hatcheries, which have lacked the operating funds and infrastructure to support an
expanding sector. The exception has been trout production, which has increased due to greater
private sector involvement and better management of goverment trout hatcheries, which have
traditionally charged for fingerlings. Oyster harvests have also declined, dropping by 55% between
1989 and 1993, reflecting the reduced demand for oysters in light of the choiera epidemic (1991-92)
on the Gulf coast (which produces 91 % of all oysters). Preliminary data for 1994 suggests that oyster
output has started to recover as the epidemic has gotten under control. In contrast, shrimp production
increased by 152% between 1989 and 1993, although it remains a small share of total aquaculture
production (an estimated 9% for 1994) and covers only 15,600 ha, of which only 11,942 ha'are in
operation. The rapid expansion of shrimp production reflects its attractive economic prospects and
the lifting of restrictions on private sector involvement in shrimp.
6.    Aquaculture production in Mexico is characterized by a large traditional sector which relies
on reservoir restocking and small pond aquaculture, and a small, but rapidly growing, modem
industrial sector.
(a)    Restocking aquaculture takes place in large natural or constructed (reservoirs, irrigation
canals) water bodies. There are 13,535 dams and reservoirs in Mexico, covering
approximately 1.2 million ha, although 72% of the restocking output is from a few (23) large
reservoirs with surfaces exceeding than 10,000 ha. Restocking aquaculture accounts for the
majority of the sector's output and Mexico is the largest reservoir fish producer in Latin
America. Government supported fingerling stations (hatcheries) annually stock hundreds of
reservoirs and dams with finfish fingerlings (mainly tilapia and carp). Govermnent policy in
the 1970s focussed on restocking aquaculture and built most of the existing hatcheries. The
actual harvest is by small artisan and commercial fishermen and is a form of capture fisheries.
Many low income families exploit restocked reservoirs, as it requires a minimal investment
and only basic technical skills.
(b)    Rural aquaculture- Small farmers often combine agriculture and rural aquaculture. Rural
aquaculture is based on the introduction of juvenile forms into small permanent or temporary



3
bodies of water, which may also be used for livestock and small scale irrigation. Only a
relatively small fish population can be supported in a given water body with rural aquaculture,
as it relies upon no inputs other than those provided by nature. Rural aquaculture is most
common among subsistence-oriented producers.
(c)   Industrial aquaculture was introduced in Mexico in the 1980s and occurs in specific areas
designed for semi-intensive and intensive aquaculture production. It requires skilled labor,
significant capital investments, as well as relatively high operating costs (mainly feed).
Industrial aquaculture offers the greatest potential for growth. Thus far, private investors
dominate industrial aquaculture.
Aquaculture and the Environment
7.    The impact of most of Mexico's aquaculture activities, thus far, on the environment has been
relatively little. Almost all of Mexico's aquaculture production is from rural grow-out ponds and
inland water bodies, which has very little impact of the environment. In some countries, overstocking
of reservoirs has led to high levels of effluent in the reservoirs and eutrophication of the
impoundinent, but this is not a prevalent problem in major reservoirs in Mexico. Almost all of the
limited negative impacts of previous aquaculture activities relate to semi-intensive shrimp farming,
which remains a relatively recent and limited activity in Mexico. Mexico has only 15,600 ha in
shrimp ponds, compared to 180,000 ha contained in the much smaller country of Ecuador. The
potential negative effects of aquaculture on the environment are outlined below as well as an
assessment of relative importance of each issue in Mexico:
(a)    Displacement of coastal mangrove estuaries by shrimp ponds, with consequent loss of
ecosystem production, was a serious problem in many countries during the 1960-1970s. This
has not been a significant problem in Mexico, in light of Mexico's land use regulations and as
the discovery of mangrove soils' poor suitability for aquaculture in the 1980s. Moreover,
most shrimp farms are located in areas where there are few mangrove forests: 83% of
Mexico's 15,600 ha of shrimp farms are in the states of Sinaloa and Sonora, which have only
17% of the countryr's mangrove forests.
(b)    Alteration of local hydrology due to construction of pond dikes, access roads and the
dredging of water supply channels has occurred in some cases due to the construction of
agriculture frmns. The extent to which such problems are associated with aquaculture is
relatively limited, given the recent introduction of industrial aquaculture in Mexico.
(c)    Eutrophication from pond water efluent discharged during drainage or routine exchange
can enrich receiving waters, resulting in local degradation in water quality and loss of
ecosystem function and diversity. This occurs primarily when there is a high density of
shrimp farms in areas with restricted hydrology. There have been no studies associating
shrimp farm effluent with local water quality degradation, and no mention was made of the
problem in numerous interviews. This could change as the density of farms on coastal lagoon
systems increases, as the latter are characteristically plagued with restricted hydrology.
Mitigating this threat is Mexico's recognition of the problem that Ecuador and Honduras have
experienced, and the observed tendency towards master-planning regional shrimp farm
development.



4
(d)    Eutrophication from waste feeds is a related problem occurring near large cage-culture and
net-pen culture operations that are sited in areas of hydrologically restricted water exchange.
Again, this issue has not emerged yet in Mexico on any significant scale, given the relatively
recent introduction of cage aquaculture.
(e)    Overharvesting of wild seedstock The actual impact of the capture of wild seedstock on the
availability of post larvae and other non-shrimp species has never been quantified, although it
is expected to be small. First, the very young of most marine species suffer extremely high
mortalities due to natural causes. Second, Mexico has ambitious programs to construct and
operate hatcheries, which will mitigate most concerns from this source. Finally, Mexico is
taking steps to set aside large estuarine areas-such as the 100,000+ hectares of the Marismas
Nacionales in Nayarit-as exclusion zones for shrimp seed fishing, assuring survival of core
populations of marine coastal organisms.
(f)    The introduction of exotic species such as tilapia, carp, and penaeid shrimp may displace
native organisms by direct competition or the introduction of new pathogens. Tilapia were
widely introduced to Mexico in the 1960s and 70s, and now occupy every watershed in the
country. Artificial reservoirs account for 97% of the freshwater in Mexico, and 100% of
these reservoirs have established populations of tilapia. No quantitative studies have been
performed to link the introduction of exotics to loss of native aquatic species, although some
impact is likely to have occurred as a result of their earlier introduction.
(g)    Access of local populations to resources (e.g., fishery and forest products) has been
restricted in some countries, through the exclusive concession of formerly common areas. In
Honduras-where areas suitable for aquaculture had no perceived value to government policy
makers, and which had never been included in any land-use planning process-this problem
has resulted in extreme social discord. Thus far, it does not appear to be a major issue in
Mexico.
8.    Environmental Impact Affecting Aquaculture Development The successful and sustainable
development of commercial aquaculture is influenced by the quality of the surrounding environment.
Enviromnental issues affecting aquaculture include:
(a)    Contamination by agricultural chemicals (fertilizers and pesticides), which is a particular
concern in Chiapas and Sinaloa. Fertilizers seem to be the most problematic in Mexico.
Mexico is in the process of phasing out the most persistent organochlorine pesticides to
organophosphorus pesticides that have less environmental impact;
(b)    Deforestation and erosion of watersheds resulting in the sedimentation of river and estuarine
channels and connections to open water. Some coastal states (Chiapas and Oaxaca) are
experiencing high rates of erosion from deforestation or conversion of permanent tree crops to
other types of agriculture in upper watersheds. These land use changes are resulting in
increased siltation of coastal lagoons. That, together with decreasing year-round freshwater
flows from damming of rivers, has resulted in the gradual closing of the mouths of these
lagoons, or in the siltation of natural connection channels between lagoons;



5
(c)    Reduction in freshwater inflow to estuaries is a result of damming, which has greatly
degraded coastal water quality and coastal morphology (eg- the closing of lagoon mouths) in
most coastal states of Mexico;
(d)    Sewage contamination of coastal waters. Contamination of residual waters with domestic
sewage is an important problem in the coast of the Gulf of Mexico. The Pacific coast is also
beginning to experience sewage pollution problems in certain areas, but the situation is less
critical at the moment. Bivalve shellfish quality has been severely degraded, particularly in
Veracruz and Tamaulipas through bio-accumulation of human microbial pathogens;
(e)    Toxic effects on fisheries of fugitive oil contamination from petroleum extraction and
transportation in coastal areas, particularly in Veracruz, leading to reduced populations and
degraded quality of shellfish and shrimp; and,
(f)    Entrimnent at thermal power plant cooling intakes has led to the destruction of large
numbers of juvenile aquatic forms.
Environmental Policy Framework for Aquaclture
9.    As Mexico implements its new policy framework for aquaculture, which emphasizes industrial
aquaculture including semi-intensive shrimp production, it is at critical juncture where a strategy is
needed to avoid further environmental problems. To address this challenge, the GOM has taken
several key steps to mitigate the impact of aquaculture on the environment. The most important of
these steps are:
(a)    The landmark 1988 General Law on Ecological Equilibrium and Environmental Protection
(LGEEPA) provides the legal basis for the enviromnental protection responsibilities of both
the Secretariat of Fisheries (SEPESCA) and the Secretariat for Social Development
(SEDESOL). This law and associated regulations obligate the former to the sustainable
management of aquatic flora and fauna, and SEDESOL to a powerful oversight role in the
evaluation of environmental impacts of SEPESCA activities. Since the passage of LGEEPA
Mexico has advanced rapidly in the development of a regulatory and institutional framework
for environmental management. The law makes provision for development of land use
planning based among other on ecological criteria O(and use plans) and environmental impact
assessment procedures as described below.
(i)    The environmental assessment (EA) methodology required by SEDESOL,
though comprehensive and consistently required of all new projects, is not
entirely effective as an environmental management tool. Principal constraints
to effectiveness include a serious backlog in the evaluation of EA reports by
SEDESOL's office in Mexico City, a lack of personnel qualified to provide
useful review of EA reports. a lack of field review of projects by SEDESOL
reviewers, and unfocused requirements for data in the EA forrnat, often
resulting in expensive collection of information of marginal utility while issues
of genuine relevance may be overlooked.



6
(ii)   This situation could be considerably improved with the completion of land use
plans (Ordenamiento Ecologico), which would restrict aquaculture
development to areas at least risk environmentally. However, funding is not
available to implement these plans in all states with aquaculture potential and
community participation needs to be incorporated into the design and upkeep
of these plans to ensure their implementation.
(b)    The SEDESOL Attorney General's Office for Environmental Protection was created within
the past 2 years to assure compliance with EA conditions and federal government regulations.
This agency has offices in all of the project states, has jurisdiction over most aquaculture
operations, and is backed by fairly powerful legal powers. Nonetheless, the agency has been
preoccupied with monitoring the most serious environmental problems in the country and has
been able to give aquaculture development relatively little attention.
The Mexico Aquaculture Project - Summary Description
10.   The project would focus on aquaculture development and the management of related coastal
zone and environmental issues in Oaxaca, Chiapas, Baja California Sur, Nayarit, Sinaloa, Tamaulipas
and Veracruz. It would have the six following components:
(a)    Technology Generation, Adaption and Transfer to support three regional research funds
which would grant resources on a competitive basis to private researchers, educational
facilities, and government agencies; expanded SEPESCA trainin,g programs; improved
diagnostic laboratories; and specific pathogen free facilities for shrimp broodstock;
(b)    Aquaculture Development to expand industrial and rural/reservoir aquaculture production
among low income producers, mainly in the social sector (ejidos, cooperatives, indigenous
groups), via support for nine aquaculture park subprojects including on-farm investment and
operating costs (year one) ; eight hatchery rehabilitation subprojects and the construction of
six rural larvae collection centers and training programs in larvae collection;
(c)    Marketing to support: the implementation of the HACCP (Hazard Analysis Critical Control
Points) public health program to facilitate access to the US and EU market via investments in
training and modernization of qualified processing plants; marketing/processing infrastructure
for aquaculture (to be financed by the GOM, the private sector and commercial banks); the
construction of three depuration facilities for oysters (to be managed by cooperatives with
100% cost recovery); a market and trade information system; and, a publicity campaign to
promote fish consumption;
(d)    Coastal Zone and Environmental Management to support: three community based coastal
zone management pilots; institutional strengthening for state and federal government agencies
involved in coastal zone planning; the design of aquaculture land maps plans for Veracruz and
Baja California; an improved environmental assessment process for aquaculture projects;
monitoring programs for fragile coastal ecosystems; and, protected areas for wildlands to
compensate for the conversion of wetlands into shrimp farms under the project;



7
(e)   Institutional Development and Strengthening to support: training programs for SEPESCA
staff; improved equipment for SEPESCA state and federal delegations; improved access to
international databases, publications and conferences; studies; and the project coordination
unit; and,
(f)    Social Strategy and Indigenous Peoples Development Plan to support: a technical assistance
grant fund for producers; a grant fund to finance technical assistance activities carried-out by
NGOs, educational facilities or private technical assistance companies that are targeted
towards indigenous groups, women and other marginal groups; community, NGO and
government programs to monitor access to coastal and fishing resources; regular community
and NGO evaluations of project activities; and, a social evaluation unit within SEPESCA.
Aquaculture Project Enviromnental Mitigation Plan
11.   The overall objective of the component is to mitigate any negative enviromnental impact that
could result from the development of the aquaculture industry by: increasing community participation
in the resolution of resource use conflicts in fragile coastal areas; strengthening government
environmental evaluation processes for aquaculture investments; supporting land use mapping for
aquaculture investnents to ensure that they occur in areas most suitable for the activity; developing
compensatory wildIand areas when aquaculture development transforms fragile coastal ecosystems into
aquaculture parks; and, improving govermnent and community monitoring of coastal resources.
(a)    Coastal Resource Management Pilots. The three coastal resource management programs
would incorporate public and resource user participation to prepare site-specific integrated
resource management plans to guide case-by case decision making as well as stimulate
restoration and conservation initiatives. The pilots will focus on key lagoon-mangrove
ecosystems, and in particular on Mar Muerto in Chiapas, Tamiahua in Veracruz and Agua
Brava in Nayarit. Each pilot would produce an integrated coastal resources management plan
which would be publically reviewed prior to the submission to the state and federal
authorities. The plans would also evaluate the impact of upstream agricultural, urban and
industrial uses on coastal zone ecosystems and aquaculture activities. The pilots would also
develop: ecological histories for the coastal lagoon ecosystems; specific site and activity
actions plans; and hydraulic lagoon models. The pilots would be managed jointly by
SEPESCA and SEDESOL which will form a small interagency working group to oversee the
implementation of the pilots and to managed the institutional strengthening program for
coastal zone management (see below).
(b)    Institutional Strengthening in Coastal Zone Management. SEDESOL together with
SEPESCA would also improve the national framework for coastal zone management. In
particular, they would prepare a handbook on preparing integrated coastal resource
management tools for Mexico based on the three pilot state experiences; expand short- and
long-term training on integrated coastal management; and give seminars to bring together
various participants in coastal zone research and policy making in Mexico.
(c)    Land Use Capability Program. The project would provide technical assistance to implement
the resource mapping program in the states of Veracruz and Baja California Sur. The existing
format for preparation of land maps would be used as a departure point, which includes



8
phases for: (i) definition of the technical scope and study area; (ii) acquisition and analysis of
field data; (iii) formulation of recommendations; (iv) preparation of an OE workplan; (v) and
workplan execution. Additional technical assistance is proposed to assure increased local
participation in OE preparation and greater local access to OE products.
(d)    AdmiLinistration and Methodology for Environmental Assessments. The project would
improve the environmental assessment process by: (i) providing technical assistance,
equipment and training to develop a computer network to improve access to and the flow of
information through the single window system; (ii) clearing the backlog of aquaculture EA
documents submitted to SEDESOL-National Environment Institute (INE) by contracting
expertise; (iii) improving the environmental assessment methodology by contracting technical
assistance to revise Mexican EA guidelines for aquaculture projects.
(e)    Monitoring of Critical Coastal Conununities and Ecosystems. A comprehensive inventory
of the principal coastal terrestrial ecosystem types (e.g., mangroves, salt marshes) would be
supported. The inventory is proposed for Sinaloa, Nayarit, Oaxaca and Chiapas, as these
states have significant mangrove and marisma areas, as well as a high potential for shrimp
farm development. In particular, this component would finance technical assistance and
equipment to: (i) define the study areas; (ii) acquire remote imagery (LANDAT-TM); Cjii)
prepare the ground truthing and interpretation, and; produce the final maps in GIS format.
(f)    Coastal Water Qualitv Monitoring Program. The project would support the development
and implementation of a coastal water quality monitoring program in the states of Oaxaca,
Sinaloa and Tamaulipas. Periodic assessments of coastal water quality, focussing on areas
where suspected contamination is highest as well as the areas with potential for future
aquaculture development. Major inputs would include technical assistance to: (i) execute an
initial diagnostic study in each state to determine the appropriate location, periodicity and type
of analyses; (ii) identify equipment and personnel needs; (-ii) design data processing, storage
and retrieval systems; (iv) evaluate first-year results and recommend modifications; and, (v)
design public access features for the program. Equipment needs will include vehicles and
boats, basic laboratory equipment, computers and possibly GIS software.
(g)    Compensatory Protected Areas for Wfildlands. The project would support the creation of
protected wildlands on the Pacific coast to compensate for the conversion of wildlands in the
PROYAN 94 industrial aquaculture subproject into shrimp ponds. The issue of habitat
degradation is not raised with the Nayarit project, since the park site is located on marginal
agricultural lands approximately 1.3 meters above the level of highest tides. The Oaxaca site
will be examined during the project appraisal mission to determine if there is a need for
compensatory protected area mitigation. The project would support a protected areas plan
submitted to SEDESOL by Ducks Unlimited kDUMAC). The protected area would be
constituted under Mexican law and would involve interested government agencies and private
groups. The proposal recommends adaptation of management strategies that (such as those
adopted by the 1971 treaty on the "Convention on Wetlands of International Importance" and
the NGO, Western Hemisphere Shorebird Refugee Network) that allow economic activities
consistent with the core function as a wildlife management area.



--
May 4, 1994
Ms. Louise Cord
The World Bank
LA2AG, Rm. 1-7099
1818 H St., N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Dear Louise,
KBN is pleased t6: submit the enclosed copies of the secaoral enviromnental assessment for thc Mexico
Aquaculture Project, whicl includes corrections to the draft document as discussed in ouir previous
commnunicatioras. As we agreed in our phone conversation, I also forwarded copies of the document
to lng.  <cafia in SEPESCA. as well as disk and hard copies to your field office in Costa Rica f'or
trans;ation.
I have greatly enjoyed this opportunity to work with you and other Bank staff on a project that holds
such dee. persona; interest, and look forward to the remaining tasks leading to appraisal.
Wi&. best regards,
Mark Hardin,
Ser..or Scientist
KBN ENGINEERING AND APPUED SCIENCES. INC.
1034 NOhw.eSt 57th Sb.,e1  S405 weU Cv6ss SIe.    130I Chlt Mae Roaw. Sunr OS    6821 SOuaI*OnU Ome f NWUL  One Cft SeAL SuMte B01
Ganeswue. Randa 32605         Sate 215            Soc Ram. Ronda 3348 7         Suw 216            RoCteine Ma01and 20e50
904331-9000           Tws. Fbnd. 33507            4079949910           JaClsoCMU. FRonda 32216     301173-11O0
FAX 904L33241H9     813-2S7-1717 FX 813r287 1716  FAX 407-994-9393    9042969663 rAX 9042960146    FAX 301738-S1105
EQUAL EAPLOYMENr OPPORTUMNl                                                AN AFUMATIvE ACTION EMPLOVER



13360C1
0504/94
TABLE OF CONTENTS
(Page I of 4)
LIST OF ACRONYMS                                            v
GLOSSARY OF SPANISH TERMINOLOGY                            vii
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY                                         ES-1
1.0 INTRODUCTION                                          1-1
2.0 POLICY, LEGAL, AND ADMINISTRATIVE FRAMEWORK            2-1
2.1 GENERAL LEGAL AND REGULATORY FRAMEWORK FOR
AOUACULTURE DEVELOPMENT IN MEXICO                 2-2
2.1.1  GOVERNMENT OF MEXICO POLICY AND LEGAL
CHANGES ENABLING AQUACULTURE DEVELOPMENT     2-2
2.1.2  INSTITUTIONAL STRUCTURE                    2-4
2.1.3  LEGAL AND REGULATORY BASIS FOR
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECION                     2-10
2.1.4  PERMrMNG RELATED TO AQUACULTURE            2-12
2.2 ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT IN MEXCO                 2-16
2.2.1  PRESENT LEGAL FRAMEWORK                    2-14
2.2.2  METHODOLOGY                                2-17
2.2.3  CRITERIA FOR SELECTON OF EA CATEGORY       2-17
2.2.4  COMPARISON OF MEXICAN EA PROCEDURES WITH
OPERATIONAL DIRECTIVE 4.01                  2-23
2.3 LAND USE PLANNING AND AOUACULTURE DEVELOPMENT
IN MEXICO                                        2-31
2.3.1  IMPLEMENTATION OF THE LAND USE PLANNING
PROCESS                                     2-32
2.3.2  THE ROLE OF LAND USE PLANS IN ENVIRONMENTAL
PROTECTION AND AQUACULTURE DEVELOPMENT      2-34
2.3.3  PRESENT STATUS OF THE LAND USE PLANNING
PROCESS                                     2-36



11360C 1
05104194
TABLE OF CONTENTS
(Page 2 of 4)
2.4 ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE: THE ATIORN.EY
GCENERAL'S OFFICE FOR ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTIO        2-36
2.4.1  AUTHORiTY                                     2-36
2.4.2  INSTITUTIONAL STRUCrURE AND STRENGTH          2-37
2.4.3  OPERATIONAL PROCEDURES                        2-38
2.4.4  INSPECTION/COMPLIANCE PROCEDURES AND
PENALTIES                                      2-38
2.4.5  ENFORCEMENT RECORD                            2-40
2.4.6  RELEVANCE OF PROFEPA TO AQUACULTURE
DEVELOPMENT                                    2-39
3.0  DESCRIPTION OF PROPOSED PROJECT                          3-1
3.1  PROJECT OBJECTIVES                                   3-1
3.2 PROlECT ACTIVMES                                      3-1
4.0  DESCRIPTION OF ENVIRONMENT                               4-1
4.1  AOUACULTURE IN MEXICO                                4-1
4.2  ENVIRONMENTAL CONCERNS OF AOUACULTURISTS             4-2
4.3  COASTAL ZONE MANAGEMENT AND PLANNING IN MEXICO       4-4
5.0  ANTICIPATED ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS                        5-1
5.1  GENERAL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS OF AOUACULTURE         5-l
5.2 POTENTIAL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS OF THE MEXICO
AQUACULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                       5-2
6.0  ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES                                 6-I
7.0  MITIGATIONS OF NEGATIVE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS            7-1
7.1  AOUACULTURE PARKS                                    7-1
ii



13360CI
05104194
TABLE OF CONTENTS
(Page 3 of 4)
7.2  ORDENAMIENTO ECOLOGICO                                       7-2
7.2.1  BACKGROUND                                            7-2
7.2.2  ISSUE                                                 7-2
7.2.3  OBJECTIVES                                            7-2
7.2.4  INPUTS                                                7-2
7.3  IMPROVEMENT OF WVENTANILLA UNICA" AND THE
ENVTRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT PROCESS                             7-2
7.3.1  BACKGROUND                                            7-2
7.3.2  ISSUE                                                 7-3
7.3.3  OBJECTIVES                                            7-3
7.3.4  INPUTS                                                7-4
7.3.5  TO BE RESOLVED                                        7-4
7.4  DEVELOPING A CAPACITY FOR MODELING COASTAL LAGOON
SYSTEM BEHAVIOR                                              7-4
7.4.1  BACKGROUND                                            7-4
7.4.2  ISSUE                                                 7-4
7.4.3  OBJECTIVES                                            7-5
7.4.4  INPUTS                                                7-5
7.4.5  TO BE RESOLVED                                        7-5
7.5  MONITORING                                                   7-5
7.5.1  BACKGROUND                                            7-5
7.5.2  ISSUES                                                7-6
7.5.3  OBJECTIVES                                            7-7
,.5.4  INPUTS                                               7-7
iii



13360CI
05104194
TABLE OF CONTENTS
(Page 4 of 4)
7.6 RELATIONSHIP OF PILOT PROGRAMS FOR
INTEGRATED COASTAL ZONE MANAGEMENT
TO ENVIRONMENTAL COMPONENTS                         7-7
7.6.1  BACKGROUND                                   7-7
7.6.2  ISSUES                                       7-8
7.6.3  OBJECTIVES                                   7-8
7.6.4  INPUTS                                      7-10
7.7 SUMMARY OF OBJECTIVES                              7-10
7.7.1  REQUIRED MMGATORY ACTIONS                   7-10
7.7.2  RECOMMENDED ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
ACTIONIS                                     7-11
7.8 RELATIONSHlP OF PILOT PROGRAMS FOR INTEGRATED
COASTAL ZONE MANAGEMENT TO ENVIRONMENTAL COMPONENTS 7-11
8.0 PUBLIC PARTICIPATION                                    8-1
9.0 RECOMMENDATION OF A OR B CLASSIFICATION                 9-1
REFERENCES                                                REF-I
APPENDICES
APPENDIX A-TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
APPENDIX B-SEPESCA ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT PREPARATION
GUIDELINES
iv



13360C I
-h                       __                                       05104)94
LIST OF ACRONYMS
(Page 1 of 2)
BCS                 Baja California Sur
D.F.                Distrito Federal
DGPE                General Office for Ecological Planning (of the INE)
DUMAC               Ducks Unlimited of Mexico
EA                  Envirownental Assessment
GOM                 Govermment of Mexico
ha                  hectares
IBRD                International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
iCZM                Integrated Coastal Zone Management
INE                 National Ecology Institute (of SEDESOL)
kam                 kilometers
LGEEPA              General Law on Ecological Equilibrium and Environmental Protection
NGO                 Non-Governmental Organization
OD 4:01             World Bank Operational Directive 4:01
OE                  Land Use Planning (Ordenamiento Ecologico)
OLFPA               Organic Law of Federal Public Administration
PAM                 Mexico Environmental Program
PROFEPA             Attorney General's Office for Environmental Protection
SARH/CNA            Secretariat for Agriculture and Water ResourceslNational Water
Commission
SEA                 Sectoral Environmental Assessment
SEDESOL             Secretariat for Social Development
SEPESCA             Secretariat of Fisheries
v



13360C1
0510U4
LIST OF ACRONYMS
(Page 2 of 2)
SRA                  Secretariat of Agricultural Reform
SRE                  Secretariat of Foreign Relations
STPS                 Secretariat of Labor
TOR                  Terms of Reference
VU                   Ventanilla Unica
vi



13360C1
05104194
GLOSSARY OF SPANISH TERMINO LOGY
centro acuicolas                    governent-owned and operated stations that droduce
fingerling fish for stocking local ponds
Concurrencia                       Concurrent jurisdiction
delegaciones                       state offices of federal agencies
dependencias                        Secretariat (i.e., ministry) level agencies within the
federal goverment
desconcentrado                      a decentralized federal agency
ejido                               communal land holding
manifestacion de impacto
ambiental                           Mexican Enviromnmental Assessment Procedure
ordenamiento ecologico (OE)         ecological land use planning
prmcuradoria                        Office of the Attorney General for a given branch of
government
ventanilla unica                    one-stop window for permitting
vii



13360CIES-I
s/04194
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
The Mexico Aquaculture Devdopment Project seeks to promote sustainable aquaculture and the
rational management of coastal resources in the seven states of Tamaulipas, Veracruz, Baja
California Sur, Sinaloa, Nayarit, Oaxaca, and Chiapas. Project activities are subdivided into six
themes that promote: 1) the generation and adaptation of new aquaculture technologies; 2) the
construction or rehabilitation of support infrastucture such as navigation channels, roads, and
aquaculture parks; 3) the development of new markets for aquaculture products; 4) the building of
institutional capacity to manage environmental issues associated with aquaculture; 5) the
strengthening of key Mexican institutions to promote aquaculture development; and 6) the pilot
testing of integrated coastal zone management.
-Tis sectoral enviromnental assessment (SEA) of the Mexico Aquaculture Development Project
was prepared to consider environmntal issues early in the project planning process, before
discrete subproject activities are fulUy designed or even identified with certainty. The purpose of
such early treatment of environmental concerns is hat the sector-wide policies and practices at
their origin, as well as legal and institutional issues that may exacerbate problems or constrain
resolution, can be examined and modified before major project energies and funds have been
committed.
At the time of SEA preparation, state task force groups were in the process of preparing specific
subproject activities. It is anticipated that the project will be ready for World Bank appraisal in
June 1994; will be funded by contributions of $70 to $100 million from each the Govermnent of
Mexico and the Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD); and will initiate
project operations in early 1995.
This project is an integral extension of the Mexican govermnent's Aquaculture Development
Program, which seeks to capitalize on recent changes to both the Fisheries Law and the
Constitution allowing greater private participation in aquaculture ventures. TMough it is hoped
that aquaculture will thus be transformed into an instrument in the service of the country's
growth-oriented economic policies, there is also concern that serious envirownental impacts may
arise in association with such a large-scale development of commercial aquaculture.
ES-1



13360CI/ES-2
osJo4rs
As determined by review of the project, principal negative environmental impacts that may arise
from implementation include:
*   The alteration of local estuarine hydrology due to improperly sited dredging, farm, or
road construction operations;
*   The eutrophication caused by pond effluent or waste feeds from cage-culture
operations;
*   Tbe reduction of nearshore fisheries stocks due to uncontrolled collection of wild
shrimp seedstock; and
* The loss of habitat for migratory bird populations caused by shrimp pond
construction.
The Mexican govermnent has invested considerable time and resources into the development of a
comprehensive legal and regulatory framework relative to enviromnental issues. The landmark
1988 General Law on Ecological Equilibrium and Environmental Protection. (LGEEPA) is the
parent legislation, providing legal basis for the environmental protection responsibilities of both
the Secretariat of Fisheries (SEPESCA), the nodal implementing agency for this project, and the
Secretariat for Social Development (SEDESOL), the Mexican environmental protection agency.
These laws and regulations obligate the former to the sustainable management of aquatic flora and
fauna, and SEDESOL to a powerful oversight role in the evaluation of environmental impacts of
SEPESCA activities.
Two principal instruments in the management of environmental issues are enviromnental
assessment (EA) and land-use planning (spanish acronym OE). The EA methodology required by
SEDESOL, though comprehensive and consistently required of all new projects, is not entirely
effective as an environmental management tool. Principal constraints to effectiveness include a
serious backclog in the evaluation of EA reports by SEDESOL's office in Mexico City, a lack of
personnel qualified to provide useful review of EA reports, a lack of field review of projects by
SEDESOL reviewers, and unfocused requirements for data in the EA format, often resulting in
expensive collection of information of marginal utility while issues of genuine relevance may be
overlooked.
It is believed that this situation could be considerably improved with the completion of land use
plans (OE), though funding is present to do so only in five of the seven project states. Existence
ES-2



13360C11ES-3
05104J94
of land use plans would restrict aquaculture development to areas at least risk environmentally, as
well as streamline the EA process, increasing the likelihood of its genuine utility.
A powerful agency, the SEDESOL Attorney General's Office for Environmental Protection, has
been created within the past 2 years to assure compliance with EA conditions and federal
government regulations. This agency has offices in all of the project states, has jurisdiction over
most aquaculture operations, and is backed by fairly powerful legal powers. Nonetheless, the
agency has been preoccupied with monitoring the most serious environmental problems in the
country and has been able to give aquaculture development relatively little attention.
Mitigations for negative environmental impacts that are recommended for the Aouaculture
Development Pmject include
*   Building an institutional capacity to model and predict coastal estarine hydrology
under varying scenarios of dredging and other infrastructure development,
a Improving the EA process by training additional personnel and revising methodology,
-   Completion of land use plans in all project states,
a   Designing and initiating environmental monitoring activities focusing on mangrove
ecosystems, and
-   Supporting the protection of priority wetlands of importance to migratory waterfowl.
Other mitigations have already been incorporated into the project's design-such as the
concentration of coastal aquaculture into 'parks', the implementation of watershed management to
reduce erosion and the need for dredging of estuaries, and the introduction of Integrated Coastal
Zone Management strategies.
Three alternatives, accepting the project as-is, accepting the project with recommended
mitigations, and rejecting the project, were examined. This exercise indicates that accepting the
modified project is the least risky alternative with regards to negative environmental impact.
Despite mitigating measures such as the environmental and coastal zone management components,
the project proposes extensive development and land use changes in coastal zones and in close
proximity to wetlands. A Category 'A' environmental assessment is, therefore, appropriate, a
requirement fulfilled by the present SEA. Subproject activities that will always require specific
ES-3



13360C1/ES-4
O05O4/94
environmental assessment include dredging, pond and aquaculture farm construction in coastal
areas, and construction of main roads. With incorporation of certain changes to environmental
assessment methodology, the Mexican EA process could serve in lieu of Bank EA methodologies.
Environmental assessment reports should be reviewed by the World Bank for no objection on all
Category 'A subactivities.
ES-4



13360CIIl-I
03/15194
1.0 INTRODUCTION
This report constitutes the sectoral environmemal assessment (SEA) of the Mexico Aquaculture
Development Project. Tne SEA was prepared according to guidelines presented in the World
Bank Operational Directive 4:01; the Environmental Asssment Sourcebook Update #4 of
October 1993; and project-specific Terms of Reference (TORs) prepared by the consultant and
approved by the World Bank, Secretariat for Social Development (SEDESOL), and Secretariat of
Fisheries (SEPESCA) (Annex A). The SEA was based on findings from two missions to Mexico,
covering the periods November 29 to December 11, 1993, and January 23 to February 13, 1994.
The purpose of the SEA is to allow the consideration of environmental issues very early in the
project planning process, before discrete sub-project activities are fully designed or even identified
with certainty. The advantage of such early treatnent of envirownental concerns is that the
sector-wide policies and practices at their origin, as well as legal and institutional issues that may
exacerbate problems or constrain resolution, can be examined and modified before major project
energies and funds have been committed.
If successful, an SEA will:
-   Prevent sectoral investments from causing serious environmental problems by
identifying broad-based weaknesses in sufficient time to allow change;
a   Sharpen environmental issues by comparing alternative sector-investment strategies;
and
*   Reduce the time needed to perform subsequent project-specific environmental
assessmernts by providing background on legal, institutional, and regulatory
frameworks.
The assessment was conducted via extensive interviews with representatives from key federal
agencies, as well as federal and state government offices in all seven project states.
TMe Mexico Aquaculture Development Project will provide financial assistance to the Mexican
Government in the implementation of their national aquaculture development program. Generally
speaking, this program seeks to both take advantage of recen; government policy changes favoring
aquaculture development (see Section 2.0), and reduce other constraints to sustainable aquaculture
1 -I



13360C I/ 1 2
0311S194
development through investments in critical infrastructure and technical capabilities. The project
is decidedly oriented towards support of the Mexican social sector, which includes the cooperative
and ejidal farming and fishing communities. It is anticipated that the project will be ready for
World Bank appraisal in June 1994; will be funded by contributions of $70 to $ 100 million from
each the Government of Mexico and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(IBRD); and will be implemented in early 1995.
1-2



13360CM-1
06194
2.0 POLICY, LEGAL, AND ADMINISTRATIVE FRAMEWORK
This section seeks to:
*   Describe the legal, regulatory, and policy setting for aquaculture development in
Mexico, with particular reference to environmental protection;
*   Describe the Mexican government's process for determining environmental impact and
assuring compliance with measures that mitigate or reduce impacts;
* Evaluate the Mexican government's environmental impact assessment process as
compared to the World Bank's procedures for the same; and
* Describe and evaluate the particular role played by Land Use Plans (ordenawiento
ecologico) in promoting aquaculture and providing envirornmental protection.
Such analyses are vital to the practical utility of SEAs from the standpoint of:
*   Ensuring that environmental impacts of government policies promoting sectoral
growth have been considered and are addressed as an integral component of the
general body of laws and regulations governing the sector (e.g., that fisheries law not
only promotes activity in that sector, but also accommodates the environmental
impacts of those activities);
e Illuminating any contradictions or overlap in mandate between laws and regulations of
the target sector and those envirnmmental policies, law, and regulation of related
sectors; and
*   Setting the stage for environmental assessments of specific subprojects arising from
the sectoral program by answering such fundamental EA-related questions as adequacy
of laws, regulations, human, and institutional resources.
National laws and policy instruments, such as the Organic Law of Federal Public Administration
(OLFPA), the National Law on Ecological Equilibrium and Environmental Protection of 1988
(spanish acronym LGEEPA), the National Agreement for the Modernization of Aquaculture in
Mexico. and the Fisheries Law of 1992 were examined in the course of performing these
analyses.
2-1



1336cIn2-2
,os4194
2.1 GENERAL LEGAL AND REGULATORY FRAMEWORK FOR AOUACULTURE
DEVELOPMENT IN MEXICO
2.1.1 GOVERNMENT OF MEXICO POLICY AND LEGAL CHANGES ENABLING
AQUACULTURE DEVELOPMENT
Tle Government of Mexico, guided by the free-market economic policies of the present
administration, has shifted away from fisheries policies oriented towards the social sector in favor
of strategies that reflect aquaculture's potential as an important new force for national economic
growth. These changes began with 1989-1991 modifications to the 1986 Fisheries Law (Ley
Federal de Pesca), and even more significant modifications to that law in 1992 as a result of the
landmark revisions to Artidce 27 of the Mexican Constitution. Most important were changes to
those Article 27 provisions that had previously mandated the reservation of eight high-value
aquatic organisms-most importantly shrimp, lobster, and abalone-for exclusive exploitation by
fishing cooperatives or other entities in the social sector.
This provision has long been regarded as a particularly serious constraint to aquaculture
investment in Mexico since, in effect, a fishing cooperative would be an obligate partner in any
venture seeking to harvest, grow, or otherwise exploit the highest value species.
Specific policy objectives of the 1992 changes to the fisheries law include:
*   Increasing private investnent in fisheries and aquaculture from national sources,
-   Promoting the participation of foreign capital in aquaculture projects,
*  -Increasing foreign currency income to the country via fishery exports,
* Permanently ending the harvest of sea turtles, and
*   Increasing the availability of commercial aquaculture feeds.
Legal reforms most critical to the achievement of these policy objectives include the de-reserving
of the eight high-value species, the extension of the duration of aquaculture concessions from
10 to 50 years, removal of restrictions to foreign investment, and the transferability of fisheries
aquaculture concessions.
In summnary, these policy and legal changes have set the stage for the rapid development of an
export-oriented, commercial aquaculture industry in which private, even foreign, investment is
expected to play a major role.
2-2



13360Cn-3
0510494
These changes were effected with some original consideration for conservation issues, principally
with regards to transferability of concessions. Enabling the transfer and sale of natural resource
concessions is a widely used management strategy, because it provides some avenue for reducing
harvest pressure. In theory, if too many fishermen are depending on a given population of
organisms, declining per capita harvests will economically marginalize most individuals. Faced
with this situation, fishernen may elect either to intensify effort and technology or, if permitted
by law, sell their concession quota to other fishermen and get out of the business, thereby
reducing overall pressure on the resource. Although the efficacy of this theory has been
demonstrated on pelagic capture fisheries in developed countries, its applicability to the
aquaculture sector of a developing country such as Mexico cannot be ascertained at present.
Concern does exist regarding the possibility that smaller producers will be squeezed out in favor
of better capitalized interests in any such consolidation.
Other criticisms of the newly revised Fisheries Law are related to the absence of certain key
dernents to assure an equitable transition from a policy emphasizing social welfare to one that
promotes commercial opportunity. As described by Villemar, these elemnnts would include:
*   A decentralized regulatory system with clearly defined roles for local fisheries
agencies, counterbalanced by a means by which the general public can hold
govermment accountable,
*   A well-supported research agency that would provide data and information on which
to base policy decisions, and
*   Highly participatory public-.'iterest groups on the local level, comprised of producers,
NGOs, consumers, and others with a manifest interest in the general public good
(1992).
Villemar characterized the present, post-reform fisheries sector as markedly deficient in all of
these aspects. Personal observation of the rapid development of aquaculture sectors elsewhere in
the world strongly validates the above model, with particular reference to the Gulf of Fonseca,
Honduras. In that country, government mismanagement of an aqu3culture concession process
occurred due to a total lack of information on the prevailing land use and value to local
populations. The result was complete estrangement between local fishermen, shrimp farmers,
and government policy makers, and a situation characterized by escalating virulence in the
dialogue over issues, violence, and environmental degradation.
2-3



1336CCn1124
05/04194
Further personal observations made during the course of the Mexico Aquaculture SEA preparation
also indicated weak conformance with this model, as indicated by:
*   Static or declining budgetary support for the federal fisheries research agency
(Ihstikuro Nacional de Pesca), and
*   A virtual absence of local interest groups recognized by SEPESCA.
During SEA preparation, it was recommended that SEPESCA involve a number of local NGO
gro;.ps in the planning process, a suggestion that was met with reluctance, despite those groups
having accurately identified a numkhr of problem areas that closely parallel the Honduran
situation.
2.1-2 INSTfTUTIONAL STRUCTURE
More than eight agencies are involved to a greater or lesser degree in environmental issues related
to aquaculture in Mexico (Figure 1). As discussed above, the basic division of responsibility on
aquaculture projecs is between the Secretariats of Fisheries and of Social Development (i.e.,
SEPESCA and SEDESOL).
Fedeal Level
SEDESOL
SEDESOL is responsible for formulation and implementation of development policy throughout
Mexico, a mandate that includes social programs such as the National Solidarity Program as well
as environmental protection. Responsibility for environmental protection is further divided
between the National Institute of Ecology (INE) and the Attorney General for Environmental
Protection (PROFEPA) (Figure 2). The INE is responsible for the regulatory side of
envirommental protection, including policy formulation, development of environmental standards
and criteria, and evaluation of environmental impact reports. PROFEPA is responsible for the
enforcement aspects of environmental protection, including monitoring of environmental quality,
ensuring compliance with environmental regulations and conditions imposed by INE during
review of environmental assessments, conducting environmental audits, and responding to public
complaints about environmental quality.
2-4



|APPiUCANT 
V U rntSfit wt 4 qwstiIne 
2 Typ" et Land TCnrHr
3 Ty t of culture vaor
4 Type at Fedeal Land
STATE LEVEL                                                                  L
AVAILABLE             Ho   .~CTD
FEDERAL LAND'                1
YES
Ap*1 P,.ewhgd
rREPORT'XL      |IV
_tCIStON ON
r|L STAT.E LAEVLE Lj GEN|RAE                                            E A TYPE
A    INTERMOIATE        i
,?                                                  r ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PPLICANT|
CONSULTANT         study*
CONSULTANT    I EInitta  w1_    _
| A=Zee                                                                                            invest[A  R-eorturn    Sacral   orInwiw
P~~~~rrn4  ~ ~ ~      ~     EI.otr njiCrn,ffmsl
STT LVUEI
CONTINUE
Figure I
"Ventaniiila Unica" System (V.U.) of SEPESCA
(PagL  I ol' 3)



l             *                           s                w                              oEPrOr                                  l~~~~~~IEPECA
GRICLTURE              NATIONAL                      E  OF
IFISHERIES                    R T AINING 41
INSTITUTE                        ORO
YES                   YES                       YES            _
I Jo41|*ion 1                       A~~~~~~~kVmiuo
Stat. Ll _  _
SEPEseA        Otuppra.4d
Slats Ls~t4    YES                N
AgI Ag Rure |
.,IIfi  ". YES             Nat waIWat
WA(19              ~~~~~CE¶wrmsn CNA
NO
&                                                        z  sEnEw~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L It;-
To IAppreAI
A                               Eiftafe E A
Vgentnri llia unica' System (V u.) of SEPESCA                                                                             eR  
(Page 2 of 3)                                                                                                                3                  
YES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
.   &                                                                                                    ,        .~~~v



Verdict on EAjor technical revi w
SONtoD l     a           ZMA vtft4fAg R.frwew.aty
.. ...  ...............
I ' TChtie8I StudV
-AI-
Ncticarl SEPESCA
|  cEvAnuV |  upp
*                   | N«hn tie  14                                           1 Odo Rlewvtt t
.  :ale. Ctt It.A l
'    ~~~~~Cmcajw                                                                      r eS    - - 'or
A1  avA                                                           State ktiiat
. .....                                                ...
Feiuetae IF
IAPpeOYal tetI                                             I       Saet 
..... _I orrrcialoar  14... - -.                     --. 
LmJ
"Ventanilla Unica" System (V.U.) of SEPESCA
(Page 3 of 3)



~~~~SEDESOL| -.
Attorney General for                                Na )ionsl Ecology In4lilue                           State Delegations
Environmental Protection
I    -10.EA
Office of                                    Review
Research and
Technical
Assistant A.G for                                       Development
Public ParticIpatlon
_   Of nco Of   _Wildlands
Natural Resource               Management
Ulilizalion
Assistant A.G. for
Environmental Audits                                       Ofico of                     EA Review
Environmental            NHorrns b Standards
Regulatlon
Assistant A.G. for                                        Ofice of                        OE
Regulatory Compliance                                       Ecological                 Developement
Planning
State
Delegations
Compliance
Monitoring
Legal
Unit
Administralive
Unit
Figure 2
Breakdown of Environmental ResponsIbiltides Under SEDESOL



13360C112-9
OS104194
SARHICNA
The CNA is responsible for managing surface water and groundwater supplies throughout Mexico
and has devdoped a monitoring and enforcement capability of similar size and operational scope
as PROFEPA. 'he CNA is also highly autonomous from the parent agriculture secretariat and
has over 8,000 employees and 34 analytical laboratories under its control, of which
6,000 personnel and virtually all laboratories are located in the states [i.e., outside of the Distrito
Federal (D.F.)]. lbe agency operates a national monitoring network for water quality that
includes over 800 surface and subsurface sampling stations and a routine program of collections
and analysis.
The CNA has jurisdiction over the quality of water that is at least 5 parts per thousand (ppt)
salinity or less, implying that an active role will be played in the control of pollution from
freshwater aquaculture, as well as in the protection of water quality for the benefit of aquaculture.
The agency has an enforcement and compliance unit with a similar scope of authority as
SEDESOL's PROFEPA (see Section 2.4).
State lad
Though a variety of state and municipal entities have recendy been created to address
environmental issues, these agencies generally have operational jurisdiction over small-scale urban
or industrial projects and do not directly regulate aquaculture development. Aquaculture project
states that have environmental regulatory capacity include:
*   Tamauripas, whose Secretariat of Human Settlements, Works, and Public Services
reviews environmental assessments of municipal projects;
*   Vercruz, whose Secretariat for Urban Development includes an environmental
impacts staff, but whose authority does not cover aquaculture projects;
*   Baja CaGfornia Sur, whose Secretariat for Human Settlements and Public Works
evaluates environmental assessment reports according to the state LGEEPA, which,
per Article 21, does not have authority to rule on aquaculture projects;
*   Sinaloa, whose state environmental law assigns environmental assessment review to
the Secretariat of Planning and Development, and provides legal avenue to evaluate
aquaculture projects, though the SEDESOL delegation continues to do so;
*   Nayarit, whose Social Development Commission is not assigned authority to evaluate
environmental impact assessments of aquaculture;
2-9



, 13360C1-20
05K1094
*   Oaxaca, whose Secretariat of Urban Development and Ecology, though nominally
authorized to environmental assessment, is not empowered to review aquaculture
projects; and
*   Chiapas, whose state law (i.e., LGEEPA) mandates environmental assessment, does
not allow the Secretariat for Development and Ecology to rule on aquaculture
projects.
2.13 LEGAL AND REGULATORY BASIS FOR ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
'Me Mexican Constitution and the OLFPA specify the respective functions of the federal
secretarcs, including responsibility for enviromnental protection. In keeping with the Mexican
custom of assigning concurrent jurisdiction on most aspects of the law (i.e. concurrenca),
OLFPA's Article 43 vests the responsibility for enviromental protection and natural resource
management related to aquaculture development among several govermment agencies (Table 1).
Though SEDESOL has the overall responsibility for maintaining and improving environmental
quality, including the management of biodiversity, it is repeitedly enjoined to collaborate with,
and delegate authority to, other agencies with technical competency in a given area. In the case
of aquatic environments and their flora and fauna, collaboration would be sought with SEPESCA
and SARH/CNA. For its part, SEPESCA's responsibility for the development of aquaculture is
clear, though there are also parallel obligations toward environmental protection. In summary,
environmental protection is an intrinsic and recurrent theme pervading SEPESCA's mandate for
fisheries and aquaculture development as defined by OLFPA.
The National Fisheries Laws and Regulations of 1992, the operational instrument governing the
Fisheries Secretariat, also assigns ample responsibility to SEPESCA in the area of environmental
protection and natural resource management. The regulations presented in Table 2 are derived
from the environmentally related fisheries law also involve shared responsibilities with other
branches of the Federal Government (SEPESCA II, 1993).
Again, the responsibilities and powers, as mandated in its governing body of law, are clear with
regard to the Fisheries Secretariat's dual role as a: 1) promoter of fisherieslaquaculture extractive
and development activities, and 2) collaborating agent with other branches of government for
conservation and environmental management.
2-10



13360C1
03115/94
Table 1.  Comparison of Functions between the Secretariats of Fisheries and Social
Development with regards to Environmental Concerns as Described in the Federal
Organic Law on Public Administration (from SEPESCA 1, 1993)
Article 32 (Ley Organico A&dzinistracion     Article 43 (Ley Organico Administracion
Publica Federal)                             Publica Federal)
Primary Responsibility for the Following Issues   Primary Responsibility for the Following Issues
Resides in the Social Development Secretariat    Correspond to the FLsheries Secretariat
(SEDESOL)                                    (SEPESCA)
XXI. Promote ecologically rational land use  H. Program, promote and advise on fisheries
planning (ondeamiento ecologico) over dte    exploitation and production in all its form. s.
national territory, in coordination with
appropriate branches of the federal public
administration, state and local government, with
the participation of the social and private
sectors.
XXIV. In coordination with the Secretaiats of    V. Establish seasons and location of prohibitions
Health and other rdated agencies, formulate and  on the capture or exploitation of aquatic biota.
implement general policies on environmental
security and quality.
XXV. With the participation of the branches of   Vm. Authorize and implement all activities
government according to the particular case,  related to aquaculture, as well as establish
establish ecological regulations and criteria for    nurseries, farms and reserves for aquatic biota.
the exploitation of natural resources, preserving
and restoring environmental quality.
XXVI. With the participation of other branches   XV. Technical support to the Secretariat of
of goverment at the federal, state and local  Commerce and Industrial Promotion in the
levels, according to the particular case, execute   export and importation of aquatic biota.
actions that assure the conservation or
restoration of ecosystems essential to the public
welfare.
XXVII In coordination with appropriate       XVL Inventory and evaluation of aquatic flora
federal, state and local governments, assure  and fauna, as well as conservation and
compliance with standards and programs for the  promotion of marine, lotic, and lentic flora and
protection, defense and restoration of the   fauna according to regulations set forth by the
environment; establishing mechanisms and     Secretariat of Social Development.
administrative procedures via the appropriate
jurisdictional agencies.
XXVIII. With the appropriate participation of
the Secretariats of Agriculture and Fisheries,
regulate and assure conservation and rational
utilization of aquatic and marine flora, wildlife
and fisheries.
2-11



13360C1n2-12
Ihe Fisheries Law exclusively reserves several areas of responsibility related to conservation and
environmental management for the Secretariat of Fisheries, including most prominently:
*   Establishing fishing seasons (3o.IX),
*   Est iblishing zones for capture and cultivation of aquatic organisms (3o.VII),
*   Determining minimum allowable sizes and total catch volumes,
* Issuance of permits for stocking federally controlled .bodies of water (Article I5-IV),
and
*   Granting of permits and concessions for the capture extraction and cultivation of
aquatic resources (Regulation, Article 39111).
2.1.4 PERMITTING RELATED TO AQUACULTURE
The permitting process is the nexus between producers and the regulatory framework for
aquaculture development. The process is quite complex, with institutional involvement
determined by such basic project attributes as:
*   Organizational character, which is a function of private or social sector origination
(L.e. corporation or cooperative/ejido);
a   Land tenure, which is determined by the land classification as federal or private; and
- Water quality to be used in the culture operation, wiith the deciding criteria being
fresh (i.e., less than 5 ppt salinity) or saline.
The complexity of the permitting system has long been a major issue for aquaculture developers
in Mexico. As a mitigation of this complexity, a valuable facilitation role was created for
SEPESCA in 1992 that has been christened the Vemaniala Unica (VU), or One-Stop Window.'
Under VU, SEPESCA furnishes support and valuable official auspices to private applicants in the
acquisition of permits from the above-listed agencies. In operational terms, SEPESCA provides
aquaculture developers with comprehensive information regarding the permitting requirements of
their individual projec, receives required documentation from them, and undertakes its
distribution and follow-up among the agencies particular to their case allowing applicants the
considerable advantage of dealing with a single bureaucracy. SEPESCA has produced a
comprehensive folder of application forms and instructions for distribution to applicants, although
these have not been updated since the program's inception and are in short supply in most state
delegaciones.
2-12



13360CI
03115194
Table 2.  Regulations Derived from the 1992 Fisheries Law Related to Environment that
Represent Shared Responsibility with other Federal Agencies
Article lo. The present law...relative to natural resources comprised of flora and fauna whose
medium is water..has the objective of guaranteeing the conservation, preservation and
rational exploitation of fisheries resources, and establishing a basis for its adequate
management...
Article 2o. The law's resolutions will have application on all waters within Federal Jurisdiction
referred to in the fifth and eighth paragraphs of Artide 27 of the Constitution.
Article 3o. lTe application of the present law falls to the Secretariat of Fisheries, without
compromising the powers of other branches of federal government, which should
establish the necessary coordination with Fisheries in their execution of the following.
I.   Draw up, publish and ma_itain the national fisheries map containing the fisheries
resources inventory of federa waters.
IV.  Promote aquaculture development in coordination with other federal, state and
municipal agencies.
V.   Prepare and implement measures that protect sea turtle, marine mammals, and
endangered aquatic fauna in need of special protection; collaborating with
appropriate agencies in this regard.
VIII. Regulate the introduction of aquatic flora and fauna in bodies of water under
federal jurisdiction; and define the technical norms and standards needed to
verify - either directly or through accredited laboratories - the basic health of
aquatic flora and fauna. ..in coordination with appropriate federal agencies,
2-13



13360Cii2-14
O501U94
Although the particular mix of agencies is a function of project-specific conditions, most coastal
aquaculture projects will involve:
*   SEPESCA, who will grant an 'Aquaculture Concession' in cases where Federal
ownership of land is involved;
*   SARH/CNA, who will grant a 'Water Use Concessiaon if culture water falls within
their jurisdiction (Figure 3);
*   SRA, who, in the case of cooperatives or ejidos, will issue an Authorization of
Agricultural Viability to assure that the project conforms to Agriculture Reform
Policies;
*   SmPS, who confirms the legal status of social-sector organizations;
*   SRE, who confirms the legal status and provides documentation for private-sector
investors; and
i   SEDESOL, who evaluates and mles on the project's environmental impact assessment
and dictates conditions that govern its construction and operation.
The VU is present in both the central and 11 delegation offices of SEPESCA, including all of the
seven project sttes. In simplest terms, the state-level VU is responsible for all permits and
review at that level, after which the application is remitted to the VU office in Mexico City for
the management of permitting in the D.F. (Figure 1).
Although the VU process has reduced the paperwork burden associated with permitting,
complaints and problems continue to exist with the system, virtually all of which relate to the
environmental assessment process. Problems originating with the permitting process and not
adequately addressed by the VU include: 1) the extended chain of communication between
applicant and the agencies located in the D.F., which creates delays of many weeks when
SEDESOL requests additional information or data in support of an environmental assessment
finding, and 2) the expense of obtaining all permits, which could easily amount to over
N $50,000 (approximately $16,000) even for a small project (see Section 7.3).
2.2 ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT IN MEXICO
Environmental impact assessment is a well established procedure in Mexico, dating in its present
form from the 1988 LGEEPA. Two prior laws, the Public Works Law of 1980 and the Federal
Law of Environmental Protection of 1982, established the precedent for requiring environmental
2-14



_   nlinounbV 2uipJ1oaj uon,ipsunf guilliuumd juj2po
NV320
mPPquq3S3dBSq WIin*W.P! Nm.Mqmw   Pan
npnIp4m IIpmm mMMg5s     @
wau-oonpMpu   lumA uunm   umaibmuipaq.mqt -mp p'I-p*a  0
~aI.pJw~~V*puwmms purnSwaqmiuu vwim uqni.Oaom4pmm,jmsad:I Q
vtW3d3S f    UaM  W' UU IU*w=Istm pJp"  Q
aN3931
'0-Ia-to~_ 



13360C112-l6
impact assssment of development activities. However, this earlier legislation was poorly
understood, and an EA was only infrequently performed.
22.1 PRESENT LEGAL FRAMEWORK
As mentioned, the legal basis for environmental assessment is the 1988 LGEEPA, which in turn
is derived from Article 27 of the Mexican constitution. LGEEPA's Article 3 defines EA as the
'document by which a description :s made, based on studies, of the significant and potential
environmental impact which a work or activity may generate, as well as how to avoid or mitigate
it, should that impact be negative." Artidce 8 assigns to SEDESOL the responsibility for
evaluating enviromnental impact of activities further defined in Articles 28 and 29.
Article 28 further defines SEDESOL's mandate as covering 'public or private works or activities
hat may upset ecological balance... or exceed federal noms and standards defining environmental
quality;" With regard to natural resource based projects, Article 28 also states that impacts to all
components of the host ecosystem must be considered in addition to the target resource.
Article 29 defines specific areas of jurisdiction for SEDESOL, induding federal public worms,
hydraulic works, transport, heavy industry, pipelines, mineral exploration and extraction,
hazardous waste management facilities, federal tourist development projects, radioactive waste
management facilities, and the exploitation of forest resources.
Although jurisdiction for all other activities is assigned by default to the states, aquaculture
remains within the federal domain according to Article 95, which states that 'SEDESOL may ask
the Fisheries Department to conduct environmental assessment studies before granting
concessions, permits, or in general, authorizations to carry out fisheries activities, when
development of the species jeopardizes its conservation or may cause ecological imbalance."
Although this article provides a nominal loophole in being tied to the aquaculture concession
process (i.e., a concession is not required for aquaculture on private land), this loophole is
effectively closed by the classification in the Fisheries Law of culture water as an area for federal
jurisdiction, meaning that SEDESOL will always be required to review environmental assessments
of any aquaculture project development.
2-16



13360C112-17
05l04/94
22.2 MEIHODOLOGY
Figure 4 shows the generic process for an EA in Mexico, and Figures 5 and 6 show the
environmental procedure presently in force for g_neral and intermediate modalities, according to
environmental impact regulations derived from LGEEPA (Articles 6 through 25). lThese
regulations also establish the maximum periods between steps in the EA process. It should be
emphasized that should SEDESOL require additional information or clarification, the decision will
not be rendered before an additional 30 days have elapsed.
The standard form for aquaculture projects requires the following sections (Table 3).
I.    General data.
11.   General description of project and site.
111. General aspects of natural and socioeconomic environment.
IV-  Preparation of site and construction.
V.   Operation and maintenance.
VI.  Identification of environmental impacts.
VII.  Preventive measures and mitigation of environmental impacts identified.
VIII. Conclusions.
IX.  References.
A full, step-by-step procedure has been prepared by SEPESCA for preparing environmental
assessment reports on aquaculture projects and is attached ni this SEA report (Annex B).
2.23 CRiTERIA FOR SELECllON OF EA CATEGORY
The environmental assessment process for aquaculture proj cts is initiated via the preparation of a
'Conceptual Synthesis' document for submission to the st2-level SEPESCA officer in charge of
Ventanilla Unica (VU). The conceptual synthesis provides basic project information needed for
the SEDESOL-National Ecology Institute (INE) ruling on the necessity for a full environmental
assessment and to select the appropriate category of EA report. The synthesis has three basic
sections, comprised of general project information such as location and organizational character,
the general physical and operational characteristics, and possible environmental impacts.
2-17



0,-11.94
PROJECT
VENTANILLA                                                                    LEGAL FRAMEWORK
UNICA
GENERAL LAW OF ECOLOGICAL
EQUILIBRIUM AND ENVIRONMENTAL
HOPRESENT                     NO                         PROTECTION
<    NEEOS    )      INFORMATIONAL                       AUTHORZED
-   EA                     REPORT                                              ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
YES                          To SEOESOL                                   S        REGULATION (JULY 141)
PREPAREEA E    i                                              BEI             PUBLIC WORKS LAW (ARTICLE 13)
I    STUDY    _                                                 PROJECT          PUBLIC WORKS REGULATIONS 12
AND ?4
.   SEDESOL    I         NEEDS   |                     F|  PREPARE  |        FISHERIES LAW AND REGULATIONS
V E R DIC T   - (i)         e A   'i)                                        . ST A T E   LA W S
f  NEEO5 EA7   I                                         |  VERDICT   |      E -ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
SEESOL2)                      0 - GENERAL
I - INTERMEDIATE
S - SPECIFIC
o                                                       V                                                                           5OBSERVATIONS
FINAL VEROICT
SEDESOL (3)                                                                 A) SEDESOL MUST RULE WTHIN:
I SO WORIONG DAYS FOR 0
VENTANILLA     _                                                            2 60 WORKING DAYS FOR I
FK    UNICA    SJ-                                                      O39WORINGDAYSFORS
_    -S AODITIONAL WORKINO DAYS IN
_ -                                              CASE TECHNICAL VERDICT IS
+ _-  v s r   ,           V      ,                                         REEQUIRED FROMANY OTHER
PROJECT AUTHORIZEO D-                                     PROJECT NOT                                           AGENCY (CNA - SEDESOL-
IN TERMS OF THE EA               CONDITIONAL'             AUTHORIZED                                           SECOFI - SEMIP - ETC)
N   REPORT                     AUTHORIZATION            [
COMPLIAN}CE;-
PIIOJECT INITIA1OII  4          WICONUITIONS
FigLirc 4
Flow Diagram  for Environmcntal Assessment



03.15-44
AUTHORITY                                     APPLICANT
:-PROJECT ACC        PROJECT
I~      te  V,moeU ay.                           CODIIOA  ACCPTNC
ma  a_lowe  ERA8TUDY                      C P W
-|   SUCMIT EANGIO
V;U.                            II_ _      RECEIVE VERDICT         I    >
I  MORPROJECT REJECTED           1
SEDESOL EVALUATES AND                                                                 NITIATE
GIVES VERDICT (30 DAYS)                   COPLMENT           FO REROJECT
If outside analysis Is needed (2).    _.
then 15 more days.                       COaIeOA the  U
(max. allowed byjlaw) eCONOtIons
.                 I~-0     MORE INFORMATION NEEDED
SEDESOL EVALUATES O   r   t
publiAND GIVES VERDICT                             tEMNRifY INFO    sUpEd
9                          {~~~~~~~~30 more days to advlse V.U.) A     --COMP
e                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~+
.                |      ~~~~~RECEIVES VERDICT               CEDi
_+l   . P~ROJECT fREJEC~TED r                    ;
|  C        P~ROJECT fACCE~PTED _PIROJECT
OF PItOJECT   1=     COMLY WITH
(1) In the case of the United Slales, the V.U. Is accessed                                     IIN
through Federal SEPESCA Delegations,
(2) Technical Verdict: Opinlon from other      Note: Eventually SEDESOL wi perform inspections
public entity: CNA (freshwater), ed.               to verly Inforrnalion supplled by appllssnl.
E rnvironmental Assessment Methodology for the General Modality                                                 | g        i                     N



03.15.94
A U T H O R I T Y                                      A P P L I C A N T
v.. (1)  '-                                      |PROJECT
ISEDESOL I
I EVALUATE PROJEEC1-j 1                                   RECEIVES FORMAT        I
I &DETERMINE EATYPE I                             n       AND PREPARES EA
SEDESOL
EVALUATES AND      4                             PRESENT8 INTERMEDIATE EA   1
GIVES VERDICT
EA 1(60 DAYS)    44                               PRESENTS SPECIFIC EA    1+
EA S (90 DAYS)
(If tech verdict required (2)'
15 days additional)     -                        MORE INFORMATION NEEOED
SEDESOL         4                            COMPLEMENTARY INFORMATIONI
EVALUATES AND GIVES
VERDICT (30 DAYS)                                           .
RECEIVES VERDICT~
PROJECT
|  PROJECT ACCEPTED       } ----=--->  INITIATED
.                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-00|   PROJECT CONDITIONALLY ACCEPTED     /  --
(1) In the case of the United States, the V.U. Is accessed       I COMPLY W/ CONDITIONS_-
through Federal SEPEOCA Delegations.                       _
(2) Technical Verdict: opinlon from other public entily:  -p|  PROJECT REJECTED  1             -  -.    END
CNA (freshwater), SEDEMAR.SARH,SEMIP.SEDESOL (ect.)
Figurc 6
Environmental Assessment Methodology for the Intermediate and Specific Modalities
.  .~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~M



Table 3. Comparison of Environmenaul Assessment Report Feature (Page I of 2)
World Bank Environmentul Assessment Report Outline             aeneeral Envimnnmental impact Statement Outline           Specific Envirownmerul Ispect StAterent Oudline
A. Executive Summary                                          A. Oeneral Prject                                         A. Genranl "Pect Infonnation
Infornation
B.  Policy, Legal, and
Adminisitrative Framework
C. Project Descsiption                                        B. DeseriptionoProposed                                   B. Description and
Projecl or Activity                                      Judification of Project
1. Geographic                                                1. Project Description                                     1. Poject Description
Ecological, Social, and
Economic Context
2. Ofrr-ite Investmenta                                      2. Site Selection                                          2. Site Selection
3. Site Preparation and                                   3. Site Prapafation and
Construction                                               Construction
4. Operation and                                          4. Operation
Maintenance
5  Post Project                                           S. Maintenance
D. Baseline Data                                              C. General Aspect of the                                  C. Description of the Exisng
Natural and Socio-                                       Environment Prior to
-                                                                           Economic Environment                                      Project Devefopfent
1. Descriplion of Physical                                   1. Physical Aspect                                         1. A'ecaofPro3ect
Conditions                                                                                                             Influence
2. Description of                                            2. Biological Aspects                                      2. Physical Aspects
Biological Conditions
3. Description of Socio                                      3. Socio.Economic                                          3. Bioloical Aspects
Economic Conditions                                         Environment
4. Linkage with LAnd                                      4. Socloeconomic
Use fcriceRs                                               Atpects
E.  Environmentil Impacts                                     0. Identification of                                      D. Analysis and Determination
Environmental Impacts                                    of the Actual and Projected
Quality of Environmental
Factors
1. Positive and Negative                                                                                                1. Physical Aspects
Impacts
2. Biological Aspects
3. Socioeconomic
Aspects



03=
Table 3. Comperdion of invironmental ]Asehlment Report Feature (Page 2 of 2)
WofId Bank Environmental Assesisment Report Outline            General EnviranmentAl IMpact SUtement Outline             Specific EAvIrommmnal InpAct Statement Outline
E. Methods of PTeventlon and                             E. dendifcation and
Mitigation of Identified                                  Evaluation of
Environmenul Impacts                                      Enrlamesil Impedt
I. General
Conridemntion
2. Analysis of
Envirarunental
Impacts (Including
Alerratives)
F.  Analysis of Alternatives                                                                                            F. Deecrptlon of the Modified
Envirnm ntal Scenario
0.   fitigalion Plan                                                                                                    0. Methods of Prevention And
Mitigation of Advere
Environmntal Impstc and
Cessation of Projecl
Activities
H   Environmental
MangeSment end Training
1. Environmenul Monitoring
s-i             Plan
1.  Appendices                                                F. References                                             H. References



13360I2-23
05104194
Using the synthesis document, INE will select one of five options, presented here in increasing
order of detail and scope:
*   Exemption (i.e., from environmental assessment)
*   Water quality study,
*   Informational report,
*   General environmental assessment, and
*   Intermediate environmental assessment.
An additional EA report format exists, called the 'specific environmental assessmentw that is used
for development projecs that have high risk of negative impacts, and is never reconmmended for
aquaculture.
Selection is made from a matrix of criteria related to:
3 Proje:t size, which ranges from less than 10 to over 450 hectares;
3   Cu,ture infrastructure, ranging from cages to earthen ponds;
3   Culture water exchange requirements, ranging from less than 5 to 100 percent total
volumes per day; and
   General production strategy, ranging from extensive to inteinsive.
In case a project's civil construction is more than 30 percent complete, an 'Environmental
Diagnosis' document is required in lieu of an EA. The objective of a diagnosis document is to
provide a plan for achieving regulatory compliance in operations that existed prior to the
establishment of EA requirements.
2.2.4 COMPARISON OF MEXICAN EA PROCEDURES WITH OPERATIONAL
DlitECTIVE 4.01
A comparative analysis of the World Bank and borrower-country environmental assessment
methodologies is consistent with the Sectoral Environmental Assessment concept. In the case of
the Aquaculture Development Project, the exercise answers an important question: should the
Wlorld Bank guidelines for EA preparation be integrated into the preparation process of all
subprojects arising from the sectoral investment?. . . or do the Mexican guidelines provide
sufficient assurance that, if properly executed. environmental issues will be adequately addressed?
2-23



1316CCn-24
05/0494
The following section compares Operational Directive 4.01 (OD 4.01) to the SEDESOL EA
preparation methodology in the general and intermedia e modes.
Overview or World Bank Environmental Assessment Guidelines
OD 4.01 from the World Bank Operational Manual provides the policy and procedures of the
World Bank (Bank) for the environmental assessment of Bank lending operations. The EA is
proposed and regarded as a flexible implement, whose breadth, depth, and analysis are project-
dependent.
'Me specified purpose of the Bank's EA procedure is to improve decision making and to ensure
that the various aspects of the project's implementation are environmentally sound and
sustainable. Recognition of significant environmental impacts to be caused by a project's
development at an early stage can allow for appropriate prevention, minimization, or mitigation of
adverse impacts. Consideration of such impacts and response mechanisms at an early stage can
avert costly and unbudgeted .remediation measures.
Thus, the timing of the EA is critical to these goals. Close and early integration the EA process
with economic, financial, institutional, and engineering analyses is intended to ensure
consideration of potential envirommental impacts prior to finalization of the project site and
design. This strategy will also help avoid delays in project implementation arising from
unforeseen environmental consequences.
The overall Bank EA procedure includes the preparation by the Bank of terms of reference (TOR)
for the EA, EA report preparation by the borrower, and EA review and project approval by the
Bank. For major projects, the report itself may require from 6 to 18 months to prepare. It must
be submitted to the Bank prior to its appraisal mission, the purpose of which is to review
procedural and substantive elements of the EA with dhe borrower, assess the adequacy of local
environmental institutions, determine that the EA's recomunendations are reflected in the project's
engineering design and economic analysis, and ensure that identified mitigation procedures have
been properly budgeted. An unsatisfactory EA report may delay the appraisal mission as well as
eventual Bank financing.
2-24



13360C1/2-25
05104/94
Compsarison of Environmental Evaluation Procedures
The Bank EA report is expected to address, where aupropriate, a wide range of potential issues
listed in Table 4. While many of these issues are addressed in a generic sense in the Mexican
nanifestacion de impacto ambienal procedure, the regulations do not appear to require the depth
of analysis specified in OD 4.01.
Mexican environmental authorities evidently conduct routine site visits for verification of the EA
reports. However, limited staffing and travel resources are focused almost exclusively on major
polluting activities such as industry rather than the less risky and relatively inaccessible
aquaculture developments.
Other observations are as follows.
Bank enforcement is by Bank Appraisal Mission, versus the Office of the Attorney
General for the Protection of the Environment (PROFEPA, see Section 2.4)
PROFEPA, with the consequent focus on implementation of mitigation plans (Bank)
versus awaiting authorization to construct.
* There are no industrial hazards/occupational safety issues covered in the Mexican
EAIMIA procedure.
3 The Bank EA requires defined mitigation plans versus the identification of mitigation
measures (general EA only). Enforcement of mitigation in MEXICAN MIA must be
put forth in a conditional approval and then enforced by the PROFEPA.
*   There is no requirement for institutional analysis in the Mexican EA, a situation
amounting to defacto continual self-evaluation. Requirements for EMP, management
and training, and monitoring bolster this supplemental focus of the Bank EA.
*   The Bank focus is, to a certain and significant degree, on the protection of the
investment (in addition to the enviroment, of course), with emphasis on cost-benefit
analysis. Mexican EA focuses on the environment proper.
*   TIere is no specific reference in Mexican law or regulations that requiring analysis of
engineering or economic alternatives to the project until a 'specific' EA is requested
by SEDESOL, although consideration of the site selection process is covered in the
-general' and 'intermediate' modalities. The philosophy expressed by Mexican
officials is that the EA process is sufficiently expensive and onerous with the analysis
of a single scenario, multiple analysis are beyond the abilities of either the
2-25



13360C1
03115/94
Table 4. Potential EA Issues
Addressed    Addressed by     Addressed by
by General Intermediate or CIO Aquacultural
Bank EA Potential Issues    MIA?       Specific MIA?        MIA?
Use of Agrochemicals          Yes           Yes               No
Biological Diversity          Yes            No               Yes
Coastal and Marme             Yes            No               Yes
Resource Management
Cultural Properties           Yes           Yes               Yes
Damus and Resevoirs           Yes            No               No
Hazardous and Toxic           Yes           Yes               Yes
Materials
Indigenous Peoples            Yes           Yes               No
Induced Development and       Yes            No               Yes
other Sociocultural
Aspects
Industrial Hazards            Yes           Yes               No
International Treaties and    Yes            No               No
Agreements
International Waterways       Yes            No               No
Involuntary Resettlement      No             No               Yes
Land Settlement               No             No               Yes
Natural Hazards               Yes           Yes               Yes
Occupational Health and       No             No               No
Safety
Ports and Harbors             Yes            No               No
Tropical Forests              Yes            No               Yes
Watersheds                    Yes            No               Yes
Wetlands                      Yes            No               Yes
Wildlands                     Yes            No               Yes
EA procedure provided by SEPESCA (Annex B). From SEPESCA 11, 1993.
2-26



13360CI
0311Sf94
Table 4. Potential EA Issues
World
Bank          Addressed in Mexican
Project Type                 Category'            Legislation?
Dams and Reservoirs                              A                    Yes
Forestry Production                              A                    Yes
Industrial Plants                                A                    Yes
Irrigation, Drainage, and Flood Control          A                    Yes
Land Clearance and Lzveling                      A                    Yes
Mineral Development (including oil and gas)      A                    Yes
Port and Harbor Development                      A                    Yes
Reclamation and New Land Development             A                    Yes
Resetdement                                      A                    No
River Basin Development                          A              Depends on size
Thermal and Hydropower Development               A                    Yes
Manufacture, Transportation, and Use of          A                    Yes
Pesticides or other HazardousfToxic Matrials
Agro-Industry (small-scale)                      B                    No
Electrical Transmission                          B                    Yes
Aquaculture and Mariculture                      B              Depends on size
Irrigation and Drainage (small scale)            B        No (below established criteria)
Renewable Energy                                 B          Electrical generation only
Rural Elecification                              B                    Yes
Tourism                                          B            Federal Projects Only
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation                B                    No
Watershed Projects                               B              Depends on size
Rehabilitation. Maintenance, and Upgrading       a                    No
(small scale)
Bank Category C projects would not require an EA according to Mexican regulations
2-27



13360C112-29
05/04/94
government or private sector to contemplate. The Bank EA stresses analysis of
alternatives, believing that issues cannot be thrown into sufficient contrast without
such an exercise. It should be noted that documentation for the aquaculture sector EA
procedure (Annex B) does include alternative analysis to an extent similar to that of
the Bank, although the legal standing of a SEPESCA-reconunended protocol veaus
the letter-of the LGEEPA remains unclear.
Protection of Wildlands
Ihe Bank considers the treatment of wildlands, land and water areas in a ste vimily
unmodified by human activity, to be an important subset of considerations during environmental
assessment. As described in the Bank's Operational Policy Note (OPN) 11.02, wildlands can
have either fonnal status, such as biosphere reserves or national parks, or simply be recognized
by the scientific and conservation community as having intrinsic value in terms of biodiversity
conservation or the provision of 'enviromnental services' (e.g., erosion control, preservation of
water quality, etc). Examples of the latter wildland type provided in OPN 11.02 include
esuLaries, mangrove areas, and riverine habitats-all prominent features of the Aquaculture
Development Project landscape.
Bank policy seeks balance on this question, and is accordingly concerned that project economic
development activities which reduce the extent of wildlands be mitigated by additional measures to
improve management, and actual extent, of other such areas. A given project's potential to
degrade wildlands, the borrowing country's existing policies and programs for wildiand
management, and the value of native wildlands are considerations that shape treatment of this
issue.
Consideration for wildlands management in Mexico, a country thought to have the third or fourth
most diverse biota in the world, is the subject of LGEEPA's second chapter, which provides the
rationale for preserving wild areas as well as nine protected area designations, including
*   Biosphere reserves,
*   Special biosphere reserves (of smaller area than above),
*   National parks,
*   Natural monuments,
*   National marine parks.
2-28



13360C1I2-29
0510419
*   Natural resource protection areas,
*   Floral and faunal reserves,
*   Urban parks, and
*   Special zones subject to ecological conservation.
With regards to the ecosystem type of greatest concern to the Aquaculture Development Project,
Mexico has 44 national parks and 20 biosphere reserves focusing on wedands protection. No
blanket proscription against development exists for these areas, rather each has developed a
management plan accommodating varying degrees of economic activity. Tlough no explicit
treatment of wildlands is included in the Mexican EA methodology (except for the 'specific-
modality, which is never recomunended for aquaculture projects), protection of these areas is
afforded during thmugh the evaluation of project environmental assessment reports.
Protected areas are under the direct administration of SEDESOL's Department of Natural
Resource Utilization, and further protected via direct monitoring by PROFEPA delegations in
each stat
With regards to wildiands protection closer to the concept provided in OPN 11.02, natural zones
in the larger sense than official parks and protected areas, two additional designations exist of
=priority wetlands' and 'marine turtle reproductive zones'. The former category designates
weedands of sufficient ecological value to merit special concern, though no formal protcive status
exists. Aquaculture Development Project areas with priority wetlands include;
*   The southeastern coast of Chiapas; approximately from Pijijiapan to the Guatemalan
border,
*   The northern coast of Nayarit, from the latitude of Tepic to the northern state line,
*   Sinaloa, from the area further south of Culiacan to the border with Sonora, and
*   Baja California Sur, in the area of the Magdalena-Punto Eugenio lagoon complex.
The priority wetlands designation prompts special review by INE during evaluation of
environmental assessment reports on projects within those areas, with the result that development
activities are under special constraint to avoid compromising wetland function.
2-29



133WIOOl2-30
OS104194
'Marine turtl reproductive zones' are strips of beach used for nesting by those animals, and
under strict protection against development, with an eye primarily towards preventing mass
tourism development. Twenty-three of these zones have been identified to date, including at least
one in every project state. The turtle beaches are categorically proscribed from development, and
environmental assessment reports for projects near these zones are obligated to demonstratc that
their operations will not adversely affect the area's value for turte nesting.
Finally, the completion of OE will further promote the protection of wildlands by recommending
land uses such as Conservation Areas, land uses that do not fundamentally alter or harm the
natural resource base; and Integral Protection areas, which involve total preservation against
economic exploitation (see Section 2.3).
Conclusion
In conclusion, the environmental assessment protocol per se, though deficient in certain areas
deemed important by the Bank, can be readily modified. Principal modifications would include
an adequate analysis of alternatives, an appropriately defined scope for baseline data collection
(i.e., to that which is truly necessary), and an explicit treatment of wildlands.
In practice, the lack of field verification, consequent lack of knowledge on the part of INE
reviewers of local -conditions, low INE staff numbers, and other constraints (see Section 4.3) have
turmed the EA process into a bureaucratic exercise rather than a valid tool for environmental
management, a problem of application rather than methodology.
2-30



13360C12-31
05104194
2.3 LAND USE PLANNING AND AOUACULTURE DEVELOPMENT IN MEXICO
Mexico's ambitious, national-level program for land use planning originates with LGEEPA
(Tile I, Chap. IlI, Article 8, VI) and the 1989 to 1994 5-year National Development Plan and
derivative 1989 to 1994 Environmental Protection Program, both of which establish ecological
land use planning (ordenamienro ecologica or OE) as a fundamental tool in the execution of
aitional environmental policy and development programs. A definition of OE is offered within
;.GEEPA as 'the process intended to evaluate and plan land use and natural resource management
in die national territory, and zones over which the nation maintains jurisdiction, for the purpose
of preserving and restoring ecological equilibrium and protecting the environment' (Tide 1,
Chapter 1, Article 3, XX).
By design. the OE planning process introduces consideration of key ecological factors into the
implementation of national development schemes, feder  environmental policy on land use, and
natural resource management approaches, such as:
*   Regional ecosystem types and function;
*   Predominant regional economic activities, especially as an expression of local natural
resource utilization;
*   Existing ecosystem dysfunctions caused by human settlement or economic activities;
*   The potential sustainable relationship between humani economic activities and
ecosystem function; and
*   Potential future environmental impacts of intensified human use of local resources.
In specific terms, the OE process is to be applied in the regulation of a wide range of economic
activities, to includs as a minimum:
*   Public projects that are fundamentally based on the exploitation of natural resources,
or that may result in regional concentration of economic activity based on natural
resources;
*   The local authorization of land use for agriculture or forestry activities that carry risk
of negative environmental impacts;
*   The granting of authorizations and concessions for the use of water under national
jurisdiction, for forestry activities, and for the exploitation of wildlife and fisheries;
*   The financing of agricultural and forestry activities (i.e., in order have influence on
siting such activities);
2-31



13360C ln2-n2
0s504/94
*   Fiscal incentive programs oriented towards planned location or relocation of economic
activities;
*   Granting of construction and operating permits for industrial enterprises,
*   The founding of new population centers; and
*   The determination of urban land use.
23.1 IMPLEMENTATION OF THE LAND USE PLANNING PROCESS
LGEEPA authorizes the General Office of Ecological Planning (DGPE) of SEDESOL's INE to
impleoent the ordenamniento ecologko over the entire national territory. This mandate is to be
realized concurrently with other federal and local agencies as determined by their respective areas
of technical and legal dominion (e.g., SEPESCA has responsibility for fisheries and coastal OE
development). The LGEEPA ensures such broad participation by further authorizing and
obligating all state and local governments to take over and complete the planning phase of OE at
correspondingly greater levels of detail and local relevance. The state and municipal plans would
then serve as the basis fbr local land use plans, Declaratorios de Usos, Distnos, y Reservas ded
Sudo, that would be promulgated into law at the municipal level.
In practice, this development strategy is being realized in phases, with the INE taking the lead in
'the preparation of the Phase I component known as the National Land Use Plan (Ordenamiento
Ecol6gico General del Territorio). Although no products of the National Plan have been released
(they were available for cursory review in the INE offices at the time of SEA preparation), this
fist phase was declared essentially complete by mid-1992. As ably sununarized by Webb (1993),
the technical approach for the development of the National Plan featured the use of satellite
imagery to develop a GIS database at the scale of 1:1,000,000. This database featured a basic
division of Mexico's territory into:
*   Humid, Dry Tropic, Wet Tropic, and Temperate Hydrographic zones; further
divided into,
e   88 ecological provinces; further resolved into.
*   1,813 individual landscape mosaics comprised of 51 physical and socio-economic
characteristics.
2-32



13360CIQ-33
osm4194
Four basic policy designations were imposed upon these units, comprised of:
l.  Sustainable use areas, to entail intensive but managed use;
2. Conservation areas, to allow an land uses that do not fundamentally alter or harm the
natural resource base;
3. Restoration areasu which would entail the recovery of highly degraded areas; and
4. Integral Protection areas, which involve total preservation against economic
exploitation.
With completion of the National Plan, state and local versions will be prepared that feature
increasingly greater resolution and relevance to local conditions. These will fall into scales that
range from 1:100,000 to 1:250,000 for state and 1:5,000 to 1:50,000 for local plans, which are
generally considered to be the second and third phases, respectively, of OE development. It is
expected that the entire process will be complete within 5 years' time.
The role of the SEDESOL in this phased approach will be formalized via contracts between the
DGPE and local govemments or involved deegadones, obligating SEDESOL to provide funds
and technical assistance during local OE preparation. This provision of technical assistance, in
addition to lending vital experience to the local agencies as they embark on the planning process.
will also ensure unifonn technical methodology and consistency of the plan's objectives with basic
national policies.
Though conveying responsibility for OE preparation upon state govermnents represents a
fundamental step towards decentralizing the whole process, federal sectoral interest in the OE
process is still manifest via the Program of Priority Activities for Regional Productivity
(Programa de las Acividades Prioritarias de Producrividad Economica Regional en el Pais).
This INE initiative commissions each of the federal government dependencias to enter into the OE
land use planning process in close collaboration with the DGPE and local government at the
outset of each major, national-scale sectoral development initiative. Though the federal agencies
and statelmunicipal governments have sufficient latitude to design local land use plans in
accordance with their sectoral and local interests, they must conform with the criteria and broad
objectives of the national (i.e., federal) environmental policy.
2-33



13360C 112-34
05/04/94
A sectoral plan prepared at the municipal level must be returned to the national SEDESOLJINE
office, where, in addition to technical review, resolution of conflict arising from incompatible
sectoral interests in a given area will be resolved (i.e., watershed proteLtion versus timber
harvesting).
There is low probability of serious intersectoral conflict of this type according to officials of both
SEDESOL and SEPESCA. Criteria and methodologies for arriving at preferred land use
designations are clearly defined, and reflect scientific evaluation of physical, biological, and social
factors. Of greatest importance, SEDESOL-INE is the final decisionmaker and arbiter of any
such interpretive differences arising from the land use capability process, and treatment of tile
issue is rooted in their legal mandate. f a given sectoral agency still has dispute with larcn
capabity classification following INE arbitration, they may file a complaint with the Office of the
Attomey General for enviromenal protection. Following SEDESOL approval, the plan is then
presented publicly for comment, revised accordingly, and promulgated into law.
2.3.2 THE ROLE OF LAND USE PLANS IN ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND
AQUACULTURE DEVELOPMENT
As the national agency in charge of aquaculture promotion and development and as directed by
the aforementioned Program of Priority Activities for Regional Productivity, SEPESCA has direct
responsibility for OE planning in that sector, as well as general responsibility for coastal-zone
planning. SEPESCA has acted upon this responsibility by initiating OE planning activities, in
close collaboration with the INE-DGPE and local governments, in seven priority states of
Tamaulipas, Campeche, Chiapas, Oaxaca, Sinaloa, and Nayarit. These activities have been
significantly advanced in Chiapas and Oaxaca, where expectations of rapid shrimp-farm
development have stimululated the preparation of detailed baseline studies upon which a coastal-
area OE at the 1:200,000 scale can be established for those states. Similar considerations for the
potential of shrimp farm development in Nayarit and Sinaloa have motivated the development of
OE plans at the 1:250,000 scale for the coastal areas of those two states.
The pilot Coastal Zone Management component of the Aquaculture Development project will be
accompanied by small scale OE development, and will represent a local culmination of
SEPESCA's general mandate for coastal and fisheries OE preparation- As presently conceived,
OE plans in the pilot areas will be scaled at the 1:4.000 level or smaller, will use local
2-34



13360C112-35
O5{04194
municipalities and fishing groups as the organizational and legal friamework, and will promote
aquaculture as the local resource-use strategy of preference in the resolution of other competing
and environmentally harmful economic activities.
As evidenced by these activities, and the presence of a full-time OE officer in the Aquaculture
Office, SEPESCA strongly supports ordenamiento ecologico as a management tool in the
promotion of aquaculture development. Principal reasons for such support include the fact that:
1) OE would allow SEPESCA the prerogative of early designation of priority areas for
aquaculture development, imparting legal status to promotional efforts at sector development; and
2) present requirements for environmental assessment of aquaculture projects would be greaty
streamlined.
Improved efficiency of the EA process was seen as a major benefit of the OE process from the
beginning. According to the joint opinion of SEDESOL and SEPESCA, orde'nminro ecologico
and environmental assessment were conceived as complementary tools serving the same policy.
The local land use plan establishes an environmental firame of reference, within which the impacts
of particular development options can be easily characterized (Anonymous, 1993). In one sense,
EA can be viewed as the imperfect, cumbersome tool that nonethdeless safeguards environmental
quality pending the arrival of the longer-term measure represented by ordenamiento ecologico.
This is a significant advantage given the considerable EA requirements that encumber new
aquaculture projects. Present EA methodology for the 'general modality' will typically require
that up to 15 environmental parameters be described in detail, require 6 months of preparation,
4 months of evaluation, and will cost the small-scale investor from NP $30,000 to $120,000
(U.S. $10,000 to S40,000). Once OE plans are completed however, it is anticipated that
enviromnental assessment of aquaculture development projects within an OE plan's purview will
require description of only two or three environmental parameters. This will result in a
proportionate (i.e.. five- to seven-fold) reduction in preparation time, evaluation time, and overall
cost. Since EA preparation is regarded as a principal constraint to aquaculture development,
SEPESCA is appropriately aggressive in their promotion of OE as key to growth in this sector.
2-35



1336OCI/236
05104194
2.3.3 PRESENT STATUS OF THE ILAND USE PLANNING PROCESS
As previously stated, the national plan was declared complete and available to the public in June
of 1993, though no products have yet been released. State governments must now implement the
next stage, via the execution of the aforementioned contracts with the DGPE, the groundwork for
wbhch has been laid by the passage of state environmental laws requiring OE in 29 of the nation's
31 states.
Various state and regional development priorities and initiatives have had sufficient prior
momentum to advance the above schedule. The acute and immediate problems caused by
environmental degradation related to tourism development have, for example, propelled the
preparation of plans by the municipalities of Cancun and Los Cabos, -in Quintano Roo and Baja
California Sur, respectively.
Despite this wealth of activity, only the Benito Juarez-Cozumel (Cancun-Tulum) municipalities
have completed the entire process of preparation, INEIDGPE approval, public review, and
adaptation into law.
At the time of SEA preparation, funding was in place for the completion of OEs at the local level
in Tamaulipas, Sinaloa, Nayarit, Oaxaca, and Sinaloa; and studies were being conducted leading
to completion of proposed plans.
2.4  ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLANCE: THE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE FOR
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
The Office of the Attorney General for Protection of the Environment (spanish acronym
PROFEPA) is the compliance arm of SEDESOL's environmental regulatory efforts. Highly
autonomous in terins of budget, administrative structure, and operation (i.e., desconcentrado in
the terminology of the current decentralization initiatives underway in Mexico), PROFEPA
complements the analytical, programmatic, and research activities of the INE.
2.4.1 AUTHORITY
The PROFEPA is charged with assuring compliance with legislation, regulatory standards/criteria,
and programs formulated by the federal govermment with regard to environmental protection.
Direct areas of PROFEPA authority include:
2-36



13360C112-37
05104194
*   Government industries,
*   Any activity carried out on land under federal jurisdiction,
*   Large-scale industry,
*   Atmospheric emissions,
*   Hazardous wastes, and
*   Parks and protected area management.
In addition to these exclusive areas of authority, PROFEPA is also concurrently charged with
supporting the enforcement of sectoral environmental regulations that are the primary
responsibility of other government agencies; such as freshwater quality (SARHICNA) and marine
water quality (SEPESCA).
2.4.2 INSITUTIONAL SrRUC'hURE AND STRENGM -
Tbough PROFEPA was created in May of 1992, the institution's organizational growth and scope
of activities has progressed rapidly. Each state minimally has a PROFEPA delegation in the
capital city, with local offices in areas of locally intensive industrial development. The agency
presently has over 1,800 employees nationwide, of which approximately 1,400 are professional or
technical specialists.
PROFEPA is divided into three main areas, or 'Assistant Attorney General's Offices' for public
participation and complaints, enviromental auditing, and regulatory compliance (Figure 2).
The Office for Regulatory Compliance (Sub-Direccion de Verificaci6n) has 42 professional field
inspectors assigned to the Mexico City office, with 10 or- more additional inspectors posted to
each of the state delegation offices. Inspectors are recruited from a variety of disciplinary
backgrounds, dominated by specialties such as chemnical, industrial engineering, and the life
sciences.
Funding has been sought through the World Bank-sponsored Mexico Environmental Program for
the construction of analytical laboratories, though analytical work is presently contracted.
2-37



13360CMn-38
05104t94
2.4.3 OPERATIONAL PROCEDURES
PROFEPA operates via:
*   Random inspection and audit of industrial sites to assess compliance with atmospheric
emission, noise, and hazardous waste criteria established by INE;
*   Responding to public complaints related to environmental quality;
*   Supporting other government agencies in the enforcement of environmental standards
outside the direct jurisdiction of the PROFEPA; and
*   Scheduled site inspections of facUities in both the construction and operational phases
to ensure compliance with terms set forth by INE during an environmental assessment
review.
The latter activity is especially relevant to the present SEA, since this is the point at which the
monitoring system becomes operational. Once the SEDESOL-INE has evaluated and ruled on
environmental assessment reports, the document is sent with accompanying conditions to the
PROFEPA state level delegation office. Tbe project development timeline and milestones for
achieving mitigation measures are then integrated into the PROFEPA staffs routine of scheduled
field visits. Staffing of field visits is multidisciplinary, with composition of field teams depending
on the technical nature of the individual project.
The PROFEPA office is also responsible for management of protected areas and assuring integrity
of national parks.
2A.4 INSPECTION/COMPLIANCE PROCEDURES AND PENALTIES
A field inspection report (Aca de Inspeccion) prepared by PROFEPA staff is the basis for any
legal action in the event of infractions. In case of infractions, the other party then has 10 working
days to respond to the inspection report, after which a resolution is emitted by PROFEPA's legal
department.
Several legal instruments then become available to support PROFEPA's enforcement activities,
which can be applied in any of the combinations or degree described below depending whether on
the degree of violation falls within 'administrative' (i.e., civil) or criminal bounds.
2-38



13360C /2-39
05/04194
'Administrative Sanctions' carry the following penalties (LGEEPA Title 6. IV. 171-175).
*   Fines can be levied at a rate varying from 20 to 20,000 multiples of the minimum
daily wage (presently around U.S. $8.00 per day in the D.F.), with the option of
daily assessment pending full compliance or rectification;
*   Partial or complete closure may be imposed temporarily or indefinitely;
*   'Administrative arrest' can be imposed on individuals for up to 36 hours; and
* Operating pennits, concessions, and licenses can be revoked.
Environmental violations of the most serious type, those which pose very serious threats to public
health and safety, are considered criminal violations and punishable by:
*   3 months to 6 years' imprisonment (in cases involving population centers, up to
9 years' imprisonment), and
*   Fines ranging from 1,000 to 20,000 multiples of the minimum daily wage (LGEEPA
Title 6, VI, 182-188).
In addition to the above penalties, 'Immediate Application Measures" are emergency responses to
situations where environmental damage is so acute or is occurring at such an alarming rate that
immediate closure or cessation of activities is required. This procedure can be applied at the
discretion of PROFEPA officers, prior to any judicial review or other procedures described
above, making it one of the most powerful regulatory enforcement tools in the enviromnental field
anywhere in the world.
2A.5 ENFORCEMENT RECORD
Statistics kept by the D.F. office of PROFEPA show that over I9,000 monitoring visits were
performed in Mexico in the 17 months ending December 1993, which resulted in a total of
NP 45,000,000 in levied fines (approximately U.S. S15 million). None of these irregularities
were found against aquaculture operations in any of the seven states included in the aquaculture
development project.
Despite this record, PROFEPA continues to get mixed reviews from the conservation NGO
community. Despite some high-profile partial and complete closures of major industrial concerns,
the perception is that other vested interests violate regulations with relative impunity. This
problem may be in some manner due to the practice of assigning concurrent responsibility for
2-39



13360C112-4D
05104194
compliance among multiple agencies, which allows jurisdictional squabbles to cover for reluctance
to confront powerful interests. A considerable vacuum also reponedly forms during the transfer
of responsibility from the INE to PROFEPA, that is when EA documents and accompanying
conditions are sent to the latter agency for monitoring and enforcement. Coordination and
communication between the two agencies in the activation of compliance measures is one
problem, although the rapid increase in the flow of EA documents exacerbates this problem as
well.
2.4.6 RELEVANCE OF PROFEPA TO AQUACULTURE DEVELOPMENT
The agency is mandated to play an importnt role in regulating environmental inpacts of
aquaculture development because:
*   All construction projects or other proposed changes in land use must prepare an EA,
and PROFEPA will review construction progress to assure compliance with EA
conditions, and
*   Most aquaculture projects in coastal areas utilize land under federal government and
thus under PROFEPA jurisdiction.
PROFEPA will also be critical to the resolution of environmental degradation affecting
aquaculture, with particular regard to water quality. Although nearshore marine water quality is
nominally the jurisdiction of SEPESCA, the agency is weak on enforcement capability and legal
instruments, and will work closely with PROFEPA in management of marine water quality issues.
Degradation of freshwater quality affecting aquaculture will fall to the SARHJCNA.
2-40



13360CI/3-1
03)11194
3.0 DESCRIPTION OF PROPOSED PROJECT
As described in the introduction, an SEA typically occurs before specific project investments are
defined. Accordingly, and in lieu of the baseline enviromnental information (e.g. water and air
quality, flora, and fauna) that is characteristic of a site-specific environmental assessment, a
description is provided of th^ broad geographic scope and the types of projects anticipated within
each area. Ibis exercise should allow reviewers to make reasonable assumptions regarding the
nature and scope of environmental risk that the sectoral investment represents.
3.1 PROJECT OBC1lVES
The two principal objectives of the World-Bank-financed aquaculture development project are to:
1.  Promote the sustinable development of coastal and inland aquaculture, emphasizing
the expansion and diversification of income-genrating and dietary options for lower
income families; and
2. Maintain the sustainable development of Mexican natural resources through the
rational management of critical coastal zones.
These objectives reflect an initial intent by project designers, in recognition of the intrimsic link
between effective coastal zone management and successful aquaculture development, to develop
two parallel project subcomponents comprised of ICZM and aquaculture promotion. To avoid
overlap between two activities of such similar scope, these two subcomponents were eventually
collapsed into a single project with the major emphasis of aquaculture development. The project
is proposed for implementation in seven coastal states of Tamaulipas, Veracruz, Baja California
Sur, Sinaloa, Nayarit, Oaxaca, and Chiapas.
3.2 PROJECT ACTIVITIES
State Task Force groups were meeting in each of the seven project states throughout the time of
SEA preparation. These groups, comprised of state representatives from SEPESCA, SEDESOL,
the Secretariat for Agriculture and Water Resources/National Water Commission (SARH/CNA).
and other government agencies implicated in aquacwlture development, plus representatives from
producers groups, are responsible for generating a detailed list of subproject investments for their
respective states using six project categories as organizing themes.
3-1



1336MC 113-:
0315/%94
A rapid project preparation schedule kept the State Task Force groups focused on the
identification of projects rather than preparing specific details of their final design. The definitive
SEPESCA-approved list of projects will be prepared by mid-March, and exact dimensions and
location will not be known for some months. Nonetheless, visits to state capitals and interviews
with State Task Force members provides a reasonably accurate description of the proposed range
of project activities. lbese activities and their potential negative environmental impacts are
summarized in order of priority in the following summary descriptions and attached Tables 5
and 6.
The six organizing themes that comprise the World-Bank-supported project are as follows.
1. Generation- Adaptation and Transfer of Technology-The purpose of this theme is to
generate aquaculture technologies appropriate for oDnditions in Mexico, and transfer
these technologies via on-farm denonstration units. Typical requests for funding
under this component include feasibility studies and pilot projects for:
-   The cultivation of Malaysian prawn (Maacobrachiun rosenbergii), bullfrogs, and
other non-typical species;
a   The management of coastal lagoons for the extensive production of shrimps
' The production of bivalves for stocking lagoons;
   The demnonstration of integrated watershed management techniques; and
*   Production of hybrid tilapia.
2.  PhysWic  Infrastructure-This theme undertakes the renovation and construction of
critical support infrastructure to the aquaculture sector, such as fingerling stations
(centros aaucolas), roads, dredging, water control structures, electrification, ice
plants, potable water, and aquaculture parks. Typical requests for funding under this
component include:
*   Rehabilitation of hatcheries (certros acuicolas) for the production of fish
fingerlings, principally tilapia, carp, and channel catfish;
*   Dredging and re-dredging of channels in coastal lagoons for the purpose of
improving hydrology and navigation;
3-2



13360CI
0311 S94
Table 5. Summry by State of Project Activities (Page I of 3)
Sute            Proposed Project Interventions                        Conment
Tamulipas    Aquaculture Paritks                      1) Tamaulipas has the strongest regulatory institutions
Shrimp                                  for environmental management as a result of border
Oyster                                  (i.e.) environmental issues.
Rehabilitate Hatcberies                 2) Is too far north for major mangrove estuanies.
Channel Dredging                        3) Plumed construction of intercoastal cnal is an
infrstucture project with major environment
Road Renovation                           inymuas for the state.
Constrction                             4) GulflAdantic states such as Tamaulipas are unlikely
water treatment plsnts                  candidates for ecxplosive growth in the shrimp
landing/loading docms                   aquacultwe, due to absence of major commercial
penueid shrimp hatchery                 species of interest (i.e. P. vannarcm)
ice plant
Rehab. sea tudtle nesting area
Studies
Lagoon behavior
Utility of Dredge Spoil for Aquacture
Health Certification of Shcilfisb ruas
Env. Imp. studies
Marketing studies
Vemcnzz       Aquaculture Parks (oystr)               1) OE preparation is not underway for Veracruz
Rehabilitate Hatcheries                 2) Due to juxtaposition of paeoleum, fishing,
agricuiture, and urban areas, Veracruz has many
Channel Dredging                          sectoml conflicts and is an excellent candidate for
pilot coastal zone activities.
Road Renovation
Construction
water treatment plants
lmndingiloading docks
ice plant
Coastal Zone Pilot Project
3-3



13360CI
05104194
Table 5. Sumnury by Statc of Project Activities (Page 2 of 3)
State          Pmposed Project Interventions                        Comment
Baja         Major aquacultume parks planned for the    1) OE preparation is not underway for Baja Califoniia
Califomnia   Magdalena-Punto Eugenio Lagoon            Sur.
Sur          Complex, Bahia Tortugas and Bahia Sta.
Domingo, focusng on managed natural   2) Instituto de Investigaiones Biologicos (IIB) is a
production of oysters, scallops, mussels,  strong research resource providing input on project
and abalone. to include:                 designs and environmenal impacts. IIB has
* Acos roads                            submitted a proposal to prepae OE focused on
* Electrification                        aqucultur  to SEPESCA.
* Hatcheries
* Ice pants
* Depuration plants
Stock ehancemet for shellfish
populations
Feasibility studies for production of
marine finfish, algae crustaces (lobsters,
brown shrimp)
OE prepartion for above areas
Sinaloa       Hatchery for stock enhancement of Callo   I) Sinaloa is poised for major commercial shrimp
de Hacha (Pinna rgosa)                   aquaculture development, with 7,459 hectares of
ponds currently in operation.
Dredging of access canals and lagoon
mouths (36.25 km total length)        2) Major agnculture development juxtaposed with
shrimp, with over I million haiof irrigated
Rehabilitate rmgeliag centers            agriculture
Develop capacity to prducc hybrid tilapia
Nayarit      Dredging of lagoon mouths               1) Nayarit will be the site of one of the pilot coasl
zone mnagemnent projects.
Stock enhancement and infastructure to
improve fisheries on hydroelectric    2) Nayarit is also poised for major commercial shrimp
reservoirs                               aquaculture development. with 1.600 ha of ponds
currently in operation and capacity for 35,000 total.
Aquaculture Parks
Shrimp                              3) SEDESOL Delegation has a newly formed
Oyster                                  Aquaculture Unit' that will be exclusively dedicated
to the evaluation of environmental impact studies for
Access road renovation                   aquaculturm projects.
4) Serious problems between shrimp farms in the
Laguna El Valle have occurred with regards to
eutrophication of local waters.
3-4



13360CI
03115/94
Table S. Summry by state of Project Activities (Page 3 of 3)
State           Proposed Project Interventions                        Lomment
Oaxaca        Feasibility studies for                 1) Oaxaca has a very active conservation NGO
bullfog, cadich                         conuDunity, wviose epresentative council has been
fingerling  ion construction (4)        elevated to parastatl status.
for 'mini-farmn inotmted waerv d
ninagemeot                           2) Drought and increased sedimentation rates have left
string cultum of oysters/mussels        many relict coastal lagoons, isolated from tidal
semi-intensive cultu of penaeid shrimp  exchange and recruitment of new fisheries stock.
production of brine chrimp              Extensive cultivation, by pumping seawer into
freshwater slrimp production           lagoon beds, is a means of moitigating effects of
establishing specil rsmve zones for     drought and deforestation and restoring lagoon
coastal lagoon species                  productivity.
Oher studies for identifying           3) Link between deforestion and lagoon sedimentation
irrigation cnals suitble for aquculture   is as evident and strongly establidied in Oaxaca as in
agriculturl cemical use                 any other state. Proposed integrated watershed
social infrastructure needs             management project is a major initiative to address
market improvements                     tLs problem.
Lagoon monitoring study (seven maor
lgoon systems)
Design and implementation of an
integted watershed zAmagement project
aound the city of Oa%cct covering 4,800
hectares
Experimental Extensive Shrimp Culture in
Lgoons
Cage culture of tilapia
Road Renovation 93 km
Chiapas       Road renovation                         1) Chiapas will be the site of one of the pilot coastal
zone management (ICZM) projects.
Dredging of coastal lagoons
2) Intensive agriculture, protected area management,
Stock enhancement/cage culture on inland  upstream deforestation and squaculture development
reservoirs                                all occurring in close proximity in the southcastem
coast (i.e., near Tapachula)
3) New World Bank project is contemplating a study of
the hydrological resources of the coastal zone of
Chiapas that may integrate with the ICZM project.
3-5



13360c1
03/04194
Table 6. Environmental Impacts of Principal Aquiculture Project Development Activities (Pago I of 2)
Activity                  Potential (-) Impact                 Intended (+) Impact          Mitigation of (-) Impacts     States
Dredging            Unpredictable possibility of reduced       Improve estuarine productivity    Improved capacity for       Tamaulipas
estuarine 1 productivity and loss of      by restoring hydrological        modeling lagoon behvior,     Vencruz
mangrove species due to salinization      regimes affected by siltatioi of    allowing belter siting of  Sinalos
tidal channels                  cbannels                      Nayarit
Reduced estuarine productivity of meso-                                                                 Oaxaca
haline species (e.g. oysters, shrimp      Impmove navigation and access to
juveniles)                                upper eatuarine areas blocked by
silulaion
Salinization of agricultural land
Salinizalion of groundwaler
Disturbance and siltation of benthic
organisms
Pond Construction'   Displacement of wetland ecosystems such   Conversion of narginal,         Land use regulations          Sinaloa
as mangroves and vemal lagoons            lainized coastsl laM  into high-   governing siting of        Nayarit
value production                squaculture ponds
Isolation and degradation of welland
ecosystems by dike and access road        Poverty alleviation             Naturl resource inventory to
construction                                                              nwnilor ecosystem health
Reduction of unsustainable
Soil erosion during construction of       natural resource extraction by  Use of culverts and other
earnhworks                                provision of altemative income    water control stmctums to
maintain local hydrology
C                                                                                                                 I



1 l3360CI
03115/94
Table 6. Environmental Impacts of Principal Aquaculture Project Development Activities (Page 2 of 2)
Activity                   Potential (-) Impact                   Intended (+) Impact            Mitigtion of (-) Impacts       States
Pond Operation       Eutrophication of local water by pond        Same as pond construction         Appropriate siting of ponds in   Same
effluent                                                                      areas with high natural
Vested interest in environmental   exchange/flushing capacity to
Overharvest of shrimp seed and by catch     quality                           dilute orgaics
Bird losses from predator control           Establishment of seans and        Promotion of semi-intensive
harvest volumes for the capture    (i.e. vs. intensive) production
of wild seedstock                strategies
Promotion of batcheries for
production of seedstock
Education progrms for
producers regarding non-lethal
bird control
24      Road Renovation       Blocking of tidal and/or continental runoff    Facilitate access to coutal    Use of wa ter control           All states
access to wetland areas by roadbeds         fishing villages                  structurs to preserve local
hydrology
Improved access to undisturbed natural      Provide access to aquaculture
areas resulling in unintended development    parks                            Use of anti-erosion measres
during construction (e.g.
Mining of riverbeds to obtain aggregate/fill                                  haybales, geo-texti:e)
material
Stock Enhancementb  Introduction of exotic species that displace    Enhance fisheries production,   Restriction on introduction of   Tamaulipas
native biota                                especially in relatively sterile  new non-native species         Veracruz
and new reservoirs                                               Sinalos
Nayarit
Provide recreational/sport                                       Oaxaca
fisheries appropriate for tourism                                Cbiapas
development
Aquaculture pond construction and operation in the context of this table refers to marine shrimp.
b Refers to finfish stock enhancement only (i.e., not bivalve mollusk).



13360C1134
03115194
* Construction and rehabilitation of roads to link rural fishing populations with
major highways; and
*   Construction of 'aquaculture parks' that will provide necessary infrastructure for
the local aquaculture development.
3.  Markets and Commercial Channels-This theme is directed to the development of
processing and commercialization infrastructure, improvements in post-harvest
handling, and expansion of national and international markets. Typical investment
requests include:
*   Studies to identify new national and international markets for traditional
aquaculture products;
*   Ice plants, processing plants, and other quality improvement/post-harvest
handling infrastructure; and
-   Studies to identify possibilities for adding value to existing aquaculture products.
4. Environment-This theme seeks to strengthen the national capacity for planning,
management, and control of intensive aquaculture activities via such tools as land use
planning, environmental impact assessment, and the development of ecological
criteria. Typical requests for funding under this component include:
*   Integrated watershed management pilot projects,
*   Lagoon hydrological and bathymetric studies,
*   Enviromental impact assessments of other project components,
*   Endangered species management, and
* Stock enhancement of threatened species (e.g. the scallop Pinna spp.).
5.  Institutional Strengthening-This theme is directed toward improving the capacity of
SEPESCA, SEDESOL, SARH/CNA, and other federal, state, and local government
agencies for the promotion of sustainable aquacultu.e and environmental protection.
6.  Inteerated Coastal Zone Manageement-This theme seeks to establish on a pilot scale
coastal zone management programs in three areas characterized by resource use-
conflicts between fishermen and other economic sectors. As of the time of SEA
3-8



13360W1/3.9
03115/94
report preparation, three pilot zones are located in Veracruz, Nayarit, and Chiapas,
though exact locations are as-yet undefined.
3-9



13360C1/4-1
A5104194
4.0 DESCRIPTION OF ENVIRONMENT
4.1 AOUACULTURM IN MEXICO
As has long been recognized by potential investors and government policymakers alike, Mexico is
well suited to make aquaculture a key activity in its economic development portfolio. The
Mexican coastline has an aggregate length of 11,500 kilometers (km) between Pacific, Gulf of
Mexico, and Caribbean shores. and contains over 1.5 million hectares (ha) of highly productive
coastal estuarine systems. Tbese estuaries (laguws) indude the full izage of hydrological, biotic,
and physical regimes characteristic of North America and are populated with human commumities
that have a long tradition of exploiting their local fisheries. Continental resources are equally
impressive, with 1.6 million ha of freshwater, littoral-zone lagoons included among the
2.9 million ha aggregate total freshwater surface area. The size, natural productivity, and
diversity of these aquatic systems provide Mexican policymakers, investors, and producers with a
wide variety of species and culture strategies from which to choose.
However, despite the long presence of significant industrial and artesenal capture fisberies
(e.g., until the 1980s, Mexico was the leading supplier of imported seafood to the United States
market), there is only a minimal tradition of aquatic husbandry. Recognizing this situation, and
the aforementioned significant development potential, the Mexican government, with personal
interest and participation of President Salinas Gortari, proposed in 1990 a goal-oriented agenda
for aquaculture development that would guide their promotional efforts over the coming 4 years.
The 1990-1994 Aquaculture Integral Development Program seeks a 20 percent annual growth rate
in the production of aquaculture products, to reach a 1994 goal of 500,000 tons of production
with an estimated a value of S500 million. The program features three basic strategies for
increasing aquaculture development.
1.  Stock enhancement (aquacutura de repoblamiento) has been the most important single
strategy employed in Mexico to increase fishery yields in recent decades. Supplied by
government-supported fingerling stations (centros acuicolas), thousands of inland
lakes, lagoons, and reservoirs have received annual stockings of finfish fingerlings, of
exotics such as tilapia and common carp, that have increased annual artesenal capture
fishery yields. An extensive strategy meeting the definition of aquaculture only in the
most nominal sense, the enhancement programs nonetheless account for over 40
4-1



13360C114-2
0510P4/9
percent of the national aquaculture production and are responsible for tilapia's rank as
the country's largest-volume cultured product.
2.  Rural aauaculture includes small-scale extensive inland aquaculture of finfish, again
with the exotics tilapia and common carp predominating, in private ponds and farms
as a supplemental activity. Rural aquaculture production is almost entirely destined
for local consumption.
3.  Hig-vyidd aquaculture (aqgacutura de alfo rend imenmo! as defned in Mexico can
include any production system specifically designed for aquaculture, and whicb
requires inputs of feed, skilled labor, and significant capital. Semi-intensive
production of penaeid shrimp in earthen ponds is the typical high-yield strategy in
Mexico.
Despite the government's intervention, aquaculture production remains small-scale-with a total
crop weight of 1775,000 metric tons (mt) and a value of $122 million, or less than I percent of
agricultural gross domestic product (GDP)-in 1992 C(able 7). The vast majority of production is
from small-scale systems that are integrated into agricultural production schemes, such as the
reservoir stock enhancement programs, or culture strategies such as management of oyster beds
that are little-evolved from a traditional capture fishery.
In summary, aquaculture in Mexico of the last two decades can be characterized by:
Widespread reliance on extensive technologies, often consisting of enhancement and
capture strategies applied to what are essentially wild stocks of non-native ftnfish and
mollusks, and
*   a decided emphasis on assisting the social sector to increase income and quality of
nutrition in lieu of promoting capital-intensive, export-oriented industrial production
of high-value species such as shrim.p.
4.2 ENVIRONMENTAL CONCERNS OF AOUACULTURIST
Because of its dependence on good water quality, sustainable aquaculture development is
inherently linked to effective management of environmental issues. Coastal aquaculture is in fact
regarded in some parts of the world as an effective way to vest major economic interest in
maintaining coastal environmental quality and can be viewed as an 'indicator industry' for the
4-2



13360CI
0311S194
Table 7. 1992 Aquacultumr Production by Specics
rilapia    Oyster       Carp      Shrimp      Catfish     Trout       Total
Production
in 1992 (mt)           76,964     37.376      28,393       8.326      4,219       1.601     174,626
Percnt lncrase in
Production
smnce 1992                 34          2         392         -          320       1.650      143
mLt netric tons.
4-3



13360C114-4
05104194
general health of coastal waters. The Italians have reached such a conclusion about their coastal
aquaculture and fisheries sectors as evidenced from the following published assessment.
'Experience teaches that where the various components of the lagoon reality are not accounted
for, fisheries and aquaculture have been the most penalized sector, just because they are directly
dependent upon environmental quality. Fisheries and aquaculture are even instruments of
enviroomental conservation: the fishermen are in fact supervisors and permanent witnesses of the
environmental status, because their income depends upon it" (Ardizzone et al., 1988).
Environmental quality issues affecting aquaculture success and sustainability in Mexico were
derived from work3hop sessions with fishermen's groups and are presented in the Section 8.0.
Public Participation.
43 COASTAL ZONE MANAGEMENT AND PLANNING IN MEXICO
Intelgrated Coastal Zone Management (ICZM) encompasses a broad array of planning initiatives
that integrate treatment of the impacts of economic activities within the coastal zone, usually
defined as the area between the landward-most extent of tidal influence and the edges of the
continental shelf. Though specific objectives can vary, the fundamental purpose served by ICZM
is the resolution of resource-use conflicts among economic sectors and the promotion of
environmental quality.
Considerable academic research has taken place on the extensive coastal ecosystems of Mexico,
including recent work by Contreras (1993) that provides a summary of the classification, biology,
and physical characteristics of each of the country's 130 coastal lagoons. Despite this inventory
of coastal ecosystems, a widespread recognition of the value of coastal zones to Mexico's
economic development and numerous, high-profile cases of resource-use conflict involving coastal
zones (e.g., petroleum versus fisheries in the state of Tabasco), no formal coastal resource
management exercises (except ordenamiento ecologico, see Section 2.4) have been attempted or
are planned.
4-4



13360C 1/S-I
03115194
5.0 ANTICIPATED ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
5.1 GENERAL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS OF AOUACULTURE
Several environmental issues are commonly identified with commercial aquaculture, particularly
with regards to large-scale shrimp farming, including:
*   Displacement of coastal mangrove estuaries by shrimp ponds with consequent loss
of ecosystem production was a serious problem in many countries during the 1960s to
1970s. Discovery of the poor suitability of mangrove soil for aquaculture, in addition
to stricter land use regulation, has greatly lessened this problem since the 1980s.
*   Restricting the aco of local popubltions to resources (e.g. fishery and forest
products) through the exclusive concession of formerly common areas has occurred in
some countries. In Honduras, where areas suitable for aquaculture had no perceived
value to government policymakers and whict had never been included in any land use
planning process, this problem has resulted in extreme social tension.
*   Alteration of local hydrology due to construction of pond dikes, access roads, and
the dredging of water supply channels has produced severe local and regional impacts
in some cases. In coastal areas in particular, mangrove forests and other important
biota are vulnerable to destruction by alterations in tidal regime and salinity. In
continental areas, the diversion of fresh water can severely affect downstream
ecosystem function as well as groundwater hydrology.
* Eutrophication caused by pond effluent discharged during drainage or routine
exchange can enrich receiving waters, resulting in local degradation in water quality,
eutrophication, and loss of ecosystem function and diversity.
* Eutrophication caused by waste feeds is a related problem occurring near large
cage-culture and net-pen culture operations that are sited in areas of hydrologically
restricted water exchange.
*   Overharvest of wild seedstock for stocking shrimp ponds has been implicated the
decline of other local fisheries due to the very high percentage of by-catch organisms
that are discarded destroyed.
*   Introduction of exotic species such as tilapia, carp, and penaeid shrimp may displace
native organisms by direct competition or the introduction of new pathogens.
5-1



13360C1/5-2
03115194
5.2 POTENTIAL ENVIRONMENT-AL IMPACIS OF THE MEXICO AOUACULTURE
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Potential negative environmental impacts resulting from the activities proposed under the
Aquaculture Development Project in Mexico are summarized in Table 8.
5-2



13360C I
03115194
Table S. Summary of Negative Environmental Impacts of Alternatives A, B, and C
Potential (-) Environmental Impacts                  A     B      C
* Unpredictable risk of dredge-induced salinization and consequence:  X    X       x
reduced estuarine 1- productivity, loss of mangrove species and associated
diversity, reduced estuarine productivity of meso-baline species (e.g.
oysters, shrimp juveniles), salinization of agricultural land and
groundwater, and distuirbance and suffocation of benthic organisms
* Contnued, rapid sedbmenaion of the majority of Meaican coastal lagoons,   x    X  x
with hyperlhyposaliniry, reduced productivity and access
* Risk of all (-) impacts associated with coastal aquaculture pond construction   X  X  x
and operation, including defbrestation, eutrophication, overfishing, and
resource access (see 2.4.1).
* Dominance of aquaure characterid by capul-inensve, absentee-        x    X       x
ownersp over wftick dth regulatory strcure has sigmificanly less control
than socid-sector aquaculture projects
* Risk to local hydrology as a result of improper road siting and cowstruction   X  x  x
* Continued isolaion of coastal viage populations, restricting local  x    X       x
economic development and resulting in continued social problems such as
oumi"gration
* Risk to native flora and fauna posed by exotic species introduction  X    x      x
* Low fishery yields from relatively sterile, new reservoirs          x    X       x
Dredging is an ongoing activity of SEPESCA and will continue with or without World Bank
funding.
5-3



13360C1/16-
03/15194
6.0 ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES
The objective of this section is to sharpen discussion of issues raised in the EA report by
comparing the results of alternate project design scenarios. In a project-specific investment, such
analysis might involve altrnate siting of project infrastructure or production processes. While
these specific types of analyses may also prove useful for sectoral environmental assessment, it is
also useful to consider exdusion, inclusion, or modification of entire components.
In the case of the Aquaculture Development Project, significant environmental risks were
associated with:
*   The dredging of coastal lagoons in the absence of hydrological models for lagoon
behavior;
e   The promotion of commercial penaeid shrimp aquaculture in sensitive coastal areas
without strong land use, environmental assessment, and environmental monitoring
capabilities in place;
i   -Te introduction of rural road construction and renovation without strong
environmental capabilities; and
*   The introduction of exotic fish species.
Three alternatives are considered:
Alternative A: The project as-proposed, and without mitigating actions for environmental risk
Alternative B:  Rejection of the project components for which environmental risk has been
identified
Alternative C: *The project as-proposed, though modified by mitigating actions.
For the purposes of this analysis, the 'proposed action' (Alternative A) is considered to be those
activities submitted for consideration for funding by the state task forces. Although a definitive
roster of subactivities will not be forthcoming for some time yet, the final project list will be
derived from those activities presently under consideration.
The no-action scenario (Alternative B) consists of omitting dredging, coastal aquaculture
development, road construction, and exotic stock enhancement schemes from further consideration
for project funding.
6-1



13360C 1/6-2
os004194
'Me modified proposed-action scenario (Alternative C) consists of accepting the risky components
for project funding, but only 2s mitigated by the actions discussed in Section 4.0.
The negative impacts of each alternative are summarized in the attached Table 8. The italicized
text represents the negative impacts of the 'no-action" scenario. Because most project
components have been proposed to ameliorate undesirable conditions (e.g., dredging is proposed
to ameliorate sediment-induced loss of estuarine productivity) the consequence of 'no-action'
means that those conditions will only continue to degrade. In the case of coastal aquaculture
development, one risk of not supporting social-sector involvement is continued dominance by
large-capital aquaculture interests.
Because no alternative is entirely without risk of negative environmental impact, the use of upper- -
and lower-case symbols indicates greater and lesser degree. Because the greatest risk of negative
environmental action is posed by either Alternative A and B, it is the recommendation of this
report that the project be accepted in all componeis for funding, if mitigated by actions described
in Section 4.0.
6-2



13360Czn-I
05105194
7.0 MMGATIONS OF NEGATIVE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
Some risks of negative environmental impacts arising from the Aquaculture Devdopment Project
will be mitigated by the activities already proposed for the Enviromnental and Pilot Coastal Zone
Management Components.
7.1 AOUACU& TIRE        = PARKS
his new concept, proposed by every state task force, calls for the ddineation of coastal areas in
which local aquaculture devdopment will be concented. Nonexistent in the country at present,
aquaculture parks as envisioned in Mexico wDi each contain from a few hundred to several
thousand total area and, with financial support from the Aquaculture Development project, will
provide all of the major infucture that is necessary for prmduction cperations. Major
infrastructre will minimally include water intake, distribution and drainage canals, electric
power, access roads, common storage areas, and processing-related ficilities such as ice plants.
Clear tile will be held to individual parcds of land. Investor participation in the aquaculture
parks will be fostered by the aquaculture permitting process, as furtier supported by local OEs
and the environmental impact process, OE may classify aquaculture as an undesirable activity in
all are< other than the designated parks).
From a producers standpoint, a considerable advantage is offered by the 'Aquaculture
Concession" permit and the security represented by the 50-year duration of this instrument.
Disadvantages are few, and are principally derived from. an increased risk for transferring
pathogens from one operation to another as a result of their proximity.
Negative environmental impacts extend no further than those already described for aquaculture
development. In summary, aquaculture parks can be considered as mitigation for the negative
enviromnental impacts associated with individual farms, the only major disadvantage being their
status as a novel and untested development approach.
7.2 ORDENAMIENTO ECOLOGICO
7.2.1 BACKGROUND
As the national agency in charge of aquaculture promotion and development, SEPESCA has direct
responsibility for land use planning in that sector under the nationa; Ordenamieno Ecologico (OE)
7-1



13360C n-2
05/04194
program. SEPESCA has acted upon this responsibility by initiating, in close collaboration with
the INE-DGPE and local governments, OE planning activities in six priority states of Tamnaulipas,
Campeche, Chiapas, Oaxaca, Sinaloa, and Nayarit. A completed and operational OE of coastal
areas suitable for aquaculture will, by providing a priori indication of preferred land use and
possible environmental issues, greatly streamline environmental assessment of aquaculture projects
and reduce the collection and analysis of extraneous information. Environmental degradation
originating with other sectors and threatening aquaculture will also be mitigated, because the
preferred alternate land uses in aquaculture zones will not include polluting industries.
7.2.2 ISSUE
With PAM funding, preparation of studies leading to state and municipal-level OE (i.e., at the
1:10,000 to 1:250,000 scales) is planned for five of the seven project states. The two remaining
states of Baja California Sur and Veracruz Vill not receive the considerable environmental
management benefits of OE in terms of improved siting of aquaculture or other development
projects, and shortened time and expense of EA preparation.
7.2.3 OBJECllVES
To optimize the efficiency and utility of the EA process and minimize environmental impacts of
other sector development, financial and technical support should be provided to develop coastal-
zone OE for the states of Veracruz and Baja California Sur.
7.2.4 7NPUTS
To be determined during project preparation.
7.3 IMPROVEMENT OF VENTANILLA UNICA" AND THE ENVIRONMENTAL
ASSESSMENT PROCESS
7.3.1 BACKGROUND
The permitting process for aquaculture projects in Mexico is lengthy and complicated, requiring
as many as 20 separate reviews, approvals, or permits from as many agencies. In an attempt to
make the system more efficient the VU was created in 1990. Under the VU concept, which has
existed in other federal agencies for some time, SEPESCA serves as the single point of
government contact with private applicants in the acquisition of permits from the required
7-2



13360CMn-3
OS104/94
agencies, furnishes advice in the preparation of permit applications, and is the official
*             representative of the applicant before these agencies.
7.3.2 ISSUE
Despite improvements for individual permit applicants, the VU process is still lengthy and
curmbersome, reportedly requiring up to 30 months from initiation to completion. Delays are
principally linked to SEDESOL's review and judgment on the environmental assessment (EA)
report, in turn due to:
*   The fact that many state-level SEDESOL deegations are not authorized to review and
judge EA reports, obligating the Mexico City office to the performance of this
function;
* A shortage of qualified personnel within the SEDESOL-D.F. offices, where there is a
reported backlog of 1,500 reports to be reviewed;
=   Unfamiliarity by SEDESOL-D.F. personnel with the field conditions in each state,
resulting in numerous call-ins for data of dubious relevance; and
*   An environmental assessment methodology in either the 'generalw or 'intermediate'
modalities that is inflexible in its format and overly complex in scope for aquaculture
projects, requiring collection and subsequent evaluation by SEDESOL of data on
many parameters of marginal relevance.
Further permitting delays are caused -by coordination difficulties between other state and federal
agencies and the state VU officer who is in direct contact with the applicant.
7.3.3 OBJECTIVES
Objectives of this component are to accelerate the VU process in general, and the environment
review process in particular, greatly shortening aquaculture project development time and
increasing the actual utility of EA as a decision-making tool for aquaculture project managers.
Specific objectives include:
*   Contracting and training additional staff for both state and federal SEDESOL
environmental impact offices,
*   Revising environmental assessment methodologies to attain a format better suited for
aquaculture development, and
7-3



13360Cl i 4
05/04/94
Improving communication between state-level VU personnel and other agencies in the
permitting chain-of-process.
73.4 INPUTS
To be determined during project preparation.
7.3.5 TO BE RESOLVED
*   Capacity of SEDESOL to receive additional personnel at delegation and D.F. offices,.
SEDESOL perspective on modified EA methodology (note: a consultant was hired
under the Mexico Environmental Program for this purpose, but has not produced
results in well over I year), and
*   Full understanding of the limitations on state-level SEDESOL delegations with regard
to authorization to review EAs.
7.4 DEVELOPING A CAPACITY FOR MODELING COASTAL LAGOON SYSTEM
BEHAVIOR
7.4.1 BACKGROUND
Dredging of coastal lagoon systems is proposed under the Aquaculture Development Project for
the states of Tamaulipas, Veracruz, Sinaloa. Nayarit, and Chiapas. As conceived by the state
SEPESCA delegations and project beneficiaries, dredging would ameliorate the consequences of
drought and watershed deforestation that have prevailed in Mexico in recent years. Anticipated
positive results include improved access to upper reaches of lagoon systems, now blocked by
sediments that would be scoured from- channels by continental runoff during rainy years, and
improved ecological function of lagoons via the restoration of tidal connections the open ocean.
The latter effect is expected to restore shellfish, crustacean, and finfish productivity that is
presently depressed by hyper- or hyposaline conditions caused by sediment-constrained circulatory
and water exchange patterns.
7.4.2 ISSUE
The hydrology of coastal lagoons is determined by parameters such as tidal amplitude, location,
and dimensions of internal channels and channel openings to the sea, continental runoff, and the
complex shape of the lagoon basin. Predictions of lagoon behavior as a result of dredging are
inherently difficult to make, and past dredgirg operations by SEPESCA have occasionally
produced unexpected negative results in several states, most notahly, in Nayarit's canal de Cuatla.
74



13nOC1-S
05104194
which connects the Agua Brava Lagoon with the Pacific Ocean. Though environmental
assessments are performed on proposed dredging activities, their utility is limited by the lack of
Teliable models for lagoon behavior.
7.4.3 OBJECTIVES
Design monitoring and bathymetric studies of lagoons targeted for dredging operations. Studies
would include basin morphology, water quality, water circulation, and tidal behavior. With
proper baseline inforination, computer hardware, and hydrological monitoring, software would be
procured and training prmvided to allow prediction of impacts to lagoon function under alternate
dredging scenarios.
7.4.4 INPUTS
To be determined during project preparation.
7t4.5 TO BE RESOLVED
Institutional arrangements for housing the lagoon monitoring and modeling functions. Candidate
organizations within SEPESCA indude:
-   The Infrastructure and Fleet Office, which is responsible for preparation and financing
of dredging projects;
-   The Aquaculture Office;
-   The National Fisheries Institute, which prepares environmental assessments of
SEPESCA infrastructure projects; and
*   The state-level SEPESCA delegations or state government fisheries agencies, which
have operational control of dredging as well as the greatest familiarity with the
lagoons.
During the SEA preparation, all of the above agencies expressed a -need for, and interest in,
developing and housing this capacity within their own offices.
7.5 MONITORING
7.5.1 BACKGROUND
The activities of the Aquaculture Devdopment Project entail considerable natural resou.-ce
consumption or alteration, including changes of land use as a result of pond construction.
7-5



13360CIn-6
05/04/94
consumption from wild fishery populations, contributions to wild fishery populations, and
alteration in present patterns of water quality and usage.
Monitoring of baseline and ongoing conditions of the several natural resource parameters
implicated above will allow project managers and regulatory agencies to determine the success of
and unanticipated impacts resulting from project activities. Monitoring will also provide the
considerable advantage of solid, scientific information in the event of public controversy over one
or another project activity. As a minimum environmental monitoring is needed for:
* Alterations in vegetative function in critical coastal ecosystems such as mangroves,
*   Populations of target species a  those species taken as by-catch during capture, and
*   Coastal water quality.
*   T hreatened species in Project's sphere of influence.
7-5.2 ISSUES
There is at present no inventory of mangrove cover and quality for Mexico. Should coastal
aquaculture develop rapidly (i.e., if this project is successful), the issue of large-scale
deforestation wil; inevitably arise in the public dialogue, as it has in every other country with
significant development of this type of activity. Despite the presumptive safety of mangroves
afforded by their strict protection status and the environmental assessment process, Mexico should
nonetheless anticipate some impact to these ecosystems and perform a baseline inventory.
The present OE methodology, though distinguishing mangrove species, does not differentiate
between various qualities of the ecosystems in which they occur. Likewise, neither OE nor the
National Water Quality Network of the CNA include any consideration of coastal water quality as
part of their programs.
With regard to capture of wild postlarvae, the SEPESCA-INP is passively collecting information
through their capture permitting system. However, no field research is actively examining such
issues as the degree and composition of by-catch organisms, or attempting to project patterns of
wild postlarvae capture against future growth of the industry.
7-6



13360c11n-7
os0(M/04
7.5.3 OBJECTIVES
To provide sufficient baseline and ongoing information on those environmental parameters and
natural resources at risk from aquaculture development to quantifiably measure and manage
impacts, by undertaking:
*   A baseline inventory of mangrove zones, including vegetative cover differentiated by
species composition and ecosystem function, to be prepared from the ample stock of
aerial and satellite imagery already existing for the Mexican coastline,
*   Recurrent mangrove inventories at 5-year intervals using updated imagery, and
* Studies of postlarval harvest focusing on volumes, seasonality, and by-catch
organisms.
These data should be integrated into existing natural resource and enviromental monitoring
schemes, such as OE in the case of mangrove and water quality, or the ongoing fisheries
monitoring programs of the INP.
7.S5.4 INPUIS
To be identified during project preparation.
7.6 WEV LANDS PRTECTIrON
7.6.1 BACKGROUND
Aquaculture parks proposed under the project include marine shrimp farms in six of the seven
states. Proposals from state task forces in Chiapas, Oaxaca, Nayarit, and Sinaloa call for an
aggregate of 3,500 hectares of ponds to be constructed. Tamaulipas and Baja California Sur also
mention marine shrimp culture in earthen ponds as a component activity of aquaculture parks in
those states, but do not specify the surface area of the proposed facilities.
Marine shrimp ponds in Mexico and elsewhere in Latin America typically occupy barren mudflats
on the continental fringes of lagoon mang.ove estuaries, on land covered only by the highest
spring tides. Although Sinaloa and Nayarit already have significant shrimp farm development in
their coastal zones, the state fisheries deletaciones of Oaxaca and Chiapas regard the project-
financed aquaculture parks as 'detonator projects' that will promote the activity in the as-yet
undeveloped margins of their extensive lagoon systems.
7-7



13360Ciln-s
0510U94
7.6.2 ISSUES
Estuarine mudflats - or marismas - on both coasts are regarded as critical habitats for hundreds
of thousands of migratory waterfowl and shorebirds that winter in Mexico each year. These areas
flood with seasonal rains and spring tides, resulting in temporary, shallow lagoons that quickly
bloom vwith short-lived populations of fish and crustaceans. The lagoons serve as resting and
feeding places for at least 25 taxonomic families of migratory aquatic birds, for which wholesale
conversion to shrimp ponds represents a serious degradation in habitat quality.
Migratory waterfowl are the subjects of international treaties between Canada, Mexico, and the
United States, and are the topic of an ongoing public dialogue between these countries.
International and national groups active in waterfowl conservation have made wetlands
preservation the focal element of their strategy. These groups manifest considerable concern over
the widespread conversion of vernal lagoons and mudflats into shrimp farms in the states of
Sinaloa and Sonora, as well as in other neo-tropical areas of importance to migratory fbwl such as
the Gulf of Fonseca region of Honduras.
Under auspices of the IUCN, and with the collaboration of numerous Mexican conservation
organizations, an inventory of 'internationally important" wetlands for waterfowl was compiled
lbr neo-tropical America in 19871. 'Internationally important" was defined by several criteria
that include numbers and diversity of annual, seasonal waterfowl populations, plus special factors
such as utility as breeding area. Though this inventory the basis for SEDESOL-INE's 'priority
wetlands" program mentioned in 2.24, none of the areas yet enjoy formal protected status.
Several of the mariculture parks will be located within these priority areas, and will conceivably
affect their quality as habitat for migratory birds (Table 9).
7.6.3 OBJECTIVES
Support the creation of protected status for some portion of mudflat area in the project state
wetland, assuring the continued existence of adequate resting and feeding habitat for migratory
waterfowl represented by these areas.
I Scott, Derek, and Montserrat Carbonell. 1987. A Directory of Neotropical Wetlands.
IUCN Cambridge and International Waterfowl Research Bureau, Slimbridge, U.K.
7-8



13360C I
05104194
Table 9. Proposed Shrimp Farms Located Near Wetlands
Internationally
Important
State                        Project                        Area          Wetland
Nayarit      Parque Camaronicolas in Rosamorada,            1,500 ha     Marismas
Tuxpan and Ixcuintla                                       Nacionales
Oaxaca       Parq. Maricult. Mar Muerto                     100 ha       Mar Muerw
Chiapas      Parq. Maricult. Joya-Buenavista                100 ha       Laguna de la Joya
Chiapas      Parq. Maricult. Patos-Solo Dios                100 ha       Lagunas del area
'Sesecapa'
7-9



13360CC1-to
05/04/94
7.6.4 INPUTS
To be determined during project preparation.
7.7 SUMMARY OF OBJECTIVES
The preceding sections describe activities that will mitigate the negative impacts of implementing
the Mexico Aquaculture Development Project. 'Me status of the component activities ranges from
those that are already well conceived and supported by the project sponsors Ci.e., the aquaculture
parks), to those for which considerable planning and negotiation reir- n. Further distinction is
needed between activities that are obligatory for project approval, and those that will strengthen
SEPESCA's ability to manage environmental issues and, though not obligatory, are highly
recommendable for this reason.
7.7.1 REQUIRED MMGATORY ACnONS
The following actions must be incorporated into the project design prior to appraisal.
-   Adapt Mexican EA guidelines to comply with World Bank OD 4:01 requirements,
and agree upon a process whereby the World Bank can review all EA reports on
Category A subprojects prior to the initiation of construction. The hybrid EA
methodology and a list of category A projects must be finalized prior to appraisal.
-   Agree to institutional strengthening investments that will provide state-of-the-art
technology for predicting lagoon behavior as a result of dredging actions. Scope of
investment as well as basic component design must be defined before appraisal.
*   Agree to some form of investment that will provide protection to coastal mudflats, a
class of wetlands at risk from coastal shrimp farm development. Scope of investment
must be defined, in some level of detail (yet to be negotiated), prior to appraisal.
*   Prepare a monitoring program that will provide additional focus (i.e., over and above
the existing OE program) on natural resources at risk from, and that pose risk to,
coastal aquaculture development. Examples would be mangrove cover, fisheries
stocks, and coastal water quality. Basic component design must be finalized prior to
appraisal (level of detail to he negotiated).
7-10



13360Cln-t I
05IO4Ig4
7.7.2 RECOMMENDED ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT ACTIONS
* -Invest in completion of OE process in the two states presently not included in the
SEDESOL/World Bank Mexico Environmental Project, which are Baja California
Sur, and Veracruz.
*   Study the existing EA/permitting (i.e. ventanilla unica) process to improve utility as to
well as lower cost and preparation time. Suggested actions for implementtion during
the project would include contracting additional personnel in INE for evaluating EA
reports, and contracting of studies to rework the EA format and application
methodology. Basic component design must be fleshed out prior to appraisal (level of
detail to be negotiated).
7.8   RELATIONSHIP OF PILOT PROGRAMS FOR INTE(GRATED COASTAL ZONE
MANAGEMENT TO ENVIRONMENTAL COMPONENTS
The purpose of Activities 7.1 through 7.5 is to improve the efficiency, accelerate the
development, or otherwise enhance the utility of environmental management tools presendy at the
disposition of existing sectoral institutions. The purpose of the ICZM component is the pilot
introduction of an entirely nei. strategy for resolving intersectoral conflict over natural resources.
Although the ICZM projects are dearly 'environmental," they are focused on a highly defined
geographic area and will not overlap operationally with the program-wide initiatives described
above. Activities that will occur under the ICZM component include:
*   The demarcation of the pilot areas,
*   The description of principal resource uses (which will perforce include aquaculture),
*   The identification of existing institutional auspices for those resource users (e.g.,
fishing cooperatives, cattle growers associations, sectoral governmental agencies),
*   The identification of priority environmental issues and areas of conflict, and
e   The proposal of collaborative mechanisms between those institutions to facilitate
conflict resolution.
7-11



1336CIln-12
OS/04194
The success of this strategy is predicated on the presence of the arorementioned tools and the
framework in which they operate, an accurate and timely EA process to identify environmental
impacts of the disparate economic development activities, rational land use classifications to lend
credibility to reserving areas for special activities, and accurate baseline information about
ecosystem behavior.
7-12



13360Ct11-1
05I04/94
8.0 PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
World Bank operational directives emphasize the need to involve affected populations or other
non-governmental organizations in the environmental assessment process, and require that some
measure of public consultation take place.
During SEA preparation for the Mexico Aquaculture Project, communication with such groups
was greatly expedied by state-level workshops conducted by SEPESCA and the project
preparation team. One objective of the workshops was to identify areas and issues appropriate for
the ICZM component of the project, and sessions were held with coastal fishermen's groups for
this purpose. In practice, these sessions also allowed considerable dialogue on the enviromental
concerns of coastal fishing groups both in the general sense and in the context of the various
proposed project activities. Conducted in Veracruz, Chiapas, and Nayarit, this exercise produced
an inventory of the environmental concerns of aquaculturists and fishermen, most of wLich are
intersectoral in nature. These concerns include:
a   Contamination by agricultural chemicals, which is a particular concern in Chiapas
and Sinaloa;
e   Deforestation and eroion of watersheds, resulting in the sedimentation of river and
estuarine channels and connections to open water, which is a concern in all project
states save La Paz and Tamaulipas;
3   Reduction in rreshwater inflow to estuaries as a result of damming, which has
greatly degraded coastal water quality and coastal morphology (e.g.; the closing of
lagoon mouths) in most coastal states of Mexico;
i   Sewage contamination of coastal waters, which has severely degraded bivalve
shellfish quality, particularly in Veracruz and Tamaulipas through bio-accumulation of
human microbial pathogens;
*   Toxic effects on fisheries or fugitive oil contaminadion from petroleum extraction
and transportation in coastal areas, particularly in Veracruz, leading to reduced
populations and degraded quality of shellfish and shrimp; and
*   Entraiunent and destruction of large numbers of juvenile aquatic forms at thermal
power plant cooling intakes.
8-I



13360C 118-2
05/04194
No direct concerns were voiced regarding possible environmental impacts of the project itself.
Rather the sessions were apparently viewed as an venue for heightening SEPESCA's awareness of
producer concerns for general environmental degradation and its impacts on their livelihoods.
In addition to the producers groups, informal meetings were also held with the "Jose Luis
Valdovinos Shoreline Fishermen's Network," an NGO that receives support from various national
and international organizations, principally the Friedrich Ebert Foundation. This group represents
nearshore artisenal fishermen's organizations in nine states, and has prepared a set of substantial
proposals for assisting this troubled sector. Their concerns regarding the environment were
mainly directed at perceived weak enforcement of environmental regulation by PROFEPA, as
evidenced by situations such as the continued degradation of nearshore waters around the Port of
Lzaro Cardenas in Michoacan originating with the heavy industry and petroleum sectors.
Concern was also voiced that grass roots organizations such as theirs would be left out of the
project preparation process, such that the real needs and issues of the social sector fishing
populations would not be adequately addressed.
Lnterviews were also held with the Mexico offices of Greenpeace and Ducks Unlimited of Mexico
(DUMAC). Greenpeace is by common opinion the most aggressive critic of the environmental
record of the Mexican government, focusing public activism and media attention on the issue of
SEDESOL's commitment to enforcement of regulations governing air and water quality. This
stance was reflected in the opinions expressed during interviews, which was that PROFEPA's
record to date cannot be counted on t2 assure compliance with any regulatory or mitigation
measures that arise from an active coastal aquaculture sector. No direct enviromnental concerns
related to the project activities were voiced.
DUMAC and it's parent organization Ducks Unlimited are active in wetlands protection issues in
North America and have supported the development of multilateral treaties governing migratory
waterfowl protection. As further described in 7.6. DUMAC expressed deep concern that
development of commercial shrimp farms in coastal Mexico would degrade the quality of tidal
mudflats - or marismas - a habitat type deemed critical to migratory waterfowl. Already
concemed over such habitat degradation in coastal Sonora and Sinaloa, DUMAC believes that
similar development of the shrimp farming sector in Chiapas and Oaxaca would constitute a
serious impact on migratory waterfowl, and is a situation that hears close attention.
8-2



13360C1I9-1
05104194
9.0 RECOMMENDATION OF A OR B CLASSIFICATION
nhe World Bank's 1991 guidelines on project screening, as provided in the Environmwntal
Assessmem Sourcebook and OD 4:01, provide three categories of project according to magnitude
and risk of associated enviromnental issues:
* Category A projects. are those that will always require environmental assessment due
to diversity and depth of environmental impacts;
*   Category B projects have some components with limited environmental impacts, as
well as others for which little impact is anticipated, and are thus candidates for
enviromnental review; and
*   Category C projects do nut require environmental assessment, since initial review
indicates very low probability for negative environmental impact.
The purpose of screening is to determine the type of environmental assessment to be performed
during project preparation. The OD 4:01 guidelines facilitate this process by providing examples
of activities for each category A through C. though these illustrative cases are no substitute for a
comprehensive examination of actual impacts from each project In this context, it is worth
noting that aquaculture and mariculjure (i.e., coastal aquaculture) were categorically rated by the
Bank as a 'A' activities in OD 4:00, and yet serve as 'B examples in OD 4:01.
As a sectoral investment, the Aquaculture Development Project has diverse project activities that
range across all three categories. The dredging, pond constructionloperation, road construction,
and other activities located in coastal zones, or that have the potential to affect wetlands, deserve
an 'A rating. Other project components, such as the preservation of marine turtle reserves or
development of EA methodologies, clearly would bring a 'C' rating.
Despite growing awareness of environmental issues in Mexico in recent years, the strength of the
legal and regulatory framework that has resulted, and the strong emphasis given to environrnental
considerations in the development o0 this project, a Category A environmental assessment is
recommended in light of potential impacts to wetlands and coastal zones. At the preparation
stage, the present SEA report is the appropriate EA methodology because subprojects are not
defined and the primary concern is with Mexico's ability to mitigate negative environmental impacts.
9-1



13360C1I9-2
OS0104o
At the implementation state, applying the World Bank classification scheme to project subactivities
will provide guidance to project managers, as illustrated below.
Category A subprojects will always require an EA, and would indude:
*   Coastal development such as large ponds or aquaculture parks,
*   Road construction,.
* Dredging or hydrological managenent strategies,
*   Docks or harbor facilities construction, and
*   Any coastal fisheries stock enhancement.
Category B subprojects may require an EA,, depending on location and depth of potential
enviromnental impacts and would include:
-   Processing plant construction or renovation,
i Small-scale, freshwater aquaculture development,
*   Shellfish depuration plants,
3 Fingerling station rehabilitation or construction,
* Watershed management projects, and
* Market promotion initiatives.
Category C subprojects, which will not require an EA, include:
i   Studies.
*   All training and capacity-building,
*   Coastal zone management and planning, and
*   Monitoring and natural resource inventories.
With incorporation of mitigations recommended in Section 7.0, the Mexican EA procedures can
be used to evaluate the impacts of these subactivities.
9-2



13360C 1/REF-I
03/16/94
REFERENCES
Ardizzone, G.D., S. Cataudella, and R. Rossi. 1988. Management of Coastal Lagoon Fisheries
and Aquaculture in Italy. FAO Fisheries Technical Paper No. 293.
SEPESCA (1). 1993. Curso Inducawi Sabre Acuaculaura y Medio Ambiente. Handbook from
the course jointly sponsored by SEDESOL and SEPESCA; July 1993.
SEPESCA (II). 1993. Clwrso ndutivo Sobre Impacto Ambiental y Ordenamiento Ecologicopara
Presadores de Servicios en Actividdes rAcuicolas. Handbook from the course jointly
sponsored by SEDESOL and SEPESCA, March 1993.
Villemar, Alejandro. 1992. Reformas a la Ley de Pesca y su Impaao en los Recursos de
Mexic2. Presented at the Agricultural Development Seminar of the Economic Research
Center of the National University. Novenber 20, 1993.
Webb, Maryla. 1993. Aquaculture and Coastal Areas Development Project; Environmentl
Issues. Identification Mission Back to Office Report. The World Bank: LATEN.
The World Bank. 1991. Erviroamental Assessment Sourcebook. World Bank technical paper.
ISSN 0253-7494, No. 139.
REF-I



APPENDIX A
TEIRMS OF REFERENCE FOR ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT



THE WORLD BANK I IFC I M.l.G.A.
OFFICE MEMORANDUM
DATE: November 19, 1993
TO:  Mark Hardin, Environmental Consultant
FROM:  Mark Cackler, Acting Division Chief, LA2AG
EXTENSION:  38999
SUBJECT:  Mexico:    Aquaculture Project-
Terms -of efedence foEnvironmentl -Assessment
1.    You will be rponsible for the implem ention of the sectoral
environmental assessment which will involvc:
(a)   A detied desciption and evaluation of the rlevant legai and
zegulatory fiamework for aquacelture and coastal areas development
in Mexico at the federal, state (for the 4-7 staes) and municipal (for
the 3 coastal pilots) levels. This indudes idfying and descing
the key laws and regulations that affect aquacut  and coastal areas
development and evaluating how they protect t  envi t and
simultaneously promote the develt of aquaatre and coastal
areas.
(b) An assessmnent of how thoroughly the relevant federal, state
and local authorities implement the legal and regulatory framewori;
the financial and staff resources they have to implement the
framework; available sanctions to ensure that the requirements are
met; the average number and ldnds of violations; and typical fall-out
when the regulations are not saisfied.
(c)   Identifying strategies and investnents to improve the legal and
regulatory framework andJor its implementation.
(d)   A review of the Mexican enion=mental assessment process for
aquaculture projects to: (1) concisely describe the specific procedures
and evaluate the thoroughness of fth process; (ii) asses the
complexity (documentation required, processing time, institutions
involved, etc.) and cost of the process (for a specific sample of typical
projectsj; (iii) evaluate the extent to which their complexity and cost
creates distortions for investment in the sector, Civ) assess the
implementation of the EA process and subsequent recommendations
by federal and local authorities; (vi) compare with the Bank EA
requirements and Operational Directives 4.04 on wild lands; (v)
evaluate the linkages between the Mexican EA process and the
aquaculture land use plans (ordenamientos ecol6gicos); and (vi)
identify specific strategieslrnvestments to strengthen the Mexican EA process.



-2 -
(e)   Describing the objectives, institutional framework, content and
processes of the different types of Maxican land use plans
(ordenamientos ecol6gicos) and the resources required to prepare
them; detailing the relationship between sectoral OEs and spatial
(national, state and municipal) OEs and how conflicts in land use
priorities are resolved at the federal, state and local levels; detailing
the relationship between the different sectoral OEs (e.g. aquaculture,
tourism, petroleum, etc.) and how conflicts are resolved among the
different OEs and involved actors (governmental and non-
govemmental); asssing the overall usefulness of the plans for
aquaculture land use plamning.
(f)   Puioritizing principal environmental issues associated with
aquaculture in Mexico (identfied in the Webb and Aim reports) and
providing specific guidelines as to how Prijt design should avoid
aggravating, and/or could address these envimnmental issues.
(g) Identifying specific types of sensitive areas where the pnrject
should not get involved or should intenvene with -special precautions.
2.   This work will be carried-out during two mission. During the first
mission (November 29 through December 10), Mr. Hardin will assess: (i)
beneficianr concerns with the EA process; (ii) the federal, state (and if
possible the municpal) legal and regulatory framework for fte EA process;
and uiii) the general institutional framework and available resources to
implement the framework and the extent to which it is actually implemented.
Mr. Hardin wllU also use the mission to arrange for the follow-up mission in
January, this will involve: (i) preparing detailed terms of reference for the
environmental assessment (objecwives, issues, methodology, timetable,
budget, staff); (ii) obtiing the full agreement of SEPESCA and SEDESOL
on the draft EA terms of reference; (iii) identifying counterparts from
SEliESOL and SEPESCA to assist carry-our the study; (iii) identifying a
Mexican environmental lawyer (as well as any other necessary resource
persons). Upon the conclusion of the December mission, Mr. Hardin will
submit: (7) an interim report describing the mission's progress in achieving
points (a) through (g) above; Cii) deiled terms of reference (mcluding the
workplan for the environmental lawyer) and outline for the study; and Ciii) a
work program for the January mission.
3.    The second part of the environmental assessment will be carried-out in
Mexico for three weeks during January 1994. The full report will be
submitted to the Bank by February 11. You should laep at least three days
at the end of the contract to incorporate comments on the report. The entire
length of the contract should not exceed 50 days. The contract would
commence on November 29, the EA terms of reference and interim report
should be received by the Bank by December 18, the draft EA report should



-3 -
be submitted by February 11 and the final revised report should be submitted
by March 15. Mr. Hardin will be responsible for the quality of the report
prepared by the Mexican lawyer and the prepartion of a single document.
cc:   Knotter (LA2DR); Baxter o/r, Bronkhorst, Koberle, Keynan, Cord
(LA2AG); Mahar, Webb, Ledec, Partridge (LATEN); Zweig
(ASTEN); Alm, Post (ENVLW); van Santen (EMTAG)
cord
mn:imxco=sprep%hardin.tor
November 19. 1993



EVALUAC16N DE IMPACTOS AMBIENTAL A NIVEL SECTORAL
PROYECTO DE DESARROLLO DE ACUACULTURA
TItRMINOS DE REFERENCIA
Este documento representa los terminos de referencia concisos del Banco Mundial para la preparacidn
de la Evaluaci6n del Impacto Ambiental (EIA) del Proyecto de Desarrollo de Acuacultura. La EIA se
llevar5 a cabo entre 29 Noviembre de 1993, y 15 Mamzo de 1994; tendra los objetivos, metodologfa,
y alcance de trabajo detallado aquf abajo; y satisfacerfa los requisitos del Banco Mundial para una
manifestacidn de impacto ambiental a nivel sectoral como presenado en su Directivo Operacional
4.01 (OD 4.01 de Octubre 1991).
1.0    A d t
El proyecto seria realizado en 5 a 7 estados escogido de Tamaulipas, Veracruz, Chiapas, Oaxaca,
Siialoa, Baja California Sur, y Nayarit; y tendri los objetivos principales siguientes:
(i) promover el desarrollo sostenible de la acuacultura en las regiones internas y costeras, con Ehfasis
en aumentar y diversificar los ingresos y las fuentes nuuitivas de familias de bajos recursos; y
(i) manejar el desarrollo sostenible de los recusos naunrales mexicanos por medio de ordenamiento y
manejo de las zonas costeras que protezcan el medio ambiente.
El proyocto comprende los siguientes componentes:
*     Generaci6n. Adantacidn v TransfeTencia de Tecnologfa con el prop6sito de generar,
consolidar. incorporar y adaptar tecnologla acufcolas adecuadas a Mexico, dado sus
condiciones de acuacultura y sus recursos naturales.
*     lnfraestructura Ffsica, que contempla la renovaci6n y constriccidn de infraestructura de apoyo
al sector de acuacultura, tales como caminos, dragados, estructuras para el control de agua,
electrificacidn y agua potable.
*     Mercados y Comercializaci6n, dirigido al desarrollo de infraestructura de tratamiento y
comercializaci6n de productos acufcolas, mejoramniento del manejo post-cosecha de productos
acufcolas, y ampliaci6n de los mercados nacionales e internacionales para productaos acufcolas.
*     Medio Ambiente. dirigido al fortalecimiento de la capacidad nacional para planificar, manejar,
y controlar las actividades intensivas acufcolas en zonas costeras, represas de agua dulce,
sistemas de irrigaci6n, y otros recursos acuaticos; a traves de los procesos del ordenamiento
ecoidgico, asesorfa de impacto ecol6gico, y desarrollo de criterios ecoldgicos.
*     Fortalecimiento Institucional. dirigido a aumentar la capacidad de SEPESCA, SEDESOL,
1



CNA y SARH ademis de atras ddegaciones federales, estatales y municipales; para promover
el desarrollo de la acuacultura, prepqar planes para c ordenadniento de zonas costeras,
regular la industria, y proteger el medio ambiente.
Adem5s de estos cinco componentes principales, el proyecto contempla un sub-componente de
Ordenamiento y Manedo dc Zonas Costeras en tres estados escogidos de Chiapas, Oaxaca, Nayarit
Baja Califonia Sur y Vera Ciuz Este inciativa contempla orgizar a nivel piloto el desarrollo y
implenietacidn de planes de manejo para zDonas costeras fimdados sobre la estrucbza actual de
Ordenamiento Eccldgico.
2.0    Requisitos de] Banco Mundial pam Manifestaci6n de Impacto Ambiental
Como presentado en su Directivo Operacional 4.01 (OD 4.01 de Octubre 1991), Ia polftica dcl Banx
Mundial -es de asegurar que las pogamas fnancdo en sus palses dientes toman en consideraci6n -
lo mas temprano posible en la fase de identificaci6n y diseho - todos los inpactos ambiental directo y
indireo que puede surgir debido a las actividades del proyecto.
El instrumento opeacional para realizar esta politica es la preparaci6n de una manifestaci6n del
impacto ambiental (MIA) describieudi todos los impactos anticipados, alternuivas para e disejio del
proyecuo que puede reducir impactos negativos, y acciones o inversiones que se deben incorporar en
el proyecto para compensar a los impactos nqaivos inevitables.
Aunque esta polftica existe en e Bancw MundW desde 1989 con la publicacidn del primero Directivo
Operacional (4.00). el procedimiento operacional para a preparaci6n de un MIA ha sido lo mas
apropiada para proyectos espxffiws cuyos aspectos fisicos - tales como localidad preciso,
constrauccidn civil, requisitos para material, flujo de descargas etc - estYn definidos.
Affn de mqeor servir la poiftica de anticipar los impactos ambiental tempra en la preparaci6n de un
proyecto, el Banco ha adaptado un procedimiento nuevo liamado 'Evaluacidn de Impactos Ambiental
a Nivel Sectoral'. Este clase de MIA examine el contexco legal y regulatorio - o marco de
referencia - en lo cual se va a desarrollar un futuro proyecto, calificandolo ese mismo en t6rminos de
su capacidad para proteger el medio ambiente y asegurar el uso sostenible de recursos naturales.
Debido a su introduccidn durante de los prinems fases aue identificaci6n y diseno del proyecto, el
MIA sectoral ofrezca amplia oportunidad de prevenir y evitar o mitigar los impactos negativos al
nedio ambiente.
3.0    Objetives
La Evaluacion de Impacto Ambiental del Proyecto de Desarrollo de Acuacultura a nivel sectoral
tendrfa los objetivos siguientes:
3.1    Preparacidn de una descripcion detallada del marco legal y regulatorio relacionado al
desarrollo de zonas costeras en general, y al desarrollo de proyeetos de acuacultura en
2



particular. Esta descripcidn debe enlazar d marco con las mnetas pollticas general del
gobierno - tales como la aliviacidn de la pobreza y protecci6n del medio ambiente -y
resumir los principales [eyes y regulaciones a nivel federal, estal (para los estados que se
incluye en el proyecto) y - en el caso de las zonas pilotos - a nivel municipal.
La descripci6n debe induir una-presentaci6n gr;fica, en forma de diagrama o arbol de
decisiones, del proceso de tramite de los permisos necesarios para tramitar proyectos de
acuacultur - refiriendo a leyes, regulaciones y instizuciones en cada seccion del diagrama.
La descripcion debe utilizar el sistema de 'ventanilla dnica de la Direccion de Acuacultura
como punto de entrada pan organizaci6n, dado que este sistema comprende todo que es ley y
regulacifn para el desarrollo de acuacultura.
3.2 Evaluaci6n del marco legallregulatorio y su implemientacidn en cuamno la promoci6n de
acuacltura y proteccidn del medio ambiente.
3.3   Preparacion de una descripci6n detallado del proceso de evaluaci6n de impacto ambiental de
proyectos de acuacultma, induyendo:
*    a *    los grados y clasificaciones de proyectas y el clase de MIA correspondiente,
e     los procedimientos especificas para cada clase de MIA;
*     iun flujograma del procedimiento de preparaci6n, sumisi6n, evaluaci6n y aprobacion
*     de una MIA, incluyendo el tienpo necesario para cada paso y los instituciones
implicados en cada etapa.
3.4   Evaluar el exito general en la implementaci6n del sistekna Mexicano de evaluaci6n de impacto
amnbiental, con especial referencia al desarrollo de proyectos acufcolas.
3.5   Relacionado al 3.4, preparar una descripci6n de los recursos institucional en terminos
financieros, legal y humanos que son disponible al Gobierno de Mexico - principalmente en
las Secretarias de Pesca y Desarrollo Social/Procuradorfa Federal de Protecci6n a[ Ambiente -
- a nivel nacional. estatal y local para hacer monitoreo, contestar a quejas, y aplicar sanciones
correspondiente en la implemientaci6n del marco legal y regulatorio referido en 3.1.
3.6   Identificar estrategias para mejorar el funcionaniento del los sistemas regulatorios descrito en
3.1 y 3.2; con especial referec.ia a la preparaci6n y revisi6n de estudios del impacto
ambiental, y el cumplimiento con las normas legales establecidas.
3.7   Comparar el procedimiento Mexicano para evaluacion de impactos ambientales con el
equivalente del Banco Mundial - con el objetivo de reemplacer ese diltimo con el metodo
nacional durante el fase de planeaci6n de obras especificas.
3



3.8   Preparar una descripcidn de los objetivos, mar;o institucional, sustancia t6cnica y
procedimientos para la implemnentacion del sistema de Ordenamiento Ecologico (OE), con
especial referencia a;
*     Ia relacidn entre los OE's de varias clases distintas, tales como los OE's sectorales y
los OE's geogrofico;
*     el mecanismo para solucionar conflictos en los OEs de sectores y unidades
geogrgicolgbernamenal (cj. agrfcola y municipal). y;
*     la utilidad de los OFs para el proceso de ordenamieeno ecologico.
3.8   Preparar una descripci6n detallada de los inversiones y infaestructura propuesta por el
proyecto en cada estado, utilizamdo como punma de entrada los informes de las comitEs
estatales de trabajo encargato con la preparacidn del proyecto.
3.9   Prepar  una descripci6n de las problemas asociadas con el desarrollo de acuacultura en
Mexico en tErminos de los principales inpactos ambientales negativos anticipados a del
proyecto; y clasificarlos en orden de prioridad.
3.10   En caso de necesidad, identificar inversiones altemnatia a los propuesta affn de minimalizar
uepactos negativos al medio anbiente.
3.12 Identificar areas de especial sensibilidad, los cuales se deben evitar de desarrollar; tales como
reservas biol6gicas y habitaciones critica.
4.0    Metodologra
La evaluacidn se implementara a traves de entrevistas, investigacidn y visitas de campo en los
estados; dividido entre dos misiones consistiendo de preparaci6n (10 misi6n) y implemen-acion.
4.1    Primers Misi6n
El primer fase se llevara a cabo en Diciembre, con los objetivos de
*     reclutar el personal iddneo,
*     identificar los contactos y citas necesarios para entrevistas,
*     recoger literatura y otra documentaci6n necesario para la ejecuci6n del las tareas ya
mencionados, y
*     finalizar los tdrminos de referencia para la implementacion de la segunda misi6n.
4



42    Segunda Misiidn
La segunda mision tendrd una duraci6n de tres semanas comenzando el 16 Enero de 1993, y
contemplara los objetivos siguientes.
*     Completar entrevistas del personal del gobierno federal. estatal y municipal, con especial
referencia a la Direcci4n de Acuacultura, Secretia de Pesca; y el Instituto Nacional de
Ecologfa y Procaradoria Federal de Proteccidn al Ambiente, ambos de SEDESOL.
*     Completar entrevistas del personal de las instituciones privados y los ONG's implicados en
sector ambiental de Mexico.
*     Entrevistar beneficiarios del proyectos en los 5-7 estados contempLados para e proycbo (cabe
mencionar que el estado de Vera Cruz se ha visitado durante la primera misidn, y a
consecuencia no tiene que entrar en el programa para la segunda misi6n).
Los datos recolectados en ambos misiones serfan integrados en el docamento operativo del evaluaci6n
de impacto sectoral, segfin el formato presentado en el Dircztiv3 Operacional 4.01 (Apendice A).
5.0   Programna de Implementadion
1-12 Diciembre 1993       - Primera misi6n
17 Enero - 5 Febrero 1994   - Seguuda misi6n
11 Febreco                - Boffador del infbrme
15 Marzo                  - Informe final
5



7.0   Presupuesto
El presupuesto siguiente representa un cilculo del costo de implementar los termiwos de referencia ya
presentado.
Tasa           #           Total
I1. Consultoria Intemaciond                                                $22,900
2. Consultoria Loca                                        ____             $6,000
3. Pasajes Gainesville-Mexico        S750                       2Sl_ ,S00
4. Pasajes domesticos                        .    7             .5   S2.450
5. Viaticos 2                                    S200           48,800
6. Miscelaneo 3                                                             $2,500
T AL                                                                           I 44,150
En visto de la cantidad y calidad de informacion relacionado al tema de este estudio disponible en
Mexico, se propone que las descripciones del marco legal/regulatorio y procedimientos para
evaluaci6n de impacto ambiental (osca a parte descriptiva de secciones 3.1 a 3.3) serfa realizado por
una compania de consultorfa privada contrados directamente por KBN Engineering-
8.0    Apoyo Requerido
Para asegurar que la segunda misidn sea producfiva, los arreglos siguientes tienen quc estar hecho
antes del 15 Enero.
*     Coordinaci6n para arreglar las citas presentadas en el apendice B.
*     Un horario para los talleres de preparaci6n estatal, affn de asegurar que las visitas a los
estados por la misi6n ambiental toman lugar despues de que las comitds de preparacidn hayan
l Ofertas estan solicitados para la preparacion de los elementos 3.1 a 3.3
2 El consultor internacional seria reemnbolsado para costos efectivos de hospedaje, communicacion
y otros gastos incidentales, calculado a $200 diario.
'fotocopias. produccion del informe final, correo express. etc.
6



preparado un borrador del diseino.
0     Coordinaci6n logrstica en cada estado permitiendo visitas a las zonas pilotos escogido para el
componente Manejo Integrada de Zonas Costeras, ademas de zonas que tendrin mayor
inversidn de infraestructura como dragados y caminos.
*     Copias de documentos criticas, tales como los infbrmes borradores de la descripci6n del
proyecto en cada estado, producido por las comitds estatal de preparaci6n.
*     Copias ejcmplares de manifestaciones de impacto ambiental de proyectos de dragado dirigido
al mejormiento ecologico de lagunas costeras.
7



AP1NDICE A:
GUI6N PARA LA PREPARACI6N DEL MAmFwACI6N DE IMPAcT AmBiENTAL
RF5UMEN EJECUrrVO
1.0   MARCO POLtITCO, LEGAL Y ADMINISFRATIVO
1.1   Marx Legal y Regultedio Gobernando el Desamlio de Proyectos Acufteolas
1.2  Capaddad y ProceGimientos pars la EvRluaci6n de Impactos Ambiental en los EStados
Ulnidos de MexiAco
2.0 DESCRIPCI6N DEL PROYECTO
3.0 DATOS DE BASE
4.0 IMPACTOS AMBIENTAL ANIMCIPADO
5.0 ANALISIS DE ALTERNATr'i)
6.0  PROGRAMA DE MMGACION
7.0  ADMINISTRACION AMBIENTAL Y CAPACITACIHN
8



APEDICE B
Ustas de Citas y Contacts Criicsas para la 2° Missi6on
(1)   Distrito Federal (el 17-18 de Enero)
*     SEPESCA
- El responsable del programa de mejonieneo ecologico de lagunas costeras
*     SEDESOL
- Director, Ordenamiento Ecologico, Arq. Jorge Velez (serfa la segunda entrevista con el
Arq. Velez)
- Direccion de Inpactos - Ing. Adriana PinedaIINE
- Prowradoria Federal para Protecci6n al Ambiente (relacionado al 3.4)
*     Grpeace, Rafael Gonzalez Franco
(2)    statal-
*     Dependencias de SEDESOLlINE
*0    Director Estatal de SEPESCAlDireccion de Acuacultura
*     Agencia estal encargado de asuntos ambientales (el equivalente al SEDUVER de Vera Cruz)
*     grupos de productores
*     Ceutrs de Investigaci6n Pesquera
*     cualquier otro grupo implicado en asuntos ambientales (ONGs, Universidades etc.).
9



APPENDIX B
SEPESCA ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT PREPARATION GUEDELINFS



COORDINACION DE PROYECTOS ACUICOLAS
II)  MANIFESTACION DE IMPACTO AMBIENTAL
La manifestacifn de impacto ambiental es el documento que se
analiza durante el proceso de evaluaci6n de impacto ambiental, la
realizaci6n completa y analitica de este documento facilita la toma
de decisiones en relacion a la implementaci6n del proyecto.
-sintesis Conceptual:
La EIA generalmente comienza con un Lnforme preventivo o
sintesis conceptual de la accion propuesta. El nivel de detalle de
estos debe ser el suficiente para poder determinar: 1) no se
esperan impactos ambientales significativos o 2) se esperan
lipactos  significativos,  si  esto  dltimo ocurriera  se debera
desarrollar una EIA completa, asi como la elaboraci6on de una NIA.
-Circunstancias an las que se requiere una MIA:
Cuando se .detecta que la implementacion del proyecto causa
impactos significativos se debe realizar una manifestaci6n de
impacto ambiental. Dependiendo de la localizacion, tipo y
dimensiones del proyecto, seran los impactos que se puedan
originar, sin embargo, algunos de los. criterios uitiles para la
identificaci6n de impactos significativos son:
*    Cambios en el uso de suelo, segiCn lo establecido en el
ordenamiento ecologico.
*    Que pudiese impactar en la calidad del aire, suelo y agua del
sitio del proyecto o de zonas adyacentes.
*    Si  existe  la posibilidad  de  que  no se  cumpla  con  la
normatividad vigente, se excedan las normas o que se produzca
en la calidad del medio una degradaci6n considerable.
29



COORDINACION DE PROYECTOS ACUICOLAS
*    Cambios   hidrodinamicos  en   los  cuerpos  de  agua  de
abastecimiento y descarga, asi como cambios en el volumen de
0os mismos que pueden repercutir en las comunidades riberefias..
*    Que produzcan modificaciones en las cadenas alimenticias, o
bien en los nichos y habitats ecol6gicos.
*    Que pudiese afectar adversamente a los recursos naturales
protegidos, tales como parques nacionales, corredores de aves
migratorias o especies en peligro de extinci6n.
*    Que pudiese causar, en combinaci6n con otras actividades a.
proyectos, efectos acumulativos adversos.
*    Que pudiese crear controversia pfiblica significativa.
*    Que se propicie la generaci6n de desechos, que pongan en
peligro la calidad del medio.
El procedimiento de EIA exige que los impactos potenciales a
Los recursos ambientales se evalgen detalladamente y se manejen
varias alternativas factibles. de las que se pueda seleccionar la
mas viable basandose en los n6ritos de los objetivos, antes de la
implementaciOn final del proyecto.
Se deben evitar las decisiones unilateral2s, esto era, por
individuos u organizaciones que tienen intereses creados, que
pudieran repercutir en detrimento de la calidad ambiental, por ello
se debe involucrar a los interesados y a un grupo de profesionistas
y especialistas en varias areas que analicen las posibles
alternativas, hasta tomar una decisi6n equilibrada.
Se requiere que la MIA evalue la acci6n propuesta, explore un
espectro de alternativas factibles, evalCe esas alternativas e
identifique las medidas que evitaran o disminuir&n la severidad de
los impactos indeseables. La informaci6n revelada durante el
proceso de EIA puede formar la bass para la decisi6n de aprobar a
denegar  una  propuesta,  o  para  poner  condiciones  para  su
implementacion.
Si se determina la elaboraci6n de una EIA completa, se debe
identificar a su vez la profundidad de analisis (general,
intermedia o especifica) que se. debe desarrollar durante la
investigaci6n.
30



COORDINACION DE PROYECTOS ACUICOLAS
Para determinar la modalidad de MIA que se debe presentar se
considera:
1) El Alcance del Efecto:
Se ref iere a la extensi6n de los impactos potenciales
generados por la accion propuesta, principalmente en el area
geografica potencialmente afectada y al lapso de tiempo
durante el cual ocurrira el impacto. El area incluye cuencas
fluviales, corrientes de aire y ecosistemas.
El area dentro de la cual ocurriran todos los efectos
potenciales,   impactos,   caracteristicas   y   esfuerzos
compensatorios  relacionados  con  una  propuesta  y  sus
alternativas puede denominarse area de estudio.
2) Significado del Efecto en el Media Ambiente:
Existen acciones que tienen el potencial de ejercer
efectos significativos en el medio ambiente. Estos efectos
potenciales pueden ser relacionados a la alta sensibilidad de
los recursos a transtornarse, a la naturaleza especifica de
los impactos, a la duraci6n potencial de dichos impactos, o a
los impactos secundarios o acumulativos potenciales. En este
tipo de acciones los efectos ambientales podrian causar
perdidas irrevocables de recursos naturales importantes o
efectos irreversibles a la salud humana.
La naturaleza de los efectos potenciales afectara el nivel de
EIA, por lo que se debera analizar entonces, el tipo, tiempa de
exposicicn y frecuencia de los mismos, lo que puede aumentar la
posibilidad de impactos adversos. Algunas de los recursos naturales
altamente sensitivos pueden ser ambientes naturales tales como,
pantanos (costeros <manglares, humedales> o internos), cuencas de
inundaci6n de rios, grandes extensiones de tierras de cultivo, de
basques, habitats de especies amenazadas, o regiones culturales.
Pudiendo ser ademas receptores sensitivos las recursos humanos
(escuelas, agua potable, areas de recreaci6n, etc.).
- Principales contenidos de una MTA:
1) Descripci6n del proyecto y ubicaci6o.-
La maanitud y tipo de alteraciones que se produzcan en el
ambiente   depende   directamente   de   las   caracteristicas
medioambientales existentes y las del proyecto que se pretende
desarrollar.
La descripcion detallada de todas las obras, permite analizar
las alternativas posibles, asi como las alteraciones que cada una
de estas pueda producir.
31



COORDINACION DE PROYECTOS ACUICOLAS
2) Prop6sito y necesidad.-
El prop6sito y la necesidad son la justificaci6n oara llevar
a cabo la acci6n propuesta, una descripci6n clara de estos puntos
presenta la perspectiva de evaluar el razonamiento de varias
alternativas. Sin un proposito y una necesidad justificados
claramente, el-proyecto no deberla seguir adelante.
3)   Descripci6n   del   media   ambiente    (natural   y
socioecon6mico).-
La descripci6n del medio ambiente detalla las caracteristicas
del area de estudio, los detalles deben ser suficientes para
identificar los recursos naturales y humanos que podrian resultar
afectados debido a la acci6n y alternativas propuestas.
Dentro de los aspectos generales del medio natural y
socioecon6mico se encuentran los siguientes:
* geologia.
* topografia
* calidad del aire
* ordenamiento ecol6gico
* suelos
* hidralogia (subterranea y superficial)
* clima, temperatura, precipitaci6n, intemperismos severos
comunidades terrestres (flora y fauna)
- especies de inter6s comercial, end6micas y/o en peligro de
extinci6n
* comunidades acuaticas
* Areas de sensitividad ambiental
* areas naturales protegidas
recursos culturales.- sitios arqueol6gicos, de interes
hist6rico, de atractivo turistico o de cualidades
esteticas funicas
* centros de poblaci6n
* vias de acceso
* servicios de infraestructura
* actividades predominantes en el area del proyecto y sus
alrededores
* riesgo de caracter epidemiol6gico.
Es importante en este punto basarse en datos bibliograficos y
cartogr&ficos, anAlisis de agua y suelo asi como en la realizacion
de visitas de campo y entrevistas, todo esto debe ser reciente.
El alcance de la mayoria de las EIA es lo suficientemente
amplio para necesitar de expertos tecnicos y cientificos, por lo
32



COORDINACIoN DE PROYECTOS ALUUui.t
cual, un enfoque interdisciplinario suministrara claramente la
informaci6n mas valiosa para el proceso decisivo, ya que una MIA
considera comunmente las condiciones ambientales y los impactos
patenciales sobre la calidad de las aguas y comunidades acuaticas,
calidad de aguas subterraneas y su abastecimiento, vegetacion y
fauna terrestre, calidad de aire y -salud humana, geologia,
topografla y analisis de suelos, infraestructura (transportacion,
demografia, socioeconomia) y recursos culturales.
4) Preparaci6n del sitio y construcci6n.-
Se deben especificar todas las acciones que se realizardn
durante la preparaci6n del sitio y la construccion de las obras del
proyecto, esto incluye desmontes, nivelaciones, rellenos, dragados,
desviaci6n de corrientes, obras y servicios de apoyo, necesidad de
personal, requerimientos de energia y agua, asi como los residuos
generados.
5) Operaci6n y mantenimiento.-
En este punto, se deben describir detalladamente los recursos
naturales que se aprovechar&n, las materias primas e insumos, las
medidas de seguridad, requerimientos de energia, m6todos de control
de  la  fauna  de  acompafiamiento,  residuos  generados,  tipo  y
frecuencia de mantenimiento, producci6n de biomasa esperada, asi
coma la vida util del proyecto y las medidas de restitucidn al
finalizar la vida util.
- 6) Alternativas.-
Son los medias diferentes para llegar a la acci6n propuesta,
dentro de las cuales se incluye la io acci6n, esta ultima presenta
la base contra la cual se comparan los impactos de las alternativas
a la acci6n.
La identificaci6n, descripci6n, evaluaci6n y comparaci6n de
vias alternas para llegar al prop6sito y necesidad basicos para una
acci6n, son cruciales para la objetividad del proceso de EIA. -
La descripci6n cuidadosa de las alternativas de un proceso de
EIA facilita su comparaci6n en cuanto a riesgos y beneficios
t6cnicos, ambientales y econ6micos. Dentro de las alternativas, que
deben ser legitimas y sustantivas, se incluyen cambios de tamafio,
localizaci6n, tecnologia o planificaci6n, deben compararse con
respecto a los costos de capital y de operaci6n; impactos
ambientales   directos,   indirectos  y  acumulativos;
33



COORDINACION DE PROYECTOS ACUICOLAS
impedimentos fisicos, legales o institucionales, y politicas de
desarrollo.
En general para la selecci6n de las alternativas preferidas se
deben considerar 3 perspectivas generales:
I) Factibilidaa de ingenieria y requisitos
II) Viablidad econ6mica y
III) Entereza ambiental
se deben considerar a su vez los permisos de otras Instituciones
tales como CNA, SEPESCA, etc.
7) Identificaci6n y descripci6n de Impactos Ambientales.-
Metodos para la identificaci6n de impactos:
Para la identificaci6n y analisis de impactos ambientales se
debe utilizar alguna metodologia que permita en cualquier momento
verificar las conclusiones presentadas en la manifestaci6n
ambiental. Existen una gran gara de tficnicas que se pueden
utilizar, entre ellas se encuentran:
*    listas de chequeo
- -- matrices
*    diagrama de flujo y redes
*    sobreposici6n
*    modelos de simulacion
*    modelos de dispersi6n
*    jerarquizaci6n de alternativas dentro de categorias
de impacto
Impactos primarios y secundarios.-
Los  impactos  primarios. de una  acci6n  son  aquellos  que
generalmente ocurren al mismo tiempo y en el mismo lugar de la
acci6n. Se asocian con la construccion, operaci6n y mantenimiento
de una  instalaci6n o actividad y generalmente  son obvios y.
cuantificables.
Pueden incluir efectos como:
a) la remoci6n de suelo.
b) el  comprometimiento   0   destruccion   de   ecosistemas
sensitivos, incluyendo humedales, bosques, zonas costeras,
llanos aluviales y habitats naturales (siendo de singular
importancia  los de  especies amenazadas o en peligro de
extinci6n).
c) La degradacion de los cuerpos de agua superficial debido a
la erosi6n o a la descarga de elementos no propios a los
naturales.
34



COORDINACION DE PROYECTOS ACU±.uWL.IA
d) la alteracion de las caracteristicas de las aguas
subterrAneas.
-    e)  la  alteracion  o  destrucci6n  de  Areas  hist6ricas,
arqueol6gicas, geol6gicas, culturales o recreativas.
f) el desplazamiento de poblaci6n.
g)  el  aumento  en  la  generaci6n  de  concentraciones  de
*          contaminantes aereos, aumento en los niveles de olores y
ruidas ambientales.
h) la creaci6n o agravamiento de problemas de salud pdblica.
i) la violaci6n directa durante la construcpi6n y operaci6n de
las Leyes o Reglamentos Federales, Regionales a locales.
Los impactos secundarios son los cambios indirectos o
inducidos en el medio ambiente, la poblaci6n, el crecimiento
econ6mico, cubren todos los efectos potenciales que pudiesen
acurrir mas adelante o en lugares diferentes como resultado de la
acci6n.
El anllisis de este tipo de impactos -debe cubrir la extensi6n
geogrdfica probable del desarrollo inducido, debiendo identificar
los cambios en las caracteristicas del medio, algunos ejemplos
serian:
a) eutroficacion de cuerpos de aqua.
b) cambios en la hidrodinAmica lagunar.
c) creaci6n de nuevos centros de poblaci6n.
d) salinizaci6n de tierras.
e) intrusion salina.
f) cambios de clima.
g) creaci6n de plagas.
hi) cambios en las comunidades acu&ticas.
Impactos a corto y largo plazo.-
Dependiendo de su- duraci6n los- impactos pueden ser a corto o
largo plazo. La perdida de pasto u otro tipo de vegetaci6n herbacea
puede considerarse a corto plazo, ya que el area podria
regenerarse, sin embargo la tala de un basque maduro o humedal
puede considerarse un impacto a largo plazo.
Impactos positivos y negativos.-
Todos los efectos ambientales significativos, tanto negativos
como  positivos  deben  recibir  atencion,  los  primeros  para
minimizarlos y los segundos para acentuarlos. Generalmente los
impactas positivos son sociaeconomicas, dentro de los que se
encuentran:
*    generaci6n de empleos
*    cionstruccion y mejoramiento de vias de comunicacion
35



COORDINACION DE PROYECTOS ACUICOLAS
*    desarrollo economico del area del proyecto
*    produccion de alimento
La creaci6n de laboratorios de produccion de larvas pueden a
su vez contribuir a la disminuci6n de captura de crias del medio
ambiente.
Impactos acumulativos.-
Son aquellos impactos ambientales resultantes del impacto
incrementado de la accifn propuesta sobre un-recurso comen cuando
se aniade a acciones pasadas, presentes y razonablemente esperadas
en el futuro.
Estos impactos ambientales pueden ocurrir debido a los efectos
colecti7os de acciones individualmente menores a travis de un
periodo de tiempo.
-Las circunstancias  que generan  impactos acumulativos  podrian
incluir:
a) iimpactos en la calidad del agua debidos a una emanaci6n que
se combina con otras fuentes de descarga o con desagiues no
provenientes de un solo punto.
b) impactos en la calidad del aire que resulten de las
emisiones industriales o comerciales operadas en la misma
regi6n, geogrdfica.
c)  perdida  o  fragmentaci6n  de  habitats  ambientalmente
sensitivos ('.sques, humedales, tierras agricolas), resultante
de la construccion de desarrollos.
La evaluaci6n de estos impactos es dificil, podrian ser
simplemente agregables en sus efectos, pero potencialmente podrian
interactuar de manera sinergica o antagonista. Los modelos de
calidad de agua y aire dan medidas para estudiar el resultado de
los efectos acumulativos.
8)  Prevenci6n,  mitigaci6n  y  compensaci6n  de  impactos
ambientales.-
Mitigaci6n es la implementacion intencional de decisiones o
actividades disefiadas para reducir en el medio ambiente los
impactos indeseables de una accion propuesta. Este concepto puedc
incluir:
a) evitar completamente los impactos al no tomar una acci6n en
particular.
b) disminuir los impactos al limitar la magnitud de la acci6n,
o bien establecer cambios en la misma.
36



COORDINACION DE PROYECTOS ACUICOLAS
C)   rectificar  los   impactos  al  reparar  0  restaurar
caracteristicas particulares del medio ambiente afectado.
d) reducir los impactos poco a poco a! llevar a cabo
actividades de mantenimiento durante toda la duraci6n de la
acci6n.
e) coimpensar al media ambiente por los impactos ocasionados,
al suministrar adiciones y sustitutos (creacifn de ambientes
similares a aquellos afectados por la acci6n).
Es mas deseable evitar impactos que tener que rectificarlos o
compensarlos. Una reducci6n significativa de los impactos puede
lograrse con el uso cuidadoso de las opciones de anfilisis de
alternativas y mitigaci6n, ya que es a traves de estos medios que
el proceso de EIA funciona para prevenir los impactos ambientales
significativos.
Decisiones Equilibradas:
Es evidente que cualquier acci6n de desarrollo, re-desarrollo,
o correctiva alterar, los atributos azbientales existentes, sin
embargo, es necesaria que los efectos indeseables
se mantengan al minimo, una vez identificadas Las medidas de
mitigaci6n. Pa-a lograr el equilibrio, se deben tomar en cuenta
todos los impactos originadas, por ejemplo, que los efectos
ambientales, tanto positivos como negativos de una accion, se
pongan en una balanza contra los resultados sociaecon6micos de la
misma.  Para  poder  determinar  esto,  los  resultados  de  la
investi-eacifn de EIA deben organizarse y presentarse de tal forma
que facilite el equilibrio de los factores positivos y negativos.
Debiendo comparar varias alternativas razonables que pudieran
llenar el prop6sito y la necesidad de la acci6n propuesta.
v
37



I



