Report No. PIC863
Project Name                  Mexico-Aquaculture Development Project (@#)
Region                        Latin America and Caribbean
Sector                        Fisheries & Aquaculture
Project ID                    MXPA7726
Borrower                      Banco Nacional de Comercio Exterior (BANCOMEXT)
Implementing Agency           Ministry of Environment, Natural Resources, and
Fisheries (SEMARNAP)
Appraisal Date                November 1994
Projected Board Date          May 1997
Date of original PID          October 1994
Date PID updated              April 1997
Background
1       The aquaculture sector in Mexico is small, contributing less
than 15t of total fisheries production and less than 1 of
agricultural GDP and exports, but it offers significant growth
potential with a rich natural resource base and an attractive
regulatory framework. Since 1986, the overall body of laws
affecting the aquaculture and fisheries sectors has changed
significantly.
2       Although these policy developments rationalize the framework
for the sector and open up a greater role for market forces, the
Government is working to address several remaining issues. First,
it is continuing to shift from investing directly in the sector
toward regulatory and public good activities. In particular, it is
seeking to strengthen the framework for aquatic health and permits
for aquaculture activities. Second, the Government is striving to
provide key public goods and services necessary for the development
of the sector. These should be accessible to the sector's social
sector producers (residents of ejidos, cooperatives and communal
land groups (mainly indigenous people) and other economically
disadvantaged producers) as well as its commercial producers.
Third, the government is seeking to carry out the above services
and investments using limited fiscal resources combined with cost
recovery mechanisms to create a sector that contributes to the
country's economic growth. The proposed project has been designed
to support Government efforts in all of these areas.
3       As aquaculture develops, it could cause or face various
social and environmental problems. A rapidly developing industry
could exclude the social sector despite the fact that they are a
majority of the sector's producers and own most of the coastal
lands suitable for aquaculture. Environmental problems also could
emerge with a rapidly growing sector. While the majority of
aquaculture production is from inland water bodies, the sector's



greatest potential lies with coastal aquaculture, especially
shrimp. If coastal aquaculture is developed without regard for the
environment, the coastal ecosystems, wildlife and communities that
have traditionally resided in these areas could be negatively
affected. The proposed project would aim to improve the policies
and procedures for addressing social and environmental concerns
related to aquaculture development.
Objectives
4       The objective of the proposed project would be to promote
sustainable aquaculture development by increasing the productivity
of the aquaculture sector within a framework of social consensus
and environmental soundness -- thereby contributing to economic
growth and poverty alleviation in Mexico. Project activities would
focus on poor and low-income aquaculture producers in seven states:
Baja California Sur, Tamaulipas, Veracruz, Oaxaca, Chiapas, Sinaloa
and Nayarit. However, many project activities, particularly those
supported by the public goods and services subcomponent, would
benefit aquaculture producers, traders and processors throughout
Mexico.
Project Description
5       The proposed project has two components. The Regulatory
Framework and Public Goods Component would assist the Government in
completing and implementing the regulatory framework for the
sector, and would provide key public goods to stimulate investments
by the productive sector (private and social) investment in the
sector. This component includes four subcomponents:
(a)     The Regulatory Framework Subcomponent would
provide support for two programs to assist SEMARNAP in
(i) simplifying and improving the procedures for
granting aquaculture concessions, and (ii) completing
the regulatory framework for aquatic health.
(b)     The Environment and Coastal Resources Management
Subcomponent aims to strengthen the capacity of
SEMARNAP at the federal and state levels to address
environmental issues related to aquaculture. The
project would support: (i) an integrated and
participatory coastal resource management pilot; (ii) a
coastal inventory and water quality monitoring program;
and (iii) improved environmental planning and
assessment procedures.
(c)     The Public Goods and Services would support the
provision of key goods and services through support for
a Research Fund and a regional diagnostic laboratory
network.
(d)     The Project Coordination and Institutional
Strengthening Subcomponent would be geared toward
strengthening the capacity of the Aquaculture
- 2-



Department to implement the project and address social
and environmental concerns.
6       The second main objective of the project is supported by the
Social Sector Development Component. This component of the project
would: (a) raise the productivity of the assets owned by social
sector producers (mainly land and labor) via joint investments in
aquaculture parks and hatcheries, as well as other small scale
aquaculture activities, and via training and technical assistance;
and (b) create a financial framework to facilitate the involvement
of social sector producers in aquaculture using well-defined
principles of cost recovery and cost sharing. The component is
built on a Social Strategy and Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
prepared by the Government with Bank assistance, and has two
subcomponents:
(a)     The Social Aquaculture Production Subcomponent
would invest in productive infrastructure, and in
particular: (i) seven aquaculture parks and hatcheries
(one shrimp, three tilapia, one pen shell scallop
hatchery and one abalone hatchery, one specific
pathogen resistant shrimp hatchery); and (ii) a
targeted investment fund for promoting small-scale
aquaculture development among economically
disadvantaged social sector aquaculture producers.
(b)     The Institutional Development Subcomponent would
support training and technical assistance programs and
would provide an innovative financial and institutional
framework with the AcuaMexico Fund to assist social
sector producers get access to and manage aquaculture
investments over time.
Cost and Financing
7       Total project cost is estimated at US$58.8 million, including
contingencies. The proposed loan would provide US$40 million. The
World Bank and the government of Mexico would finance approximately
66% and 16% of project costs, respectively. Beneficiaries would
finance approximately 18%.
Implementation
8       Overall responsibility for the project lies with SEMARNAP (in
particular, the SEMARNAP Project Committee and the Department of
Aquaculture). The AcuaMexico Fund would finance with operational
support from a management company: (i) the aquaculture parks and
abalone and pen shell scallop hatcheries together with social
sector investors; (ii) the specific pathogen free shrimp hatchery
together with productive sector investors; and (ii) the park
investor and management training and monitoring program with
assistance from the individual park management teams. Civil society
organizations, educational institutions, productive sector actors
and public and private research institutions would participate in:
(i) the Targeted Investment Fund; (ii) the regional diagnostic
- 3-



laboratory network (together with the central aquaculture
laboratory); (iii) the aquaculture parks and hatcheries and (iv)
the Research Fund.
Sustainability
9       This project provides a needed impetus for the GOM to
implement critical reforms in the aquaculture sector to make it
more fiscally, environmentally, and socially sustainable. The
regulatory framework and public goods supported by the project are
urgently needed for the Government and productive sector to manage
the environmental, public health and disease risks that have
undermined aquaculture in other countries in Latin American and
Asia. Moreover, the emphasis on raising asset productivity among
social sector producers and expanding government capacity in social
sector issues contributes toward rural poverty alleviation, without
which sustained and equitable growth will not be possible in
Mexico. The cost recovery and cost sharing in the delivery of
public goods strengthens the fiscal sustainability of the
Government's aquaculture policy and promotes an efficient
allocation of public and private resources in the sector. The
project's strong support for applied research promotes new
technology appropriate for the varied aquaculture conditions in
Mexico and provides a base for long-term growth. Finally, the
project puts into place an institutional framework -- with well-
defined roles for the public and private sector and a strengthened
government capacity -- that will be needed for addressing the
technological, social and environmental issues of an expanding
sector.
Lessons learned from past operations
10      Although the Bank has relatively limited experience in
aquaculture and fisheries development, some lessons can be drawn.
First, the sector requires an attractive regulatory and policy
framework for successful development. Second, within an appropriate
public sector/goods framework, the private sector is capable and
interested in aquaculture investments and its role should be fully
considered in project design. Third, cost recovery from producers
has not always been successful given the high-risk nature of
aquaculture investments and the inappropriate use of funds on some
projects. Fourth, intensive staff training and technical assistance
should be incorporated into project design. Fifth, the land tenure
rights of social groups residing in coastal areas should be
reflected in project design. All of the above lessons have been
taken into consideration and are reflected in the design of this
project. The principal lessons from the Bank's limited experience
in coastal resources management include the need for significant
institutional strengthening, high-level political support (given
the complexity of the issues involved), and involvement of only a
few institutions (to simplify planning and implementation and avoid
interagency rivalry). Pilot interventions have been more successful
than large-scale coastal zone management projects.
Environmental Aspects
-4-



11      The project has a Category A environmental rating as some
investments occur in or near environmentally sensitive areas. A
sectoral environmental assessment report was prepared and submitted
by the Government to the Bank and an environmental management plan
was developed which was largely incorporated into the Environment
and Coastal Resources Management Subcomponent. The project
addresses environmental concerns associated with aquaculture on two
levels. On a sectoral level, the environmental and coastal
resources management component strengthens the capacity of the
federal, state, and local government and resource user groups to
manage and evaluate the environmental impact of aquaculture. At the
subproject level, as the particular investments were not identified
until the appraisal mission, the project supports full
environmental assessments for all new constructions (aquaculture
parks, pen shell scallop hatchery, SPR hatchery) and the
implementation of environmental management plans at each site
(including the preparation of an Environmental Best Practices
Manual at each site) both of which will be part of the subproject's
feasibility studies. A Social Assessment Report was also prepared
which became the basis of the Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
and Social Aquaculture Development Component. Individual social
assessments will also be carried out for the aquaculture parks and
hatcheries as part of the individual park feasibility studies.
Poverty and Program Objective Categories
12      The project is formally designated in the Program Objective
Category as Poverty Alleviation and is classified as a Program of
Targeted Intervention. The investments supported under the targeted
investment fund (10w of total costs) would be specifically targeted
toward economically disadvantaged social sector producers. In
addition, the initial investors in the aquaculture parks, abalone
hatchery and pen shell scallop hatchery (44w of total costs) would
mainly be from the social sector. As a result, it is expected that
at least 90- of the project's beneficiaries would be low-income
producers.
Participatory Approach
13      In December 1994 and January 1995, project proposals were
presented in a series of workshops with resource-poor producer
groups in the states of Nayarit, Oaxaca, and Veracruz. It was also
discussed formally and informally with members of NGO groups, e.g.,
Red de Pescadores Riberenos, Consejo Directivo Pesquero del Literal
Oaxaqueno, Cooperative Tepepan, the Friedrich Ebert Stiftung, Ducks
Unlimited, and Greenpeace. Beneficiary and NGO involvement will be
promoted in project implementation by the aquaculture parks, the
participatory exercises for the integrated coastal resource
management pilot, and the pilot targeted investment program.
Benefits
14      About 7,800 social sector aquaculturalists and their families
would be the primary direct beneficiaries of the project. About 300
social sector producers would benefit from the aquaculture parks
- 5 -



and hatcheries, while approximately 7,500 poor producers would
benefit from the targeted investment fund. In the case of the
aquacutlure parks, the project would provide social sector
producers with an opportunity to participate, as investors and
without direct subsidies, in commercial aquaculture. In the case of
the targeted investment fund, economically disadvantaged social
sector producers would expand their involvement in small-scale
aquaculture with investment and technical assistance.
15      The project would also benefit directly all aquaculture
producers via: (i) investments in key public goods and the
regulatory framework (research fund, regional diagnostic
laboratories, aquatic health regulations and aquaculture
permitting), which would increase the productivity of aquaculture,
expand the sector's access to export markets and reduce the risk of
disease epidemics; and (ii) the environmental and coastal resources
subcomponent, which would increase the capacity of the federal and
local governments as well as local interested actors to address
environmental issues associated with aquaculture.
16      The comprehensive ERR/NPV for the seven aquaculture parks and
hatcheries, the SPR shrimp hatchery is 35%. It reflects 83% of
project costs (Aquaculture parks and hatcheries, AcuaMexico
management contract, training and monitoring programs, the
permitting study, the environmental and coastal resources
management subcomponent, the Research Fund, and the regional
diagnostic laboratory network). Exchange rate fluctuations have a
minimal impact on economic viability, as the benefit of higher
output prices is offset by the higher input prices. A 10% decrease
in production and price levels would reduce the comprehensive ERR
to 28% and 27% respectively.
Risks
17      The project is an innovative operation that aims to tackle
important social, technical and environmental issues in a difficult
sector. As such, there are risks related to project design, the
overall macro situation in Mexico and the project's institutional
demands. However, project design has been modified to take these
into account and to provide the World Bank and the Government with
the opportunity to respond quickly and flexibly to any issues
should they arise.
18      The proposed project poses several risks:
(a)     Project Design Risks: (i) social sector investors may lack
the capital, technical and managerial resources to acquire and
manage a controlling share of the park and hatchery corporations;
(ii) a disease epidemic could wipe out an aquaculture park,
particularly the shrimp farms; (iii) social and environmental
problems could undermine the effectiveness of and support for the
AcuaMexico subprojects; and (iv) the ability of the AcuaMexico Fund
not to become a drain on the government budget is uncertain as it
calls for the creation of a new Government Fund and its financial
health depends upon the successful privatization of its
- 6 -



investments.
(b)     Macro Economic Risks: (i) the economic crisis
coupled with past World Bank experience in Mexico
suggest that the project may encounter problems in
receiving sufficient counterpart funds; and (ii) high
real interest rates for the operating costs may make
the parks financially not viable.
(c)     Institutional Risk: the limited management
capacity of SEMARNAP could undermine its ability to
adequately implement/supervise the project.
19      It is not possible to completely eliminate these risks, but
their impact on the project has been minimized by the following
provisions:
(a)     Project Design Risks: (i) SEMARNAP will not sell
park shares to the private sector until the parks are
financially viable -- this will give the social sector
investors time to amass the necessary financial
resources and will facilitate their access to credit;
moreover, if at the time of privatization, the social
sector investors do not own at least 51% of the park
corporation shares, the difference will be placed in an
escrow account to allow the investors additional time
to purchase these shares; and finally, SEMARNAP will
provide on-the-job and formal training to the social
sector park investors in aquaculture and business
management practices to assist them develop the
necessary skills to manage the park corporations. (ii)
The investments in aquatic health, LUCPs, the SPR
shrimp hatchery and the diagnostic laboratories provide
new and innovative strategies to reduce disease risks
that, as yet, have not been applied in other countries;
in addition, shrimp park management staff will received
specialized training in shrimp disease; also, the
shrimp park will have production insurance, which
covers disease epidemics; and finally, the density of
shrimp farms in Mexico is much lower than in other
major shrimp producing countries that have experienced
disease epidemics. (iii) The feasibility studies for
each park (including social and environmental
management plans, if necessary), the park councils, the
AcuaMexico Management Company, the park management
staff and the social scientist staff of the DGA will
help to identify and address social problems that may
emerge. Similarly, the potential negative environmental
impacts will be identified and controlled by: the
feasibility studies and the environmental impact
assessments for each park; the agreement with the
Government to drop or modify park design, if a
management plan is too costly or not effective; and,
the overall strengthening of the capacity of federal,
state and local government and user groups to address
- 7 -



environmental issues related to aquaculture. (iv) The
specific legal charter under which AcuaMexico will be
created does not allow this particular type of fund to
have government staff; consequently, the work of the
fund will be carried out by a Management Company which
will have a fixed term contract; moreover, the fund's
operating rules indicate that investments which are
consistently not profitable may be privatized at a
loss, which could limit the opportunity for specific
investments to drain the fund's resources.
(b)     Country Specific Risks: (i) The Government and
the World Bank can modify project size as necessary.
Moreover, the scope of the project has been drastically
reduced from the first proposed US$670 million (July
1994), which included 29 aquaculture parks, to US$58.8
million for seven subprojects in order to reflect
reasonable projections on the availability of fiscal
resources. (ii) The park corporations will not borrow
operating capital until 1998 at the earliest, and by
that time real interest rates are expected to come
down. Moreover, the project will contribute to the
AcuaMexico subproject operating costs in years one and
two.
(c)     Institutional Risk: First, SEMARNAP will not be
the sole implementor of the project. A Management
Company will be contracted to implement the AcuaMexico
investments and the monitoring and training activities.
Second, the DGA will receive assistance from other
areas and agencies of SEMARNAP through the Project
Committee and the working groups. Third, the DGA will
receive institutional strengthening in project
management, as well as in environmental and social
issues.
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending May 2, 1997.
- 8 -



