Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4152-ME
Guarantee Agreement
(Aquaculture Development Project)
between
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 24, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4152-ME
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 24, 1997, between UNITED MEXICAN STATES (the Guarantor) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor and Banco Nacional de Comercio Exterior, S.N.C. (the 
Borrower), having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in 
the financing of the Project; and
(B)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the 
Borrower, the Bank has agreed to extend to the Borrower a loan in amount equal to 
forty million Dollars ($40,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan 
Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations 
of the Borrower in respect of such loan and to undertake such other obligations as 
provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations of the 
Borrower and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modifications set forth in the Loan Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
Page  2
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to and in Section 1.02 of the Loan 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally 
guarantees, as primary obligor and not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment 
of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if 
any, on the prepayment of the Loan, and the punctual performance of all the other 
obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. The Guarantor shall enter into, and comply with the terms of, the 
contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 (a) of the Loan Agreement. Except 
as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Guarantor shall not amend or fail to enforce any 
provisions of such contractual arrangements.  The Guarantor shall exercise its rights 
under such contractual arrangements in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Guarantor and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
Section 2.03. The Guarantor shall provide, or shall cause to be provided, in a 
timely manner as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project. 
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Guarantor declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project, or cause it to be carried out, through SEMARNAP with due diligence 
and efficiency, in conformity with appropriate financial, administrative, technical, 
aquaculture and environmental standards and practices, and in accordance with the 
Project Implementation Plan.
(b)
The Guarantor shall enter into, and comply with the terms of, the 
AcuaMexico Mandate. The Guarantor shall exercise its rights and comply with its 
obligations under the AcuaMexico Mandate in such a manner as to protect the interests 
of the Guarantor and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall carry out, or cause to be carried out, the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General 
Conditions (relating respectively to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and 
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition).
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions, and 
without limitation thereto, the Guarantor shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Guarantor and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Guarantor on said plan. 
Section 3.05. The Guarantor, through SEMARNAP, shall:
(a)
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the 
indicators and the means of verification set forth in the Logical Framework Document, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of its objectives;
(b)
prepare, in a format satisfactory to the Bank, and provide to the Bank 
Page  3
within thirty days of the end of each Semester, a report on the progress of the 
Project and integrating: (i) the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section; (ii) an update of the relevant 
annual workplan referred to in paragraph (c) of this Section; and (iii) such other 
data generated by the monitoring and information system referred to in Section 3.06 
(c) of this Agreement as the Bank may reasonably request;
(c)
prepare, in a format satisfactory to the Bank, and provide to the Bank by 
September 30 of each year of Project execution, an annual workplan and its proposed 
budget for the Project for the following year for the Bank’s approval, and shall carry 
out said workplans as approved by the Bank, with the annual workplan for 1997 to be 
carried out as set forth in the Project Implementation Plan; 
(d)
carry out with the Bank a comprehensive review of the Project by December 
31, 1999 on the basis of terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, including a 
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section on the progress achieved in the carrying out 
of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of its objectives during the period following such date; and
(e)
promptly take all such measures, satisfactory to the Bank, as shall be 
necessary for the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of its 
objectives, if, as a result of any of the progress reports referred to in paragraph 
(b) of this Section or the comprehensive review referred to in paragraph (d) of this 
Section, progress in the execution of the Project or in the achievement of its 
objectives is not satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.06.  For the purpose of the management of the Project, the Guarantor, 
through SEMARNAP, shall:
(a)
establish within SEMARNAP a committee with composition and terms of 
reference as set forth in the Project Implementation Plan for the overall management 
and supervision of the Project;
(b)
provide within DGA key staff with qualifications and experience 
acceptable to the Bank for the day-to-day management of the Project; and
(c)
install within DGA, and thereafter operate, a monitoring and information 
system acceptable to the Bank.
Section 3.07.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 (b) of 
this Agreement, the Guarantor, through SEMARNAP, shall ensure that:
(a)
the AcuaMexico Fund is operated in accordance with the provisions of the 
AcuaMexico Operating Rules;
(b)
a Feasibility Study will be carried out for each of the AcuaMexico 
Subprojects on the basis of terms of reference acceptable to the Bank;
(c)
the Bank will receive for its review and approval each Feasibility Study 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section;
(d)
each AcuaMexico Subproject will be carried out in accordance with its 
Feasibility Study as approved by the Bank, except that if the Guarantor, as a result 
of the estimated cost of the implementation of an AcuaMexico Subproject on the basis 
of such Feasibility Study decides to eliminate such AcuaMexico Subproject from the 
Project, the Guarantor may propose, in substitution thereof, and the Bank may accept, 
the inclusion of one or more other aquaculture park or parks in the Project, all on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement and the Loan 
Agreement; 
(e)
all civil works under Parts B.1 (a), (b) and (c) of the Project shall be 
carried out in accordance with feasibility studies and engineering studies approved by 
the Bank; and
(f)
a company experienced in aquaculture management and development is 
employed, under an agreement acceptable to the Bank to be entered into between the 
Borrower and such firm, to assist in the establishment, operation and eventual 
privatization of the Aquaculture Parks.
Page  4
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Guarantor shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, 
records and separate accounts, adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, the resources and expenditures in connection with the execution 
of the Project.
(b)
The Guarantor shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
                    (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in
                    accordance with generally accepted auditing standards
                    and procedures consistently applied, by independent and
                    qualified auditors;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
                    case not later than six months after the end of each
                    such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit
                    by said auditors, all of such scope and in such detail
                    as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
                    said records and accounts as well as the audit thereof
                    as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the Guarantor shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
                    Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such
                    expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
                    received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
                    the last withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment
                    out of the Special Account was made, all records
                    (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                    documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                    records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in
                    the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
                    Section and that the report of such audit contains a
                    separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                    statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
                    year, together with the procedures and internal
                    controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
                    upon to support the related withdrawals.
(d)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made from the 
Special Account, the Guarantor shall provide to the Borrower any information that may 
be required by the Borrower to comply with the Borrower's obligations under Section 
4.01(b) of the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Representatives of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 5.01. The Director General de Crédito Público of the Guarantor is 
designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Page  5
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
Dirección General de Crédito Público
Insurgentes Sur 826 (Piso 9)
Colonia del Valle
03100 México, D.F.
México
      Telex:
      1777313-SHOCME
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
        64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By /s/ Jesús Silva Herzog
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of Contracts 
Page  6
To the extent practicable, contracts for information technology equipment, 
laboratory equipment, geographic information equipment and specialized materials shall 
be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost more than $350,000 equivalent.
(b)
Preference for Domestically Produced Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
(c)
Turnkey Contract
Construction of the SPR Shrimp Hatchery shall be contracted on the basis of a 
turnkey contract, including design and start-up.  A two-stage bidding procedure shall 
be used in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.6 of the Guidelines. 
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost $350,000 equivalent or less per contract and $700,000 
equivalent or less in the aggregate, and works estimated to cost $10,000,000 
equivalent or less per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. Procurement of goods 
under this Part C.2 shall be undertaken using standard bidding documents acceptable to 
the Bank.
2.
National Shopping for Goods
Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract and $400,000 
equivalent or less in the aggregate may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost $350,000 equivalent or less per contract, and not to 
exceed $1,500,000 equivalent in the aggregate, shall be procured under lumpsum, fixed 
price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.  The invitation shall 
include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to successfully complete the contract.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitation to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract to be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of Part B of this Schedule, and the first three contracts for civil works and the 
first three contracts for goods procured in accordance with the provisions of Part C.1 
of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Page  7
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where 
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each but not 
to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent in the aggregate. However, said exceptions to prior 
Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) 
single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as 
reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the 
contract value to $
50,000 equivalent or above.
3.
Approval by the Bank of the terms of reference for the preparation of the 
engineering study for any AcuaMexico Subproject shall be contingent upon prior receipt 
by the Bank of: (a) the feasibility study, acceptable to the Bank, for such AcuaMexico 
Subproject; and (b) articles of incorporation, acceptable to the Bank, for the 
enterprise that will own and manage such AcuaMexico Subproject.
4.
Technical assistance under Part A.3 (a) and B.1 (d) of the Project shall be 
procured: (a) under contracts costing $50,000 equivalent or less each; and (b) on the 
basis of standard contracts set forth in the Project Implementation Plan.
