FILE COpy
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. 262a-IN
APPRAISAL OF HIMACHAL PRADESH APPLE
PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
INDIA
December 11, 1973
Agriculture and Rural Development
Aia Projects Department
This report was prepared for offwial use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completenes of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00         2    Rupees (Rs) 7.50-
Rs 1           =    US$0.13
Rs 1 million         US$133,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)           -    2.20 pounds
1,000 kg - 1 metric ton  -    0.98 long ton
1 meter (m)               '    1.09 yards - 3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)               0.62 mile
1 hectare (hal -
10,000 m4            -    2.47 acres
1 square kilometer (km2)
- 100 ha             -    0.39 square mile
1 cubic meter lm3)        -    35.39 cubic feet
ABBREVIATIONS
GOI - Government of India
HP   - Himachal Pradesh
AIC - Agro-Industries Corporation
ARC - Agricultural Refinance Corporation
PWD - Public Works Department
PCB - Participating Commercial Bank
S-DH - State Department of Horticulture
HPMC - Horticultural Produce Processing and
Marketing Corporation
FISCAL YEAR
GOI, HP, AIC, PWD and SDH - April 1 through March 31
ARC                        - July 1 through June 30
PCBs                       - January 1 through December 31
/1   The actual rate fluctuates, as the rupee is
pegged to the pound sterling, which has been
floating vis-a-vis the US dollar since
June 23, 1972. On November 15, 1973, the
rate was US$1 = Rs 7.75.



INDIA
HIMACHAL PRADESH APPLE PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SU1MARY  AND  CONCLUSIONS  ...............................                            -  iii
I.     INTRODUCTION  ....... ..............                   .....................
II.     BACKGROUND            ......................         ......................
A.     Agriculture  ......................................                            1
B.    Apple  Production  and  Processing  ..................                          2
C.    Apple  Marketing  ..................................                            3
D.    InSLLtutions  .....................................                             6
III.      THE PROJECT  ...........................................                              6
A.     Definition  .......................................                            6
B.     Detailed  Features  ................................                           7
C.     Engineering  and  Construction  Sclhedule  ....                   ........    10
D.     Cost  Estimates  ...................................                         11
E.     Financial  Plan  ...................................                         12
F.     Procurement  ......................................    13
G.     Disbursement  .....................................                           14
IV.     ORGANIZATION  AND MANAGEMENT  ...........................    15
A.     Institutions  .....................................                          15
B.     Engineering,  Contracting  and  Supervision  ....                    .....    17
C.     Project  Accounts  and  Audit  .......................    18
D.     Training  and  Project  Evaluation  Study  ....                   ........    19  1
V.     PRODUCTION,  MARKETS,  PRICES  AND  FINANCIAL RESULTS                       .....    20
A.     Production  .......................................                          20
B.    Marketing  ........................................    20
C.     Prices  and  Financial  Results  .....................    20
VI.     BENEFITS  AND  JUSTIFICATION  ...........               ..       ...............    21
VII.      AGREEMENTS  REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ....                        ............    23



-2-
ANNEXES
1.   Himachal Pradesh Agricultural/Horticultural Development
2.   Characteristics of Apple Production, Statistics and Projections
3.   Present Apple Grading, Packing, Storage and Processing Activities
4.   Present Marketing System of Himachal Pradesh Apples
5.   Project Packing, Cold Storage, Processing and Forwarding Facilities
6.   Project Transport Improvement
7.   Technical Assistance/Training Programs
8.   Engineering and Construction Procedures
9.   Project Costs
10.   Schedule of Estimated IDA Disbursements
11.   Horticultural Produce Processing and Marketing Corporation
12.   Project Evaluation Study
13.   hPMC Projected Income Statement, Cash Flow and Financial Return
Calculations
14.   Economic Evaluation
CHARTS
WB-7208 (2R)         Apple Marketing Channels
WB-7264              Apple Juice Concentrate and Essence Plant -
Material Balance
WB-7265              General Layout and Process Flow Diagram of
Juice Concentrate and Essence Plant
WB-7266              2,000 ton Multi-Story Apple Cold Storage
WB-7267              General Layout - Apple Packing Station
WB-7288(R)           General Layout - Transshipment Center
WB-7319              Organization of Department of Horticulture
WB-7320(4R)          Phasing Chart for Processing, Storage and Forward-
ing Facilities and Project Evaluation
WB-7321(3R)          Technical Assistance and Training Schedule
WB-7438              Typical Pattern of Apple Harvest
MAP
WB-IBRD-10234(R)    India - himachal Pradesh Production and Consumption
of Apples



INDIA
HIMACHAL PRADESH APPLE PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises an apple processing and marketing project
in Himachal Pradesh (HP) for which an IDA Credit of US$13.0 million is
proposed. It would support a four-year lending program for investments
in apple processing and marketing facilities and in related road works,
road maintenance equipment, aerial cableways, technical assistance, training,
and project evaluation.
ii.       Only about 10% of HP's mountainous terrain is cultivated, but 94%
of its 3.5 million people depend on agriculture. Apples are the State's main
cash crop and fastest growing industry, and for many small farmers they have
provided the opportunity to move from subsistence to cash crop farming. IIP
currently accounts for over a quarter of total Indian apple output on land
which is poorly suited to other types of agriculture. Areas increased from
3,000 ha in 1960 to 26,000 ha in 1970, production rose from 10,000 to 76,000
tons, and farmers involved from 7,000 to 30,000. The average grower now
has less than 1 ha of apples which constitutes his sole source of casl
income.
iii.      HP's apple production is expected to reach 250,000 tons and farmers
involved 40,000 to 50,000 by 1978. However, apple processing facilities
and marketing are far from adequate to handle these quantities efficiently:
(a) apple marketing is unregulated; (b) commission agents play a dual role,
often acting as speculative buyers, thus leaving scope for malpractices at
the expense of the growers; (c) there is no uniform g,rading system and
quality of fruit marketed varies widely; (d) apples are seldom cold stored;
(e) only an insignificant part of production is processed; (f) the road
network serving the industry is inadequate for efficient transportation and
warketing.
iv.       The proposed project would introduce technological innovatidots
in processing, a commercially oriented marketing, organization and infrastruc-
ture improvements to handle 55,000 tons  tf apo1es (or 25%' of HP's production
at project completion). It would consist of;
(a)  a network of twelve packing houses, three cdlection
stations, one transshipment center and four -old
storages;
(b)  a juice concentrate plant to utilize cull apples not
marketable as fresh fruit;
(c) 97 km of new road construction, and improvemcnts to about
304 km of existing roads, to provide adequ.:te all-weather



- ii -
road connections between orchard areas and project collection
stations and packing houses, and the necessarY road links
from them to the existing highways system;
(d)  about 40 km of aerial cableways in selected production
areas where the steep terrain precludes economic road
construction;
(e)  training programs and technical assistance; and
(f)  a project evaluation study.
v.        Total project cost is estimated at US$21.7 million, of which the
foreign exchange component is 36%, or US$7.8 million. The proposed IDA
credit of US$13.0 million would finance about 60% of total cost, covering
the whole of project foreign costs pltus 37% of local costs. For processing
and marketing facilities and cableways, funds would be channeled from IDA
through GOI via the Agricultural Refinance Corporation and commercial banks,
to the Horticultural Produce Processing and Marketing Corporation. Funds
allocated for road works, road maintenance equipment, technical assistance,
training and project evaluation would be channeled through GOI to HP
Government.
vi.       To operate the new marketing facilities a Horticultural Produce
Processing and Marketing Corporation (HPMC) would be established as a
subsidiary of the HP Agro-Industries Corporation (AIC) and staffed with
qualified management and operational personnel. HPMC would offer a wide
range of services to growers, inclucling standardized packing, transportation/
forwarding, credit and wholesale selling services at fees lower than the
present alternatives.
vii.      For processing and marketing fac-ilities, HP Public Works Department
(PWD), IIP State Department of Horticulture (SDH) and engineering consultants
would assist IIPMC select sites; draw up tender documents, detailed drawings,
construction and equipment purchase contracts; and evaluate bids for cable-
ways. Most equipment for processing and marketing facilities, all cableways
and some road maintenance equipment would be procured through international
competitive bidding. The buildings for the facilities would be constructed
by local contractors or PWD.  PWD would ilso conduct much of the road works
on force account with manual labor, local contractors would undertake the
balance. This system ihas traditionallv worked well.
viii.     hPMC's annual net profit after project completion should exceed
US$300,000, while its financial rate of return wouild be 14%.
ix.       A Central Project committee would coordinate project implementation.
The committee would be located in SDH which is primarily responsible for
development of the apple industry.  The Committee woasld review annual plans
for project implementation and organise inter-agency cooperation.



- iii -
x.        This would be the first Bank/IDA project in India setting up a
large-scale integrated system aimed at improving processing and marketing
of a perishable horticultural crop.  It would help modernize a significant
sector of the Indian hill areas to the benefit of both producers and
consumers. Significantly higher incomes to some 10,000 fanners, whose
average holding is less than 1 ha, would result from more efficient marketing
of fresh apples, from processing of cull apples and by extending the present
market area and period.  Quantified net economic benefits yield a rate of
return of 23%. The project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$13.0 million.






INDIA
HIMACHAL PRADESH APPLE PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of India (GOI) has requested an IDA Credit to meet
part of the costs of providing apple processing facilities and developing
an integrated apple marketing system in the state of Himachal Pradesh (HP).
The project is part of India's program to improve agricultural marketing and
processing activities. The advanced processing technology and new marketing
procedures introduced in the project area would provide a basis for similar
developments of apples and other fruits in other states.
1.02      Total Bank Group lending for Indian agriculture was about US$476
million at June 30, 1973. Until 1967, most of the credits were for irrigation,
but lending has since been broadened to include direct on-farm investments
and ancillary services. In financial year 1973 IDA approved three agricul-
tural projects: two in credit (Madhya Pradesh a.rd Uttar Pradesh) and
one in agricultural wholesale markets (Mysore).
1.03      This appraisal is based on a report from HP Government prepared
with assistance from the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program in August, 1972, and
on the findings of a mission consisting of Messrs. R. Frank, R. Golkowskv,
D. Lee and F.D.T. Reid (IDA) andtR. Bartram, J. Crafin and G. Mathia
(consultants) that visited India ifneptember/October, 1972. Completion
of this report was held up because data on the road construction and
improvement component of the project could not be finalized until
September, 1973. Financial estimates in this report are at 1972 prices.
II. BACKGROUND
A. 4Wriculture
. 1/~~~~~~A
India-l
2.01      The emphasis of Indian development is now on agriculture, with
priority for the spread of advanced technology through increasing availability
of modern inputs, such as high yielding seed varieties and fertilizer, and
improved water control. Although 70% of India's labor force is in agriculture
(producing two-fifths of GINP), the sector's recent advances have by-passed
large areas of India. There are considerable variations in production each
year, due mainly to weather conditions; the intensity of droughts and floods
significantly affects the yields of the major crops.
1/   A detailed discussion of the present situation and prospects of
agriculture in India is given in Economic Situation and Prospects
of India, Report No. 156-IN, May 8, 1973.



- 2 -
2.02      While irrigation has had a major impact on production, increases
in rainfed areas require further technological advances, together with
institutional and infrastructure improvements. In this context, apple
cultivation is illustrative of the importance of promotino production of high
value crops In rainfed areas. Apple growers in the mountainous states
such as HP are earning acceptable financial returns b- putting into use land
that is poorly suited to other types of agriculture. Continued progress in
this sector requires removal of important bottlenecks in transportation,
processing and marketing.
Himachal Pradesh
2.03      About 96% of HP's 3.5 million people live in rural areas.  Most
of them depend on agriculture for their basic income and provide 60% of
the Gross State Product.? Due to the mountainous terrain, only about  10%
of the State's 56,000 km is cultivated, compared with 45% for the whole
of India. Nearly tL--Dfifths of the State is under permanent pasture. Maize,
wheat and rice ar, cultivated, but the State remains a net importer of
foodgrainE. Fruit, particularly apples, and seed potatoes are the main
cash crops, and are exported to other parts of India. The State has four
main agronomic zones; low hill, mid hill, hi-h hill and dry. The high hill
zone (1,500 to 2,000 m) is the most suitable for temperate fruit production
(Annex 1).
B. Apple Production and Processing
India
2.04      Over the last five years, Indian apple production has increased
on average nbout 30% a year, and is expected to increase at about 17% a year
over the next five years. Farmers use modern production techniques, including
fertilizer application, crop protection and pruning. Standards of orchard
management are generally satisfactory. Extensive mechanizarion is not
feasible owing to the topography. Hence, orchard operations are highly labor-
intensive.
2.05      Of the total 1970/71 production of 273,000 tons of fresh marketed
apples, over a quarter came from HP. liarvest and marketirg seasons of the
important apple supply states overlap for short periods. UP marketing peaks
in Tuly-August, HP in September-October, and Jammu and Kashmir in Ocrober-
November. Only about 1% of production is processed. In 1970, only 17 tons
of jam, 200 tons of juice and 873 tons of preserves were marketed, valued
at about Rs 5 million. Little use is made of culled apples, which can be
as high as 20% in areas such as HP where hail damage is prevalent. The
Indian soft drink industry, which is expanding rapidly, needs a reliable
supply of apple concentrate for processing.



-3-
Himachal Pradesh
2.06      Most expansion of apple production has been in the last decade,
when the advent of roads, coupled with a vast protected Indian market and
reasonable prices, made apple growing attractive on land unsuitable for most
other crops. Between 1960 and 1970, apple areas increased from 3,000 ha to
26,000 ha, production from 10,000 tons to 76,000 tons, and farmers involved
from 7,000 to 30,000. Expansion has been largely in the districts of Simla,
Kulu, Mandi and Sirmur, where the environment is most favorable, and production
was over 90% of the lIP total in 1970/71. Simla is the largest area, with
about half total production. The average grower has slightly less than 1 ha
of apples (Annex 2).
2.07      The most important varieties are Delicious, which were introduced
to HP at the beginning of the century by an American. They are well suited
to HP's agronomic and climatic conditions, and have found strong acceptance
among Indian consumers. Harvesting is in July, August and September, with
the peak in August. The ripe fruits are piclced, and sorted into 3 quality
grades according to their color and degree of skin blemishes. The two top
quality grades are further sorted into 7 standard sizes and packed in
wooden boxes for shipment to urban markets for sale as fresh fruit. The
third grade, normally about 20% of the market, are culls, some of which are
sold for animal food and for processing. Most, however, are disposed of as
waste (Annex 3).
C.  AppLe Marketing
India
2.08      General.  While India produces mangoes, banaras, guava, mandarins,
grapes, litchi and pineapples in significant quantities, apples r'ymain the
most popular frtuit. During the apple season, bananas and mandarins are
also on the market, but they are not usually regarded as a sul;stitute for
apples by consumers.
2.09      India has neither exported nor imported apples commercially in recent
years. The farm-gate cost of production, currently about Rs 7S5/ton hefore
packing, is in line with prevailing world prices. However, early prospects
for large-scale export are not good. The prerequisites for such exports are
not in sight, particularly packing materials industries, refrigerated
trucking services, waterfront cold storage and a competent trade organization
for international marketing.
2.10      Almost all marketed apples are currently consumed in Bombay, Calcutta,
Delhi, Madras, Hyderabad and Bangalore, in order of importance.  A further
72 urban markets with populations of 100,000 or more remain largely untapped.
2.11      Present Marketing Arrangements.  Most production is sold on con-
signment by commission agents on behalf of growers, immediately on arrival



- 4 -
at wholesale auction markets. Consignments are usually bought by sub-
wholesalers who sell direct to retailers. In theory, the commission agents
sell for a fixed commission of 7%, considered exorbitant by growers. In
practice, many of them act as sub-wholesalers and/or speculative buyers as
well, giving scope for widespread malpractices at the expense of the
consignors. Agents frequently pay growers after unnecessarily long delays.
2.12      Although the Agricultural Produce (Grading and Marketing) Act, 1937,
prescribes procedures and standards for grading and marketing apples and
other produce, apple marketing is not in practice regulated, since the
law is not enforced.
2.13      In 1970/71 only about 12,000 tons of apples (8% of the marketed
crop) was placed in cold storage for off-season marketing. This is in-
sufficient to extend the marketing season significantly. The available
storage is primarily for potatoes, and cannot provide the lower temperatures
and more exacting humidity controls required for apples. By building cold
storage facilities specifically for apples, their marketing period could be
considerablv extended.
2.14      Prices.  The general wholesale price level has lately remained
fairly high at an average of about Rs 2.00/kg, albeit fluctuating widely
from a low of Rs 0.81 in November, 1971, to a high of Rs 5.55 in March, 1972.
On average, prices have tended to decline in recent years as increased
production has been marketed. Indian consumption in 197n/71, about 270,000
tons, is only about one-half kg per capita, compared witlh 10-30 kg in
developed countries. Sufficient market potential exists to absorb increased
production over the next decade or so, but unless appropriate measures are
taken to improve marketing methods and facilities, the seasonal gluts will
intensify, and prices suffer.
Ilimachal Pradesh
2.15      Present Marketing Problems.  Farmers have expandod plantings into
new and more remote areas faster thlan feeder roads have been built.
Transportation is more and more difficult and costly in these rerot" areas,
where porterage was often the onlv method!. Iowever, labor willing to
undertake porterage is becoming scarce.  The packed fruit is leFt by tlhc
roadside for collection, usually withrut adequate weather protection,
causing unnecessary deterioration.  Even where roads are available they
are often of inferior standard, with consequmnt frequent blockages due
to rain and lindslides in the monsoon, when apnles are sent to market.
2.16      The numerous commission agents often send fairly small shipments
to markets. Delhi is 350 km from Simla, the State capital, Calcutta 1,800
km and Bombav 1,800 km. Since most State roads are winding and narrow, and
because of interstate transport regulations, consignments are usually tranship-
ped en route. During the fresh app]e marketing months, the temperatture is
usually very high, leading to spoilage during stops and transfers. Estimated
average transportation cost per ease of 18 kg net from the producing areas



-5-
is about Rs 5.35 to Delhi, Rs 9.90 to Calcutta and Rs 10.55 to Bombay, in-
cluding municipal tax, forwarding, loading and unloading charges. Spoilage
and losses can be up to 20% (Annex 4).
2.17      Apart from a few simple mechanical graders no'7 being used by some
leading growers, all grading is by hand. Individual farmers grade and pack
their own produce without any standardized quality control. Quality thus
varies widely from grower to grower and from box to box. This is a serious
hindrance to rational marketing, as prospective buyers are forced to inspect
many boxes from each lot on offer. This iF time-consuming and contributes
to market congestion. It frequently compels wholesalers to regrade and
repack before resale.
2.18      Need for the Project.  The three major marketing cost components
are: (i) packing; (ii) transportation; and (iii) commission. There is
much scope for improving all three, as well as decreasing transit losses,
and making better use of culls (presently largely wasted). All such improve-
ments would result in increased income to growers and/or lower consumer
prices.
2.19      Cost of transportation of HP apples to markets other than Delhi
represents around 45 to 55% of wholesale price. This could be reduced to
around 25% through a coordinated marketing effort. Transport time to Bombay
or Calcutta could be reduced from the present 20 to 30 days bv from 7 to 15
days with careful plhasing of transport. This would reduce deterioration in
transit and increase shelf life.
2.20      Upgrading existing roads in production areas to all-weather
standards would decrease blockages and wash-outs, and would decrease apple
spoilage. New roads are required in some of tihe niew planted areas, and where
the terrain is too steep, cableways can transport apples and other goods at
much less cost.
2.21      While good quality packing materials aro available, and are utsed
consistently by the leading growers, they are far too eypensive for the
average grower. Mony are financially unable to use such high quality materials
in spite of their obvious profitability. The cost of such material is
expected to increase further.  Research and devcl)iment in alternative designs
and standardization are requirod to reduce cost.  A large-scale integrated
packing and marketing operation is an ideal vehicle for such innovations.
2.22      The introduction of quality control in shipments from tLhe smaller
growers would give them greater incomes.  The lar,er 2rowers have demonstrated
that lower selling costs and Tvigher wholesale prires can be obtained for
well-packed app?es of consistent quality.
2.23      The formation of a commercially oriented marketin,- organization
with advanced and integrated marketing facilities, would offer growers an
alternative marketing channel, and provide competition for commission agents,
thereby increasing marketing efficiency and stimulating the introduction
of new types of marketing arrangements and facilities.



- 6 -
D. Institutions
State Department of Horticulture (SDH)
2.24      SDH is the main government agency concerneci with the apple industry.
It employs almost 800 staff, of which more than 700 are in the field. Through
two Deputy Directors (Horticultural Development and liorticultural Extension)
it promotes horticulture throughout HP.  It has more than 70 progeny-cum-demon-
stration orchards and stations, and has test- many kinds and varieties of
fruits. SDH has taken a lead in improving marketing and introducing proces-
sing of apples.  It has stimulated the establishment of a transhipment center
in Parwanu, cold storage units in Delhi and Bombay, and wholesale shops in
the Delhi market.  It has recently negotiated freight rates with the trucking
industry and organized the supply of packing cases and production inputs.
It also operates a chain of small pilot fruit canning units.
Public 1Works Depar:-nent (PWD)
2.25      HP's P11D is organized much as in other states, and has played an
important role in developing the apple industry by implementing an extensive
road construction program over the last two decades. However, shortage of
funds and labor problems in the remote areas lhave prevented the program from
keeping pace with the increase in traffic resulting from the rapid expansion
of apple production. Wiithin the above limitations its standard of
road construction has been good.
Agro-Industries Corporation of Hirachal Pradeslh (AIC)
2.26      Following GOI encouragement of agro-industries, PP Governnment
established AIC in 1970.  Of its authorized share capital of Rs 20 million
(HIP Government 51%, GOI 49%), Rs 14 million had been pail up by the end
of fiscal 1973. The Director of Horticulture is one of the five Board
members.  Until recently AIC's main activities were the procurement and
distribution of tractors and some minor agricultural implements. It h1as
also handled and forwarded apples from the Parwanu warehouse (rented from
SDII) to major markets.  In the 1972 season it conisigned apples to MAFCO
(a retailing organization in Bom,bav) on behalf of growers.  In its first
full operatinp year (ending March 31, 1972) it madp a profit after tax of
Rs 118,00)(.   Financial planning is weak, and1 ATC's management has recruited
an experienced accountant to improve it.
III. T6'l PT'tJFCT
A. Definition
3.0!1     The project would establishi new market outlets for about one
quarter 1'P'q estimated 1978 production by providing alternative, more
integrated and more efficient processing an(l marketing services.  These



-7-
would improve producer prices, double the present marketing period, reduce
growers' dependence on existing wholesaler/commission agents, and utilize
some currentlv wasted culls. The project would help prevent the seasonal
apple gluts anticinated within the next 5 to 10 years because of rapidly
increasing production, and lagging processing and mnarketing facilities.
The financial rate of return on apple growing (24% on a 1 ha orchard -
Annex 2) is extremely attractive, and almost all. returns are cash. The
annual net revenue on a 1 ha orchard is about Rs 7,iOr), coirpared with about
Rs 2,)00 for most seasonal crops in HJP. The project would handle 55,000
tons of apples and consist of:
(a) a network of twelve packing houses, three collection
stations, one transshipment center and four cold storages;
(b)  a juice concentrate plant to utilize 11,000 tons of
apples not marketable as fresh fruit;
(c)  road construiction (97 Km) and improvements (34)4 Kum)
providing (i) sufficient all-weather road connections
between orchard areas and project collection stations
and packing lhouses, and (ii) the necessary road links
from them to the existing highways svstemr
(d) aerial cableways in selected production areas where the
steep terrain precludes economic road construction;
(e)  training programs and cechnical assistance: and
(f)  a project evaluation study.    (l
Project size is based on the assumption thiat about 40(% of growers in the
project supply areas would wish to use project facilities, with the remainder
using existing facilities.
B.  Detailed Features-
Packine Pouses
3.02       A total of 12 packing houses would be constructed in HtP's four
maior apple production districts  (Simla. Kulu, l4andi and Sirmur  see para
2.06 and Annexes 2 and 5) over a four-vear period. Within tihese four
districts, the 12 packing houses and supporting 3 collection stations (see
para 3.04) would he located in the areas of highest Production density.
Production in the potential packina houses supplv areas would total about
138,000 tons at oroject comnpletion in 1977.  The HP authorities have agreed
upon tentative locations and capacities for the packing houses and collec-
1/   For further details see Annex 5 and Charts WB-7264, WB-7265, WB-7266,
WB-7267, WB-7288(R), WB-7320(4R), WB-7321(3R).



- 8 -
tion stations (Annex 5, Table 1). The annual capacity of thie individual
packing houses would be between 3,000 and 5,000 tons based on three months'
usage and two work shifts during the peak harvest months. Number, locations
and capacities of the proposed packing house and collection station network
were based on the conservative assumption that in the areas served by the
network about 40% of the growers would use the project facilities for their
production.
3.03      The packing houses would receive loosely packed apples from the
orchards, and grade and pack themn for shipment to consumers. During the
grading, culls would be segregated for shipment to a processing plant. The
packing houses would be used during the non-harvest season for storage and
distribution of farm inputs. Each packing house would be incorporated in
a single span building (20 m x 75 m) with an insulated roof and a flat
concrete floor. The building would provide three working areas: (a)
reception and pregrading storage; (b) grading and packing; and (c) premarket
storage and dispatch.  Two variable speed grading lines would be installed
parallel to the length of the building. The grading equipment would consist
of feeder belts, sizers, sorting tables and packing tables.  The proposed
configuration would provide for mechanical size grading and manual quality
grading and packing. The packing houses would also be equipped with stands,
generators, hand trolleys, wooden pallets, packing stands and office equipment
and furniture.
Collection Stations
3.04      Three apple collection stations would be built to help supply
several Dacking houses in areas of moderate concentration of production
where packing lhouses would not be presentlv justified.  Thieir fuinction
would be to provide a weather-protected point for onward transport to the
nearest packing lhouse.  During the non--harvest period they would also be
used for the storage and distribution of farm inouts.  The building design
would be the same as for packing houses so that when local production
increased, the necessary equipment could be installed to convert them into
packing houses.  The collection stations would be equipped with wooden
pallets, hand trolleys and office furniture ancd equipment.
Transshipment Center
3.05      The project would include a transshipm-.ient center wliiclh would be
constructed at the Faryana/Delhi border.  This wouldc attract a siubstantial
proportion of the produce which now passes through tihe intermediate D)elhi
market for ultimate disposal in Boribay, Calcutta an'd distanL markets.
This proportion has been estimated at about 2(),Of)O tons, and would rc-quire
an installed storage capacity of 60ri tons in the new transshiipment center.
A simple shelter to protect the apples from direct sunlight and rain and
with easy access for the simultaneous loading and unloading of a number of
trucks would suffice. The whole storage area and central roadway would have
a well-drained concrete base, electric lighting and water supply. A series
of standpines and noses would allow the concrete floor and surroundings to be
hosed down to assist cooling in extreme heat.



-9-
Cold Storage Facilities
3.06      Four cold storage units of 2,0n0  tons capacity each, would be
built in two of the major apple markets, thiree in New Delhi and one in
Calcutta.  The facilities would be utilized for short-term storage during
the August and September harvest period. In late September they would be
filled with apples for storage and eventual off-season marketing in January
through March.  From April to August the units would be used to store other
products, such as potatoes and spices. Each unit would consist of a fiber-
glass insulated five story 100 ft x 110 ft building partitioned into five
multistory compartments, each of 400 ton capacity. An ammonia-based
refrigeration system would be installed to provide a temperature range of
-100C to 7°C. The air ducts would provide proper circulation and evaporators
would insure relative humidity levels of at least 90%. Elevators would move
apples between floors (paras 3.20 and 4.09).
Processing Plant
3.07      An apDle juice concentrate plant would be built to process apples
which cannot be sold as fresh fruit (paras 3.11 and 4.09).  The plant would
have an annual capacitv of 12,000 tons, based on about a three month
operation. During the off-season the plant wouild be used to process otther
types of fruits grown in the area such as peaches, plums and pears. The
basic processing facility would be designed to prodtuce apple juice concentrate
(1:6) for transport in bulk by insulate(I tank trucks to major consumer areas
where it would be reconstituted and bottled bv soft drink mantufacturers and
distributors.  The proposed plant woul(d include facilities for washing and
processing; aroma recovery and restoration: juice concentration, pasteurization
and clarification. It would also include a small processing laboratory and
bottling installation to enable the plant to supply the local market with
bottled juice.
Road Works and Maintenance Equipment
3.08      The project provides for an extensive program for inmproving exist-
ing roads and constructing new roads to ensure appropriate and timely transport
of apples to packing houses and packled apples to markets.  As apples are
harvested, processed and transported duiring the monsoon seasoni, Ltme roads
would be bitumen surfaced to resist danage due to weather and to truck transit.
The roads would fall into two standard categories: (a) access, built to a
formation width of 3.65 ni with ;m 2.45 rn widc bitumen suirface, and (h) feeder,
built to a formation width of 4.9 rn with a 2.45 m wide bitumen sLarface.  About
14 km of access and 83 km of feeder roads would be newly constructed, whlile
304 kn of feeder roads would be unv'raded by improvingv cross drainag,e, foundations
and surfacing.  To reduce landsl iie-caused transport delavs, whiich can be as
long as a week, the project wouild provide PWD with additional inainten;ance
equipment.  For further details see paras 4.05, 4.11 and 4.13 and Annex 6.



- 10 -
Aerial Cableways
3.09      A number of aerial cableways of a total length of about 40 kmii would
be installed for collection of apples from orchards on steep slopes.  Each
cableway installation would consist of trestles supporting a continuous cable
at a height of about 3 m, and driven by an electric motor. The cable would
allow boxes or baskets of apples to be suspended for transport directly to
a nearby collection station, packing lhouse or roadside. Farmers oln slopes
served by cableways would carry their Drodu-P via several horizontal paths
leading to loading stations along the cableways. For details on cableways
procurement and operation see paras 3.21, 4.06 and 4.12.
Technical Assistance, Training and Project Evaluation
3.10      Technical assistance would be nrovided and spread over thie four-
year proiect period (para 3.12) to insure proper project implementation and
training of personnel. An experienced packing plant manager would be engaged
for 9 months (split into three assignn'ents over two years) and an apple
quality control expert for 12 months to conduct .-raining courses and provide
in-service training for future packing plant managers, nacking line
superintendents, grade inspectors and cold storage managers. The experts
would participate in preparing bidding documents for collection stations,
packing houses and the transshipment center, and also organize overseas
training for project staff.  A senior marketing specialist (two three-months
assignments over two years) would train marketing staff and organize
overseas training for 3 sales office managers. He would also supervise a
study to be conducted on the market prospects of apple products, particularly
juice.  To train personnel for the juice concentrate plant and to assist in
initial operations of this plant, a food technologist would for 18 months
(four assignments over four years) and a food processing microbiologist
would for one vear (two assignments over three years) work tinder hP Govern-
ment contracts.
3.11      For the juice plant, a food processing engineering firm. would be
engaged to (a) orovide design specifications and layouts; (b) assist in
bidding procedures and award analysis, and (c) assist in construction
supervision. For the cold storage facilities, an engineering consultant
firm would be engaged to (a) provide the design and specification for thie
units; (b) assist in bidding procedures and award analysis; (c) assist in
construction supervision. For further details on technical assistanci: and
training, see para 4.16 and Annex 7. Details on thie project evaluation
study are in para 4.17.
C.  Engineering and Construction Schedule
3.12      Planning and construction of the processing and marketing, facili-
ties would be phased over three and a half years to coincide withi the increase
in prodtiction in specific locations and the development of management and
operational personnel.  The road imtrovement and construction program wvould



- 1 1 -
be carried out over the same period in coordination with the construction
of the packing houses and collection stations. The processing plant would
be constructed in the second year and the cold storage units in the second
and third year, in accordance with expected volumes to be handled by the
proposed project entity, the Horticultural Produce Processing and Niarketing
Corporation (HPMC).  Engineering and construction procedures for the major
facilities are outlined in Annex 8, and World Bank Chart 7320(4R) gives a
phasing schedule.
D. Cost Estimates
3.13      The total project cost is estimated at Rs 163.1 million (US$21.7
million) of which the foreign exchange component is 36', or Rs 59.0 million
(US$7.8 million). Tlhe foreign exchange cost includes imported equipment,
foreign technical experts, overseas training, and materials used in local
construction.  Detailed cost estimates are in Annex 9 and summarized below:
Rs million           US$ million        Foreign
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total   Exchange
Road Works               36.0    9.0   45.0    4.8   1.?    6.0          20
Processing and
Marketing Facilities   16.6   14.1   3C'.7    2.2   1.9    4.1         46
Cableways                 1.4   13.1   14.5    0.2   1.7    1.9          90
Road MTaintenance
Equipment                0.7    4.1    4.P      ! 0.1   0.5    0.6     85
Technical Assistance
/Training and
(Project Fvaluation
\  Study                    2.2    3.3    5.5    0.3   0.4    0.7 Z    60  V
hP~4C Permanent l!orking
Capital                20.0   __-    20.0    2.7    -        2.7       -
Subtotal            76.9   43.6  1( .5   10.3   5.7   16.0         36
Physical Contingencies   7.1    4.(   11.2    0.9  ().6    1.5           36
Price Contintencies      20.1   11.4   31.4    2.7   1.518  4.2          36
Total Project Costs    104.1   59.0  163.1   13.9   7.8   21.7           36
3.14      Cost estimates are based on 1972 prices (para 1.03).  HPMC
equity would he used to cover HPMC's permanent working capital requirements
(para 4.01). A physical contingency of 5% has been provided for the
collection stations, packing houses and transshipment center. A 10%
physical contingency has been provided for most other components: road
works, cold storage units, processing plant, road maintenance equipment,
technical assistance, training, and project evaluation study.  A 20% ohysical
contingenev has been provided for cableways. A price contingency totalling



25% of best estimate cost plus physical contingencies has been provided
for expected 7% price inflation per annum, on both local and foreign costs.
E. Financial Plan
3.15      The project would be financed as follows:
lip                     Total
PCBs         ARC      Government  IDA Credit  Financed
Rs M    %   Rs M    %   Rs M    %   Rs M    %         Rs M
Road Works             -      -    -       -   18.0    40  27.0    60    45.0
Processing and
Marketing
Facilities           3.1    10   3.1    10    -         -  24.5    80    30.7
Cableways             0.7      5   0.7      5    -       -  13.1    90    14.5
Road Maintenance
Equipment             --     -    -       -    0.7    15   4.1    85       4.8
Technical Assist-
ance, Training,
etc.                  -      -    -       -    2.2    40   3.3 - 60        5.5
HPMC Permanent
W.Jorking Capital
(Equity)                                  -   20.0   100    -        -    20.0
Sub-total        3.8      3   3.8      3  40.9    34  72.0    60   120.5
Contingencies         1.3      3   1.3      3  14.5    34  25.5    60    42.6
Total Project Cost   5.1       3   5.1      3  55.4    34  97.5    60   163.1
US$ M Equivalent      0.7          0.7          7.3         13.0           21.7
3.16      The proposed IDA Credit of IUSS13.0 million (Rs 97.5 million)
would finance about 60% of project cost. InA financing is based on the
whole of the estimated 36% foreign exchanae component plus about 37% of the
v      estimated local cost.  The foreign exchange cost, Rs 59.0 million (liS$7.8
million) would represent 607 of the IDA Crediit.
3.17      For road works, road maintenance eauipment, technical assistance,
training and the project evaluation study, IDA funds would be channeled
through GOI to HP Covernment. The balance for these items would he provided
by HP Government. For processing and marketing facilities and cablewiays,
both IDA and GOI funds would be channeled through ARC and PCBs to HPMC
(para 3.18). 11PYC permanent working capital would be provided by liP
Government.
3.18      The IDA Credit would be on standard terms to GOI.  It would be a
condition of effectiveness that a Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory
to IDA between GOI and ARC had been executed, under which GOI would make
the IDA proceeds available to ARC repayable over 15 vears at 6.25cZ (with



- 1 3 -
0.25%'> rebate for prompt repayment of principal and interest), and that COI
would bear, the exchange risk. Refinancing agreements between ARC and PCBs
would provide for onlending to the PCBs at an interest rate of 7% per annum
on outstanding indebtedness. The PCBs would in turn onlend tc liPMiC at 9.5%
on terms of up to 15 years with two to three years' grace. This interest
rate structure is in line withi prevailing institutional interest rates for
agriculture and the other sectors of the economy. The PCBs would require a
security on assets financed, and would follow appraisal procedures described
in paragraphs 4.10 to 4.12.  ARC refinance (Y5< for processing and market-
ing facilities and 95% for cableways) would be repayable bv the PCB's in
installments set to coincide approximately with collections from HiPMC.  If
HPMC repaid ahead of schedule, the PCBs would repay ARC accordingly. ARC
gave assurances during negotiations that both it and the PCBs would follow
the policies, terms and conditions agreed with IDA.
F. Procurement
3.19      Construction of buildings for collection stations, packing houses,
cold storage units, the transshipment center, the juice plant, and the road
improvement and construction works wouldl be phased over four years (para
3.12). Civil works would amount to about US$72,000 for a typical collection
station and packing house, about US$83,000 for the transshipment center and
about US$80,000 for the juice plant. These facilities would be widely
distributed geographically. Bulking would not be practical, and as such
contracts would not be attractive to expatriate firms international
competitive bidding would not be suitable.  Local contractors are capable
of carrying out these civil works, which would be put out to local tender
bv HPNC.
3.20      Grading equipment for each packing house would cost from UlS$30,000
to 35,000 and contracts would be awarded for not less than two packing
houses. Equipment for the juice concentrate plant wotuld cost more than
US$600,000 and refrigeration equipment for each of the four cold storage
units about ITS$100,000.  All this essential equinment would be procured
by HIPYC as intearated operating svstenis through international competitive
bidding following Bank Group Guidelines for Procurement.  Minor equipment
items which cannot be grouped in pacl<as,es of USS5O,5000 or more would be
procured through local competitive bliddinr'.
3.21      The minimum length of a cableway would be 2 km costing about
US$100,000, but most cableways would be 5 krll or longer and cost about
US$250,000. Knowledge of light aerial cableways as proposed under tie
project is limited in India.  Followin>' Bank Group international conmpetitive
bidding procedures, .PMIC would invite bidders to present their respective
engineering studies and design proposals. Awards shouild be given for
turnkey bids, and contracts would be grouped as much as feasible. Of the
road maintenance equipment, bulldozers would be procured through interna-
tional competitive bidding bv PIJT).



- 14 -
3.22      Due to a relatively short construction season because of the
weather and the consequent difficulty in attracting contractors, the State
executes about 70% of its road development by force account, with local
contractors undertaking the balance. Accordingly, this method would be
used for project road works. At negotiations, a Program was agreed, covering
road construction and improvement related to the programs for establishing
collection stations and packing houses (Annex 6, Appendix 1).  Road main-
tenance equipment, for which bulking would not be practical would be put to
contract under local bidding.
3.23      Bidding documents, including specifications for goods procured
through international competitve bidding, would be sent to IDA for review
and comment before issue. IDA would also comment on the evaluation of bids
and recommendations for awards. For works or goods procured through local
competitive bidding, a summary of bids or quotations, an analysis report
and a brief justification of the contract award would be sent to IDA at the
time the award was made.
G. Disbursement
3.24      The IDA Credit would be disbursed as follows:
(a)  60% of civil works (including road works);
(b)  100% of the CIF cost of imported equipment and
materials, or 100% of ex-factory cost of locally
manufactured equipment and materials procured
through IDA international competitive bidding
procedures;
(c)  100% of foreign expenditures or 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory) for equipment and services
and 60% of total expenditures for civil works on
cableways;
(d)  70% of equipment and materials procured through local
competitive bidding procedures; and
(e)  100% of foreign expenditures on consultants services,
V           technical assistance and training.
Disbursements would be made against aporonriate documentation 'witlh force
account work requiring a statement certified bv PITD coverinp the work
Performed.  Any savings would be reallocated bv increasing t.ie percentage
disbursement for road works. Akn IDA Credit disbtursement schedlule is in
Annex 10.



- 15 -
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Institutions
Horticultural Produce Processing and Marketing Corporation
4.01      The advanced and highly integrated project processing and
marketing activities would require specialized management personnel and
appropriate operating procedures. A specialized corporation, the Horti-
cultural Produce Processing and Marketing Corporation (HPMC), would be
established as an AIC subsidiary and staffed with qualified management
and operational personnel. The outline of its financial and operational
structure is in Annex 11. With an equity of Rs 20 million which would be
HPMC's permanent working capital and project loans amounting to about Rs 50
million (including physical contingencies) which would finance HPMC's
initial fixed assets, HPMC's debt/equity ration would be about 2.5, and this
is acceptable. The proposed legal structure would allow HPMC to: (a) engage
in commercial buying, processing and selling of horticultural produce;
(b) lend or advance money to growers as part of its procurement activities-
(c) provide short-term suppliers' credit to entities marketing the products
and (d) pay competitive and incentive-based salaries to key managers and
employees. GOI and UP Government officials have taken steps to form HPIIC
and at negotiations IDA and the Indian delegation agreed on the Articles
of Association of HPMC and the qualifications and experience of HPIIC's
managing director. HPTMC's formation, in a manner satisfactory to IDA, would
be a condition of effectiveness.
4.02      The proposed organizational structure of HPMC provides for a
Board of Directors, Managing Director and three major operating departments:
Purchasing and Packing, Processing, Storage and Marketing, as well as an
Administrative and Accounting department. The Purchasing and Packing
Department would have field staff throughout the four project districts to
arrange purchases or marketing service agreements with growers, as well as
staff to manage and operate the collection and packing stations. The
Storage and Marketing Department would staff the cold storage facilities
in New Delhi and Calcutta. The existing AIC cold storage facility in Bombay
would be taken over by HPMC at a valuation to be agreed between them, and
endorsed by ARC. HPMC would have sales representatives in some ten other
urban markets. At full development it would employ about 200 full time, mainly
managerial, operational, clerical and service staff.  In addition HPMC and
AIC (related to cableways) would employ at least 2,000 temporary workers for
about three months during the peak harvesting and marketing season.
4.03      IPMC would offer a wide range of services to growers.  First, a
standardized packing and transportation/forwarding service on a fee basis
to growers who wished to continue having their produce marketed by the
commission agents in the wholesale markets. Second, for growers who wished
to have their apples marketed during the harvest season it would provide
standardized packing, forwarding and wholesale selling services at fees



- 16 -
lower than the present alternatives. Third, it would be prepared to
purchase apples directly from growers for a fixed price. After grading
and packing they would be stored in HPMC's cold storage facilities for
off season marketing. Finally, it would purchase up to 11,000 tons/year
of culls from growers, and this would increase the average growers sales
revenue by 5%.
State Department of Horticulture
4.04      SDH would provide supplementary marketing and processing services
so as to produce the maximum benefits to the industry. In particular, it
would establish a grading inspection service to standardize apple size and
quality grading of the State's apple production. HP Government gave
assurances at negotiations that grading inspectors would be stationed at
HPMC's packing houses (and at any other individual packing operation which
wanted the benefit of the grading inspection), and that SDH's certifying
grade would be marked on all approved cases for subsequent sale. In
addition, SDH would have representatives in the major markets to resolve
claims arising from grading disputes between buyers and sellers. To
assist in establishing the grading inspection service, SDH would engage
a quality control expert (para 3.10) to define standards, train inspectors,
and establish a fruit cold storage research program to be carried out
jointly by SDH and the University of HP.
Public Works Department
4.05      PWD would carry out the road works, which would form part of the
State's Road Development Plan for the next four years. PWD would also assist
(a) HPMC in planning and supervising the installation of the cableways, and
(b) AIC in operating and maintaining them, in particular by providing cable-
way operators (para 4.06). In addition, PWD would operate project road
maintenance equipment, which would be strategically placed in the four
project districts so as to deal rapidly with road blockages due to landslides,
washouts and snow storms.
Agro-Industries Corporation
4.06      AIC's role in project implementation would be limited to operating
the cableways, which would be rented to them by HPMC. Rental fees would be
determined on a break-even basis. Since the cableways would be used for
the transportation of other goods outside the apple harvest season, includ-
ing other agricultural produce, fertilizers and consumer goods, it would be
more appropriate for AIC to operate them on a year-round basis, rather than
ifPMC, whose major interest would be with the apple harvest. Cableways would
be a new means of transportation for goods in this part of India, but there
is no reason to doubt that in the project areas of HP they would become as
popular as in other mountainous parts of the world.



- 17 -
Agricultural Refinance Corporation -/
4.07      ARC is a subsidiary of the Reserve Bank of India and is well
known to IDA as a lending channel for a variety of IDA supported projects
including the Bihar and Mysore Agricultural Markets Projects and a number
of agricultural credit projects. Its general function is to refinance
agricultural or agriculturally-related investment schemes taken up by Land
Development Banks, the State Cooperative Banks, and commercial banks. ARC's
professional staff of over 100 includes a small technical group and staff
at 14 regional offices. ARC is competently managed and in sound financial
condition. Its role is important, not only as a channel for development
funds, but also for its influence on the lending policies and procedures of
the agencies it assists. It is a suitable institution for supervising
implementation of key project components.
Central Project Committee
4.08      A Central Project Committee would be established to coordinate
inter-agency cooperation as necessary for project implementation. For
administrative purposes it would be located in SDH which would provide the
necessary secretarial services. Committee membership would include the
Agricultural Production Commissioner, the Secretaries of Finance and Transpor-
tation, representatives of ARC, PWD and SDH, the Managing Directors of AIC
and HPMC, a representative of apple growers and two representatives of GOI.
The Committee would review and propose annual plans to State Government
and HPMC for road works and cableway construction; packing and collection
station construction; cold storage and transshipment center construction;
purchase of equipment; and training, to ensure that all these interrelated
activities were properly integrated. Assurances were obtained at negotia-
tions that the Committee would be formed with responsibilities as above,
and it would be a condition of effectiveness that the Committee had been
set up and was operating.
B. Engineering, Contracting and Supervision
Processing and Marketing Facilities
4.09      HPMC's responsibilities would include planning and developing
the processing and marketing facilities. HPMC would hire engineering
consultants to conduct site investigations and prepare alternative plans,
designs and tender documents for the cold stores and the juice concentrate
plant. The consultants would also assist HPMC to evaluate bids and quper-
vise construction items, equipment installation and test runs of the cold
1,'  Full details of ARC's organization and operations are contained in
Annex 4 of the Uttar pradesh Agricultural Credit Appraisal Report,
No. 107-IN, dated April 12, 1973.



- 18 -
stores and the juice plant. HP Government gave assurances during
negotiations that SDH, PWD and engineering consultants would assist HIPIIC
select sites and draw up tender documents, detailed drawings and contracts.
It would be a condition of effectiveness that HPMC had the chosen consultants
under contract.
4.10      HPMC would submit preparation reports for each proposed facility
to the respective PCB. These reports would contain design drawings,
specifications of structures and equipment and further technical details.
The PCB would appraise the proposals with particular emphasis on their
financial viability. After approving a loan request, the PCB would forward
loan applications, appraisal reports and all supporting documents to ARC
for refinancing (para 3.18).
Road Works
4.11      Individual portions of the road works program would start only
after ARC had approved the sub-loan for each related collection station
or packing house.
Cableways
4.12      Having determined location and basic specifications of each
proposed cableway in consultation with PWD, HPMC would invite bidders to
present their respective engineering studies and design proposals.  HPMC
would submit each awarded bid to the respective PCB for its consideration.
After approving a loan request the bank would approach ARC for refinancing
(para 3.18).
Road Maintenance Equipment
4.13      PWD would prepare tender documents for road maintenance equipment
and invite bids. During negotiations HP Government gave assurances that
project roads would be satisfactorily maintained after construction and/or
improvement.
C. Project Accounts and Audit
4.14      At negotiations assurances were obtained from ARC that it would,
and from AIC that it would cause HPMC to (a) have its accounts and financial
statements for each fiscal year audited, in accordance witil sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to IDA;
(b) furnish to IDA not later than four months after the end of each year,
(i) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited
and (ii) the auditors report; and (c) furnish to IDA such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of ARC and HPIC and the
audit thereof as IDA would reasonably request. ARC gave also assurances at
negotiations that it would (a) require the PCBs to maintain separate accounts
for project lending; and (b) ensure that the annual audited accounts of such



- 19 -
PCBs would be submitted to IDA within four months of the end of their fiscal
year together with a statement of project lending for such PCBs, certified
by ARC.
4.15      hP Government gave assurances at negotiations that (a) PWD and SDH
would maintain records adequate to record the progress of the project (in-
cluding the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the IDA Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in
the project; (b) it would enable IDA's representatives to inspect the
Project, the goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant records
and documents; and (c) it would furnish to IDA all such information as IDA
would reasonably request concerning the project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
D. Training and Project Evaluation Study
Training
4.16      Training in India and abroad would be given to both senior and
junior project staff. Senior staff would be trained mainly individually,
while most junior staff would be trained in groups of more than 10. Local
training would consist of two major components: instruction courses with
occasional field trips, and on-job training. Three types of training
courses (and attendance at them) would be financed under the project:
(a) quality control; (b) packing plant, cold storage and sales management;
and (c) sales promotion. All these courses would be held in India, some of
them probably in HP. On-job training would be given during both the
construction and initial operation periods of the project facilities. The
consultants would play a key role in planning and implementing the
training programs (paras 3.10 and 3.11). It would be a condition of
effectiveness that SDH had under contract a quality control expert, a senior
packing plant manager and a senior marketing specialist, and that their
qualifications were satisfactory to IDA. PlWD would have trained a sufficient
number of cableway technicians.
Project Evaluation Study
4.17      This would be the first Bank/IDA project in India setting up a
large-scale integrated system aimed at improving processing and marketing of
a perishable horticultural crop.  At negotiations, assurances were obtained
from HP Government that by July 1, 1974, it would take all reasonable steps
to enter into a contract satisfactory to IDA with an appropriate ecolnomic
research institution or university to evaluate thle impact of the project.
Details of the proposed contract and terms of reference are in Annex 12.



- 20 -
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
A. Production
5.01      Production in the project area and in HP as a whole has been
projected on the basis of SDH records of plantings and yields. Thus, by
1977, production in HP will be at least 233,000 tons (compared with 122,000
tons in 1972) and in the areas served by the packing houses 138,000 tons.
Additional plantings and improved orchard practices might increase yields
further. The proposed total capacity of the packing houses (55,000 tons)
represents on the average 40% of present production in the areas served
by the packing houses (paras 3.01 and 3.02 and Annex 5).
B. Marketing
5.02      HPMIC would provide packing and forwarding services for 40,000 net
tons of apples (55,000 tons gross before grading) by 1977. Of this total,
20,000 tons would be handled by HPMC on a fee basis for growers who choose
to continue selling apples through commission agents on consignment. Another
10,000 tons would be packed, forwarded and marketed on a commission basis.
A total of 10,000 tons would be purchased by HPMC and, after packing and
forwarding, transported to its cold storage units in Calcutta, Bombay and
New Delhi. Although most of HPMC's output would reach consumers in these
three cities in increasing amounts, HPYC would endeavor to develop orderly
apple marketing in some of the other 75 cities with populations of 100,000
or more (para 2.10 and Annex 11).
C.  Prices and Financial Results
5.03      HPMC's packing operations would begin showing financial profit
from 1978 onward.  In the initial three years, to attract sufficient volume
for its packing houses, HPIHC would offer concessionary rates to growers
interested only in utilizing the packing and forwarding services. The
initial rate to them would be Rs 4.00 per 18 kg case, significantly below
their present packing costs (Rs 5.17/case for materials only). HPMC's
packing fee would be increased to Rs 7.00 per case by 1978 and at this
level the operation would yield a net operating income of Rs 400,000
annually.
5.04      The forwarding service provided by HPMC would consist of
transportation from the packing houses to the transshipment points, ship-
ment and transportation to the urban markets. The forwarding operation
1/   This section based on 1972 prices (para 1.03).



- 21 -
would be basically an infrastructure activity serving the industry by
achieving lower transport and transfer charges through collective, large
volume arrangements. Depending on the destination market, the transport
cost reductions would range from 6% to 30%. After modest losses during
the first two years, HPMfC's forwarding operation would begin showing a
small profit by 1977.
5.05      The charge for the collective marketing service which IHPMC would
provide for growers wishing to sell their apples fresh during the harvest
season would be 5% of the wholesale price which HPYC obtained in the
markets. Commission agents currently charge individual growers a 7% fee
for the same services, including preharvest advances. The reduction is
possible because of the larger scale of operation. On a volume of
10,000 tons the annual net operating profit would be about Rs 700,000.
5.06      1TWprc'  trading of 6,000 tons of cold stored apples would produce
a net operating profit of Rs 1.4 million in 1975. By 1976 and onward, HPMC
would be marketing 10,000 tons for a net annual profit of Rs 2.3 million,
after deducting Rs 6.00 per case for storage costs.  HPMC's operations of
the cold storage facilities would derive revenues both from cold storing
apples and other products as a service. The net annual profit from this
service from 1977 and onward would be about Rs 1.0 million.
5.07      HlPMC's, juice plant is expected to he in full operation by 1978,
when iL would be processing 11,000 tons of culls, equivalent to 20% of all
apples handled through the packing houses. The basic product of the plant
would be 1,100 tons of juice concentrate. Although potential customers,
soft drink bottlers and distributors, indicated a willingness to pay
Rs 10/kg for such concentrate, for purposes of judging financial viabilitv,
it has been valued at Rs 8/kg. At this price, and paying Rs 0.25/kg to
growers for culls which are currently disposed of as waste, the plant would
earn a net operating profit of Rs 3)0,')DO from 1478 onward.
5.08      At full project development, IIPI'C's operating profit (before
interest, tax and depreciation) would amount to Rs 13.4 million per annum.
Net profit (after interest, tax and (lepreciation) would be Rs 2.5 million
during H-IPIIC's second full operatiotn year and increase thereafter by about
Rs 100,000 Der annum.  The financial rate of return would he 14%. (Annex 13).
Any surpluses left after payments of reasonable dividendls to AIC would he
used for the expansion of IIPMC's facilities, particularlv processing,
handling and storage.
VI. BENEEFITS ANT JUSTIFICATION
6.01      At full development, the project would provide an integrated
processing and marketing systein for abotut 55,000 tons of apples annually,
which would he about one-fourth of Lotal IIP production in 1977. As apples
are the state's fastest growing industry and the main cash crop of HP farmers,
the project would meet one of lIP's highest ranking investment needs.  The



- 22 -
improved marketing of HP apples would result in higher producer incomes
through more efficient marketing of fresh fruit, processing of culls
and increasing the present market area and period (Annex 14).
6.02      A major economic contribution of the project would be a reduction
in the seasonal apple gluts which are developing as a result of the very
rapid increase in Indian apple production. This would be achieved by:
(a) taking 10,000 tons off the fresh apple market antd into cold storage
for off-season marketing; (b) extending the fresh apple marketing season
forward by early deliveries through coordinated forwarding operations and
streamlined sales procedures, thereby skipping the time-consuming wholesale
operations in Delhi and other intermediate centers; and (c) developing new
markets in hitherto-neglected urban centers. Apples handled by HPMC would
command premiums which have been calculated conservatively as follows (whole-
sale level): (a) 5% for the 20,000 tons packed and graded for a fee; (b) 13%
for 10,000 tons marketed on consignment; and (c) 37% for 10,000 tons
purchased for cold storage.
6.03      The project would also substantially reduce the transport costs
of apples from orchard to market, by constructing cableways and roads to
reduce the costs of getting apples to the existing road network, by improving
the standard and the maintenance of existing roads, and by transporting
apples directly on long hauls to distant markets instead of having them go
first to the Delhi market. Orchard to roadhead transport costs would be
one-third lower with the project than without it. Roadhead to market costs
would be reduced by about one-fourth. Furthermore, the roads, cableways
and road maintenance equipment would save an estimated 5% of the project
areas' total apple crop from rotting caused by truck breakdowns, or road
blockages due to landslides.  The infrastructure improvements would also
reduce transport costs for other goods in the area and would stimulate new
production there.
6.04      Finally, the juice concentrate plant would utilize otherwise-
wasted cull apples, thereby increasing farmers' incomes while still being
quite profitable to HPMC (para 5.07).
6.05      To calculate the economic return of the project the opportunity
cost of foreign exchange has been valued at Rs 10 per US$1.1/ Economic costs
would include investment and replacement costs for fixed assets (net of
import duties and taxes), operating costs of HPMC (net of payments to
farmers for their apples and intra-HPMC transfer payments), maintenance costs
of PWD, and HPMC permanent working capital requirements.
1/   In rough terms, the opportunity cost of foreign exchange is the increase
in the Rupee value of consumption that results from each $1.00 of
imports. Since India's import duties-to-imports ratio is 30-35%, the
average $1.00 of imports increases consumption by Rs 7.5 multiplied by
1.3-1.35, or by about Rs 10. Other methodologies for estimating India's
opportunity cost of foreign exchange have generally produced values in
the same range.



- 23 -
6.06      At full project development, annual benefits would amount to about
Rs 68.2 million and average annual cost to about Rs 36.1 million. Net
benefits would consist of HPMC surpluses (Rs 44.1 million revenues minus
Rs 32.9 million costs equal Rs 11.2 million), income increments for growers
using_HPMC services (Rs 14.4 miliin), income increments for other growers
in the project supply areas (4.2 million), development benefits accruing
in the project supply area (Rs 1.6 million), and other road users' savings
(Rs 3.9 million), minus the increase in road maintenance costs (Rs 3.2 million).
Benefits have been estimated on the basis of domestic apple and apple products
prices (which are 20% to 30% lower than landed costs of such products if
thev could be imported).
6.07      Based on the above assumptions the rate of return to the economy
would be 23%. A significant result of sensitivitv tests is that the economic
rate of return would drop or rise by about 1% per 27 increase or decrease in
total costs. While it appears unlikely that the economic viability of the
project would be endangered, the high sensitivity to cost increases means
that the HPMC management must be highly competent and cost-conscious.
6.08      Most of the project benefits would accrue to some 10,000 project-
area farmers, whose average holding is less than 1 hectare. They would also
gain from reductions in the market power of the large traders. The main
nonquantifiable project benefits would be the development of a new marketing
institution and the social advantages of an expanded transport system.
Together, they should have a far reaching and favorable impact on the
economv and the societv of a neglected region in India.
Ecology
6.09      The project would help reduce wastage of culls that growers would
otherwise continue to shed into the orchards. With the project, the only
ecological problem which is likely to arise would be the disposal of
about 1,000 tons of dry pomace (Annex 5), the major bv-nroduct of the ,juice
concentrate plant. Since the exnected price for juice concentrate would
cover all cost and a reasonable profit (para 5.07), the pomace could be
sold at a fairly modest price as cattle feed.
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHFED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      Dturing negotiations, agreements were reached with HP Governrtnent
on the following principal points:
(a) SDH would deploy grading inspectors and specify grades
as specified in paragraph 4.04-
(b) it would establish a Central Project Committee to
coordinate project implementation (para 4.08); and



- 24 -
(c) by July 1, 1974, it would take steps to enter into a
contract with an appropriate institution which would
evaluate the impact of the project (para 4.17).
7.02      During negotiations agreements were reached with ARC on the
following principal points:
(a) it and the PCBs would follow the policies, terms and
conditions agreed with IDA (para 3.18); and
(b) it would furnish to IDA its audited accounts and it
would ensure that HPMC and PCBs would furnish to IDA
their audited project accounts (para 4.14).
7.03       Conditions of effectiveness would be thiat:
(a) a Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to IDA
between GOI and ARC had been executed (para 3.18);
(b) HPMC had been formed in a manner satisfactorv to
IDA (para 4.01);
(c) The Central Project Committee had been set up and
was operating (para 4.08);
(d)  HPMC had under contract engineering consultants
(para 4.09); and
(e) SD11 had a quality control expert, and HPM'C a senior
nacking plant manager and a senior marketing sDecialist,
under contract (para 4.16).
7.04      The proposed project is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$13 mil-
lion under standard IDA terms.
Deceirde- .-i 1973



ANNEX 1
Page 1
INDIA
tilMlACIIAL PRADESit APPLE PROCESSINIG AND MARKLTING PROJECT
itimachal Pradesh Agricultural/ihorticultural Developmuent
Genera].
1.         About 96% of tiP's 3.5 million people live in rural areas and 94Z
depend on agriculture/horticulture.  however, a good deal of the farming
population pursues some subsidiary occupation, suclh as lumbering, roadwork
and weaving to supplement the income from land. Due to the mountainous
topography--ltP covers mtuch of the Indian part of the himalayas--only about
10% of the total geograpihical area of 55,660 km2 is cultivated (Table 1).
tiP remainls a net imaporter of foodgrains.  The average farm family of
five mnembers works a holding of less than one ha of annual crops. Fruit
growing in addition to cultivation of annual crops nas becomne wore and more
popular over tihe past 20 years, and particularly in tile 1960's. In 1950
less tihan 1,00C) ha were under perennial fruits, while apples alone accounted
in 1969/70 for 23,000 hiia and the total area under perennial fruits has ex-
ceeded 39,0U0 na.  Whiile land resources for further expansion of fruit cul-
tivation are huge, long-term prospects for horticulture will largely depend
on the trends of producer prices (Annex 4).
Land Tenure
2.        iiP was created in 1950 by merging some 30 princely states.  It was
expanded by four districts takeni from Punjab in 1966 and it became a full
state onl.y in 1971.  During tne few years before thie merger of the princely
states, tile riglhts of the ryots (cultivators) were fairly clear and secure,
governeci by status and custom.  Land was generally heritable, saleable and
otherwise transferable property of tile ryots.  hiowever, most tenants were
at tile mercy of thie landlords.  Land tenure legislation between 1950 and 1954
irmproved tne righ1ts of tihe tenants.  Particularly Act No. 15, of 1954, fixed
a ceiling of one-tourtih of the produce for rent and provided for the acqui-
siLion of proprietary righits by tenants.  Finally, the hiindu Succession Act
of 19J6 brou 'nt about uniformity in dealing witn thie proprietary rifgtits of
iniheri ted lanel.  Univ cultivators whose rihlts on tihe land are secure nave
estabtishieei orcnards.  rmis group, commonlv termed ';land owners", consists
of pre-independence type land owners like Zamindari, Pattidari and dhaicriara,
as well as occupancy tenants wiho hlave used the land for at ieast 12 years.
Land Ise
3.         Ilic State ray be divided into four main agronormic zones, namely,
th-e low hill zone, the mid-htill zone, the high nill zone anci tiie dJry zone.
ITiese zonies are also Lypical fruiL production zones (see Appendix 1).  Elie
low iiill zone rainges up to 1,000 m and embraces most of the districts of



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Kangra and Bilaspur, as well as parts of Chamba, Simla and Sirmur. Tiie
mid-hill zone is a relatively narrow strip extending from altitudes of
1,000 to 1,500 m with soils varying in texture from loam to silt loam. Thiis
then progresses into the high hill zone at 1,500 to 2,700 m covering parts
of Chamba, Kangra, Mandi and Sirmur as well as the whole of Kulu and Mahasu.
The soils of this zone vary from silt loam to clay loam and the zone is most
suitable for temperate fruit production, apples being the main crop.  Finally,
along the north-eastern border at elevations of 2,400 to 3,000 m is the dry
hill zone, made up of the districts of Kinnaur and Lahaul/Spiti, together
witn the Pangi Tehsil of Cniamba District.  The area is barren and suitable
withiout irrigation only for the production of nuts and fruits such as almonds,
walnuts, grapes, prunes, and apricots; agriculture is little developed and
the area is the most backward in HP, tne districts of kinnaur and Lahaul/
Spiti not having a single town between them.
4.        All the nortlhern slopes are more moisture retentive than the
southern ones.  Consequently, the former are densely forested at the higiher
elevation and receive heavy snowfalls during the winter months, while the
southern exposures nave various amounts of deciduous growth and grassy cover.
iNearly 40% of the total area of the state is under forest (Table 1).  A
further 20% is permanent pasture and other grazing lands and less than 10%
is niet sown area, as compared witlh 45% for the wnole of India.
5.        Despite the overall importance of agriculture and ihorticulture,
forests are still the backbone of 1P's economy: they employ about 10% of
the labor force and generate 15% to 20% of the State's total cashk income.
The forest resource is of particular significance to the project in relation
to the supply of timber for packing cases (Annex 3).  rlaize, wheat and rice
are the major foodgrains cultivated (Table 2) and seed potatoes and fruits
the leading cash crops, wnicn are exported in considerable volume to the rest
of lnclia.
6.        Mixed farming and mixed cropping is the most coitimon cultural system
adopted by farmers.  In tile high hiills, orcharding is the main occupation
and has a dominating ana still increasing share in farmers' revenues; the
rearing of milchi cattle, poultry and sheep is limited. In the mid-hill zone
also, farmers are becoming more oriented towards cash crops and are planting
orchards along with the cultivation of foodgrains and ve-etables and the
rearing of milch cattle.  Even in the low hill and vallev areas, whiiclh are
most suited for the cultivation of food grains, farmers are adopting
orcharding, poultry andl dairy.
General Horticultural Development
7.        Althoughi many types of deciduous fruit trees grow well in UP and
certain species of pears and plums are indigenous, it is only within the
last few decades that commercial growing of deciduous fruits was started on
any scale.  The great interest in hP in apple growing rather than in other
deciduous fruits such as pear, peacAl, plum, apricot and cherry is demonstrated
by the fact that out of a total area of about 39,000 na devoted to all kinds



Ai.NEX 1
Page 3
of fruits - subtropical and nuts as well as deciduous - apples occupy about
23,000 ha (Tables 1 and 3). Probablv the major reasons for this preponderance
are that (i) climatically, at least above 1,500 m, the apple grows well, anid
that apart from competition from KashrLir, Uttar Pradesti and hilly areas in
southern India, there are few places where good quality apples can be commer-
cially grown in India; and (ii) the apple transports and stores better than
most other deciduous fruits, althougih it too must be handled carefully to
reachi market in good condition.  Among the makjor problems is the successful
transport of the fruit from the orchard - often in very isolated mountain
areas without any good roads.
8.         Probably, successful apple production in tiP is only possible due
to the influence of altitude on cliyate.  Aiearly the whole of the State is
very mountainous withl many deep ravines and valleys and it has been found
that, due to tine apple tree's need for adequate winter chilling, apples grow
best at altitudes of about 1,500 to 2,700 ri, wirere there is normally adequate
cold in thie winter to break bud dormancy. IHowever, temperatures are seldom
low enough to cause winter damiage to the trees. Spring frosts in certain
locations can be significanL in reducing the set of fruit.  Locationis witnl
restricted air drainage are most frequently subject to thlese crop losses.
Rainfall is generally adequate during the growing season.  Thlere are some
districts thiat could benefit from irrigation in the early summer mlonths uf
1iay and June.  heavy rains during hiarvest (August and September) can cause
harvest delay and fruit loss.  The principal weather hazard is hail whic:h
occurs fairly frequently.  Some apple-growing- areas receive ihail witLh greater
frequency than otners, but tile severitv of tihis problem has not been measured
for many newly planted areas.  dauage to fruits by hiail presents the greatest
cause of cullage.  Soils in tne apple producing areas appear well-suited to
apple production.  Trees of all ages have a good state of vegetative vigor.
norticultural Credit
9.         Generai.  Tue fol1owinl  institutions are the main sources of
credit for orciiard development arid tne financing of narketing;
State Government (through tie Deprtrnent of Hiorticulture);
Cooperative land Nortgage Aianks (assisted bvy tLe Agricultural
Refinance Corporation):
Central and State Cooperative banks; and
Comnercial Baniks.
Middlemen such as forwarding agents, commission agents and mercthants also
play an important role in financing farm operations and, particularly, pro-
vide funds to growers and other traders for marketing fruits.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
10.       iIP Government.  hP Governnient has been advancing long-term horti-
cultural loans to the extent of Ks 1,875 per ha for meeting part of the cash
development costs of orchards. The interest rate on tihese loans is 5-1/2%,
with recovery starting in the sixth year and being completed in ten equal
annual installments. Loans are advanced against the security of land which
is hypothecated in the name of the Government. The loan limits are Rs 7,5U0
to individual growers and Rs 10,00()  to cooperatives.  In 1970-71 such loans
advanced by the State Government totalled &s 1.2 million.
11.       Cooperative Bankis.  The bulk of the credit needs of farmers are
met thirough the cooperative systera. un June 30, 1971, there were 3,756
cooperatives in the State with a membershiip of about 532,000.  On the same
date there were 2,547 agricultural credit societies, whose main functions
include the financing of seasonal crop operations, the supply of medium-term
credit and the provision of agricultural requisites and consumer goods at
reasonable rates.  During 1970-71, these cooperatives advanced loans to
a total value of Rs 49.3 million, while crop loans advanced by the coopera-
tive banks through cooperative societies amounted to Rs 15.8 million. Tihe
Land M4ortgage Bank makes orchard developmnent loans oni terms similar to those
granted by ilP Governmenit, but with a limit of Rs 3,750 per lha and an
interest rate of 7-1/2_o..
12.       Commercial banks.  At the end of 1971 thkere were 102 commercial
bank offices in 0P, including 40 in Kangra and 31 in Simla districts.
lhese banks currently are of little importance in the distribution of credit
to small farmers.  however, under the "Lead dank Scheme", formulated in 1969
by tne Keserve Bank of India as a concrete step towards the 'area approach"
to aevelopment, eachi of tnle Districts has been allocated to an individual
bank whose first taslk is to acquire the necessary Dasic data otn which to
evolve planis and programls for the extenision of adequate institutional cred it
on reasonable terms to the neglected and weaker sectors of the area.  In the
subsequent implemientationi of Suctl plaiis and programs, the lead bank plays
the role of a "consortium leader!'.
13.       .iew Credit Legislation.  The rnimaclial i-radesh Agricultural Credit
Operations and Mliscellaneous Provisions (3anks) biil was recently enacted.
Tnis law aims at a more adequate flow of credit for agricultural production
and development in the broadest sense of thie word througa commercial banks
and other inistitutional credit agencies. Thie law Ilot only provides for more
funds for increasing production of traditional agricultural activities, but
also for developing norticulture, marketirng, storage anu transport of
agricultural/aorticultural products, and the acquisition of agricultural/
iiorticultural implements and mac6inery.  It also entitles the liP Government
to greatly expand the proportion of farmers with rights of alienation of
land, incitiding tcue right to create a mortg,age on such land.  this newly
privileged group of farmers, will include, among others, non-occupancy tenants
and those lessees of tIP Government who are farming the leased land.  Commer-
cial banks are being further encouraged to engage in finrancing agricultural/
horticultural development by equalization of tile rights of Government, co-
operative societies and commercial banks as to the priority of mortgages.



A1.AEX 1
Page 5
A commercial bank is even entitled, witih reasonable limitations, to purchase
land whicii hias been mortgaged to it if the cultivator becomes unable to serv-
ice the mortgage.  Finally, the law opens new financing channels for agri-
culture/horticulture by making it lawful not only for any cooperative society
to borrow from a commercial bank (giving thle bank also the right of inspect-
ing the society's books), but also for a bank to become a member of a coop-
erative society.
Department of aorticulture
14.       General.  The main Government agency concerned with the administra-
tion of the apple industry is the State Department of hiorticulture (SDH)
which was establisihed under the Agricultural Production Commissioner in
September 1970 (Chart WB-7319). The Department has its headquarters in
Sirala and maintains offices in nine of the ten districts of HP. As of
June 1972, SDk included 762 posts of which 52 are at headquarters and the
remairnder in the field. SDtn personnel have long been involved with horti-
cultural production development throughout dP. This effort continues under
the two deputy directors of horticultural development and horticultural ex-
tension. Wit.h its established network of over 70 progeny-cum-demonstration
orchards and stations throughiout tuie State, SDii continues to demonstrate tne
performance of various kinds and varieties of fruits in different soil and
climatic zones, supplies pedigree and disease-free trees to farmers and
provides extension information on tree planting and new orchard development.
15.       Extension work could be expanded to cover production efficiency on
bearing orchards. Current production of approximately four tons per acre
of bearing orchard is low compareu to other apple oroducing areas. Applied
technology in the areas of fruit set, correction of alternate bearing,
prevention of fruit drop and disease control could increase production on
current bearing areas by at least 25%.  Most farmers with apple orchards
nave young, developing orchards.  They have little experience with apple
production technology on bearing trees and should have qualified extension
aid in applying this technology.
16.       Iinder SDUt's deputy directors in ciharge of horticultural extension,
senior officers at the field level are thie district horticultural officers.
In auditioni, horticultural developmient officers of the samle status are in
cnarge of the horticultural stations at Sajaura and Bokta.  Iiorticultural
inspectors perform tile function of block (suh-division of district) exten-
sion officers.  SDii is currently seeLin-, through.. the tiP Government, the
approval of additioaal inspector positions to give full statewide coverage
at tlne block level.
17.       For additional horticultural extension work tlere is need for
greater .iortLcultural technical specialization tnan is usually found at tihe
block level.  It is recoriviended that qualified horticultural extension
officers be added at the district level. Two to four specialists in each
district would help growers increase Lheir production ufficieiicy. The
districts of Mlahasu anid ilulu, withl greater numboers of apple growers, would
need four extension lhorticulturists and othur districts two to thiree.



AVNiNEX 1
Page 6
18.       Processing and llarketing.  From thie very beginning, SDii has taken
great interest in apple processing and freshi apple marketing activities.
For example, it took a lead in tile establishlmlenit of tne transshipment center
at Parwanu.  It also owns the cold storage facilities under construction
in New Delhi and wholesale shops in the Dellhi I-larket.  In accordance with
tiP Governmenit policy, it operates a chain of small fruit canning units.
Thiese units are concerned mainly with peacnes and only to a limited extent
with apples.  Finally, in recent years SDII has playcd a crucial role coordi-
nating transport of the harvest to markets, negotiating freight rates and
the supply of packing cases and othier inputs, besicles performing many othier
functions of major importance to the industry.
Researcii and Field Tria]s
19.       'he importance of research and practical field trials have long
been recognized by iiP Government.  Three fruit research stations back up
the work of tLe progeny centers.  Onie station at Mashobra, near Simla, works
on temperate fruits and emphasizes apple production research.  The others
are located at Khaulakuan in Sirmur District, working withi sub-tropical
fruits and at Boktu itn Kinnaur District, working with nuts. In 1958 the
tasiiobra Station was upgraded to a regional fruit research station and in
July 1971 it was placed under the control of the hirmachal Pradesh Univer-
sity as part of its agricultural complex.
20.       The Slashobra Station is well serviced witlh laboratories, library
and land for field trials for its major efforts in testing varieties, strains,
root stocks, fertilizer needs and some insect and disease control.  Two
disadvantages of the station location are: (i) it is short of water for
part of thie year; and (ii) it is situated in a very hail-prone area. fhere
is a limited but excellently trained staff. Researchi un1der the directioni of
this station should be extended to meet the technological needs of a rapidly
expanding apple industry.  Researcn work on apples snould also oe conducted
at othier locations.  .Iuch broader use could be made of otiler stations and
progeny centers under SDit control.  Areas of researchl and field trial needing
to be strengthened include the following:
(a)  lieasurement of weatner factors in different areas and
offect- on fruit production - frequency of n'iil, spring
frost, adequacy of moisture in growinw; season.
(b)  Tests for hiarvest rnaturi Ly anu post iiarvest tiandlin, -
response to storage temperatures, humidity, atnmosphere
and control of storage disorders.
(c)  Greater emphiasis on patnological problems - particularly
control of diseases pre- anid post-Harvest, duie to ileavy
rains at harvest time.
(d)  Strengthiening of researcLi oni fruit setting factors - fruit
bud formation, pollination and thinning metLhods to
overcorne alternate hearing.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
The above research work would require additional trained staff,
equipment and facilities. Dispersal of testing to other areas of the
state will require additional planning and budgeting. The proposed
project would rely heavily on the results of the Hashobra research
activities. It would also use research staff to train project staff.






ANNEX 1
Appendix 1
INDIA
HIMACHAL PRADESH APPLE PROCESSING AND MLARKETING PROJECT
The Different Zones of Fruit Production
Zone       Elevation      Districts                       Remarks
(in)
Low Hill   350-1,000       Sirmur       Banana, citrus, custard, apple, guava,
Zone                       Kahasu       litchi, mango, papaw, pomegranate.
Bilaspur    Most varieties of peaches and plums fail
Mandi       in lower areas of this zone due to
Chamba      inadequate winter chilling.  However,
they can be grown above 800 m if
adequate water is available.
Mid-hill   1,000-1,500    Sirmur        Peach, pear, (Gola Nakh), plums,
Zone                       Mahasu       apricot, almond, pomegranate, pecan
Mandi       etc. can be grown.
High Hill  1,500-2,700    Sirmur        Apple, pear,
Zone                       Mahasu       Clerry and walnut.  Cherry requires
Coldest climate (2,100-2,700 m)
Mandi       Apple, pear and walnut are ideally
suitable for 1,500-2,100 m
Chamba      In parts of Mandi Tehsil and in Kulu
Valley apple succeeds at 1,100 m
because of situation of valley and
chilling requirement is met.
Dry Hill   2,400-3,000    Kinnaur       Annual rainfall 250-380 m.  Grape, apricot,
Zone                       District    almond, walnut, prunes, chilgoza, hazel and
and Pangi   pistachio.  Apple has also been found to
Tehsil and  succeed in this very dry zone--it colors
part of     well and matures late.
Bharmour
Tehsil of
Chamba
District.






ANNEX 1
Table 1
I N D I A
HIMACHAL PRADESH APPLE PROCESSING
AND MARKETING PROJECT
Land Use in Himachal Pradesh, 1969-70
Total     Trr!gRtJed
-'000 ha-    -%-                          -o  ha --
TOTAL GEOGRAPHICAL AREA    5,566    100.0         ANNIJAL CROPS
Net Area Sown               1 549      9.8         Gross Area Sown -46    145   17.1
Perennial Fruits               39      0.7        Whe?t,            305     49   16.0
Fallow                         62      1.1        Maize             256     16    6.3
Permanent Pasture           1,133     20.':       Paddy              97     53   51t.6
Forest                     2,1 E9     38.8        Other Cereals      9!     11   13.1
Uncultivable Land           1,623     29.2        Pulses             59       3    5.1
Potatoes          19       2   1jn.
Oilseeds          18       7   38.9
Sugarcane          44     h  100.0
Ginger             2       -     -
Miscellaneous      2       -     -
Total Irrigated
--'000 ha--
PERENNIAL 'RTTTTS          39      6    15.o
App½e                           n.e. n: .,
Othor  Temperate Fruits    7   r.S.   -.  
Citrus                           t'.
Miscellaneous               4  n,.a.   -.R.
1/  Gros? a-ea sown exceeds net area sown by 65% because of double cropping.
February l4, 1973



ANNEX 1
Table 2
INDIA
HIMACHAL PRADESH APPLE, PROCESSINj
AND MARKETING PROJECT
Output of Principal Annual Crops in Himachal Pradesh
1969-70
Average Outuput
Earin-^.  Jlalue        per ha of Gross
Total Output   Average/ton        Total          Sown Area   1/
1000  tons )        (Rs)       (Rs millionr)  '(kg)      (Rs)
Wheat                      256           1,000           256          839       839
Maize                       444             800          355        1,734    1,387
Paddy                      111           1,100           125        1,175    1,293
Other Cereals               64             700            45          762       533
Pulses                      24           1,100            26          407       447
Potato                      92             300            28        4,342    1,453
Average                     -               3 33          -         1,6'7      99
Average Output per h. of Net  Soewm Area 1/                         2,685    1,637
1/  As gross sowni area exceeds neti sowi! area by  .   see also footnote
Tr.lbble 1),        average output per ha of gross sowna area has been
weighte- by 1.65 to calculate the average output per ha of net sowrn
area for the whole year.
November 3, 1%"2



ANNEX 1
Table 3
INDIA
HIMACHAL PRADESH APPLE PROCESSING
AND MARKETING PROJECT
Himachal Pradesh Areas under Fruits, by
Districts, 1969-70
(ha, unless otherwise stated)
Other                        Other
Temperate                   Subtropical
District             Apples    Fruit    -Nuts   Citrus       Fruit       Total
Kulu                  5,776      828       207      78           1       6,890
Simla               11,051    1,559        377     292          63      13,342
Mandi                 3,231      918       281     830         509       5,769
Sirmur                1,618      43Q_9     103     834         267       3,261
Subtotal v      21,676    3,7744       968   2,034         840      29,262
Bilaspur                 -       139        -      193         362         694
Chamba                  444      152        59     123          63         841
Kangra                  274    1,487       185   2,333      1,197        5,476
Kinnaur                 578      105       222     -           -           905
Simla                   138    1,133        44     247          76       1,638
Total           23,110    61760                              8      38,816
Share of Project
Districts in
Total (%)               94       55        65      41          33          75
I Project districts.
November 16, 1972






AUNNEX 2
Page 1
liNDIA
HIMACHAL PRADESIi APPLL PROCLSS [NG A4D MLARKLTIiNG PROJECT
(haracteristics of Ap.ole Production,
Statistics and P-ojections
Introducticn
1.        In HP the average apple orchard area is less than one ha z.nd, in
many cases, this is made Up of a number of plots. Standards of management
of the orchards are largely satisfactorz.  Farmers are usually acquainted
with the techniques of fertilizer appli,:ation, crop protection, etc. and
these practices have been standardized. Most farm operations are urdertaken
manually, utechanization not being feasible to any extent due to tne topo-
grapny. Family labor is supplemented by hired workers, particularl) by
seasonal workers between July and Octobear. rhe main sources of hirEd labor,
apart from local, are seasonally immigrating N'epalese and libetan refugees.
CultivatiorL Techniques
2.        Planting.  Due to the steep taiuntain slopes and heavy rairnfall
in hP, terracing is usually necessary t) avoid soil erosion as well as to
keep the soil covered with vegetation. If the land is verv steep, terracing
becomes very expensive and in suclh case; trees are mainly planted oa. the
contours.  In general, orchard lands ara found in grass cover with (nly a
small circle of cultivated soil around ::ile trunk of each tree. oepEnding
on the characteristics of the particula- location including, inter flia,
gradient, soil, rainfall and exoosure t, the sun, most newly-plantec trees
(especially in drv and warm locations) require watering duringt the first
two years, and benefit from tihe applicazion of mulches covering the cultivated
areas surrounding them.  Mlostly the gra 3s of the orchard is cut by Iand and
used as a mulch, but in a few cases, wh2re possible, mechanical mowi fng is
practiced.  Sometimes pine needlles or dey oak leaves are brought frcm the
forest as a mulca.  This mulch cover both preserves soil moisture .-nId
improves the nutrient status of the soil.  Apart from mulching ann irrigation
of newly planted trees, there is a need for further irrigation of oichards
in many locations, especially at the lower elevations or in tLe dry areas.
3.        Planting is carried out as we3ticr permits in autumn to ectrlv
spring, and the usLial planting tecliniques are used.  Thiere is a wide differ-
ence of spacing, ranging from 250 to 75) trees per tha, the smaller itoldings
tendiug towards the closer plantings.  tiowever, most orchlards accommouate
250 to 400 trees per ha.  Intercropping with cashl crops such as peas, beans,
potatoes or wheat is frequently carried out on the more level areas when
the trees are young, as the apple crop ,ill not vield returns to tnh
farr,mers for five to six years.



AiNEX 2
Page 2
4.        Pruning, necessary for development, growtih and yield, is done at
two stages: (i) wnen the tree is young to develop a proper structure and
shape (the form of tree desired is usually that w-ith a central leader or
modified central leader), and (ii) when the tree reaches its bearing state,
where the objective is to maintain a balance between growth and cropping.
In general, most trees are pruned adequately, but in sor,me cases over-.y
hLeavy pruning has delayed cropping. Young trees of tile Delicious va-^ieties,
which are thie main ones grown, are generally very upright in growth. This
makes for delayed bearing urntil the weiFht of the crop spreads the branches
to a more horizontal level.  Special methods of pruning and managemeat couid
be used to assist this process to induce earlier bearing, including tihe
bending-down and tying of branches; and their ringing and girdling, while
pruning sliould be kept to a miniumn whet. thie basic framework of the young
tree has been formed.  It is possible t. use thiese techniques on trees,
seedlings and vigorous rootstocks, and obtain considerably earlier cropping.
5.        ilanure and Fertilizers.  Usua'ly farmyard manure, phospihate and
potassic fertilizer and half the amnount of nitrogenous fertilizers annually
applied are applied in late autumn before the snow, and the remaining portion
of nitrogen in Mlarch.  At 250 trees per ha, SDh  nas recommended the follow-
ing annual amounts of manure and fertil,zers per ha:  about 25 tons of or-
ganic nanure, 900 kg of calciurr. ammoniumn nitrate, 550 kg of stuperphcsphate
and 280 kg of muriate of potassium. In practice, it is often difficult for
the farmer to carry out this system, as frequently only compound fertilizers
are available (e.g., .itrophoska containing N.P.K. in a 15:15:15 ratio).  It
is also often difficult to obtain adequate supplies of potassic fertilizer.
6.        Pollination.  MAost apple varieties need cross pollination for the
setting of heavy crops, and in many orc-ards, due to prevailing low tempe!ra-
ture at time of blossom, exposure to winds, lack of adequate sources; cf pollen
and pollinating insects, much reduced yields are obtained.  In riP, 1:he usual
practice is to plant one pollinator in nine plants (third plant in every
third row), or every alternate plant in the third row is tihe nollinitor (1.5.
pollinators).  In areas of inclement weather up to 20-25Z pollinatiiF trees
are reconmended.  Closely related varieties, such as Delicious and its various
sports, are unsatisfactory as pollinatcrs for one anothier, but GOldrn. eliciou'
is a good pollinator for the whiole Delicious Group, and Jonathan is also very
effective.  to assist pollination, bee hives silould be introducedi in1to tlhe
orcnards, but this is rarely done. only well-populated ihives are effective,
and there should be at least five of tl-ese per hectare.
7.        Application of Pesticides.  The problen of spraying machlinles
suitable for work on the steep mountainsides where most of the orchards
are planted needs some attention.  Miost of the orchards are now sprayed
using small foot sprayers (pedal pump) which are fairly easv to maove up and
down tile terraces and slopes, but can onily spray one-third of a ha of orciard
a day.  Considerable problems exist irn spraying thie larger orenards.  In tne
past, engine-powered spraying machines were imported from the US, but witn
ti-mne and shortage of spare parts more and more of tiiese have become
immobilized.  These machiines weigh about 30 kg, are movable by two nmen an"



ANNEX 2
Pagxe 3
may be carried up and down the terraces.  By using a 15-25 m spray h)se,
they can spray three terraces without mcving the machine up or down.
Further supplies of such sprayers, prefErably made in India, would greatly
help improve the quality of the fruit. It should also be noted thlat the
winter oil spray - the major essential Epray - must be given at hiigh
volume, and motorized knapsack sprayers. being only for low volume spraying,
are unsuitable.
Varieties and Yields
8.        Varieties.  A wiide range of apple varieties have been tested in
hiP and many grown on a commercial scale. but over the years the older
varieties, mainly introduced from the United Kingdom, have been superseded
by American varieties, primarily Delicious and its various sports ard Golden
Delicious. At present, about 90% of the production is of Delicious strains,
namely Royal (Starking) Delicious (45%m)  Red Delicious (20%), Rich-a-red (5%)
and Golden Delicious (20%). The remain:.ng 10% consists of Red June, iWorces-
ter Permain, Kashmeri Red, Jonathan, Kinig of Pippins, Granny Smith, Red Gold,
ilaharaji (Versifield), Ambri, -Len Davis, Williams Favorite, Red AstTachan,
Winter Commercial, Penoni and others.  In recent years nearly all the plant-
ings have been of Royal and Red Delicious with Colden Delicious as the riain
pollinator - this yellow apple is more and more difficult to rarlket and
varieties like Tvdexman's Early Worceste: or Late Orange could well le used
as pollinators.  Appendix 1 summarizes tihe characteristics relevant to
fresh marketing for the main apple varieties of HP.
9.        The external color of the fruit is crucial in determining both its
grade and market value.  Tne elevation at whichl tile fruit is grown is an
important factor in determining its color, and the best color of the J)clicious
sports is considered to be a deep bright red.  Royal, if grown over 2,000 m,
may become a dull black color, wnile Red Delicious is much greener at low
elevations.  Rich-a-red is also not advisable at hiilher elevations.  Preferably,
therefore, Royal should be grown at 1,300 to 2,000 m and Red Delicious at
2,000 to 2,700 m.  Golden Delicious does well at all elevations,  These
general rules are subject to modification in districts such as iZulu where
local climate factors have an influence and in Kinnaur where even Golden
Delicious exhibits a red tint.
10.       Yields.  Many factors determine the annual yields of an orchard,
the more important ones being spacing, variety, elevation, weather riazards,
pests and diseases, and cultivation arid orcioard management. The troes
normally start to produce in the sixtih year. A typical satisfactorily
managed one ha orchar.l develops the following yield pattern (adverse
weather, pests and disease effects being averaged out):



A4NEX 2
Page 4
Gross Output           Marketed Output
Year                    toits/ha                  tons/ha
6                                                 2.0
7                        ).O                      4.0
6                        7.5                      6.0
9                      10.0                       o.0
10-30                    1..5                      10.0
In some areas hail can cause the total Loss of crops once in three )ears
and in others only once in ten years. The effect of spring frosts is also
very variable in the different areas anl elevations. Yields of up to 18
tons per hla have been recorded, even fo- large orcihards.  However, Even
these top yields are far below the averige yields of major apple-producing
countries like Japan (24 tons/lha) and France (21 tons/ha), where apple
growing has, been a well established indistry for a long time.  A reasonable
target for production policy would be t3 increase average yields by 25"'
(to 15-16 tons/ha on full bearing orchards) over a four to five yeai. period
through improved cultivation practices.
Harvesting
11.        iarvesting of apples in tP begins in the month of July an(! continues
through early October.  This loni' harve3t season is caused by two major factors:
(1) great dlifferences in orchard elevation and exposure; and (2) va-:ieties
and strains which miature at different times.  Clart WB-7438 illustrates the
general harvest Deriod for HP and related volures available durinc! ,he
harvest period.  M1inor varieties (Red June, King of Pippins and Worcester
Perrmain) are harvested in early to mid-July.  Re6 Delicious and Golden Deli-
cious are ilarvested frotm July to late September.  The majority are iiarvcsted
in th-e montlh of August withi peak of lharvest beginning in mid-August.  Late
varieties whic'L accounted for less thiran five percent of crop, (sucll as Granny
Smith) are harvested in late Septemtder anl early October.
12.        In any one apple producing area, suchl as tlhe Kotgarh, Kuli or
.Nagar areas, tiie harvest period for the mrvajor varieties of Re` ancd  ,olc-len
Delicious apples is three to four weeks .  Thae peak of harvest would usually
come in the second week of tiais area liurvest period.  Tihe peak day :f LarvesL
could reacii 20, of tne total volume foi tLiis group of apples, but in mnost
years would be about 152.  The mnajor psrt of the harvest coincides  7it; tiLe
August and September monsoon season.  .tt that tirne Aeavy rainis in;ertere
witlh normal iiarvest operations, anu reL ulLirg mud on trails and  .liJ.s frol-m
soil erosion ,ias interfered withi raoveTrtnt of apples to market. iiowLver,
the raiins do remove dust and otlher res-.dues froil apples tbat oti-erwis- :l'vc
not been waslhed or wiped prior to paclk:,n-,.
13.        Fruits are picked whien jud,-e(i    mature by the grower, andi it is
often the practice to go over the trees; three or four times retcovi.ng tlic
riper fruit.  'o picking bags are in use and the fruit is usually licked
into smiall padded baskets and then transferred carefullv to the -Kilha  --
a conically shaped padded basket holdirig about 30-40 1,gs of fruiL - WiliCil



Aii LX 2
Page 5
is then carried on the back from the trees to the "go-down" (most orchardists
have some covered space for packin, in their orcL-ards). Usually, great care
is taken not to bruise thie fruit, and the necessity for this is well under-
stood.  Pickers generally work in Learns of thiree, and pick us to 45 bushels
(about 800 kg) of fruit per day, for a remuneration of 8-10 rupees per day
per picker.  With the continuing increases in apple production, there is
increasing concern over the continued supply of seasonal workers evea though
they are payed nearly twtce thie rate of r<,ular agricultural workers.
Apppl_e Production
14.       Apple production in HP can on]y be estimated as there has  een no
accounting of apples produced.  Records obtained from SDII consist of numbers
of trees delivered to apple producers fcr planting each year. These records
include trees sur-lied from Governmenit-sponsored as well as private nurseries.
Nlumbers of trec.s delivered to sub-geographic areas (patwars) are also avail-
able. Numbers of trees supplied and est:imates of new areas planted, by
patwars, are available only in major apple producing areas.  For further
analysis of production by sub-geographic areas, surveys of apple plantings
in the remaining apple growing patwars must be made. Centers of current and
future apple production can be identified only in the areas where apple
plantings by patwars are available. With these records, tihe mission Tnade
some tentative estimates of apple area and production (Table 1).  SDh com-
mented that these estimates, particularly the production1 projections, were
fairly conservative.  In fact, these projections do not at all take into
account likely future production improvements like better pruning, increasing
use of fertilizers and more timely iharvesting dates.
15.       In spite of their conservative cliaracter, thie estimates in Iable 1,
impressively demonstrate the tremendous past and expected growth of Llte apple
in1dustry in hiP in the 1960s and 1970s. It is, in fact, only in tihe last
decade thiat the industry has attracted large numbers of small-scale farners.
As roads were opened up, thie opportunities for apple cultivation in areas
generally unsuitable for other types of enterprise were realize1.  'iTis, coupled
with tne existence of a vast protected market throu,ghout the cotuntry witn its
attractive prices, and withi competent and aggressive promotional activities
carried out by SDLi, 1.P has StiTnUlated a rapid increase in plantings.  Estimated
area under apples increased about ei,.ht times from 196nl to 1970, (fromn
3,000 h.a to 26,300 ha) or on average, 23/% a year, and total productioli more
than six times (from about 10,OCO tons to 76,.030 tons) or oni average, 21;, a
year.  Area increase exceeded production increase, as in the late 1960s new
plantings were particularly heavy anT  most of tie apple orchards (65 7) were
non-bearing in 1970.  When, in 1973, all tlhe existing orc6iards will be
bearing, total production will be about 250,00F) tons, double th1e present.
production.  In tile 197D-78 period prodlucLion increase will SJlow downv  to
12i. per annum.  Tne expansion ihas beuen ana will continue to be, largely
concentrated in tlie districts of 'iahasu, Kulu, Mandi and Sirmur, where the
environmental conditions are nost favorable. These four districts in
1970/71 accounted for 94T.' of total productionl anu llahasu alone for 4'U-.



AI'NLX 2
Page 6
Economics oE Apple Production
16.       Initiation of apple growing has essentially been the first step of
riany smaall-scale farmers into tne casn economy.  M4ost of thlem are practicing
mixed farri i,g (Annex 1, para 6) . Orchards have beeni developed mainly on
former pastures or unusedl land, so that the area under annual crops aas
hardly been reduced. Orchard developmert takes about five years and requi res
neavy capital and/or labdr investments (T.'ale 2 and 3), while production starts
only in the sixtih year at the modest rate of two tons of fresh apple3 per ha.
Only in the tenth year does an orchard ieach its full bearing state (10 tons/ha).
With the existing cost/price structure, the cashi flow of a typical one ha
orchard becomes positive only in the ninthl year.  Even after allowance for
family labor, revenues to a small-scale grower accrue in year six.
17.       Althou,,.. HP Government has extendedc many orchard development
credits of Rs ;,375 per ha (Annex 1, papa 10) for several years, growers
nave needed additional funds of Rs 4,00(1 to Rs 9,000 to establish a one Ila
orchard. Thie multiplication of liP's ari a under apples in the 1960s lhas shown
tiiat there is apparently no shortage of funds to meet these additioral cash
requirements.  In many cases growers bo-row money from non-institutional
sources and/or use savings they have ea2ned outside their farms (public works,
lumbering, etc.).  On the other hand, capital requirements for traditional
annual cropping are comparably negligibLe and most cash inputs flow back to
the farmer at the end of the season.
18.       Even recurrent production cos,s for a one ha apple orcharc. (Table 4)
exceed the average output per ha of annial crops (Annex 1, Table 2). Labor
costs alone account for about 70a of re:urrent production cost.  Anc: in
physical terms, labor requirements are in the order of 450 man-days per annum
and equal those for most intensive irri:ated vegetable growin- in the Punjab.
To meet tnese high labor requirements mnny small growers even emplolv both
(semi-) permanent and casual workers.  Quite a few of the latter imnigrrate
regularly from outside the State, particularly from Nepal.  Thfese UIopalese
are highly esteemed for tiheir skill and perseverance at carrying cases of
apples from the orchards to the roadheai.  In addition, mnany of them earn
additional income from c-rowing seed potatoes on seasonally rented land.
19.       Although apple production requires a hich rapital investm2nt and
recurrent expenditure, and a five-year investment period with returns starting
only in the sixtn year, the financial rate of return calculated at 24?, for
a one lha model orchard appears extremely attractive (Table 2). Virtually
all returns are cash and net revenues to a farmer's family from a fall
bearing one ha orchardl amount to Rs 7,(0't per annum, while the avera3e
annual gross output per ha of net sown area for most seasonal crops is well
below Rs 2,000 in iHP (Annex 1, Table 2).  The growth of the apple industry
has dramatically increased the net revenues of tnousands of farmers, although
it is basedi on land for whiich obviously no alternative use exists.  It has
become HP's most important growth industry and h-as helpedi the state's
economy keep up with the growth of the national econonmy.  In addition, the



N-IN   -2
Page 7
industry has considerably contributed to reducing unemployment and under-
employment and it will increasingly continue to do so commensurate w.tii
growing production. Improved production and harvesting techniques as
recommended in this Annex will further stimulate apple output and better
quality.  iiowever, to prevent growers' incomes from stagnating or even
declining because of the expected oversupply (Annex 11) processing and narlzeting
services are urgently required. Therefore, the proposed project concentrates
on providing such services.  A second phase project rlight focus on p:oduction
promotion, too.






AN;IiLX 2
Appendix I
Page I
I'iDIA
HIIIIACiAL PRADESii APPLL PPOCUSS-lNG ND TMARKLTING PROJECT
Description of Thain Apple Varieties grown in hiimachal Pradesli
1.  Royal Delicious        Size:  m,edium to large.  Shape:  conical, basin deep,
(Starking Delicious)  furrowed, fixre lobes prominent.  Color:  Yellowish
background seldom visible, overlaid with red wash
and dark red streaks.  Skin:  thick, shiry and waxy.
Fleshi:  Yellowish coarse textured, juicy.  Pickina
time:  middlie of August.  Keeping quality:  mediun.
One of the f:nest red commercial varietiEs in
i imachal Pradesh.
2.  Red Delicious          Size:  medium u:o large.  Shape:  conical aFox-fin-
gered, five '-obes prominent. Color: yellow ground
overlaid withT light red stripes. Skin: richl-
flavored.  B3iaring:  biennial, heavy.  -Picking time:
middle of August. Keeping quality:  miedium . One
of tihe best ,:ommercial varieties in kiimachal
Pradeshi.
3.  Rich-a-red             Size:  medium rlo large.  Shape:  sonrewhat conical,
basin furrowed, five lobes prominent. Uclor:
yellowish ground color coverlaid with rec washt,
withi niny fainted wide dots.  Skin:  th-lick, leatnery
and bloom present.  Flesh:  yellowish crcam,
coarse textured, juicy. Taste: sweet., spicy,
pleasant aroana.  bearing:  biennial, heavy.  1'ickin:<,
time:  end oF August.  Keeping quali.tv:  good.  It
is a good conmercial varicty in dimachal Fradush1.
4.  Golden Delicious       Size:  mnedium.  Shape:  somewhat oblong, ape--smootl.
Color:  -olden yellow.  Skin:  tiin, 'catlrlrv.
Flesh:  richi cream colored, fine texturec, iuicy.
Taste:  sweet to sub acid, fine flavered   7earirig:
annual, heavy.  Picking time:  mildle of September.
Keeping quality: good. One of the stood commerrial
varieties in Ilimachal Pradesh.



ANNEX 2
Appendix 1
Page 2
5.  Red Gold              Size:  medium.  Shape:  roundish, flattened at the ends.
Color: yellow background overlaid with scarlet red,
with whitislh prominent dots.  Skin:  thin, leathery.
Fleshl: creaiiy, crisp, juicy. Taste: sub-acid,
spicy, pleasant flavor. Picking time: carly
August. Keeping quality: medium. It is a new
variety unde;- trial.
6.  Ambri                 Size:  medium.  Snape:  oblong, lopsided.  Color:
yellowish green background with bright red
stripes. Skin: tough. Flesh: white, Eoft,
fine grained, juicy. Taste: sweet, aroratic.
Picking time:  middle of October.  Keeping quality:
excellent.  )ne of the leading commercial varieties
grown in Kasumir.
7.  Granny Smith          Size:  medium.  Shape:  roundish conical.  Color:
yellowish green. Skin; thin, leathery, shiny.
Flesh: greenishi-white, fine textured, crisp,
juicy. Taste: sub-acid and slightly aromatic.
Bearing: biennial heavy. Picking time: early
October. Keeping quality: excellent. One of
the finest late apples.



ANNEX 2
Table, I
INDIA
HIMACHAL PRADESH APPLE PROCESSING
AND MARKETING PROJECT
Apple Area and Production in -imachal Pradesh, 1960-78 2!
Average
Area (in '000 ha)                                  Yield from
Bearing        Non-bearing                                      Bearing
Year          Orchards         Orchards          Total         Prodaicion      Orchards
-(in  000 tons)  tons/ha
1960             1.2             1.8              3.0             (10)            8.3
1961             1.3              2.7             4.0             (12)            9.?
1962             1.5             3.6              5.1             (14)            9.3
1963             1.6             5.6              7.2             (15)            9)4
196L              1.8            8.5             10.3             (17)            9.4
1965             2.4            10.2             12.6              21            10.1J
1966              2.9           12.0             1L.9              26             9
1967             3.7            13.6             17.3              30             M. 
t968             4.7            15.3             20.0              39
1969             6.5            16.6             23.1              56
1970              9.1           17.2             26.3              76
1971            10.8            17.1             27.9              98             G
1972            12.5            13.5             31.0             122
1973            1h.2            20.1             3L.3             1)6            .,
197)4           15.3            22.2             37.5             167            j.?
1975            18.0            22.6             4o0.6            19             10.7
1976            20.0            23.9             h3.9             213            '4.
1977            20.6            26.5             47.1             233            L. .
1978            22.4L           27.9             50.3             25Li           11.
1/ Figures in parenthesis are rotigh estimates; all figures beyond
1972 are projections conducted by the mission in cooperation with
the Department of Hort.iculture, HP Government.
November 28, 1972



INDIA
HIMACHAL PRADESH APPLE PROCESSING AND I8RhETINO PROJECT
Cash Flow and Financial Rate of Return Calculations for one ha Model Apple Orchard
(in Rs, if not otherwise stated)
Year:  1          2         3           4          5          6         7          8          9         10       11        12        13        1t       15       16-30
Investment Cost V/                        (1)  3,610      1,050      1,400      1,800      2,225        -          -          -         -         150       600      150       150       150       150       200
Recurrent Production Cost /               (2)    -           -         -           -          -       2,000      2,200      2,400     .,600    2,895    2,895    2,895    2,895    2,895    2,895           2,895
Debt Service 3/                                   103       103        103         103       103        250        250        250       250       250       250       250      250       250       250        -
Cash Outflow                                   3,713      1,153      1,503      1,903      2,328      2,250      2,450     2,650      2,850    3,295    3,745    3,295    3,295    3,295    3,295           3,095
Marketed Outnut (in tons)  /                      -         -          -           -         -            2          4          6          8       10        10        10       10        10        10         10
Revenues 5/                               (3)    -           -         -           -          -       2,000      4,o0o      6,ooo     8,000   10,000   10,000   10,000   10,000   10,000   10,000    10,000
Long-Term Credit 3/                            1,875        -          -           -         -          -          -          -         -         -         -         -        -         -         -          -
Cash Inflow                                    1,875        -          -           -         -        2,000     4,000     6,000      8,0oo   10,000   10,000   10,000   10,000   10,000   10,000    10,000
Total Cash Flow                                          (0
Annual                                     (1,828)   (1,153)   (1,503)    (1,903)   (2,328)         (250)    1,550       3,350     5,150    6,705    6,255    6,705    6,705    6,705    6,705           6,905
Cumulative                                 (1,828)   (2,981)   (4,484)    (6,387)   (8,715)   (8,965)   (7,415)   (4,o65)    1,085    7,790   14,045   20,750   27,455   34,160   4c,86s   i44,44o
Allowance for Family Labor 7/                     850       750      1,000       1,250     1,500      1,500      1,500      1,500     1,500    1,500    1,500    1,500    1,500    1,500    1,500           1,500
Net Family Farm Reverues (Fxpenses) 6/           (978)     (403)      (503)       (653)     (828)    1,250       3,o50      4,850     6,650    8,205    7,755    8,205    8,205    8,205    8,205           &,4o05
Net Cost/Benefit Stream
Line (3) minus line (1) minus line (2)   (3,610)   (1,050)   (1,400)    (1,800)   (2,225)            -        1,800      3,600     5,400    6,955    6,505    6,955    6,955    6,955    6,955           6,905
Financial Rate of Return: 24%
1/  See Annex 2, Table 3; opportunity cost of land is negligible as in most cases orchards have been developed on uncultivated land which could or would not be used for growirg other  crops,
2/ See Annex 2, Table 4.
3/  Governiment credit for orchmd development at 5.5% interest oer annum, five years of grace followed by 10 annuitiec.
4/ About 80% of total output; crop failures being averaged out.
5/ Calculated at Rs 1,000 ner ton (on-farm value after harvesting, but before grading and packing).
6/  The Government credit of Rs 1,875 provides only finance for 18% of total cash outflao  in the first five non-bearing years of the orchard.  Even if only family labor is being used in the
development period (see also footnote 7) the orchardist needs about Rs 4,ooo in addition to the Government credit. If the orchardist lacks sufficient equity he either earns money
outside his farm and/or borrows funds from noninstitutional sources. Starting from year 10 the balance of line (3) minus line (2) equals "Income of the Grower" in Annex 4, Table 3
(Rs 7,105 p.a.).
7/ In most cases family labor is being used up to the highest annual requirement during the non-bearing period Of about 333 man days.
January 24, 1973                                                                                                                                                                                                1



AMLEWX 2
Ta.ble '3
INDI h
HIMACHAL PRADESH APPLE PROCESSING
A1iD NRKRTING PROJECT
Investment Cost for Tyi,ical One ha Apple Orchard
kin As)         -
1      2       3       4             Total
Initial Investment
Fencing
Barbed Wire                     1,500
120 Wooden Poles                  360
rixLng of Poles
andl Barbed 'vrire               250
Layout                               I 00
250 Trees                             50
Digging and Fvilling
up of Pits                          r00
Fertilizer                           200
Tools amd Implements                 150
Plant Protection Equipment            _0o
Subtotal                3,610                                   3,-1'
Mainrtenan ce
ManureAiTert± lizer                          12 5    2J       7      00
Plant ?rotection Material                    125    125    1350    2C
Replac3ment oa) Casualties                    30      25       5      25
Labor Charges for Hoeing
Weeding, MN,ulching, Prziing,
I,illing ofr Gaps, etc._,;1v
Subtotal                         ,0C) C: 4C C,3CC   .__
Grarid Tota'L           3 3;                             'T  TT2-
Tot-7 Lcabor Cost                         5C    7_0 l,OYC  1,250  - 7)O   5-    -
ToalI Cao.Ltal Invresumer.Tr 'Cast
(investment cost e-cIud'Ii '>-a) 2  3C    3CC           )00    550 325   4,
am- bibout 1,204 man-day^s.
Ontober  ", 1.372



ANNEX 2
Table 4
INDIA
HIMACHAL PRADESH APPLE PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
Recurrent Production Cost for One ha Model
Apple Orchard, Full Beirg 1/
(in Rs)
Labor Costs
Digging .and hoeing                                              265
Fertilizer mixing                                                 25
Mulching and white-washing                                        45
Pruning, thinning and setting                                    ,130
Pollin.^.t-.on                                                   150
Spraying                                                        150
One semi-permanent worker                                       825
Fruit watch and ward                                            215
Harvesting                                                       190
Subtotal                                                 1,995
Material  osts
Spray material                                                  37-,
-ert-ilizer and Manure                                           10
,eplacement of casualties                                         2 5
Subtotal                                                   900
.ot^al
/ Average rmarketed net output o) 1. 0 ton;;.
2/   IuaLioJ about.5n gr ab- i.. 5.
,;ariarly C2, 1973



ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDIA
HINACHAL PRADESH APPLE PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
Present Apple Grading, Packing,
Storage and Processing Activities
Grades
1.        The apples are picked on the basis of their color characteristics
and are classified into three quality grades: A, B, and C. Grade A fruits
of each variety are fully colored anu free from blemishes, while Grade B
includes less colored fruits with some marks; all other fruits having less
color, more blerdsl.es and damage, togethier witih Pitto size fruit of Grade A
and small to Pittu of Grade B, are grouped as Grade C.
2.        In normal years, it is estimated that 60% of the total production
is Grade A, 20% Grade B, and 20% Grade C. Jlaturally, however, the average
yield per unit of land, and the size and grade distribution fluctuate widely
from year to year. For example, due to hail storms, the proportion of
Grade A in one of the districts was only 25% in 1971.
Grading
3.        Grading of apples is done mostly by hand in the orchard, in
simple sheds, by the same workers who pick the fruit. The bruised or
danaged fruits are first culled out from the whole lot, and the rernaining
fruits are graded into seveni size grades, namely, Super, Extra Large, Large,
Hedium, Small, Lxtra Small, and Plitto.  Tne minirmum diameters for the
various size-grades are given in the foliowing table:
Size Grades of thimachal 'Pradesh Apples
Name of Grade              Size of Fruit        Lstimated Distribution /1
(miniMum diameter in mm)         (percentage)
Super                           81                          .12
Lxtra Large                     75                         3.02
Large                           69                        23.78
.Tedium                         63                        31.85
Small                           57                        29.69
Lxtra Srimall                   51                         9.00
Pitto                           45 and less                2.54
/1   Simple averages for Royal and Red Delicious derived from limited
samples.



ANNi£X 3
Page 2
4.        The size is generally measured by holding the fruit in the left
hand and then placing the right hand fingers in the space left between the
thumb and the middle finger. Very simple mechanical graders are now used
by several leading growers. The size grades are well established and fairly
uniform except in the case of new entrants who are unfamiliar with the
practice. There are, however, irregularities in grading and packing, par-
ticularly where the fruits are packed by the speculative traders known as
"pre-harvest contractors". Fruits of different varieties are packed in the
same box, and some of the unscrupulous ones practice "topping" in which
inferior fruits are laid on the bottom layers and are covered up with
superior quality fruits on the top layer. Hence the practice of cumbersome
and time-consuming steps in the wholesale procedure in which every prospec-
tive buyer inspects and scrutinizes the contents of many boxes from each
lot of apples being offered for sale.
Packing
5.        Packing follows grading, frequently on the same day, and is per-
formed in the same locality. Fruit is packed in "standard wooden boxes" of
16 to 18 kilograms capacity, or in "half boxes" of 8 to 9 kilograms. The
actual dimensions of the boxes, however, vary to accommodate fruits of
different size grades. The specifications of apple boxes are given below:
Specification of Standard Apple Packing Cases
Number of       Number of
in cm           Apple Grades           Layers           Fruit
1.  45.7 x 30.5 x 25.4   Extra Large                 3            60 -  66
Small                     4                 140
Pitto                     5           150 - 300
2.  45.7 x 30.5 x 27.9   Super                       3            50 -  57
ledium                    4           112 - 120
Extra Small               5                 200
3.  45.7 x 30.5 x 30.5   Large                       4                   96
Most commonly the fruits are wrapped in old newspapers, or "raddi", with
sheets of paper and either pine needles or wood wool between the layers.
6.        Apple packing cases are still nade exclusively of wood, mostly
kail and rai, and the material for them in the form of "shooks" is supplied
directly to farmers by a large numtber of small sawmills located along tne
main roads in the apple producing areas. The sole purpose of these sawmills
is to meet the requirements of the apple industry and when the apple season
is over tney cease operations. They hiave been supported by the attractive
industrial loans granted by the Industries Department, and by the provision
of 25 to 30 trees eachi year at concessionary price of ls 0.70 per cu ft
allocated by the Forestry Department of HP. In view of the concessions
so made to the sawmills, the government exercises some control over the



ANNEX 3
Page 3
prices of packing cases, which, however, are influenced to some extent by
the demand and supply situation.  During the 1971-72 season, premiums were
paid over the fixed level of Rs 3.00 per case due to the bumper harvest.
The margin on each case must be quite high to make the small-scale operations
attractive.
7.        The Government is currently concerned at the depletion of the
forest resources and SDH has been testing cartons which might substitute
for the traditional wooden cases. Considerable progress has been made in
this field and the principal remaining obstacles are that the carton remains
slightly more expensive than the wooden case and thle quality needs some
improvement. While the introduction of cartons will inevitably require
important changes in the manner of transporting and auctioning apples, they
appear quite feasible, provided that a sufficiently dynamic marketing
organization, such as is envisaged in the project, is established. Also
the possibility of using boxes made of thin wood slices bound with wire is
being explored and looks promising.
8.        ine other essential materials for apple packing are wood wool,
raddi (newspapers), wrapping paper, nails, wires and strapping equipment,
whicih are supplied by local traders, forwarding agents, pre-harvest con-
tractors, and commission agents. The total cost of packing materials per
case of 18 kg is estimated to be Rs 5.17, consisting of Rs 3.00 for wooden
box, Rs 0.30 for 100 gms of nails, Rs 0.30 for 300 gms of wood wool, Rs 0.85
for 500 grLs of wrapping paper, Rs 0.65 for wires, and Rs 0.07 for stencilling
ink.
Storage Mlethod
9.        In the crop year 1970/71, only about 12,000 tons, or about 6.0%
of the total marketed apples were put in cold storage facilities, while the
remainder were sold to consumers shortly after harvest. IWrhile the off-
season market appears quite attractive, not enough apples are now stored
to extend tihe mar'rketing period partly because the cold storage facilities
currently available are intended primarily for potatoes. These storages are
not ideally suited to handle apples, which require lower temperature levels
and more exacting humidity controls than they can provide.  By building cold
storage facilities designed to meet apple storage requirements the apple
marketing period can be considerably extended.
Cold Storage Installations
10.       The combined capacity of refrigerated cold storages in India is
estimated to be 1.5 million m tons. The degree of utilization is exception-
ally high, and the facilities are used mainly for storing potatoes (92%) , but
also seafood, meat and meat products, dairy products and textiles. The
majority of cold storages are between 1,000-5,000 tons capacity, and are
owned by tdie private sector which apparently earns very high returns on this
investment. Lxcept for tihe control ecuipment, almost all other components
such as compressors, motors, insulation material, and refrigerators are



ANNEX 3
Page 4
manufactured locally.  About 87/% of the cold storages use ammonia as refri-
gerant, and the remaining 13% use Freon 12 or 22.  Of the combined capacity
of about 1.5 million tons, 566 installations with a total capacity of
841,000 tons are situated in northwest India where apples are produced and,
to a great extent, consumed:
Chandigarh           (  2 units)             7,000 tons
Delhi                ( 35 units)            36,700 tons
Haryana              ( 49 units)            51,900 tons
Punjab               ( 97 units)            92,440 tons
Jammu and Kashmir   (  2 units)              1,100 tons
Uttar Pradesh        (376 units)           652,000 tons
Total           (566 units)          841,000 tons
About 75% of this capacity is used for potatoes.
Fruit Processing
11.       In 1969, India had 12 plants producing fruit juices and pulps,
nine plants producing juice concentrates, beverages and synthetic syrups,
and four concerns producing jams, jellies and marmalades. The Indian fruit
processing industry is in its infancy, mainly because the great majority
of processing plants are situated far from fruit production areas. The
chief fruits processed are the mango, pineapple and citrus, and detailed
information on the output is given in Table 1. W;hile in 1969/70 the total
volume of processed fruit was over 33,000 tons, valued at about Rs 93
million, the apple products were only 1,500 tons (less thani 1% of the total
supply of marketed apples) with an estimated value of about Rs 5 million.
12.       SDh has been carrying out pilot fruit processing activities in
recent years, and their products include apple juice, jams made of the
various locally produced fruits including apple, and canned peaches, etc.
13.       Tne market potential for fruit drinks appears very bright.  Sale
of soft drinks in India has been growing at phenomenal rates in recent years.
About 104,000 tons of Coca Cola valued at Rs 170 million was marketed in
1970. Other major ready-to-serve beverages were 1,902 tons of mango drinks
valued at Rs 3.6 million, 360 tons of pineapple drinks valued at Rs 660,000
and about 300 tons of orange and other ready-to-serve beverages valued at
Rs 4.7 million for the same year.



ANNEX 3
Table I
INDIA
HIMACHAL PRADESH APPLIE PROC,S3ING AND MARKUlTING PROJSCT
Fruit and Vegetable Processing in India, 1969/70 /
tons   Xs'OOO                               tons   Rs'OOO
Jams, Jellies and
Marmalades:                                    Preserves:
Mango jams               178       661         Mango                   22        65
Pineapple jams           440    1,3839         ..pple                 873    3,114
Orange jams                1         u         Amla                 1,063    2,847
Other jams             1,683    8,356          Others              1 037    2 740
Mango jelly                6        36                              2  9
Pineapple jelly            6        38
Orange jelly               6        35     Concentrates:
Guava jelly              173       775         'ruit concentrates    14          96
Other jellies             41       221
Orange marmalades        1904      799     Syrut s , 'Nectars,
Other marmalades          39       147     Squasnes, etc:
Synthetic jellies         65       363         Jsiango squash         170        67
7T-73   13,274          Pineapple squash       152       618
Orange scuash       1,668    6,237
L'ruib Juices an3 PuIDS:                          Lemon squash           927    2,937
TMTango juice          6,       _ ) L_,178     Other sCuashes         265    1,063
Pineapple juice        I,21!,   ^M3t           lYfangc syrups           1         6
Drange juice             300       356        'Pineapple syrups        26      412
.!ippLe j1uice (concentrt) 200    1            Orange sy-rups          '         L c8
Lime/Lesion juice       '33       397         Other sv ru1;s           71      iOl
Other juices             137       401       IMa-igo niectar          lhd      64
Mango oulp               994    3,448          OthIer nect ars         L?        4 C)
Pineapr.le juice         126       331         Mango ready-
Orange  uiiice             3         .to-serve                     3l,3h     3,377
..pple juice              35        74         Pineapple ready_
Other pulbps              42        97           t.o-serve            231       `4
.',339t''7  2T43i 70   Orange read7y-
-se rve              82
Linned and   ot,tled                              Other ready-,-to-
- ruats:                                            se r ve              .>-579
,; rl C3! ,                      2,213               .  e    es a
thneacae              1,121    3,008 
:ithers               i. -3',    j1.1(i8
3d'~~~ '+1O ',srrozen  lru`Lts:
Juices                -12C    1,00_3
Othlar products       4l'       410
-.51 1,~4 13
I/ Tcre data .ire derived from Fruit ind Vegetable Proess3iai-s             - o        ,
indastri.al -Devel opment Services, ?ew Del.hi. a otit,r,u .prep.tred under trie
Spf.scarsni.. of USAJI, New Delhi, 197'.
berulafry 113, 1973






ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDIA
HIMACHAL PRADESH APPLE PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
Present Marketing System of Himachal Pradesh Apples
A. INTRODUCTION
Production and Market Prospects
1.        During the five-year period from 1966 to 1971, Indian apple
production has increased at an average rate of approximately 307% a year
and, considering the plantings coming to maturity, is expected to grow at
approximately 17% for at least the next five years. Although the total
consumption of apples in India, about 270,000 tons in 1970/71, is only
about 1/2 kg per capita, compared with 10 to 30 kg in developed countries,
and sufficient market potential exists to absorb the increasing production,
unless appropriate measures are taken to improve the lagging marketing
facilities, the seasonal gluts in the market are expected to intensify and
the prices to suffer.
Producing States and Varieties
2.        There are only three states in India where climatic conditions
are suitable for apple culture, namely HP, Jammu and Kashmir, and Uttar
Pradesh. As shown in Table 1, of the total 1970 production, Jammu and
Kashmir accounted for 157,000 tons, HP 76,000 tons, and Uttar Pradesh
40,000 tons. The degree of competition between the apples from different
states is limited as their marketing seasons are different and only overlap
for a short period. The Uttar Pradesh apples are earliest to arrive in the
market and peak in July-August, followed by the HP apples peaking in
September-October, and by the Jammu and Kashmir apples forming the last
peak of the season in October-November.
Competition witn Other Fruits
3.        There is only limited competition between apples and other fruits
in India. While India produces significant quantities of mangoes
(7,000,000 tons), bananas (3,200,000 tons), guava (90,000 tons), mandarins
(500,000 tons), grapes (170,000 tons), litchi (90,000 tons), pineapples
(75,000 tons), and other less important fruits, apples remain the most
popular of all. 'ine only fruits available in quantities during the apple
season are bananas and mandarins which do not substitute for apples in the
market.
Prices
4.        The general wholesale apple price level has remained relatively
hiigh so far at about Rs 2.00 per kg on the average, albeit fluctuating widely



ANNEX 4
Page 2
from the lowest of Rs 0.81 in November 1971, to the highest of Rs 5.55 in
Harch 1971. The price pattern follows the normal trend of relatively high
levels at the beginning of the season followed by declines as heavy supplies
reach the market. This is followed by some mild price recovery until the
end of the harvest. During the off-season, prices for cold storage apples
climb steadily, and, towards the end of the storage life of the apple,
relatively small consignments bring unusually high prices. The full po-
tential of the off-season market in the main consuming centers has not yet
been exploited. On the whole, prices have shown a tendency to decline
over recent years as increased supplies came onto the market.
International Trade and Comparative Advantage
5.        India has neither imported nor exported apples on a commercial
scale in recent years. The cost of production, conservatively estimated
at about Rs 750 per ton of marketable apples at the farmgate before
packing, compares favorably with prices prevailing in the world market.
Thie prospects for export are, however, not good. The domestic market is
too attractive, and the infrastructures required for apple export at inter-
nationally competitive costs such as packing materials industries, refrigerated
trucking services, waterfront cold storages suitable for holding apples and
a competent trade organization to carry out international marketing are not
in sight.
Processitg of Apples
6.        Only a very small fraction of total apple production is processed.
In 1970, the amount marketed in India was 17 tons of jam, 200 tons of juice,
and 873 tons of preserves valued at Rs 75,000, Rs 1,721,000 and Rs 3,114,000
respectively. The total input of apples for processing these products is
estimated about 2,400 tons; this is only one percent of total Indian apple
production for the corresponding year. There have been many unsuccessful
attempts at conmercial apple processing but in every case, the undertaking
was too small to warrant the large financial outlays required for successful
merchandise promotion.
Lagging Marketing Facilities
7.        The development of marketing facilities has not kept pace with
the rapid expansion of production. 14ost of the roads that have opened up
the producing areas are still of inferior standard, resulting in frequent
road blockages caused Dy rain and landslides during the monsoon when apples
are harvested and transported to market. All of the fruit is still graded
and packed by individual farmers without any quality control. The packed
fruit is left by the roadsides for collection, usually without adequate
protection from weather. Its onward movement to the consignee commission
agent isiundertaken by numerous local forwarding agents withi little attempt
at coordination other than that arranged, to a limited extent, by SDH.
Iost of the fruit then travels by truck to urban centers as far as Bombay,
Calcutta, Delhi, Madras, ijyderabad and Bangalore with one or more trans-
shipments, exposure to weather and lack of coordination of movement. The
/



ANNEX 4
Page 3
complexities of the stages through which the apples pass in the present
system are portrayed in World Bank Chart 7208.
Scope for Improving Marketing
8.        There is considerable scope for expanding the market for fresh
and cold storage apples, and for improving the quality and reducing the
cost of marketing services. Streamlining the present apple marketing
system with its cumbersome, costly and time-consuming steps is clearly
desirable and feasible. It will significantly reduce the time and cost
of marketing and prevent the quality deterioration of the fruit in transit.
There is also scope for commercial utilization of the large quantities of
cull apples, at present wasted, as raw material for juice concentrates,
which would provide substantial sources of additional income to the apple
growers.
Malpractices in Present System
9.        1r4ost of the apples marketed in urban markets in India are
consigned to commission agents who do the selling at the wholesale level
on behalf of the shippers, who are in most instances the apple growers,
and, to a much lesser extent, the traders commonly called  "pre-harvest
contractors." Theoretically, the role of the commission agent is to pro-
vide the selling facilities, physical and institutional, and to act as
the consignee for a fixed commission of about 7% of the whiolesale value,
whicii the growers consider quite exorbitant. Practically, however, many
of tne commission agents play the questionable dual role of commission agents
and speculative buyers, leaving scope for widespread malpractices at the
expense of the consignors.  After deducting advances made, the commission
agent remits the proceeds to the grower, often after long delays.
Alternative Ilarketing Channel
10.       liost of the growers are apprehensive and even hostile towards
tile commission agents, but they hiave no alternative under the existing
system.  Of the several categories of allegations made by the growers
against the commission agents on underhanded practices, some are ground-
less and trivial, but some are warranted and call for rectification. A
general reformd th-1rough enforcement of rules and the regulation of agricultural
produce marketing does not, however, appear to be a practical solution.
Entry of a conmercially oriented marketing organization competitive with
the existing commission agents can be expected to exert sufficient checks
on the alleeed abuses. At least it will offer an alternative to the growers,
and serve as an instrument of quality control, packing and transport cost
reduction, and of coordinated marketing with which the comnaission merchants
have not been concerned.  The legitimate, proper, and, in some respects,
constructive functions performed by the commission agents should not be
overlooked. Wlat is at present lacking is the instrument for preventing
malpractices and for carrying out the rationalization of marketing operations
as an integrated scheme. Conventional and project marketing channels are
illustrated in Chart WB-7208 (R).



ANlNEX 4
Page 4
Utilization of Cull Apples for Processing
11.       The cullage of apples in India, and HP in particular, where hail
damage can be devastating, is usually as high as 20%. The total volume of
culls in HP alone is estimated to be about 20,000 tons in 1971 but
little use is made of them. By processing culls into juice concentrates, not
only can additional food supplies be made available but the growers' incomes
can also be significantly increased. According to the analysis given in
Annex 11, it would be feasible to operate an apple juice concentrate plant
on a commercially viable basis.
B. TRANSPORTATION
Roads
12.       The most serious hurdle in marketing HP apples has been the
absence of adequate road networks from orchards to roadhead and from there
to the collection points. The limited facilities that now exist are vul-
nerable to weather and recurrent disruptions. The movement of fruit from
the mountainous areas of hP to Delhi and onward involves complicated
transport operations. In the first place, the fruits have to be moved
from farms, usually on precipitous sites, to collection points on the
roadhead where mechanized transport of some sort is possible. Moreover,
since most of the roads are narrow and tortuous, transshipment to larger
vehicles once the produce reaches the plairs is economically desirable.
13.       The terminal markets are far from the producing areas in HP.
From Simla, the distance to Delhi is 350 km, to Calcutta 1,800 km, Borbay
1,800 kmn, Bangalore, 2,300 km, Ilyderabad 1,700 km, and Hadras 2,430 km.
During the fresh apple marketing months, the temperature is usually very high
along the roads leading to these terminal markets. It ranges from 25 to 34°C
for Delhi, 25 to 32°C for Bombay and Calcutta, 20 to 30°C for Hyderabad,
24 to 340C for lHadras, and 19 to 28°C for Bangalore. From Delhi, it takes
about four to six days for trucks to reach Calcutta or Bombay.
14.       Akpart from the physical conditions and the distances referred to,
the transport situation is immensely complicated by the administrative
regulations of intra-state and inter-state road transport. In most
areas of HP, road transport of both passengers and goods are fully nationalized,
but vehicles of private truck operators are "attached" to augment the
government fleet.  hiowever, in a few areas of itP, licensed public carriers
in the merged areas may ply freely in those areas, but are required to pay
a high fee (Rs 6,000 a year) applicable in the old areas if they wisih to
extend their field of operations. Under a new reciprocal agreement for tine
northern zone involving flihar, Haryana, Jamnu and Kashmir, Punjab, IJajasthan,
Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and the Union Territory of Chandigarh, however,
the whole syster. is expected to be considerably liberalized, hopefully,
sometime in 1973. In particular, each state may admit up to 200 vehicles
at any tirae of another state on a reciprocal basis.



Ni'4EX 4
Page 5
15.       Impediments to inter-state movement of trucks have resulted in
the transshipment of apples at different points, which inevitably involves
delay and costly damage and wastage to fruits. Trucks from EIP only go to
Simla or Parwanu near Kalka, from where the forwarding agents arrange for
further trucking to Delhi or, in some instances, to other distant terminal
markets. If the fruits are consigned to other terminal markets, the forward-
ing agents at Parwanu or Simla consign the goods only to Delhi where another
set of forwarding agents takes over and make onward shipping arrangements.
16.       As shown in Table 2, the cost of transportation per case of apples,
18 kg net, from the producing areas has been estimated to be about Rs 5.35
to Delhi, Rs 9.90 to Calcutta, and Rs 10.55 to Bombay including the forward-
ing charges, octroi 1/, loading and unloading charges. The spoilage and
losses are not accounted for in these costs, and they are perhaps as costly
as the cash outlay on transportation.
Railways
17.       Railway transport has not been popular in shipping apples.  HP
does not have any broad gauge line, and the nearest one is at Kalka, Haryana.
This has been the decisive factor in using trucks for apple transport.
Moreover, the railway freight rates are, due to the classification of apples
as "'expensive fruits", higher than the truck rates. IThile the unit cost
may be reduced by using rail cars for bulk shipping, no large-scale marketing
attempt has been made. There are three additional disadvantages in using
railways for apple transportation:
(a) it involves transshipments at the sidings at the origin
as well as the destination;
(b)  it requires the consignor to pay the freight charge in
advance, while the existing trucking system makes it
possible to have the consignee make the advance; and
(c)  it damages more fruits tnan truck transport due to
rougher handling.
C.  IUSTITUTIONAL FRALfWORK OF IARKETINIG
Legal Aspects of Apple Marketing
18.       Except for the unsuccessful attempts being made at the Hyderabad
market to regulate trading practice of the fruit under the ilyderabad
Agricultural Liarketing Act of 1963, apple markets in India are unregulated.
1/   Municipal tax.



AINEX 4
Page 6
The Agricultural Produce (Grading and Marking) Act, 1937, (with rules made
prior to 31st December, 1959,) provides procedures and standards for grading
and marking agricultural produce covering 38 items, including apples. It
specifies the required qualities and grades of the produce but as far as the
apple is concerned the law has remained unenforced and no quality control has
been practiced. The Hyderabad Agricultural Marketing Act of 1963, attempts
to regulate the wholesale practice in the city, but, very little has been
accomplished and the Hyderabad market operates essentially the same as other
major markets.
MIultiplicity of Intermediaries
19.       Apple marketing in India is characterized by the dominance of
rniddlemen at different levels, involving the pre-harvest contractors,
forwarding agents, commission agents-wholesalers, l1ashakhoras (sub-whole-
salers), retailers. and, in case of the remote terminal markets, repetition
once or twice of thie wholesale process. The existence of so many inter-
m-nediaries causes apple prices to snowball as the fruit passes through each
transaction. Direct links between the growers and the terminal markets are
very limited, principally because: (i) marketing centers are very remote
from the producing areas; (ii) production is largely in the hands of small
growers whose in(lividual output is too shall to warrant their own marketing
away from the producing areas; (iii) the high prices of apples realized in
the past relative to the cost of production (not necessarily relative to
tiie consumer prices), have contented the growers and there has been little
pressure for an organized attempt at reducing the multiplicity of inter-
mediaries; and (iv) many of the growers have had to borrow money for apple
production and other cash needs from apple traders.
Pre-harvest Contractors
20.       The small growers, the inexperienced ones in particular, sell
their apples at the time of fruit setting to speculators called "pre-
harvest contractors," to whom orchiards are leased for one or two years. by
this practice the novice may learn from the contractor how to harvest,
grade, pack and consign the fruits. He may also hedge his income and let
the contractor speculate on prices, yields, and marketing costs. On these
scores alone, many growers have no alternative but to rely on the "pre-harvest
contractors," but the most compelling reason for resorting to this channel
has been the need for cash.
21.       The magnitude of the income foregone by the growers selling their
fruits to "pre-harvest contractors" instead of directly consigning to
comrmision merchants is very large. It is estimated that the farmgate price
realized by the growers selling to the "pre-harvest contractors" is about
15 to 20% less than it would be if the fruit were directly consigned to
the commission agents.



ANNEX 4
Page 7
Forwarding Agents
22.        All the fruit consigned to commission agents is taken over at
roadheads by a "forwarding agent" who makes the necessary transportation
arrangements. He charges a fixed fee of about Rs 0.25 per 18 kg case of
apples, and is usually a local shopkeeper or a well-established grower pro-
viding this service on a part-time basis during the season. It is estimated
that there are about 750 forwarding agents in HP. They handle the entire
trade of about five million cases of apples each season, so that the esti-
mated total of the forwarding charges is Rs 1,250,000. One agent on the
average handles about 7,000 cases and collects about Rs 1,700 per season.
The volume of the business handled varies widely, however, from one forward-
ing agent to another.
23.        It has been estimated that the top 20% of the agents handle about
70% of the entire crop, so that an average forwarding agent in the top
bracket handles about 23,000 cases, or 60 truckloads of the fruit, and col-
lects about Rs 6,000 per season. Considering that all he has to do is
assemble the apples and have the trucks come to transport them to their
final or intermediate destinations, and that there is little cash expense
involved, such business is undoubtedly very profitable. MIost of the fruits
are transshipped once or twice before reaching their consignees, and at
each stage of transsnipment another forwarding agent arranges the orward
transportation.  Normally the forwarding charges at the transshipment points
are higher than those in the interior, and the average is estimated to be
about Rs 0.30 per case for eacih transshipment.
Commission Agents and Wholesalers
24.        The commission agents in Delhi play the most critical role in
marketing apples in India. The bulk of Indian apple production is consigned
to them for distribution in Delhi as well as redispatch to other urban cen-
ters.  While their norrmnal role as cormission agents is a simple one of sell-
ing the fruits on behialf of the growers and other shippers for a fixed com-
mission fee of about 7Z of the wholesale value, rany of them simultaneously
act as speculative wholesalers (Table 3). They buy, on their own account
or that of their affiliates, apples on the market and sometimes those
consigned to them. They decide, witn or witiiout the coi±sernt or even
knowledge of the consignors, to put the fruits into cold storages for speculative
purposes.  In fact, it is so difficult to distinguish between what they
do in the capacity of commission agents from what they do as speculative
whlolesalers that they are often referred to as "counission1 agent-cum-
wholesaler."
25.       Tihere are about 500 commission agents in Dellhi dealing with
fruits and vegetables.  About 140 of themn handle apples, and only 40 of
these nandle nothing but apples.  These 40 cozmmission agents, special-
izing in apples, handle the lion's share of about 70% of the total volume
of the top ten conmission agents who handle over 50% of the apples in
Delhi. They sell the fruits to buyers of five different categories: (i)
fellow comrmission agents in the capacity of whiolesalers, (ii) full-fledged



ANINEX 4
Page 8
local wholesalers, who are not commission agents, (iii) outstation whole-
salers, (iv) Mashakhoras (sub-wholesalers), and (v) a limited number of
large local retailers. The full-fledged wholesalers outnumber the commission
agents, and there are about 250 Mashakhoras operating in the Delhi market.
26.       About 80% of the apples coming to the Delhi market are redispatched
to other urban markets, and the consumption within the greater Delhi area
has been estimated to be less than 20% of the total arrivals. Although some
of the apple shipments to outstations are undertaken by the outstation whole-
salers who participate in the Delhi market auctions and buy the fruits for
themselves, the redispatch to outstations is normally done by the Delhi
commission agents and wholesalers. They do it either: for consignment
sale of their own fruits at their own risk through outstation commission
agents who charge commission fees ranging from 7 to 8%; or for delivery
to the outstation comnission agents on whose behalf they buy the fruits for
a brokerage fee of 2 to 3.12% of the purchase price called "Bijak", all the
risk being borne by the outstation merchants. For the consignment sale,
tne Delhi mercliants are not paid advances except the varying and limited
amounts of downpayment from exceptionally eager outstation commission
agents, but the delivery unaer the "Bijak" system nearly always involves
advance payment of the full amount including the "Bijak'.
27.       Except for the portion that is disposed of by outright selling
or is bought by the commission agents themselves, the apples are marketed
in Delhi and all other major terminal markets through two types of auction:
open bidding and what is known as "Hatha" system, the latter being the normal
procedure. The fruits, in lots of varying size ranging from 10 to 200 cases
of 18 kg and averaging about 40, are displayed and, in the absence of quality
control, the prospective buyers invariably inspect the content of individual
boxes before offering prices. In the open bidding, the buyers call out their
bids until there is no higher bid forticoming, and the lot is sold to the high-
est bidder. In the niatha system, which has given rise to many controversies,
the commission agent offers a price for the lot to each buyer by manipulating
his hands and fingers with those of the bidders under cover of a cloth, and
in this esoteric hand-and-finger language the bargaiiiing is carried out. He
goes around and repeats the process with all the interested participants;
no one gets to know what othlers have offered, not even whether the buyer is
in fact the higliest bidder. As tlhe transaction is shrouded in secrecy, most
of the growers regard the whole Iiatha system with apprehension and hostility.
2s.       In addition to selling tiie fruits, the commission agents carry
out other important activities. In order to assure the supplies, they
advance r.oney to their steady consignors. The advance seldo,m exceeds
Rs 6.00 per case of apples they expect to handle, and is little more than
the packing cost of the fruit, but it is usually for the most critical cash
requirements of the growers. They advance tie transportation cost, forwarding
charges, taxes, and all otlher incidentals en route. Thliey maintain the
marlket facilities. They provide suppliers' credits to the wholesalers
and sub-iwholesalers.  They purc.hase fruits on orders from outstation traders
and for their own speculative purposes.



ANNEX 4
Page 9
29.       Many of the growers, especially the srmiall ones, are hostile to the
commission agents. They assert that the commission rates are too high,
that the proceeds are remitted to them often after long and undue delays,
and that the commission agents cheat on the prices at which the fruits are
sold. At present the commission rate is 7% of the wholesale value, and the
commission agents pay rebates, called "Vapsi", of 2% of the remittance
(equivalent to 2% of the packed fruits f.o.b. at farmgate) to those growers
who do not use the advances. Theoretically, the effective rate, net of
Vapsi, is therefore 5 to 6% of the wholesale value but, since most of the
growers actually take advances, the effective average rate is not much less
than 7X. A long time has elapsed since the present rate came into force,
and as the quantities and prices of apples have greatly increased in the
meantime, the commission agents must be earning much more and may be willing
to accept a lower rate if systematically challenged. In the absence of any
organized bargaining on tile part of the growers, however, there is little
chance that the rate will climb down.  There are many instances of frustrating
delays in remittance of the proceeds after the realization. It is not in-
herent in the system, and the solution to this problem must be sought in
exercising good judgement in the choice of cormmission agents. As regards
the cheating, the system of consignment sale where the consignees may choose
to buv on thleir own accounts inevitably carries with it wide scope for mal-
practices. It would require very high ethical standards of conduct on the
part of thie consignees to be always fair.  Moreover, the very esoteric nature
of the hatlia system is bound to give rise to serious allegations.
30.       The volume of the business and the earnings of the commission
agents in Delhi are very large.  They have been estimated to handle near-
ly the entire apple exports of Jammu and Kashnir and over 60% of that of
iP, so that the physical volume of their business would have been about
146,000 tons, or an equivalent of 8 million cases of 18 kg in 1970/71. As-
suming, conservatively, an average wholesale price of Rs 31.00 per 18 kg
case, which was the average realized for -uP apples for the year, the total
turnover works out at about Rs 248 million.  Assuming, conservatively again,
an average commission rate of 6% net of the Vapsi rebate, the total revenue
from commission charges amounts to about Rs 15 million, or an average of
Rs 750,000 for each of the top ten who handle 50% of the business, and
Rs 260,000 for each of the top 40.  In addition, most of the commission
agents have incomes of widely varying amounts from speculative activities
and procurement under the Bijak system.
31.       W;hile the conmission agents make very large financial outlays,
they are mostly in thie form of advances for packing, transportation, cold
storage charges, tax levies, postages, etc. wihich are reimbursed upon
realization of the proceeds, and tney entail no major cost.  The typical
commission agent keeps a shiop costing hlim about Rs 100,000 at most to acquire,
a wareihouse costing him about iUs 500 per month in rent, a car or a jeep,
a telephone, and a few experienced employees.  On the whole, thie trade is
undoubtedly very profitable.



AiNEX 4
Page 10
'lashakhoras (Sub-whiolesalers)
32.       Although some portion of the apples destined for local consumption
pass from the whiolesalers directly to the final retail outlets, most of
them pass to Mashakhoras who in turn distribute them to the retailers.  Some
Mashakhoras are engaged in shipping the fruits to other markets, but their
main business is local distribution. There are about 250 i'Jashakhoras
operating in Delhi and the business is heavily concentrated in the hands of
top 25 .Nashakhoras who pre-empt over 50% of the fruits passing through the
sub-wholesale stage.  In terrs of number, they are the dominant group of
jiduers at auction.  Their business is to buy the fruits at the wholesale
market and distribute them with a relatively small margin of about 2/.
Eike size of the lots they buy normally ranges frorm 4 to 40 18 kg cases, but
it can be as large as 50 and as small as a single case.
33.        Thle Mlashakhoras perform specific functions of four different
categories in the trade. First, based on tlhe detailed information on the
retail side, they speculate on moment-to-moment and day-to-day prices and
play an important role in the short-run price formation.  Second, on the
strengtii of their proven dependability, they procure the fruits on credit
of 10 to 15 days from a limited number of their patron commission agents
and wholesalers, and deliver them to their client retailers on credit of,
normally, two to seven days.  Third, they enable tne retailers to procure
tle fruits in smiall lots of desired assortment of varieties and size-grades.
Fourthi, tihey arrange the short-haul transportation of the fruits from the
market to the retailers.
Retailers
34.        There are about 8,000 retail outlets in Delhi.  Five thousand of
tiuem are fruit stalls arin they hiandle about 30,- of the retail trade.  The
remaining 20U%o is handled by the hawkers in the season nuibering about
3,000.  Most of these retailers procure the fruits from %ashakhoras on
credit of two to seven days on a revolviing basis, and are aligned witli
thaeir particular patron Mashallioras.  Their averae gross margiin is estimated
to be about 252 of the sub-wholesale value.  Thie estimated average volume
of business in Delhi is about two cases per stall and one case per hawker
per day during a 120-day season.  Tihe struCture of the retail trade is
very much tile sane in every major uroan market.
D.  ^MA\L.TS, PRICLS 6A:;D PRICE SPRLADS
; arke ts
35.       There are six maaior urban apple markets in India, and virtually
thce entire interstate sunplies arrive there for local consumption or re-
dispatcih to smaller towns sturrounding them.  The data available on the
arrivals in eaci of these major markets are very incomplete and account for
onlv about 3.) of thie estimated total supply for 197t0/71, but they provide



ANNiEX 4
Page 11
a market-to-market distribution of arrivals that is considered to be fairly
representative of the relative sizes of the markets. The estimated per-
centage distribution is: 32% - Bombay, 23% - Calcutta, 16% - Delhi,
16% - Hladras, 7, - Hyderabad and 6% - Bangalore.
36.       Since the data on the apple exports from the producing states are
fairly accurate, the total arrivals for each of these markets can be estimated.
Botli Jammu and Kashmir and LiP keep close tabs on their apple exports, and the
data so collected indicate that for 1970/71 tile apple production and exports
were about 157,000 and 110,000 tons respectively for Jamrmu and Kashmir, and
76,000 and 61,000 tons for HP. The Uttar I''-adesh data are less satisfactory,
but the state exported about 50% of its estimated production of 40,000 tons
for thie year. The total supply of interstate trade for 1970/71 is thus
estimated to be about 191,003 tons. Th1e arrivals for 1970/71 were estimated
on tne basis of the total interstate supply, and of its market-by-market
percentage distribution, were:  about 61,000 tons for Bombay, 44,000 tons
for Calcutta, 31,000 tons each for Delhi and Madras, 13,000 tons for
iyderabad, and 11.003 tons for Bangalore.
Prices
37.       Weelkly wlholesale prices for apples of various origins in tihe
Delni market over the period 1969/70, 1970/71, 1971/72, an" up to October
of 1972/73 are given in Table 4.  Tiie corresponding, data for the Bombay
market are quite incomplete, but thiey provide bases for some interesting
analyses. They are given in Table 5. .io systematic data are available
on other markets.  hiese shlow a rang_ fror; a miniaum of 2.s .°1 per kg for
late JUoveinber and early Deceln)er 1971 to a maxiiumiu  for liP apples of Rs 4.68
iTn February 197a in the Deliii market.  rhe corres-pondin- minimum is 'Ps 2.44
in early August 1)72, and tiie rxi.uri is I's 5.56 in February 1972, for the
Lorabay market.
38.       Due to laclk of precision in the collection and specification
of the prices and of the data o0i tLhe arrivals and the volume of transactions,
very limited use can be made of the data for analytic purposes. For example,
the series simply give a price ran-c for Particular varieties of apples
on a weekly basis without any reference to rrade, quality, premiurms and
discounts, or the volumc of transactions.  The fact that the data are avail-
able only for a three-year period also precludes any useful consideration
of price trends, particularly as the 1970/71 season had an exceptionally
poor crop, followed bv another unfortunate season for 1971/72 with hail-
storms, transport disruptions and alternate gluts and shortages.  rurther-
more, 1972/73 was a-ain anotiier exception)al year for the industry; due to the
hailstorms immediately following pollinatior., the crop was a very poor one
of only about 30,7 of the expected normal productioni.  The general impression
is, hiowever, that over the past years, prices have fallen somewhat as
increased supplies have come onto the markret, and that the average price for
iP apples fluctuatec around Rs 2.00 per k7.
39.       Thne seasonal pattern of prices follows the normal trend of rela-
tively highi levels at the beginning- of tne season followed by declines



XNNEX 4
Page 12
as heavy supplies reach the market.  This is followed by some mild recovery
until tihe end of the lharvest.  During the off-season, prices for cold storage
apples climb steadily and, towards the end of the storage life, relatively
small consignments bring unusually high prices. Todate, the full potential
of the off-season market in the main markets lhas not been exploited.
40.       There are a few consistent features in the price structure:  (i)
disportionately large premiums are paid for the top quality apples; (ii) much
higher prices are paid for red apples; (iii) Royal Delicious, Red Delicious
from IIP and Nahraji from Jammu and Kashmir are the most popular varieties;
(iv) Golden Delicious is little sought after; (v) apples of the large grade
of a given variety of comparable quality fetcn about Rs 5.00 more per case
of 18 kg than medium grade, while those of small grade fetch about Rs 5.00
less; (vi) apples arriving in large lots of say, 100 cases or more, packed
in hiigh quality packing materials witlh consistency (quality control) in
contents fetcn about Rs 5.00 more per case than comparable apples packed
with poor packing ma ,rials arriving in small lots; (vii) even with the most
conservative estirnzae of off-season marketing cost of Rs .60 per kg, (carry-
ing cost plus cold storage and conunission charges), reasonable quality
after storaye hlas always assured lucrative returns; (viii) due to lack of
coordination of shipment among the shippers, whose choice of market for
consignment is determineu atomistically, there is a tendency for prices,
at Bombay in particular, to show the cobweb effect, that is, a year
with high prices relative to Delhi alternating with a year with low prices
resulting from relatively large consignments attracted by the high prices
of thte previous year and so on, and (ix) the elasticity of the demand is,
as is implicit in the above, a definitely limited one.
41.       In tihe absence of detailed information, the general price level
for HP apples at each major market was deduced fror, thle average farm-ate
value and the marketing costs associated with the various markets.  Tne
estimates so made are Aiven in Table 6.  These estimates have been tested
ag;ainst the price data available fromi indcependent sources and are found to
hbe quite tenable.
Price Spreads
42.       Tihe estimates of price spreads for -P apples marketed in the major
markets are given in Table 7.  Tihey show the shares in tlhe retail and the
wholesale prices moing to the grower, middlerian, and thlose for packing and
shipping.  They vary dependuing upon tie marKets concerned.  For the apples
retaileE ia Deliii, thle growuer's average sinare is about 45%O of the retail
value, an; :.'  of t.le wholesale value.  For 'adras, it is about 32a and 41,
respectively. On the whole, tUle Lroweer's share is about 33;. of t1he retail
value and 45%, of the wholeosale value.
4 3.      '-IuchF of tiie ar5gument a-ainst tlie existing systerA das I)een based
on the `consumer rupee'1 analysis tnat tie grower's share is too s.t;all
reiative to tihe rmudlerien's.  Giveu tlie retail or wholesale price, it is
obvious tihat the growers would be better off having a larger share of tile
fconsumer rupee," but what is desirable for the growers prir.;arily is a



ANUi.X 4
Page 13
larger income per unit of apples, and not necessarily larger shares in
indeterminate prices. A smaller share and a larger income are not mutually
exclusive, and vice versa. In fact, the prospects are that, as more and more
remote markets hitherto neglected are developed and more sophisticated
packing tec.hniques and materials are applied and, further, the volume of
off-season marketing is enlarged, there will be pressures for the average
grower's sihare to shrink while his income per unit of fruit would increase.






ANNEX 4
Table 1
INDIA
HIMACHAL PRADESH APPLE PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
All-India Production of Apples and the Inter-State Apple Supplies
(in thousand tons)
HP as
All-India    Inter-State   Jammu and        Uttar        Himachal       % Indian
Production   Supplies 2/   Kashmir 4/  Pradesh 5/   Pradesh 3/   Production
1966         96            67             50            21            26            27
1967       125            86              70            25           30            24
1968       160           110              92            29           39            24
1969       198           138            108            34            56             27
1970       273           191            157            40            76            28
1971       346           242            202            46            98            28
1972       426           301            251            53           122            29
1973       507           358            300            61           146            29
1974       583           411             345            70          168            29
1975       666           470            394            80           192            29
1976        739          521            435            92           212            29
1977       817           574            478           106           233            29
1978       897           629            521           122           254            28
,/  rhe (at;-7 on   r1e orr).iucti nrl J'- J-t-vU -ind K-shrnir aind  Ptar ?radesh .-re
not f>lly availala-e  'ni ;-lis t-Ib`e L.s oased on t-wo imDortalit assturpt ' oris:
4` t'e produc - 3  i e  for J o.l       v-  sr '.r a7d hmmachal fraciesh
Wi>- '   s 3   Z'  Irs '6  ;J1 recent A, e*-rs, .uoXn(teiy equal, ar, (nd )
c --,rWeS-Gorn;4 .inf,, r.-+ lte  *HIfl;<:<' Jit. 3e  7';) er r-l'
?/  Ir, vi.^S oDeel --i S.s 1-                   r  p-3          r-  YO r' ,- r,e
7;,-'o     -.-n    -- .r                        or     o¾o1 ?r'Ies.
The 1 a -,. " r   yea'rs       'o1r . he -e,4i izea  oriuc-. d        f;   -
-ce r-ast are pro       5   se      io  p n     s ecoeBted ts her fruit.
Se~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_n -3,-utig  expe^e ilq  {-lSt (; S) .rfr
14  tl"ne qq ta for tne   to               are fr thre r iL-.zed nroduotio.
,/  T;.lhe oroduction estimate of * ,000 t,ons for  '970 is -ons.ere; t, hle
gooo, andi the rate o  orrodu2 , '.r ircrease nas been estina. ed to  `o L '
February 1) , 1973



Tabl.e 2
INIDIA
HIkIACMHAL PAADESH APPLE  ARlOC3SSTG hAD  .AAhETThG PROJECT
Current Transportation Cost froim Himachal Pradesh to Terminal' MarIZIkets
(in Rupees per 13 kg  case)
B3ombaay and               Madras and   i4inor
Delhi   FIvderabad    Calcutta   }lang alore    Ci ties
Orchard to roadhead                1.50        1.50         1.50          1.5.-          -
Fornarding charge at origin         .25         .25           .25          .25 
1i
Freig'nt from origin               2.75        2. 75        2. 75         2.75
Fornarding charges at Kalia         *30         .30           .3C          .3            -
Octroi at D lhi.3 .35                           .3.           *35 *
Untiloading2J a-t DeLhe l i         .10         .10 lG.10                  .10           -
Nisceliarneo2s a-t P-elali          .10        .*i.           . 10         .10           -
F orwardn-i'nc char,    s at Delhi   -          .30          . 30
:trei>ht from De?, }.So                                    3.50          3
(Qctroi or ta;                       -          .20V         .5C
Jnloading                            -          .o1 0         .1L.1
iLLisceilarneo;us                    -          . 1.          . l :..3
2r1 ber freimr.                      -          -             -             -
Total a.,                             1             1.           1 lk.'
. emrUarr 1L-, 73



Table 3
IL\D IA
,-AmTJACdAL~ I-7n;<ADLS,M APlPLP l.h-.0C-?,SSIIiG Al`JI''MA:ALKliS7TG !]{J0J'3CT
Income and Expenditure Estimates for one ha Model Orchard, 197&/'
REVIEN'TS                                                                      Rupees
T, T1',olesale p-oceeds (555 cases   'Rs 31.37)                        17 4ho
2'/
II.  `>ecurrent cash expenses                                             2, 89?
2/
I]-.  Gradoing and packimr   cost                                          3,220
IV.  Trarnsnortaticii cost 555 cases 4 Rs 5.35                            2,970
V.  Comrission charges (T-1 of I)                                        1,219
VI.  Incomne cf t7he grouver                                              7,I1C
Toal-
1/  Th7l- s is a rirorlorma slatervenTb based on thue ass-umption that the eij4ire
ou'trut is corsi-nred to  iewi le1r:.    'rn tie currentc practices, t-e grower
firances c       tib' the cultural operations, picklit; and p acking, axid tl-e
portp.rage to road7rheaid.  Once too- apples are delivered to t'-e rnad?lead,
the fc,-rmardln, agenrts provide t' 'cir cervices on cred.it. .  T-he freigir-t
ca,ar  es, octroi. and u nlad ncr_ c:Ia i-e-; are a1l advaxniced b )r t,.e co -i s.neL ,
vwho deducts frorsl ti-e sale_s ii',cc    ::.s cor,nC ssior'   cl-larges, all advaznces
c mande and ULi-it dues Lo fcti-,-rdl:  are1nts.  This covers only"   l   incoMe
,'rom apple farridiLia.    !iv  uTlr  roneis suprplemen-t thei'  inconiic by
enrva intf  in SIeen ra-.in.)  snLberi'  crol-r  ott ier craps, weavinp,
ped(2i-r, -rml.k and vegetab2os,    ld b -,i work .n- for -rubl.ic works prcojocts.
JYc-r dete`ils on tlr   oCr:,Iard     i   oand  ot          see lmnneac 2, Tabe 2.
The farmg,te p ice, valdicc  _'e.cldes tle cost of 7rdlrn- and . ac:ii
tP-.e porterage, appl i,d here i;s 1 'e'   kg,                  tre averare fc:t
L-im.acn^.e  1 radesir aprjl_   n  07(z '1.
2/  Ths a covers cnl;i cass n Iuslays, aind 51c'c .:es t>e fr,-l-1s cCm  inner,
wear and tear of farm  iurp1 enerJts a fd fac.i..ties, anld th-e oow,crturmi.tv
cost of the land.  For details, see Annex  T, able 2.
3/  1or details, see Amnnex 4, Table 2.
)4/  For details, sec -flnnex 2, Table 2.
4'ebruary 14, 1973



ANNEX 4
Table 4
INDIA
HIMACHAL PRADESH APPLE PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
WEEKLY WHOLESALE PRICES OF DELICIOUS GROUP OF APPLES (DELHI MARKET), 1969-1973, by Origin I/
(Unit:   Rupees per kg)
HIMACHAL PRADESH                                JAMMU-KASHMIR                          UTTAR PRADESH
Weeks        1969/70    1970/71    1971/72    1972/73            1969/70    1970/71    1971/72           1969/70    1970/71    1971/72
Jul.  3rd        ---     3.15-4.21  1.56-3.43       ---              ---         ---         ---          2.93-3.73  2.40-3.33   .93-1.60
4th       ---      3.15-4.21  1.56-3.15       ---              ---         ---         ---         2.66-3.73  2.40-3.33  1.33-1.60
Aug.  1st        ---      2.18-3.68  1.56-3.26  2.10-3.75             ---         ---        ---          2.40-3.33  2.40-2.93  1.33-1.60
2nd    2.50-3.43  1.87-3.43  1.25-3.26  2.21-3.93              ---         ---         ---         2.00-2.66  2.40-2.93  1.33-1.60
3rd    1.87-3.43  1.56-2.81  1.25-3.26  2.31-4.06              ---         ---         ---             ---             i       ---
1.46-2.13
4th    1.87-3.43  1.57-3.43  1.25-3.15  2.52-4.37              ---                     ---             ---     1.46-2.13       ---
5th    1.87-3.43  1.57-3.43  1.12-3.12  2.10-4.37              ---         ---         ---             ---        ---         ---
Sept. 1st    1.87-3.43  1.57-3.12   .93-3.12  2.10-4.37              ---         ---     1.38-3.05           ---         ---         ---
2nd    1.89-3.43  1.57-3.12   .93-3.75  2.10-4.37          1.55-2.11       ---     1.38-3.05           ---        ---         ---
3rd    1.87-3.15  1.57-3.12       n.a.    2.10-4.37         1.55-2.50      ---     1.38-3.05           ---        ---         ---
4th    1.87-2.94  1.57-3.00   .93-3.75  2.10-4.37           1.55-3.88  1.38-3.33  1.94-3.33            ---         ---        ---
Oct.  1st    1.89-3.12  1.57-3.00   .93-3.75  2.10-4.37           1.38-3.33  1.38-3.33  1.38-3.61            ---         ---         ---
2nd    1.89-3.43  1.87-3.00   .93-3.75        ---          1.38-3.33  1.66-3.33  1.55-3.88             ---        ---         ---
3rd    1.89-3.43  1.87-3.00  1.25-4.06        ---          1.66-3.33  1.66-3.33  1.66-3.61             ---        ---         ---
4th    1.57-3.25  1.87-3.00  1.12-3.12         __           1,66-3.61  1.77-3.61  1.55-3.88            ---        ---         ---
Nov.  Ist    1.57-3.56  2.50-3.43  1.75-4.06        ---           1.22-3.61  1.77-3.61  1.94-3.88            ---         ---         ---
2nd    1.57-3.56  2.50-3.75  1.06-2.50        ---          1.22-3.61  1.66-3.33  1.66-3.61             ---        ---         ---
3rd    2.06-3.43  2.50-3.43  1.06-2.50        ---          1.22-3.88  1.66-3.33  1.38-3.61             ---        ---         ---
4th    2.06-3.43  2.50-3.43   .93-2.31        ---          1.22-3.88  1.66-3.33  1.94-4.44                  ---               ---
5th       n.a.    2.50-3.43   .81-2.18        ---          1.22-3.88  1.66-3.33  1.66-4.16             ---        ---         ---
Dec.  1st    2.18-3.62  2.50-3.43   .81-2.18         __           1.22-4.44  1.66-3.33  1.66-4.16            ---         ---         ---
2nd    2.18-4.06  2.50-3.12   .81-2.18        ---          1.22-4.44  1.66-3.05  1.66-4.16             ---         ---         __
3rd    2.18-4.06  2.50-3.43   .93-2.37        ---          1.22-4.44  1.66-3.33  1.66-4.16             ---        ---         ---
4th    2.18-4.06  2.18-3.12   .93-2.37        ---          1.22-4.16  1.66-3.33  1.66-4.16             ---         ---          _
Jan.  1st    2.18-4.06  2.18-3.12   .93-2.50        ---           1.22-3.88  1.66-3.33  1.66-4.16            ---         ___
2nd    2.18-4.06  2.50-3.43        ---        ---          1.11-3.88  1.66-3.61  1.66-4.16                  ---               ---
3rd     .18-4.06  2.50-3.43        ---        ---          1.11-3.88  1.66-3.61  1.66-3.61             ---        ---         ---
4th    2.18-4.06  2.50-3.75        ---        ---          1.11-3,88  1.94-3.61  1.66-3.61             ---
5th    2.18-4.06  2.81-3.75        ---        ---          1.11-3.88  2.00-3.61  1.66-3.61             ---        ---          __
Feb.  1st    2.50-4.37  2.81-3.75        ---        ---           1.38-4.16  2.00-3.61  1.66-3.61            ---         ---         ---
2nd    2.81-4.68  2.81-3.75        ---        ---          1.38-4.16  2.22-3.61  1.22-3.33             ---        ---          __
3rd       ---      3.12-4.06       ---        ---          1.38-4.44  2.00-3.88  1.22-3.33             ---        ---         ---
4th       ---        ---           ---        ---          1.38-4.44  2.22-4.16  1.22-3.33             ---        ---         ---
Mar.  1st        ---        ---           ---       ---           1.38-4.44  2.22-4.72  1.22-3.88            ---         ---         ---
2nd       ---        ---           ---        ---          1.38-4.16  2.22-5.27  1.22-3.88             ---        ---         ---
3rd        ---       ---           ---        ---          1.38-4.16  2.22-5.27  1.27-3.88             ---        ---         ---
4th        --        _---          ---        --           1.38-4.16  2.22-5.55  1.27-4.00             ---        ---         ---
T/   Compiled from data supplied by the Directorate of Marketing and Inspection and by cormission merchants in Delhi market.
Heavy lines indicate the week of last recorded arrivals of fresh apples. The subsequent entries are the prices for
applee from cold storages. The varieties included in the context are Royal Delicious and Red Delicious for Himachal
Pradesh, Red Delicious and Maharaji for Kashmir, and Delicious for Uttar Pradesh. These are the major varieties in
India comparable to the bulk of Himachal Pradesh apples in quality.  Typically, apples are packed in wooden boxes of
9-10 Ig in Kulu, 16-18 kg in Simla, Himachal Pradesh, 18 kg in Jammu-Kashmir, and 7-8 kg in Uttar Pradesh.
February :., 1973



A104 hX 4
Table 5
INDIA
1/
HfIlACfIAL PFLADESH APPLE PROCESSiNG AND MAiKETIBG PROJECT
Weekly Ivholesale Prices of Apples from Hlimachal Pradesh at Delhi and Borbay
(in Rupees per kg)
1971/72                         1972/73
l;;eeks                Delhi        Bombay             Delhi         BoEbay
July 3rd                   -              -                _          3.06-3.61
4th                  -              -                -          2.h-3.11
Aug. 1st                   -              -            2.10-3.75      2.44-.444
2nd                  -              -            2.21-3.93      3.06-3*33
3rd                  -              -            2.31-4.o6      2.78-4.17
4th                  -              -            2.52-4.37
5th                  -              -            2.10-4.37
Sept 1st                   -              -            2.10-4.37      2.50-4.17
2nd               .93-3.75      3.33-3.61        2.10-4.37      2.50-4-44
3rd                  -              -            2.10-4.37      2.78-4. 44
4th               .93-3.75      2.78-3.33        2.1 0-4.37
Oct. 1st                .93-3-75     3.89-4.17         2.10-4.37
2nd               .93-3 .75     4.44-4.72            -
3rd              1.25-4.06    4.17-l4.72             -
4th              1.12-3.12      3.33-4.14            - 
1Nov. 1st              1.65-4.06    3.06-3.61              -
2nd              1 .06-2.5o)    3. 9-4.17 -1
3rd              1.06-2.50    3.C06-4.72             -
4lth              .93-2.31          _
5th               .81 - 2.1         -
Dec. 1sL                .81-2.13     3    4 .),L           _
2nd               .8>'1 -22. 1,    3 0 CS-) .72 2
3rQ               .93-2.37     3 33- .C) 
i}tll       ~.93-2. 37___
Jail. 1st               .9 3-2.30
2rn
3rdu                 -               3   _.3         -         
htt%
) Z tr          -              _ ._                            _
Feb. 1st
'2nd                 -          3;. -'5, -
3rd                             380 -. ,
istL
E'rar. 1 st
2nd                  _          3  .   2C0 
-3rd                 -          3 33  .00            -
-1r  _    2. 73- 3.26           --
I/  Ttoe Delhi data are from Annex L, Table 4, arid the Bormay data are
Lrom tre PMarketing Advisor at Bombay.
eib r  Cry 1. 1973



A1M41EX 4
Table 6
INDIA
HIM4ACHIAL PtADESH APPLE PROCESSI_RG ARD NRKEFTlNG PROJECT
Himachal Pradesh Apple Prices at Various Markets and the Cost Structure, 1970/711/
(In Rupees per ton)
Bombay and               Madras and
Delhi   Hyderabad    Calcutta   Bangalore
-etail value                2,218       2,882       2,802        3,082
Retail margin2/               444         577         561          617
Mashakhoras margin4/           35          146         44           49
Uholesale value                -        2,259       2,197        2,416
1'.holesale margin3/           -          181         154         1i6s
Freight from Delhi.6!/         -          286         251          479
Bijak marg4r'/                 -           53          53           53
1Jholesale vaiue/Delhi      1,739       1,739       I,739       1,739
T!aholesale margin/Deihi3/    122         122         122          122
Freight to De li6t?/          295         295         295          295
Packir </                     322         322         322          322
Farm-ate value               ,000       1,000      1000         1,000
1/  Based cn tre fo:i owing assumptions:  (i) th:e farmgate value is  Is 1.QO per
kg , which- is -the estimated average for 1970,71, (ii) the apples are, as ir
most cf t1the cases, consigned to Delhi, and tre dispatch from there to' other
major marlkets is under the Bijak system, and (iii) the procurement Iron
ir.nor clties ls straight purchase by the w.-hoLesalers.
2/ The margin cons:-dcreOl here is 25-;         ori t'-e sub-wholesale value, or the
fnholesale value aPli.s the M4ashakhora's margLn.
3/ The corTnission rates and wholesale margins applied here are the prevalenit ones at
the respective markets in 1970/71':  7% for DeThi, 8% for Bombay, 7% for Calcutta,
6,7, i'or M ;-.rqs, 38, for Hyderabad, 6&  for 3cngalore.
V  Two percesl' on theo wiholesaLe value.
,/  Three perce   on- tn'-e Delhi hliolesale value.
6/  See Annex L, Table 32.
ii  See Annex 4,, Table 3.
Februarvy li, 1913



AmTHPX 4
Tab].e 7
alDIA
IIJL'ACHAL PRADESH APPLE PROCESSINiG AiD  0LAR2TING PRiOJECT
Prices, Costs and Price SUreads at Various Markets, 1970/71
In .Lrupees per ton)
Bombay and                I4adras and
Delhi   lyderabad    Calcutta   Bangalore
Rtetail value               2,218       2,382        2,802        3,092
itetail margin                444         577           6i)         617
Mashakhoras margin              35          46          h1li          49
Viholesale value           (1,)739)    (2,259)      (2,197)      (2,416)
Lholesale margin              122         356           329          320
Freight                       295         581          54h6         774
Packing cost                  322         322           322          322
Fanrgate value              1,000       1,000         1,000      1,000
PRICEl SPREADS (Hetail value as 100)
Retai.l value               100.0       100.0        100.0        100.0
Retail margins               21.6        21.6         21.6          21.6
hholesale value             (78-4)      (78.8)       (7814)       (718.4)
i:holesale margins            5 5        12.4         11.7          10.4
Frei ght                     13.3        20.2         19.5         25.1
'ackincg cost                14.5        11.2         11.5          10.5
Farmngate value              45.1        34-7         35 *7        32.4
___ICE  SP1-1i;RDS (I.holesale value as luG)
."wholesale value           1 00. 0     1 0C i. C    1 00.0       100.0
'Anolesale margins            7.0        1. 8         14.9         13.3
Freight                      17.0        2' .7        24.9         32.O
Packing cos-t                1$.5        14.2          14.7         13.3
Farmgate value               57.5        44).3       146.5         41.4
1/  Based on the data from Annex 4;, Tabae 6.
L'ebruary 14, 1973






ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDIA
HIMACHAL PRADESH APPLE PROCESSING
AND MARKETING PROJECT
Project Packing, Cold Storage, Processing and
Forwarding Facilities
Location Analysis
1.        General.  Apple plantings are widely dispersed over mountainous
Himachal Pradesh. While many newer plantings have no direct road access but
are on scattered small slopes, there are several areas with fairly concen-
trated plantings which have developed, on relatively large slopes and level
terrain, into communities served by a road. The few such communities account
for about 60% of present and projected production and were therefore selected
as the most appropriate areas to introduce the large-scale, mechanized pack-
ing operations provided by the project. Present and projected apple produc-
tion for these communities, shown in Table 1, is within a six to seven mile
circular radius of the community centers. The community centers - and in
the case of large communities, other major roadheads - would serve as sites
for packing houses and apple collection stations.
2.        Based on the production projections of the selected communities
and the existing road network, an investment program for apple packing houses
and collection stations has been prepared (Table 2). The basic assumptions
are that producers with 30% to 45% of the fruit (1978 projections) in the
catchment areas would be willing to utilize the packing services at the
projected unit cost. The unit service costs are based on the projected invest-
ment and operating costs (Annex 11, Table 1). As described in Annex 11,
the packing houses and collection stations would, in financial terms, serve
three operations: (a) apple purchases, (b) apple marketing as service, and
(c) apple packing as service. To prevent substantial damage to apples and
to ensure passage during the rainy harvest season, all roads linking the
packing and collection house system with the state and national road network
would be bituminized (Annex 6, para 2). To attract more produce to the
project facilities and to help relieve the growing transport problems, about
eight areas of heavy orchard density in some packing house and collection
station supply areas would be opened through installation of cableways
(Annex 6).
3.        Packing Houses.  The investment program calls for nine packing
houses stations with rated annual capacities of 5,000 tons, one with 4,000
tons and two with 3,000 tons. The capacities were determined on the basis
that: (a) 80% of the fruit would flow during a 30 day period and the other



ANNEX 5
Page 2
20% would be packed in an additional 20 days; and (b) an average working day
would consist of 10 hours. There may be periods when fruit flow would be
more heavily concentrated but the temporary storage of over-flow fruit was
considered more economical than the planning of larger capacity packing
houses.
4.        Collection Stations.  The three collection stations included in
the project are all rated at 5,000 tons per season, although their actual
capacities could be much greater, since their basic service is the
protection of fruit from the weather until trucking services can be provided
to take it to a packing house or to its final destination. Therefore, the
daily flow of fruit through a collection station can be large, depending on
the development of apple production and availability of trucking services.
These collection stations can also be used as warehouses during the off-season,
which would lower overhead costs. The collection stations are planned in
the areas of Chichiot, Manali and Rohru, but projected fruit production in
these three areas is insufficient to justify their conversion to packing
houses before 1978. They are planned so that they can be used as labor-
intensive packing houses during seasons with abnormally large production
and converted to regular packing houses when total production in their
respective areas becomes sufficient to warrant the installation of mechanical
packing equipment.
5.        Transshipment Center (Haryana/Delhi Border).  As an integral com-
ponent of the marketing chain, the project would also include the construc-
tion of a transshipment center at the Haryana/Delhi border. The need for
such a center arises from: (a) transport regulations restricting inter-state
movement of trucks; (b) the greater opportunity for obtaining backloads in
the Delhi area, coupled with the reluctance of truck owners to widen their
areas of operation because of scarcity of backloads; (c) the collection of
Himachal Pradesh apples from exit points not linked with the existing trans-
shipment center at Parwanu; and (d) the spoilage of fruit which now occurs
because of inadequate facilities at this point. The transshipment center
would attract a substantial proportion of the produce which now passes through
the intermediate Delhi market for ultimate disposal in Bombay, Calcutta and
distant markets. This proportion has been estimated at about 20,000 tons of
apples, calling for an installed storage capacity of 600 tons in the new
transshipment center.
6.        Cold Storage.  The project would also include construction of four
units of 2,000 tons each, three of them in Delhi and the other in Calcutta.
Several factors influenced the decision to site them in market areas, chiefly:
(i) they would act as reservoirs where apples to be sold during harvest
season could be stored to permit more sensitive responses to fluctuations
in the wholesale markets; (ii) they could be used for products other than
apples when there were no apples to store. These four units would complement
two similar units under construction in Delhi and Bombay.  Two of the four
project units would be constructed in the second project year and the other
two in the third (Chart WB-7320(3R). Thus, the marketing unit would have
12,000 tons of storage capacity for the 1976 harvest.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
7.        Processing Plant.  There is no commercial processing of apples in
Himachal Pradesh. Consequently, at least 20% of the annual crop--the culls--
is wasted. In years of hail damage, losses can exceed 50% of the crop in some
areas. The demand for apples in processed forms, mainly apple juice, appears
to be relatively elastic, but the high costs of shipping supplies and
bottles from the plains to the HP area make it almost impossible to produce
apple juice and market the product in consumer size containers. However,
these costs can be greatly reduced by producing concentrates at a central
point where all the packing house culls can be centralized and then shipping
the concentrates to consumer centers for bottling in consumer size units.
The precise location of the processing plant would be determined in the
first year of project execution.
VTechnical Description
8.        General.  The technical descriptions in the following paragraphs
provide only basic information on building and equipment requirements and
on the product flow through the project facilities. As outlined in Annex 8,
detailed designs and specifications would be drawn up for each type of
facility, e.g. for the nine 5,000-ton, the one 4,000-ton and the two
3,000-ton packing houses, the three collection stations, four cold storage
units, and the processing plant.
9.        Design of Packing Houses and Collection Stations.  All packing
houses and collection stations would be steel-framed buildings with a clear
span of about 20 m, a length of 75 m and an eaves height of 4 m (Chart
WB-7267).  They would have a covered area of 1,500 m2, a flat
concrete floor, hollow concrete block walls, an insulated asbestos roof, and
elevated ramps at the reception and shipping areas to enable the use of
pallets and hand2trolleys. The minimum site area required for the building
would be 4,000 m , but it is desirable to acquire one ha to allow for
emergency backlog storage space and future expansion. This upper limit
has been used in the investment cost estimates (Annex 9, Table 2).
10.       Packing House Equipment.  The equipment for the packing houses
would consist mainly of the following groups: (a) grading equipment, (b)
packing and handling equipment, (c) a jeep for the manager, and (d) a stand-
by generator of 15 kw capacity. Each packing house would have two complete
grading lines composed as follows:
(a) for the 5,000-ton houses: 48 in feed belt, four lane
sizers, six rotary packing tables (4 mi each in diameter), a
sorting table, an electric motor (three phase 220-240 volts),
and an overhead belt for "C" grade apples.
(b) for the 3,000 and 4,000-ton houses: 36 in feed belt, three
lane sizers, six rotary packino tables of 1.8 m diameter each,
a sorting table, an electric motor (three phase 220-240 volts)
and an overhead belt for "C"' grade apples.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
The packing and handling equipment would consist of 800 wooden pallets for
the 5,000-ton packing house (660 for the 4,000-ton and 480 for the 3,000-ton
packing houses), some hand trolleys (16 for 5,000-ton, 14 for 4,000-ton and
12 for 3,000-ton packing houses), and lidding and labeling stands (seven for
5,000-ton, six for 4,000-ton and five for 3,000-ton packing houses).
11.       Fruit Reception.  The fruit would be received at roadheads or pack-
ing houses packed in jumble or loosely in boxes. From the roadheads, trucks
would bring apples to the packing houses on wooden pallets measuring 1 m x
1 m with four-way entry. Each pallet would hold 30 boxes (six boxes in one
layer x five high). Trucks arriving at the packing houses would back up,
tailgates down, to the unloading ramp. To facilitate unloading and to compen-
sate for possible height differences between the truck and the unloading
ramp, an iron plate would be placed to bridge the ramp and truck so that
it would be possible to board the truck with a hand trolley and transport
the pallet load of boxes to the reception and pre-grading area. The same
system would be used when loading the trucks for shipment if the fruit was
packed. If the destination were to be a transshipment center, the fruit
could be shipped on pallets. If the fruit were being sent to market or
cold store at a distant point, it would travel packed in boxes but unpalletized,
and the pallets would only be used to facilitate the loading process. The
storage area would be for approximatelv 250 tons.
12.       In seasons of heavy crops, or during certain peak periods of a
normal year, there might be a backlog of packed or unpacked fruit because
of possible road blockages or because of heavy pickings in a short period of
time. The total amount of packed and unpacked fruit which could conceivably
be accumulated at a packing house might reach 600 tons at any one time.
If over 250 tons of storage were frequently required, a light structure would
be built adjacent to the packing house. The packing house roof could be
extended by the distance indicated in the layout in order to accommodate a
possible backlog of apSles. This framed unit with a 60 x 15 m pitch roof,
would give about 900 m storage space. This space could accommodate over
300 tons of fruit. The roof would be corrugated asbestos with a minimum
height of three m at the rear and five m in front and extended for about
four m at the front. The side and rear walls could consist of woven matting.
This sort of structure could be constructed at a maximum cost of Rs 100 per
i2.
m.
13.       Packing Line.  (See also Appendix 1).  From the unloading ramp the
apples (in cases or jumble packed) would be channeled to the reception and
pre-grading area. Wherever conditions permit, the fruit should be shipped
in open unlidded cases. Where this is not practical, the lids would be
put on the boxes with a minimum of nails and with no strapping wires. The
fruit would be dumped by hand, gently, upon a rubber conveyor belt which
would feed onto a roller sorting table. A belt would run above this table
to convey the culls to a collecting bin where it would be jumble packed into
unlidded cases, put onto pallets and sent to the projected processing plant.
The remainder of the fruit would slowly pass over the revolving rollers,
to each side of which would stand the graders whose function would be to
pick out additional culls which may be badly bruised or hail-damaged fruit
or any other fruit which would not meet the desired marketing standards.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
There would usually be six to eight graders depending upon fruit quality.
If the fruit was of very high quality, four graders might be sufficient but
more might be necessary for low quality fruit.
14.       From the grading table the fruit would travel on a sizer consist-
ing of three or four lanes of parallel belts in a V formation. Revolving
rubber rollers, situated at various heights above the fruit transporting
belts, would finally eject the apples onto a belt which would transport the
fruit onto a revolving packing table. The packers would stand around the
packing tables and each would pack one quality of fruit, i.e., one or more
packers would choose the most high colored apples which would be "A" grade
while other packers on the rotary revolving table would take care of the
"B" fruits.
15.       Further Handling in Packing Houses.  After packing, including
wrapping, the full boxes would be placed on vallets and transported to an
area where the boxes would be lidded, strapped and stencilled. A problem
which would certainly arise is that of partially filled cases after running
through a lot of fruit from one grower. Among the possible solutions for
this problem would be purchase of this fruit by APMIC, or having the packing
station supervisor estimate the amounts of fruit of varying sizes and
grades, or some other equitable system which should eliminate as much as
possible stoppages in the packing line because of changing lots of fruit
from one grower to another. In the case of cooperative marketing, the
grower would be credited with the fruit which remained and the packing line
would continue to function. After the fruit would be palletized, it would
be transferred to the shipping area and await transport to a cold store or
market.
16.       Cold Stores.  (See Chart WB-7266) The four cold stores would be
multi-purpose units of sufficient refrigeration capacity to achieve a
rapid pulldown of fruit temperature after receipt of the fruit into the
cold store and with sufficient evaporative surface on the coolers to ensure
high humidity in the rooms. The basic specifications desired for apple
storage are: (a) sufficient cooling equipment to bring the fruit flesh
temperature to -10C to 0°C within seven days; (b) air velocities of not
less than 75 linear ft per minute for each fruit container. Usually one
cubic ft of air per box is ample blower capacity. After all the fruit in
the room is cooled down, this rate can be reduced by 1/3 - 1/2 (c) ample
relative humidity, that is, 90% to 92% after fruit flesh temperature has
reached O'C; and (d) an efficient defrosting svstem to keep the coils free
of ice.  There are various ways of doing this, such as periodically washing
the coils with fresh warm water from the condenser, using hot gas, or by
heating the units electrically.
17.       In the multi-purpose cold stores, cold air would be distributed
throughout the storage room by air ducts with openings every 1.5 m.
to ensure even air distribution. The fruit should be so stacked that there
is a space of 5 cm between rows. A space of 20 cm should be left along the
side walls of the room and a similar space should be left behind the boxes
and the rear walls opposite the air ducts. The sPaces between the rows



ANNEX 5
Page 6
should be kept open and in the direction of the air flow. Care should be
taken that the spaces be extended the entire length of the room in order to
ensure adequate circulation of cold air between and around the boxes of
fruit. The first fruit brought into the room should be stacked near the
openings of the air ducts so so as not to be heated by later fruit. Great
care must be taken not to block the air duct openings with boxes of fruit.
18.       Reliable thermometers should be hung in various locations in the
storage room to ensure even temperature controls which would then be evi-
dence of the air circulation conditions within the rooms. The thermometers
should be inspected and the temperatures noted at least twice a day. A
hair type hygrometer should also be placed in the storage room to ascertain
the relative humidity. However, hygrometers at 0°C temperatures are not
very accurate and not too much reliance should be placed on their readings.
The only method of ensuring sufficient relative humidity is reliable plan-
ning of the entire cold storage installation.
19.       During the fruit reception period several cases from each lot
would be opened and inspected by the person responsible to the marketing
authority; the condition of each sample and the location of the fruit in
the cold store would be noted in a log book. Efforts should be made to
segregate the fruit into various rooms according to condition at time of
reception. In this fashion, each room would contain fruit of similar stand-
ard and the fruit condition would then dictate market strategy and would
permit the marketing of the fruit in optimal condition. In event of unsuit-
able fruit being received for storage, the owner of the fruit should be
notified at once. The fruit should be set apart until the owner's direction
for disposal of the fruit was received. If the owner insisted on storing the
fruit for any time, he should be advised that this would be done entirely
at his own risk. Keeping an accurate log and inspecting fruit at time of
reception has often protected the cold store operators against controversy
with the fruit shippers, and has also been an effective device in assisting
the grower in his marketing operation.
20.       The cold stores would be basically used for apple storage between
late August and early March. It is assumed that some fruit would start
moving out from January onward. As soon as a room started emptying other
commodities could be stored. From the beginning of March until the end of
July potatoes would be stored; during August the cold stores would be closed
and undergo their annual maintenance.
21.       Transshipment Center.  (Chart WB-7288(R))  Within the
temperature range of 25°C to 35°C experienced at Delhi during July/September,
a fully enclosed building with fan-ventilation but without air conditioning
would have only marginal temperature advantages over a covered shelter with
ample natural ventilation. Therefore, a simple shelter which will protect
the apples from direct sunlight and rain and with easy access for the
simultaneous loading and unloading of a number of trucks is proposed.
Storage for 600 tons (37,500 cases) would be under two parallel open-fronted
sheds on either side of a central service road (see layout sketch chart).
This would be supported by office facilities and a truck-parking area on



ANNEX 5
Page 7
a 1/2 ha site surrounded by a security fence with a further 1-1/2 ha acres
acquired for expansion. It is proposed that each storage unit be a
steel-framed structure with a mono-pitch roof. The dimensions would be
60 m x 16 m with a minimum eaves height of 3 m at the rear and about 5 m at
the front. The roof would be of corrugated asbestos with a layer of insula-
tion material beneath. The roof would be extended by about 4 m at the front
to provide a covered loading and unloading canopy and by about 1 m at the
rear for weather protection. Hollow block concrete rear and side walls to
a height of 2 m with a 1 m air gap above are proposed. The whole storage
area and central roadway would have a well-drained concrete base, electric
lighting and a water supply. A series of standpipes and hoses in the storage
building would allow the concrete floor and surroundings to be hosed down
to assist cooling in extreme heat conditions.
22.       Juice Plant Design.  Subject to detailed engineering work,
an apple juice concentrate plant of about 12,000 tons of input a year would
be financed under the project. The plant would be designed and equipped
so that other fruits produced in HP, for instance plums, peaches and pears,
could be processed there. A site of 8,000 to 10,000 m2 would be required
on which the following buildings would be constructed:
(a)  a warehouse of 300 m :
2
(b) a production area of 250 m 2
(c) a boiler room of 150 m 2
2
(d) a procurement area of 850 mi 
2
(e) offices and a laboratory of 350 m.
23.       Processing Plant Equipment.  Appendix 2 lists in detail the
processing equipment needed for the plant. Major components of this multi-
fruit processing plant would be:
(a) a pressing station for apples, pears, stone fruits, grapes
and berries:
(b) an essence recoverv plant;
(c) an evaporator combined with desulphurization plant;
(d) a precoat filter;
(e) various tanks; and
(f) a complete laboratory.
24.       Process Description (See also Appendix 2 and Charts WB-7264 and
VB-7265).



ANNEX 5
Page 8
(a) Reception. The fruit would arrive at the procurement area in
boxes on wooden pallets. The pallets would be off-loaded from
the truck with the help of hand trolleys, and would be arranged
in the storage area. In case of very great quantities of fruit
arriving in a short period, the surplus fruit would be stored
in the open yard and covered with tarpaulin.
(b) Washing and Pressing. The fruit for processing would be dumped
into the soaker-washer where dirt and spray residues would be
removed and would then pass under nozzles where final cleaning
would take place. From there the fruit would pass over an
inspection table where rotten fruits would be discarded and the
clean fruit would go into the mills where it would be crushed.
The crushed material would be put into pressing racks between
cloths, in layers, and pressed hydraulically. While the fruit
would be pressed in the first press, the second press would be
prepared while the third press would be discharged.
(c) Poriace Disposal. The pressed pomace would be conveyed to the
pomace dryer and would be removed after it is dried to an 8%
moisture content. The dry material would then be put into sacks
and sold for cattle feed.
(d) Juice Pasteurization and Aromna Recovery. The raw juice (70%
vield, 100 Brix) which would come from the presses would pass
through a rotarv screen in order to remove coarse particles
which might have remained and the strained juice would be pas-
teurized at a temperature of 80'C. The pasteurized juice would
be then fed into a stripper where about 10% of the juice would
evaporate under atmospheric pressure. This vapor would contain
practically all the volatile essences. The vapor would then be
reduced to 10% of its original volume by fractional distillation
(7 kg aroma yield per ton of fresh apples). The aroma would then
be stored in cold wall tanks until needed.
(e) Juice Clarification, Concentration and Storage. The stripped
juice would he collected in settling tanks where it would
remain overnight.  During this period enzymes (pectinol) would
be added in order to decompose pectic substances and aid in
clarification. After the depectination process, a filter aid
(diomaecous earth) would be added and the mixture would be
filtered in the filter press. One ton of clarified clear
juice would then be concentrated under vacuum into approximately
150 kg concentrate of 720 Brix. The concentrate would then be
collected in cold wall tanks where it would be cooled and the
aroma would be returned to the juice. The juice would then be
pumped into tanks which would be kept in cold storage at a
temperature of 2°C.



ANNEX 5
Page 9
(f)  Shipping.  The concentrated juice would be shipped to soft
drink bottler-distributors in large consumer areas such as
Delhi. The juice could be transported in 20 kg containers.
The concentrate would then be reconstituted and bottled in the
consumer area.
(g)  Bottling.  A small bottling plant would also be utilized at
the processing plant in order to satisfy the needs of the local
market.
Operating Costs and Staffing Requirements
25.       Packing Houses.  Table 3 gives a breakdown of staff requirements
and costs for model packing houses of the three capacity types proposed
for the project. Most of the unskilled and semi-skilled laborers would be
employed up to three months a year. The maximum activity period needed
would be for the managers who would work for six months for the packing
house. Table 4 lists all the operating costs calculated for the three model
packing houses. Boxes and other packing material account for most of the
operating cost, exceeding Rs 1,000,000 in the case of the 5,000-ton
packing house, while the share of repairs and maintenance of structures
and equipment is virtually insignificant. The packing cost per box differs
only slightly for varving packing house sizes, since as can be seen in
Annex 11, Table 1, there are no significant economies of scale, even if
depreciation of structures and equipment, and working capital requirements
are taken into account.
26.       In addition to the assumptions in the footnotes of Table 4, the
operating costs for the model packing houses were calculated on the
following bases:
(a)  Percentage of Cullage:  Estimated at 20% of inDut.
(b)  Length of Harvest Period:  Approximiately 50 days.  However, it
is estimated that 80% of the fruit would be harvested in 39 days
in any one orchard.
(c)  Quantities:  A 5,000-ton per season installation would hiave to
be prepared to handle 4,000 tons in 30 days which (minus 20%
cullage) would be 3,200 tons in 30 days and a daily average of
110 tons or 11 tons per hour of a 10 hour day. The relevant
figures for a 4,000-ton capacity installation would be 85 tons
per day or 8.5 tons per hour of a 10 hour day.  The relevant
figures for a 3,000-ton capacity packing house would be 66 tons
per dav or 8 tons per hour of an 8-1/2 hour working day.
(d)  Equipment Output:  The equipment recommended for thlis project
consists of sizers of a belt and roller type of various number
of lanes, each lane sizing up to 2 tons per hour.  However,
because of probable stoppages due to changeovers from one



ANNEX 5
Page 10
grower's fruits to another's, it is envisaged that a four-
lane sizer would size approximately 1.75 tons per hour. For
this reason, four-lane sizers are recommended for the 5,000-ton
per season packing houses and three-lane sizers for the 3,000
and 4,000 tons per season packing houses.
(e)  Packing and Wrapping:  A nan would be able to wrap and pack at
least 80 cases per day. About 50 packers per dav would work
in the peak season and less before and after the peak.
(f) No. of Cases per Ton: It is assumed that 55 cases could be
packed from one ton of apples.
(g) No. of Cases per Pallet: The wooden pallets measuring 1 x 1 m
could hold 30 boxes of apples, i.e., a layer of six cases piled
five high.
27.       Collection Stations.  Although no apples would be processed in
the c:ollection stations, these structures would be important as temporary
storage points and integral parts of the project. As can be seen from
Table 5, most of the operating cost would consist of staff remuneration.
The manager and two watchmen would be working for the collection stations
full time, as it is anticipated that they would become storage and trading
pcints for other agricultural inputs.
28.       Cold Storage.  Large differentials between harvest and post-harvest
apple prices provide a very attractive incentive for building and operating
the four additional cold storage units (Annex 4). The chance of using them
for other produce during several other months each year would further increase
the revenues from this part of the project. However, the operating costs
listed in Table 6 take into account only overations related to apple storage,
except for staff and insurance costs.
29.       Transshipment Center.  The annual throughput of the transshipment
center has been assumed to be about 20,000 tons, which would be handled
during the harvest season of about 100 days. On an average, the apples
would be stored for two days in the center. Table 7 shows that most of the
operating costs would be salaries and wages and would average Rs 14/ton.
30.       Apple Juice Plant.  Subject to feasibility and engineering studies,
tentative cost estimates for the proposed apple juice concentrate and essence
plant: have been prepared.  As shown in Table 8, the plant would require about
20 permanent emnloyees, some of whom would need considerable experience.
Very likely two or three of the specialists needed would have to be expatriates,
at least for one season. To spread the cost of permanent labor, considerable
efforts should be made to stretch the operating season by processing other
fruits and vegetables too. Among the operating costs, raw materials
constitute bv far the largest component (Ps 5.5 million). For further
details see Table 9.



ANNEX S
Appendix 1
Page 1
INDIA
HIMACHAL PRADESH APPLE PROCESSING
ANM MARKETING PROJECT
Product Flow in Packing House
Description                          Equipment and Notes
1.  Received in pre-grading area and              1 x 1 m four-way pallet
receipt given to trucker
2. Awaiting grading
3.  Moved to packing line                         Hand trolleys
4.  Boxes tipped onto feeding belt                By hand
5.  Fruit passes from feed belt to                By hand
roller sorter table and is graded
according to quality
6.  T'C" quality fruit placed on                  On belts
elevated belt and conveyed to
collection bin, put into open
cases and readied for shipnment
to processing
7.  A and B grades into three or                  Belt and roller sizer
four lane sizer
8.  Sized apples flow onto rotary                 On belts
revolving packing, tables
9.  Apples packed into cases (indivi-             By hand
dually wrapped) and placed in
lavers
10.  Filled cases placed on wooden                 By hand
pallets
11.  Boxes and part-boxes of each                  By hand
grade counted and amounts noted
with copy to grower



ANNEX 5
Appendix 1
Page 2
Description                        Equipment and Notes
12. Partly filled boxes remain to be
filled with other fruit
13.  Filled cases on pallets moved to              Hand trucks
closing area
14.  Boxes labelled according to packing           By hand
station name, grower's code number,
variety, grade, size
15.  Spot inspections before lidding               By inspectors
16.  Box put on wooden table, lidded,              By hand
wired and put on pallet
17.  Pallet moved to shipping area                 Hand trolley
18.  Loaded onto truck and shipped                 By hand



ANNEX 5
Appendix 2
Page 1
INDIA
HIMACHAL PRADESH APPLE PROCESSING
AND MARKETING PROJECT
Tentative Equipment Description for
Apple Juice Concentrate Plant
A.   PRODUCTION EQUIPMENT
Washing unit, complete with water circulation pump and motor for
the conveyor drive. The washing tank is built of 2 mm iron sheet.
The conveyor is built of rollers of PVC with a diameter of 90 mm.
Inspection unit, complete with reductor motor. The inspection
table is built of rollers of PVC with a diameter of 90 mm.
Rubber belt elevator coraplete with motor.
Apple bunker volume 15 m , plus mill and mash pump, complete with
motors.
Hydraulic press complete with motors. Required oil content: about
500 1.
Collecting tanks, 2 x 2,000 1, for the reception of juice after
pressing.
Positive pump, complete with motor and variator.
Self-cleaning clarifier, complete with the following accessories:
tools, starter, control unit, flow meter, transformer,
operating water tank, constant pressure valve, and motor.
Collecting tank, complete with spray turbine, agitator and motor,
volume 1,500 1.
Centrifugal pump, complete with motor.
Aroma recovery unit, for the recovery of apple aroma. The unit
comprises:
- balance tank
- centrifugal pump, complete with motor
- regulating valve



ANNEX 5
Appendix 2
Page 2
- flow meter
- plate heat exchanger
- evaporator
- steam regulating equipment
- juice extracting pump, complete with motor
- flow meter
- aroma pump, complete with motor
- plate evaporator, complete with built-in condensor
- steam regulating equipment
- flow meter
- spiral cooler for cooling the aroma concentrate after
condensation by means of ice water
- cooling system, complete with motor.
Depectinization tank, complete with spray turbine, sight glass,
agitator and motor, volume 5,000 1 each.
Centrifugal pump, complete with motor
Collecting tank complete with spray turbine, agitator and motor,
volume 1,000 1.
Kieselguhr filter, with main feed pump in stainless steel and
autonomous pump for automatic dosing of kieselguhr, complete
with motors.
Intermediate tank, complete with spray turbine, volume 1,000 1.
Centrifugal pump, complete with motor.
Evaporation plant, comprising the following details:
- balance tank
- feed pump, complete with motor
- flow meter
- plate heat exchanger
- vacuum steam heating set
- expanding flow evaporator, complete with spares and
cleaning-in-place equipment
- steam heating set for expanding flow
- concentrate pump for expanding flow
- condensate pump for expanding flow
- plate condensor for expanding flow
- vacuum pump for expanding flow
- cyclone
- feedpump
- evaporator, complete with motors



ANNEX 5
Appendix 2
Page 3
Concentrate tank, volume 500 1 each, complete with scraper
agitator and motor.
Concentrate pump, complete with variator and motor.
Plate heat exchanger in one section for heating of the concen-
trate to filling temperature.
Hot water set complete with circulation pump with motor, steam
regulation valve and temperature regulator.
Cooling unit complete with circulation pump and motors.
Set of product pipings, fittings, valves, etc. for connection
of the various items.
Pomace conveyor of stainless steel screw type - 30 cm diameter,
6 m long.
Pomace dryer. Rotary killer dryer, direct fuel, 4,000 kg wet
charge per hour.
Pomace cooling conveyor made of mild steel.
B.   BOTTLING EOUIPNENT
Tanks - 3,000 1 with pumps
2 Decorator
Pasteurizer
Filler, labeller and closer
Bottle washer
C.   LABORATORY EQUIPMENT
Microscopes
Drying ovens
Refractometers
Various minor equipment
D.   GENERAL EQUIPMENT
- 14 Storage tanks of stainless steel                         2
-    Refrigeration equipment to hold concentrate at 2°C 60 m
-    Steam boiler:  6-7 tons/hr at 6-8 atmosphere pressure
- 2 Trucks
- 1 Jeep






ANNEX q
Table 1
INDIA
HIMACHAL PRADESH APPLE PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
Estimated Production for Ma or A 1. Areas of
-  -Production ('000 tons)- - - - - -
Pro ject
Conmunity                  1971    1974    1975    1976    1977    1978
Kulu District:
1.  Kulu                  10.0    17.0    18.5    20.0    21.5    23.0
2.  Nagar                  6.0    10.5    11.5    12.5    13.5    14.5
3. Harkandi                2.5     4.5      5.0     5.5     6.o      6.5
Mandi District:
1.  Pangna                 6.o   10.5    11.0    12.0    13.0    14.0
2. Aut                     3.0      5.0     5.5     5.5     6.o      6.5
Simla District:
1.  Kotgarh               12.5    21.5    22.0    23.0    24.0    25.0
2.  Kotkhai                6.0    10.0    11.5    13.0    14.5   16.0
3.  sungri                 4.0      7.0     8.5   10.5    .2.0   1h.0
4. Hatkoti                  6.0    10.5    12.5    14.5   16.5    18.5
Sirmur District:
1. Rajgarh                 4.5      7.5     9.0    10.0    11.0    12.0
Total Project Commmnities   60.5   104.0   115.0   126.5   138.0   150.0
Total Himachal Pradesh      98.0   167.0  192.0   213.0  233.0  254.0
Project Communities as
% of Total HP              62       62      60      59      59      59
November 29, 1972



ANNEX 5
Table 2
INDIA
HIMACHAL PRADESH APPLE PROCESSING
AND MARKETING PROJECT
Packing House and Collecticn
5tation Investment Program
First
Input         Operational
Location          District        Capacit            Year
(tons)
1. Packing Houses
1.     Kotgarh             Simla           5,000             1975
2.    Mandrol              Kulu            5,000             1975
3.    Patlikuhl            Kulu            5,000             1975
4.    Chail-Chowk         Mandi           5,000             1975
5.     Oddi (Kotgarh)      Simla           5,000             1976
6.     Kotkhai             Simla           5,000             1976
7.    Sungri               Simla           5,000             1976
8.    Hatkoti              Simla           5,000             1976
9.    Rajgarh              Sirmur          4,000             1976
10.     Bhuntar             Kulu            5,000             1977
11.     Harkandi            Kulu            3,000             1977
12.     Aut                 Mandi           3,000             1977
II. Collection Stations
1.    Rohru                Simla           5,000             1975
2.    Manali               Kulu            5,000             1976
3.    Chindi               Mandi           5,000             1976
November 20, 1973



HIMACHAL PRADESH APPLE PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
Labor Requirements and Costs of Model Packing House-
Nunber Employed           Number of Months
1ndividual at Facj1i    tis            at Packing Stations
.Labor CostL 3t,300  4,o0o   5,000    3,000    4.,000   5,000       3,OOo   h 4,000   5,000
Cate-,ory             Job        P',r "'!.nth  ton    ton      ton       ton       ton     ton         ton     tn      ton
Pdr-':i1 s-tr2t.ioln: Nanager         1,250 Rs.   1        1       1          6       6        6         7,500   7,500   7,500
Accountant             800  I    1        1       1          5       5        5         4,000   4,oO0   4,OOO
*Clerk'i               350  '    2                           3        It      4         2,100   2,800   2,800
¢. n in <- fI600   I 1     1          3       4        4        1,800   2,10o0   2,L400
Cleaner                150  'i   1        1       1          4       4        4           600     600      600
Watch,n.n              150  "    2        2       2          5        5       5         1,500   1,50p   1,500
Driver                 250"    i         1        I         6        6       6          2,000   2 000   2 000
SUB-TOTfAL    -                                                                        ^0Oo
Labor:          Reception
Sup crvisor          500       1        l       1          3       3        3        t,500   1,500   1,500
Truc: '-. oars
& UnJA'lrs          130        6        78                 2        2       2           900   1,050   1,200
Gradinrlg ~'.uneLr'vjors   500   2        2       2          2       2        2        2,000   2,000   2,000
GralerS                'c50      8       10      12          2       2        2        1,000   5,000   6,000
Pai let Porters        150       3                4 4        2       2        2           900   1,200   1, 200
F!E~ eede,rI-s         150       8       1)      12          2        2       2         2,h1O0   3,000   3,600
W^lr.ppers             250      35       4.      52          2       2        2        17,500  22,000  26,000
"G" Handlers           150       3        4       4          2       2        2          900   1,200   1,200
Bo0x Sealers           2 0       6   -            8          2       2        2         3,000   3,500   4,000
Helpe rs               150       2        '       2          2        2       2           60o     600      600
Pallet Lociders        150       3                           2       2        2           900   1,200   1,200
DrsDnaLchivr           500       1        1       1          3       3        3         1,500   1,500   1,500
Checkc;rs              300       2        2       2          2        2       2      t          _        1,200
SUB3-'TOTAL                                                                            z73    44,950  51,220
GRALND TCJ,AL                                                                                  657,750  72,000
December 11, 1972
'r
ax 
CDk



ANNEX 5
TableI4
INDIA
-.MACHL -?P.DESIH A??PLE ?ROCESSING
MND MARKETING PROJECT
Operating Costs of Model Packing Houses
3,000-ton   4,000-ton   5,000-ton
Station     Station     Station
A.  Staff-(Rs'O0O)-,                                        . 
_ - - - - - - Rs'000) - - - - - - -
A. Staff /1-il                             56.8         65.8        72.0
B. Packing Material
Wooden Boxes                        400.0        533.3       666.7
Sundry Material                     286.          81.9       477.4
Subtotal                                    91,144.1
C. Repairs and Maintenance
Structures                            5.5          5.5        5.5
Equipment  /                          10.9        11.4        132
Subtotal                                   '6.9 18.7
D.  Transport V                            42.0         56.o        70.0
3. Utilities and Miscellaneous ./           15.0        18.0        20.0
Total                          8L6.6    1.071.9       l,321.8
1/ See Annex 5, Table 3.
2/  Cost of wooden box at Rs 3.00; cost of sundry packing material per
box of 18 kg: Rs 0.30 for 100 g nails, Rs 0.30 for 300 g woodwool,
Rs 0.85 for.500 g paper, Rs 0.65 for wires, and Rs 0.07 for
stencilling ink.
Y/  1% of initial investment cost.
LI  3% of initial investment cost.
i/  Average transport fee of approximately Rs 0.25 per box
from roadhead to packing house.
6/ Power and light, running cost of manager's jeep, etc.
December 11, 1972



ANNEX 5
Table 3
INDIA
HIMACHAL PRADESH APPLE PROCESSING
AND MARKETING PROJECT
Operating Costs of Model Collection Stations
(Capacity: 5,000 tons per season)
Individual              Number
Labor Cost    Number      of
per Month   iEmployed   Months   Total Cost
(its)                             (Rs)
A. Labor
Manager                  1,000           1        12         12,000
Accountant                  800          1         4          3,200
Assistant Accountant        600          1         4          2.,400
Receiving Supervisor        400          1         4          1,600
Shipping Supervisor        400           1         4          1,600
Porters Supervisor          150         30         32 15,750
Mechanic Supervisor         600          1         h          2,400
Cleaner Supervisor          150          1         4            600
Watchmen                    200          2        12         4h,800
Subtotal                                                 4,35o
B. Repairs and Maintenance
Buildings l/                                                 5a,500
Equipment                                                     2 700
Subtotal                                                8,200
C. Miscellaneous                                                  5,000
Total                                                   57j550
1/ 1% of initial investment cost.
2/ 3% of initial investment cost.
December 11, 1972



ANNEX 5
Table 6
II NDI A
flW..<- ?RRD,0  AE ?L R)'  HSSING AND 1MAi7R:iKING PROJECT
Operating Co3ts on Cold Stores in Marketing Areas
2,000-ton Unit     8,000-ton Complex
in Calcutta           in Delhi
Total               Total
NXnmber    Annual    Number    Annual
Emtloyed   Cost     Employed   Cost
(Rs)                (Rs)
A.  babcr
Manager                                1        12,000      2        2, 000
Plant Engineer                         1         9,000      2        18,000
Mechanics                               3       14,400      6        28,800
Unskilled                              5        17,800     10        35,600
Watchmen                                3        4,200       6        8,400
Porterage                              -           000      -        66 000
Subtotal                                 90,00               180,000
B.  Repairs and Maintenance j                       39,600              158,400
C.  Utilities
Electricity 2/                                  43,500              174,000
Water 3/                                         2,400                9,600
Fuel 147                                         1,000                4,000
Subtotal                                 46,900              187,600
D. Insurance 5/                                     12,000               48,000
E.  Miscellaneous 6/                                 6,ooo               24,000
Total                                          194]900              598 800
Total for 2,000-ton Unit in Delhi 7/                                149,700
1/ l% of investment cost for civil works and 3% of
investment cost for equipment.
2/ 100 kw/h x 16 hs/day x 30 days = 48,000 k- x Rs0.09 = Rs 4,350 per
month x 6 months = Rs 26,100.
3/  '6,000 liters per day at As 0.50 per 1,000 liters for six months.
W  About Rs 100 per monrth.
z/ At Rs 1,000 per rmonth against machinery breakdown, fire, riots, etc.
_/  Storage losses are not included; they are being reflected in a reduced
value per average box of apples leaving the cold storage (see Annex 11,
Table 7).
7/  Only three units of 2,000 tons each would oe constructed under the project
iri Delhi adjacent to the 2,000-ton unit which is at present being built
by the Agro-industries Corporation of Himachal Pradesh.
December 14, 1972



ANNEX 5
Table 7
I-ANDIA
HItAC.AL ?PRAD:3SIi APPLE PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
Operating Costs of Transshipment Center at Delhi/Haryana Border
Total Cost
A.  Labor                                                         (Rs)
1   Manager              at Rs   1,250 per month           ]15,000
1   Assistant Manager   at Rs   1,000  "                    12,000
4   Accountants          at Rs     800  "    t              38,400
2   Clerks              at Rs      500  "    "              12,000
1   Chief Checker       at Rs      900  "                   10,800
8   Checkers            at Rs      600  "                   57,600
4   Watchmen  /          at Rs     200                       4 1  4,800
Loading and
Unloading Costs 2/                                    110,000
Subtotal                                         260,600
B. Repairs and Maintenance
Buildings 3/                                             6,100
Equipment 2                                              2,190
Subtotal                                           8,290
C. Miscellaneous                                                 12,000
Total                                            280,890
1/ Employed for 6 months p.a.
2/ For 20,000 tons at Rs 5.50 per ton.
3/ At 1% of initial investment.
g/ At 3% of initial investment.
December 19, 1972



AN@NEX 5
TableS
:XDIA
'i--^WevA- w;. A5 w.LE PROCESSIN2G
'iiJ .I KETING PROJECT
Labor Req4irements and Costs for Juice Plant
Individual               Number
Labor Cost    Number       of      Total Annual
per Month    Employed   Months         Cost
(Rs)                                 (s
Perman-e t Staff.
Chief Technologist             4,000          1          12        48,000
Manager                        1,250          1          12         15,000
Quality Contro' Expert          2,500         2          12         60,000
Supervisor                        500         1          12          6,000
Mezhanic                         300         1          12          3,600
Electrician                       300         1          12          3,600
Boilermen                        300          2          12          7,200
Bottlers                          300         2          12          7,200
Watchmen                          200         2          12          4,800
Porters                           150         2          12          3,600
Cleaners                          150         1          12          1,800
Foremen                           500         2          12         12,000
Processing Operators              300         2          12          7,200
Subtotal                                                     180,000
Seasonal Labor:
Pomace Plant                      200         6           5         69000
General                           200         6           5         6,000
Boilermen                         300         2           4          2,400
Porters (Plant)                   150        10           4         6,000
Porters (End Product)            150         10           4         6,000
Mechanics                         300         2           4          2,400
Electrician                       300         2           4         29,400
Cleaners                          150        10           4         6!000
3ubtotal                                                      37200
Grand Tota21l
Decemdber 12, 1972



ANNEX 5
Table 9
INDIA
HIMACHAL PRA3ESH APPLE PROCESSING AND MARInTING PROJECT
Operating Cost of Model Apple Juice
Concentrate and Essence Plant
Rs I O0)0
A. Raw Material 1/                                               5,500.0
B.  Labor /                                                         217.6
C. Repairs and Maintenance
Buildings                                                     5.9
Equipment e                                                 139.8
Subtotal                                               145.7
D.  Utilities 5/                                                   420.0
E.  Output Containers y                                             948.8
F.  Insurance and Miscellaneous 7/                                   12.7
Total                                                7,244.8
Operating Cost per ton of produced concentrate:           Rs 6,098
1/ 11,000 tons of apples at Rs 500/ton.
Z/ See Annex 5, Table 8.
3/ 1% of initial investment.
4/ 3% of initial investment.
5/ Electricity, fuel, water.
6/ 20 kg containers at Rs 15.
/ Insurance rate estimated at 1/2% of building and equipment cost.
December 12, 1972






ANNEX 6
Page 1
INDIA
HIMACHAL PRADESH APPLE PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
Project Transport Improvement
Introduction
1.        The project calls for the improvement of existing roads and the
construction of new roads in the project production area to overcome the
increasingly difficult transport situation. In addition, aerial cableways
would be established in remote apple production areas where porters are not
available and roads not economically justified. The new roads constructed
under the project would fall into two categories: access and feeder. Access
roads would connect packing stations and feeder roads would connect orchards
to the state highway network.
2.        Some roads would allow for the expansion of existing apple growing
areas while other roads would induce development of new areas. Mbst roads
would induce incremental production of many agricultural commodities in
addition to their impact on apple production. Since there would be 12
packing houses and 3 collection stations and each would need to be serviced
by access and feeder roads to ensure a total supply of about 55,000 tons
of apples per annum to the packing houses, the road construction and
improvement program in Appendix 1 has been agreed at negotiations. The
road works required can be summarized as follows:
Access     Feeder
Roads      Roads       Total
------r--- -
New Construction                       14          83         97
Improvements
- Cross drainage, base and
surfacing                       -         267         267
-  Base and surfacing only            -         37          37
Total                       14         387         401
All roads over which apples travel would have to be bituminized to reduce
bruising of fruit. The project also calls for the supply of maintenance
equipment to keep the roads open during the harvest period.
Road Design Standards
3.        As apples are very susceptible to bruising, the roads, particu-
larly those over which apples would be transported in an unpacked state



ANNEX 6
Page 2
\  --S-.-i :-ear~ zo pae=n; r.c-ses). wou'ld have to be built with a high quality
r.LainS surface. Furt.rermore, as transport would take place largely during
tae :[onsoon saason, the surface should be sufficiently durable to resist
weather damage. Accordingly, the project roads would be built to the
following standards:
(a)  Access: to a formation width of 3.65 m and
pr3vided wih- a 2.45 m wide bitumen surface; they
will be widener  to 4.9 m formation with 3.05 m bitumen
surface on corners to permit passing; and
F Feeder:  to a formation width of 4.9 m with a
2.45 m wide bitumen surface.
4.        Because of the precipitous nature of the terrain, the roads would
be located along mountain sides and would be designed geometrically to follow
the contour of the hillsides. Radius of curvature would be reduced to an
absolute minimum so that the roads could follow the terrain and be located
entirely on cut. Detailed designs and cost estimates have been prepared by
P'WID.
Road Cost Estimates
5.        Costs per km of the various types of work which would be involved
range as follows:
(a)  Access Roads                             Rs/Km
(i)  new construction                50,000 to 300,000
(b) Feeder Roads
(i)  new construction (complete)  125,000 to 250,000
(ii)  cross drainage                  20,000 to  50,000
(iii); base and surfacing              45,000 to  50,000
Based on these estimates, total road investment cost would amount to
Rs 45.0 millio,-. For details on the road construction program, see Appendix
.  Since roa. maintenance coszs are presently estimated at about Rs 4,500
oer ann._n, the maintenance budget for project roads would total Rs 1.8
million ner anrnum.
Execcution of Road Ptowram.
6.        General.  The transportation component of the project would be
c-rried out by da:e    174 with detailed plans and specifications for the work.
-. the field, construc-:on works would be controlled by Works Divisions,
eac& under tnhe charge of an 'xecutive Engineer.  The supervision organization
woula be discussed at negotiations.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
7.        Construction.  The improvement of existing roads and construction
of new roads under the project would form part of the State's Road Develop-
ment Plan for the next four years, in which they would be accorded priority.
Due to a relatively short construction season (6 months), contractors have
been unwilling to undertake work in the hilly areas. The State therefore
executes about 70% of its roacl development by force account with manual labor.
Some local contractors undertake the balance; this system works statisfactorily.
Accordingly, it is recommended that this method be used to undertake the road
work necessary for the project.
8.        Maintenance.  The PWD would assume responsibility for maintaining
the roads to be improved or constructed under the project. To reduce land-
slide-caused transport delays, which can be as long as seven days, FWD would
need additional maintenance equipment of an approximate value of US$0.7
million (Annex 9, Table 8).
Cableways
9.        General.  To help relieve the increasing transportation problem
of farmers in remote areas in getting the apples from orchards to the
roadheads, the project would provide farmers with various cableways
of a total length of about 40 km. These would be the first cableways for
agricultural produce in HP. Locations for the cableways would be determined
where the transportation situation is particularly bad and becoming increasingly
difficult. If the project cableways prove effective, it is expected that
cableway installation would be extended to other areas. Calculations show
that the financial viability would be satisfactory. Various cableway designs
are available and the most suitable type would be selected on the basis of
suppliers submitting turnkey proposals. Although the cableways would be
primarily constructed for apple transport, efforts would be made to utilize
them in the apple off-season for other agricultural produce, mainly potatoes,
and also for getting inputs to the farmers.
10.       Equipment, Engineering and Construction.  The basic equipment
for the cableways would be steel cables, trestles, cradle cars, an electric
or combustion motor with a driving winch, and anchorings and holding devices.
A number of concrete loading platforms would be constructed along the cable-
ways so that growers could avoid uphill carrying of apples to the greatest
extent possible. Right-of-way would be only a minor problem, since (a) only
insignificant parts of land would be needed; and (b) the cableways would
cross mainly orchards from which they would carry apples. The tentative
requirements on the performance of one cableway would be: (a) length: two
to eight km; (b) gradient: 45° to 60°; (c) capacity: five to ten tons per
hour; and (d) speed: five to six km per hour. Bidders would present their
respective engineering studies and design proposals. Engineering and
execution would be closely supervised by BID.
11.       Operation.  As it is anticipated that the cableways operating
season would be increased beyond the apple harvest season and utilization
of capacity expanded, AIC would be running this part of the project as a
means of public commodity transportation. In Table 1, operating costs of a



ANNEX 6
Page 4
moe  cabieway are identified.  Major items among the operating cost would be
repairs and maintenance (nainly because of the high replacement cost for
cables), and labor. 7Te operators would be employed permanently. They would
also be responsible for routine maintenance and ensure that the cableways
would be useable all year round. In addition, two laborers would be employed
termanently. During the apple harvest season, an additional ten unskilled
laborers would work for the cableways.
7.2. ~ pFees. To keep transportation fees as low as possible, the utili-
Z'L_;-n per hour and per annum should be maximized. This could be mainly
acnie-d by two means:  (a) an individual cableway should connect as many
weil-b earing orchards as possible, and (b) most of the cableway catchment
area should be at least 3 km away from the next roadhead. To determine
appropriate users' fees and AIC rentals the mission projected a cash flow for
A:C cableway operations (incorporated in Annex 13) based on the following
operational assumptions: (a) the catchment area of one cableway would consist
of 1,000 ha (5 km length and supply areas of 1 km on both sides, for instance);
(b) the marketed apple production would be at least 5,000 tons in each catch-
ment area (for instance, 500 ha at an average yield of 10 tons); (c) the
average distance of the lift would be 3 km and, therefore, fees would be
collected for 15,000 km-tons; (d) utilization would increase to 20,000 km-tons
within five years. It was found that a breakeven operation would require
a pro-rated fee of about Rs 40 per km per ton. If only apples were transported
by the cableway, the minimum fee to be charged per case of apples (18 kg)
would be about Rs 0.80 per km. This rate and even higher ones would be
readily acceptable to apple growers in remote areas where transport of the
apples to the roadheads immediately after picking has become most critical.
This fee level would also be in line with the porters' remunerations in areas
where porters are still available. The pro-rated cableway fees might be
reduced to the extent other commodities would be transported.
13.       Maintenance Requirements.  Particularly during the first season,
a qualified maintenance/operation technician would have to be available
within 24 hours. The cableways supplier should be committed to provide this
service. For subsequent years, it should be ensured that for major repairs,
mechanical services would be available within two to three days, particularly
during the apple harvesting season. Finally, there would be routine visits
before and after the apple season by a qualified technician to ensure proper
maintenance, PWD would have trained a sufficient number of cableway
.echr.>izans by an appropriate organization.



ANNEX 6
Appendix 1
INDIA
hIMACHAIE PRADESH APPE 9 PROCESSINC
AND MARKETING IROJECT
Road Works Prcgras
Work to be Done
Brefore
Packing House/                                                                km                 Apple
Collection                                                                Cross    Base anJ   Harvest
District           Station                      Road                           Formation  Drainage  Surfacing  Season
Simla          Kotgarh                Access to Packing House                        1        1           1        1975
Thavedar-Bhutti                               -         7           7        1975
Kotgarh-Bhera                                 -        15          15        1975
Yarol-Gasan                                   -         6           6        1975
Kulu            Mandr,3l              Access to Packing House                        1        1           1         1975
Dhobi-Fozal                                   -         5           5        1975
?androl-Bysor                                 6         6           6        1975
Kulu           Patlikuhl              Access to Packing House                        1        1           1         1975
Kulu-Naggar                                   -         -          10        1975
Patlikuhl-Pattgan                             7         7           7        1975
Mandi           Chail Chowk           Access to Packing House                        1        1           1         1975
Simnla-Mandi                                           13          13        1975
Kukrigalu-Pangwas                                  4                4        1975
Sakor a-Link                                  1         1           1        1975
Simla           Oddi                  Access to Packing House                        1        1           1         1976
Oddi-Kotgarh                                   -       21          21         1976
Simdla          Kotkhai               Access to Packing House                        1         1          1         1976
Deori-Kotkhai                                 2        10          10         1976
Chaila-Chopal                                  -        -          26         1976
Simla           Sungri                Access to Packing House                        1         1          1         1976
Narkanda-Babli                                 -       18          18         1976
Sungri-Samarkot                                -       13          13         1976
Simla           Hatkoti               Access to Packing House                        1         1          1         1976
Kolahara-Auti                                17        26          26         1976
Sirmur          RaJgarh               Solan-Meenus                                   -        14         14         1976
Ra.jgarh-Sainj                                 -       13          13         1976
Shallana-Paivi                               10        10          10         1976
Kulu            Bhuntar               Access to Packing House                        1         1          1         1977
Bhuntar-Garsa                                  -       14          14         1977
Kulu-Karaon                                    -       14          14         1977
Kulu            Harkandi              Access to Packing House                        2         2          2         1977
Bhuntar-Manikaran                              -       20          20         1977
Mandi           Aut                   Aut-Prashar                                    -         6           6        1977
Aut-Banjar                                     -       24          24         1977
Shoja-Rebri                                   12       12          12         1977
SirAla          Rohru                 Access to Collection StatLon                   1         1           1        1975
Mehndli-Tikkar                                 4       14          14         1975
Rohru-Chirgaon                                 -        8           8         1975
Kansa-Dalgao                                   4       11          11         1975
Kulu            Manali                Access to Collection StatLon                   1         1           1        1976
Mandi           Cbindi                Access to Collection StatLon                   1         1           1        l976
Simla-Tattapani                                -       17          18        1976
Kheel-Pangna                                  12       12          12         1976
Churag-Chamanpura                              4        4           4         1976
Jack-Presi                                                                    1 5  5  1976
TOTAL                     97                  1 401
November 26, 1973






ANNEX 6
Table 1
INDIA
HIIACHAL PRaDESH APPTR PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
Operating Costs of a Model Cableway
(Length: five km)
individual             Number
Laoor Cost  Number    of
per Month   aployed  Months  'rotal Cost
(is)                         (Rs'OOO)
A. Staff
Operator                          700         1        12          8.1,
Assistants                        500         3        12         18.0
Permanent Laborers                200         2        12           .8
Seasonal Laborers                 200        10         3          6.0
Subtotal                                                 37.2
B. Repairs and Maintenance 1/                                           50.6
C. Electricity 2/                                                        2.5
D. Land 3/                                                               0.5
E. Overheads                                                            12.0
Total                                                   102.8
I/ h,t) p. . of investment cost in civil works and equipment (see Annex 9).
2/  25 kwh at Rs .10, ,1,000 h p.a.
I/  Long-term land lease and rights of way have been costed conservatively
at Rs 100 per 1cr of cableway p.a.
February- 8, 1973






ANNEX 7
Page 1
IN%DIA
HIMACRAL PRADESH APPLE PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
Technical Assistance/Training Programs
Technical Assistance
1.        As the project is the first of its type in India and of a very
complex nature, considerable know-how has to be imported and transferred
to local staff to ensure successful project operation. In SDR a department
would be established with exclusive responsibility for technical assistance
and training. Two types of technical assistance would be financed under the
project: (a) activities of foreign consultants in India to assist in training
project staff and in design and initial operation of facilities; and (b)
training of project staff in foreign countries. Five-foreign consultants
would work for a total of 75 man-months in India. Twenty-one Indian staff
would undergo a totalftraining period of 99 man-months abroad.  Three foreign
hosts would make all necessary day-to-day arrangements for this overseas
training and, as much as useful, accompany the Indian trainees abroad to
maximize the training success. The total technical assistance cost is estimated
at Rs 3,940,000 (about US$493,000). The proposed technical assistance and
training program has been summarized in Appendices 1 and 2, and Chart WB-
7321(3R).
General Scope of Training
2.        Training would be given to both senior and junior project staff
in India and abroad. Senior staff would be trained mainly individually,
particularly abroad, while junior staff would undergo training in groups
of more than 10 participants. Local training would consist of two major
components, namely instruction courses with occasional field trips and
on-job training. Three types of training courses (and attendance at such
courses) would be financed under the project, namely, in: (a) apple
quality control; (b) apple packing plant, cold storage and sales management;
(c) sales promotion; and (d) cableways operation and maintenance. All these
courses would be held in India, some of them probably in Himachal Pradesh,
and would cost an estimated total of Rs 880,000 (Table 1). On-job training
would be given both during construction and the initial operation periods
of the project facilities. The foreign consultants would play a key role
in planning and establishing the training programs and also in training the
future senior project staff.
Training of Packing Houses and Cold Storage Staff
3.        General Packing Plant Supervisor.  There should be one general
supervisor of the packing plant managers. Minimum qualifications for the
position is a B.A. or B.S. degree in Agricultural Economics or Business



ANNEX 7
Page 2
Administration. He should have several years of management experience.
This general supervisor should have six months managerial training in
large apple packing companies, which should include several packing plants.
The trainee should be attached to management personnel; for applied training,
potential training sites are Sica Pomanjou in France, British Columbia Fruit
Growers in B.C., Canada, and Skookum Inc. at Wenatchee, Washington. General
managerial training could be further emphasized at Blue Goose Growers,
Sacramento, California.
4.        Agricultural Engineer.  Thirteen apple packing plant maintenance
supervisors are needed. One, who should be a trained agricultural engineer,
would be the chief technical supervisor for all packing plants. After
adequate training on packing house equipment, installation and maintenance
abroad, he would train the other 12 plant maintenance supervisors. He would
devote six months to working both at an equipment manufacture factory
assisting with installation of equipment and in an operating packing plant,
emphasizing maintenance of equipment being planned for use in India. A
foreign engineer should be supplied by the equipment company to supervise
and instruct during the installation of packing equipment, particularly for
the first line to be installed.
5.        Apple Quality Control Courses.  Two separate classes should be
conducted: one for 18 packing plant managers and 13 packing line superin-
tendents, and a second one for 13 grade and quality inspectors plus four
cold storage quality control superintendents. Basic training needs include
training in post-harvest fruit characteristics. This would be accomplished
with a three-month course using applied experience with fruit and measuring
instruments. General subjects of training would include: (a) maturity
and ripening processes of fruit - a subject which needs to be applied to
fruit from different producing areas and variable responses by year, variety
and exposure; (b) responses of fruit at different maturity levels to post-
harvest exposure to temperature, humidity, atmosphere; (c) post-harvest
fruit disorders and control measures; (d) training and experience with fruit
characteristic measuring instruments; and (e) economics of product standardi-
zation and quality control in fruit marketing.
6.        The courses should be conducted in the apple-producing area of
Himachal Pradesh, possibly near the Agricultural Research Station at
Mashobra and the University of Simla. Teaching staff could include staff
members of SDH, Mashobra Research Station and University. These personnel
would be assisted by the two foreign experts with experience in packing
plant management and apple quality control with emphasis on Red Delicious
and Golden Delicious apples (Appendix 1).
7.        Management Courses.  A course to increase the managerial skills
of 18 packing plant managers would include such subject matters as annual
and seasonal planning for packing house operation; fruit handling; labor
management; planning daily, weekly, monthly schedules; coordination of
fruit transport; maintaining a fruit quantity and quality log (record) for
each grower's fruit. The general packing plant supervisor (para 2) would,



ANNEX 7
Page 3
after two six-month training periods, one in india and one in a foreiga
apple industry area, supervise this course which is expected to last three
months.  The three cold storage managers would have to attend a three-month
general management course, preferably in India. Tne project entity would
have to select trainees and book -hem for suitable courses immediately
after the date of effectiveness.
8.        Field Training.  Technical skillls associated with harvest
maturity, measurement, grading, packaging, transporting and storing apples
would have to be developed. Tnis would be accomplished through field and
laboratory experience provided by periodic field trips and work periods
over five months from August through December. It would require full time
training during the first two months of apple harvest followed by four
market field trips in the months of November, December and January. General
subject matter for training would be the same as that covered in the course
on quality control. The difference would be the emphasis on using the
actual product and following it through the normal market channels. This
should be planned and conducted by that part of the staff which presented
the course and should also include the two foreign experts and SDA represen-
tatives.
Training of Sales Staff
9.        Sales Managers.  Practical training for six months abroad, and
attendance of a management course for three months, would constitute a minimum
training period and should be provided for the three managers. The recom-
mendation for practical training is based on the assumption that three well-
trained but inexperienced managers can be recruited. If their academic
training is weak, a much longer theoretical training program would be required.
A foreign consultant (Appendix 1) capable of organizing the training program
for managers would be particularly necessary to make the most effective use
of the foreign component of the managers' training program.
10.       Sales Promotion Training Program.  A training program for the 15
salesmen would be planned and conducted with considerable assistance from
the expatriate senior marketing expert. This training would use local
talent as instructors supplemented by occasional lectures from the senior
marketing expert. A six-month training period could be effectively used.
Training of Juice Concentrate Plant Staff
11.       Processing Engineer.  The processing plant engineer must be a
graduate food equipment processing engineer.  Tra_ning time would cover
one year of applied experience. It should begin with approximately six
months satellite work with a foreign equipment manufacturer. There should
be an opportunity to assist with installation of equipment in a pi-ant. A
six-month assignment should follow in an operating processing plant using
equipment like that to be used in the proposed plant.
12.       Food Technologists.  Two Indian fcod technologists should have a
minimum of M.S. in food technology and preferably also experience with food



ANNEX 7
Page 4
processing. Training shouic include.nine months' experience working in
deciduous fruit processing plants, which emphasize processed apple products.
Preferred location would be Western Europe. In India the food technologists
would also attend one of the two apple quality control courses (para 5).
13.       Processing P?ant Yanagers.  HPMC would hire and arrange training
for two processing plant managers. Minimum qualification should be a B.A. or
B.S. degree in Business Administration and a successful record of several
years' managemnent experience. The project would finance a minimum of
three months' theoretical training for the processing plant managers.
Addit. inal On-Job Training
14.       After having undergone the above training all trainees would
continue to be on the payroll of the project corporation. If the facilities
to which they would be assigned were not yet operating, they would be
assisting in and supervising construction of those facilities; supervising
installation of equipment; obtaining additional instruction during the test
run periods of the first facilities to operate; and assisting their colleagues
in charge of those facilities already operating. For training of cableways
technicians see Appendix 2 and Annex 6, paragraph 13.



ANREX 7
INDIA                                                                    Appendix 1
HETACLA PRADESH APPLE PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
Technical Assist-anc  Reguiresist and Coot Estimates
I.  Foreign Consoltants
Poreton Exchange
Total                     Total 0oot        FCo-,nto,
Type of Consultanrt                     S accord Terms of Reference                                             Tine Needed                     (so cO  rt        2T 7        (1)
Senior Packing Plant Manager           Assist in preparnog training programs and bidding documents;               9 months                         320            250          78
anstroct in course; onpeovie and re-vew test  -n of firat
4 packing hiuas.; p-iodc cc-job ts--ing
Post Harvest Quolty Control            A.Sant in preparmig training progras   inmstruct in coursen;             12 months                          350            250          71
Spe,cial-t                             noperv-se and review test run of first 4 packing house-;
provide on-job training; instruct farmers and horticultural
exteonnon workers
Senior rood Technologiot                Assist in preparing training program, designs and tender                18 months                          720             600         83
doscisnts for Joins concantrate plant; sapervise and rveels
test run of juIce plant; orovlde on-job training in juice
enntaeplant
Food ProF,-snag Mocro-                  Assist in preparing training programs, designs and tender                12 notFthc                        42I             345         01
BEologist                               docssents for juice concentrate plant; assist 1n supervlsing
laboratory installation and in starting to operate labcratory
Senior Marketing Specialist            Assist in preparxg training programs, particularly organhie                6 months                         320            270          84
overseas tcaining for fature sales staff in apple marketing,
provide adonce on marketig tecnisqiea, itclodiog amone other
things iootruotionn  in sales promotion cor.se, prepare product
spesifinatla- far j.ies .noasntrate plant
3 Rosts fir Indian                     Yoke arrangeo-nts for Indian trainees abroad, and if  -seful             18 months                          630             630        100
Trainees Abroad                         accompany those trann.e.
Sobtotal                                                                                                        75 months                        2,76o          2,4A 3,S
II.  Zveras Teatning of Indian Staff                                                                        Poa-ls             Tsme          Total                        Foreign E-nhang,
Train.ing       Pe2usrd       Ran-Moaths   Tiial CooIt           C ompoent
No.  Type of Staff                           Major Trainig Subjects                                    Countrceo       Overoeas        t-oersean      (Rs'C00)       (6 13      n
I    General Picking Plait                   Apploed management of apple packing                      Carada,          6 months                           9 0            75         53
Supervisor                              opera-toon                                               USA or
France
1    Agric-ltural Engineer for               Engne-ring, op-arton  aid namtinance                     USA or           t months           6               92             75         83
Packing Equipment                       of apple pcking plants                                  Western
3urope
1    Food Proceosong Equtpent                Engineering, operation and maintenance                   Western         12 months          12             14Z             110         79
Eng.nee.                                of fruit jouce concentrate plant                         Europe
equipment
2    Food Prooenocng Technologists           Frut products quality interpretatioc                     Western          9 nonths          18             180             130         72
Europe
3    Sales Offace Managers                   Sales -rgan-tson ond promotion                           Canada           6 months          li             360             300         i3
or USA
13    Grade and go-i1ty Control               Fresh apple qpality onterprattata                         C anada         3 months          39              320            250         78
Inspectora                                                                                       or USA
Subtotal                                                                                                                           99            1,180            941          80
Total Teohnical Assista..a Costs                                                                                                     -           3,940          3,28d          83
4/ Including transportation tosts, slaries and travel allowances.
Jauary 15, 1973






ANNEX 7
Table 1
INDIA
HIACHAL PRAJESH APPLE PROCESSING AND MARKiTlIN  PROJECT
Cost Estimates for Instruction Courses
(Rs'ooo)
Two apple quality control courses for a total
of 49 participants, for three months each                     130
Attendance of 26 Project Staff at various
management courses, for three months each                     390
Sales promotion course for 15 salesmen, for
six months                                                    360
Total                           880
1/ Cost would be all local; instructions by foreign consultants have
been excluded from this table as they have been accounted for in
Annex 7 , Appendix 1.
June 1, 1973






ANNEX 8
Page 1
INDIA
HIMACHAL PRADESH APPLE PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
Engineering and Construction Procedures
1.        General.  As pointed out in Annex 11, due to the nature of the
project all activities would be integrated. The investment program has
been so designed that each project facility would be utilized to the greatest
extent possible from its very beginning. The phasing chart for the project
facilities (WB - 7320(4R)) shows, in detail, how the investment program
would be implemented, starting in late 1973 and terminating by the middle
of 1977. The packing houses would be the most critical facilities and
given highest priority, as improved grading and packing would be the basic
activities of the project. No engineering consultants would be needed for
the packing houses, collection stations and the transshipment center, since
construction would be of a fairly simple nature and the packing equipment of
a standard type. However, for the cold stores and the processing plant,
engineering consultants would have to be employed. It is anticipated that
engineering know-how would be available in India for cold stores, but that
for the processing plant foreign engineering consultants would have to be
hired. HPMC would be in charge of planning and developing the project
facilities. HP Government would give assurances that the SDH and PWD would
assist HPMC in doing this by providing the technical know-how needed. HP
Government would also help identify and acquire suitable construction land
in time. The two Appendices to this Annex identify the major engineering
activities anticipated. Paragraphs 2 to 5 describe the engineering and
construction procedures proposed for each group of facilities.
2.        Procedures for Packing Houses.  Based on the descriptions in
paragraphs 9 and 10 of Annex 5, HPMC would, immediately after credit effec-
tiveness, start site selection and acquisition procedures as well as the
specific engineering work for the first four packing houses. HPMC would use
the relevant data collected by SDH by that time (SDH started a survey of
the heaviest apple production areas in late 1972 to provide sufficient
information for a packing house location analysis). HPMC would draw on SDH's
and PWD's expertise as needed. In addition, an expatriate senior packing
plant manager (see Annex 7, Appendix 1) would assist HPMC in conducting the
planning and engineering work and preparing the tender documents for these
first packing houses. It would be a condition of credit effectiveness that
HPMC would have such an expert under contract. This expert would also,
together with SDH and PWD staff, assist HPMC in evaluating the bids for
construction and equipment. Construction and installation of equipment
would be supervised by HPMC staff, particularly the agricultural engineer
and competent PWD staff. In addition, the grading and packing equipment
supplier would provide an engineer to instruct and supervise during the
installation of equipment. Plans worked out and procedures followed for



ANNEX 8
Page 2
establishing the first four packing houses would be the basis for developing
the other eight packing houses.
3.        Procedures for Forwarding Facilities.  Engineering and construction
procedures for the three collection stations and the transshipment center
would be identical with those proposed for the packing houses with two
exceptions: (a) equipment would be a minor investment item, fairly simple
and locally procured; and (b) land acquisition for the transshipment center
at the Haryana/Delhi border might be more difficult, since the site would be
outside HP.
4.        Procedures for Cold Stores.  To accommodate some output of the packing
houses in the first operating season, two cold stores would be established
by mid-1975. To meet this deadline, planning and engineering works would
start immediately after effectiveness. HPMC would contract suitable engineer-
ing consultants (most probably an Indian firm) immediately upon its establish-
ment and this would be a condition of effectiveness. Appendix 1 may serve
as a basis for terms of reference for these consultants. The first two cold
storage units would be attached to the existing AIC cold store in Delhi. A
third unit would be added to this cold storage complex within the following
year so that it would be operating in the 1976 season. Another cold store
would be built simultaneously in Calcutta. The basic design of these cold
stores, i.e. one-story vs. multi-story construction, would be determined
by analyzing the cost structure, particularly the trade-offs between site
costs, construction and equipment costs, and operating costs. A plan of a
multi-story apple cold store, as recently built in Bombay, is shown on Chart
WB-7266. Equipment suppliers would provide a resident engineer to instruct
and supervise during installation and the first three months of operation.
5.        Procedures for Processing Plant.  As can be learned from paragraphs
22 and 23 of Annex 5, the juice concentrate plant would require fairly
sophisticated equipment. Since only one Indian firm, Vulcan Laval Ltd.,
in Poona produces part of this kind of equipment, procurement would be made
through international competitive bidding. As this would be the first
modern apple juice concentrate plant in India, the engineering know-how
would have to be imported. To have the plant operate as early as possible,
planning and engineering works would be started immediately after effective-
ness. A condition of effectiveness would be that HPMC would have a suitable
engineering team under contract. This team would work closely together
with two of the foreign consultants who would be assigned to HPMC under the
technical assistance program (Annex 7 and WB-7321(3R)), the Senior Food
Technologist and the Food Micro-biologist, and these two specialists should
preferably be employees of the same consultant firm. In this way engineer-
ing and training would be integrated from the very beginning of the planning
stage. The engineering consultants should also take into account the
findings of a survey to be made on the product specifications desired by
potential distributors of the apple juice. Detailed terms of reference
for the engineering consultants are given in Appendix 2.



ANNTEX 8
Appendix I
Page 1
INDIA
HIMACHAL PRADESH APPLE PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Engineering Work for Packing Houses,
Forwarding Facilities and Cold Stores
1.       General Scope of Engineering Work
(a) Field information:
(1) topography and soil of selected site;
(2) availability and location of utilities;
(3) road and rail connections;
(b) Review the proposed site and operational requirements;
(c) Prepare preliminary layouts for approval by HPMC;
(d) Prepare preliminary cost estimates of approved layouts;
(e) Prepare technical specifications for equipment;
(f) Prepare technical specifications including local building
material and methods to be used for the civil works;
(g)  Prepare detailed design drawings;
(h) Prepare time table and phasing chart for execution;
(i) Prepare tender documents;
(j)  Receive, analyze and tabulate tenders which would be made
to HPMC;
(k) Revise cost estimates;
(1) Evaluate the qualifications of responding contractors;
(m)  After award has been made, maintain at least one on-site
engineer to supervise the work and performance of civil,
equipment and electricity contractors;



ANNEX 8
Appendix 1
Page 2
(n)  Review and follow through contractors' and suppliers'
schedules;
(o) Maintain construction accounts;
(p) Check computations, prepare change orders, examine and
certify contractors' applications for payments;
(q) Advise and assist hPMC and contractors;
kj)  Upon comwletion of the works, furnish record drawings
of the facility "as built and machinery installed" and
assemble catalogues, operation manuals, and written
guarantees to be supplied by the contractors;
(s) Supervise the test runs and adjustment of machinery;
and
(t)  Make final inspect±on and submit acceptance documents.
2.        Preparation of Tender Documents.  Tender documents would be
prepared under the direction of HPMC. In the case of the cold stores and
the juice plant, the engineering consultants would be responsible for
preparing all the documents for tendering of the construction and equip-
ment supply and installation contracts. The tender documents for both
civil works and equipment would include, inter alia:
(a) Bidding advertisement and tender invitations;
(b) General contract conditions;
(c) Special contract conditions;
(d) Technical specifications;
(e) Design drawings required for bidding and construction:
(1) Structural engineering designs:
(2) Civil engineering layouts including site drawings; and
(3)  Mcr--inery layout (if needed at this stage, i.e. if not
expected to be provided by bidders" and specifications;
Kf)  Information on. availability of utilities;
(g) Instruction zo bidders:
(h)  Form of contractor's bids (bid form);



ANNEX 8
Appendix 1
Page 3
(i) Form of construction contract; and
(j) Questionnaires and qualification forms as needed for
qualification of contractors.
The above documents shall show clearly all requirements necessary to carry
out the construction contracts and shall conform to accented Indian
engineering practices. For the cold stores, the engineering consultants
shall submit all documents to HPMC for consultation, review and approval
before having tender documents provided in final form. The engineering
consultants would have the major responsibility of providing clarification
of the tender documents to inquiring construction contractors and equipment
suppliers, and notification of such clarifications to all other contractors
and suppliers.
3.        Site Investigations.  The engineers concerned shall examine and
review all maps, charts and geological information available from the
government and the municipality. They shall then check the accuracy of these
data to provide basic information for preliminary project assessment.  They
shall take soil samples and have conducted soil tests in a reliable institute
or laboratory, as required by the materials obtained. If several alternative
sites are available, consultants shall make recommendations on final site
selection only after the engineering design and the financial analysis have
been completed.
Specific Additional Terms of Reference for Cold Storage Consultants
4.        Preliminary Engineering Design.  Considering the site(s) available,
the consultants shall prepare and evaluate alternative layouts. They shall
take into account operational requirements to determine:
(a) The construction materials and techniques best suited for
the site giving particular consideration to the outside
temperatures;
(b) The type of refrigeration equipment taking into account its
anticipated load and the availability of service and spare
parts;
(c) The type of stand-by generator;
(d) The availability of utilities.
The drawings in the consultants' report shall give the dimens:ons aad
typical cross-sections of the building and vaJor features of the proposed
design. The consultants shall also propose specif ications for suitable
equipment taking into account spare parts availability and service situation.
5.        Time Schedule and Reports.  The consultants shall submit to HPIMC:



ANNEX 8
Appendix 1
Page 4
(a)  A Draft Report - within three months after the starting date,
summarizing all works performed, findings and recommendations
for site, layout, design and implementation.
(b) A Final Report - within one month following receipt of the
HPMC's comments on the final draft report, incorporating
all tne necessary revisions and accompanied by all the
drawings and desiga data.
In addition to the above, the consuetants shall, at any time, furnish
E.PMC ulth such information as it may reasonably request to follow the
progress of the work. All these reports and documents shall become the
exclusive property of HPMC.
6.        Preparation of Tender Documents Bid Evaluation.  The consultants
shall be responsible for preparing all the documents required for
tendering the construction and equipment contracts. They shall submit to
WPMC draft tender documents (which shall cover all items listed in paragraph
2) one month after the final report. Within 15 days following receipt of
HPMC comments on the draft documents the consultants shall present the
final documents which shall incorporate the necessary revisions. They shall
also help evaluate bids.
7.        Execution.  The consultants shall provide an engineer to
supervise construction and installation of equipment, test runs and
adjustment of equipment. This engineer shall make the final inspection
and submit the acceptance documents to HPMC.
8.        Time Estimates are presented below:
man-months
1.   Design and Tender Documents           6
2.   Evaluation of Bids                    1
3.   Supervision of Construction
and Equipment Installation            3
4.   Test Run                              2
Total                          12



ANNEX 8
Appendix 2
Page 1
INDIA
HIMACHAL PRADESH APPLE PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
Detailed Terms of Reference for Juice Concentrate
Plant Engineering Consultants
General Scope of Work
1.        An engineering consultant firm would be contracted before
effectiveness of the Credit to assist HPMC in planning and establishing
the proposed juice concentrate plant. The general duties of the consultants
would be as follows:
(a)  Determine the functional requirements of the plant taking
fully into account the results of a market survey to be
conducted (Main Report, para 3.10);
(b)  Recommend the optimal general location of the plant for
approval by HPMC;
(c)  Obtain field information for alternative sites available:
(1) topography and soil,
(2) availability and location of utilities, particularly
water and electricity,
(3) road and rail connections;
(d)  Prepare preliminary layouts for approval by HPMC;
(e)  Prepare preliminary cost estimates for construction, equipment
and maintenance;
(f)  Make financial analysis of future plant operations, including
a financial forecast (income statement and cash flow
projections) for the first five years of operation (by months
for the operating seasons to show the working capital
requirements);
(g)  If and when results of previous work has been approved
by HPMC, prepare detailed design drawings;
(h)  Prepare specificati6ns and layouts;
(i)  Prepare tender documents, including forms for contractors'
qualifications in consultation with IDA through PWD;



ANNEX 8
Appendix 2
Page 2
(j) Prepare tender documents, including forms for contractors'
qualifications in consultation with IDA through PWD;
(k) Receive, analyze and tabulate tenders which would be
made to HPMC;
(1) Recommend specific site and layout based upon proposed
capacity and product mix as well as storage and process
design and flow diagram for approval by HPMC;
(m) Recommend awards to HPMC;
(n) Revise financial forecast;
(o) Assign at least one engineer to supervise the work and
performance of all civil, mechanical and electrical
contractors;
(p)  Review and follow through contractors' and suppliers'
schedules;
(q) Check computations, prepare change orders, examine and
certify contractors' applications for payments;
(r) Advise and assist HPMC and contractors;
(s) Upon completion of the works, furnish record drawings
of the project "as built and installed" and assemble cata-
logues, operation manuals, and written guarantees to be
supplied by the contractors;
(t)  Supervise and review the test runs and adjustment of
machinery; and
(u) Make final inspection and submit acceptance documents.
2.        The consultants shall cooperate fully with HPMC which will provide
the necessary data, facilities and services. The consultants shall, however,
be solely responsible for the analysis and interpretation of all data received
and for the findings, conclusions and recommendations contained in their
reports. The consultants shall first carry out a preliminary study to
recommend a specific site, layout, process design and flow diagram (k) above,
and will continue when HPMC approves those recommendations.
Preliminary Study
3.        Site Investigations.  Consultants shall start with a location analysis
taking into account functional requirements of the plant as laid down by
the Senior Marketing Expert (working under separate contract) and approved by



ANNEX 8
Appendix 2
Page 3
HPMC and the best availability of raw material. After having identified
the general plant location and received the approval of HPMC, the consultants
shall analyze several sites as to their specific suitability. They shall
examine and review all maps, aerial photographs, charts, all weather, geologi-
cal and transportation information available from the government through
HPMC. The consultants shall then conduct site investigations which shall
include, inter alia:
(a) Topographical Survey to check the accuracy of existing
topographical maps and charts and to provide basic
information for preliminary site assessment;
(b) Soil Survey including, if needed, soil tests;
(c) Climate Survey to obtain monthly records of minimum and
maximum temperatures, precipitation, humidity and wind;
(d) Utilities Survey. The avaiLlability, location and cost
structure of utilities has to be examined for each alternative
site;
(e) Transportation Survey to obtain information on road and rail
connections from the supply and to the consumer area; and
(f) Sewage Survey.
The consultants may entrust some of the field survey and laboratory
studies to subcontractors or institutions subject to HPMC's approval. The
consultants, however, shall remain solely responsible for the supervision,
adequacy and accuracy of the work, for the analytical interpretation of all
data received and for the conclusions and recommendations.
4.        Alternative Plans.  Based on the findings of the site selection
procedures, the consultants shall outline preliminary plans for the alterna-
tive sites available. These plans shall include a process design, an
engineering flow diagram, preliminary layouts for each alternative site,
cost estimates for construction, equipment and maintenance as well as a
financial analysis of future plant operations.
5.        The consultants shall prepare a report which shall contain their
recommendations on the specific site, process design, flow diagram and
layout proposed.
6.        This report shall be submitted within three months of the starting
date.
7.        HPMC will review the consultants' report within a month after
receipt. In consultation with the Association HPMC will either confirm
or modify the proposal.



ANNEX 8
Appendix 2
Page 4
Pant Design
8.        As soon as HPMC approves a preliminary proposal for the plant,
the consultants shall prepare a plant design. In doing this the consultants
shall determine the most economical type of construction and operation. The
desigr. drawings shall give the dimensions and typical cross-sections of all
structures and major featureb of the design, in sufficient detail to provide
an adequate basis for preparing tender documents. Preparation shall include
inter alia:
(-) Detailed design drawings;
(b)  Specifications for all structures;
(c) Specifications of all equipment which rnay be necessary for
an economicaL juice processing plant;
(d)  Detailed instructions and recommendations for reliable
equipment installation;
(e) Recommendations with regard to the kind and quantity of
manpower, materials and tools which the equipment supplier
will have to provide;
(f) Detailed technology descriptions, including process designs
and quality indicators for materials to be used, technological
instructions for the staff explaining in detail and understand-
able form the functioning of the plant to ensure an efficient
operation of the plant;
(g) Maintenance and repair instructions including "clean-in-place"
(CIP) instructions;
(h) Construction plans including equipment layout and piping
diagrams;
(i) Utilities diagrams and plans;
(j) Flow diagrams for fruit juices; service, cleaning and
drinking water; steam; coolants;
(k) Plans for tubing.
(1) Proposal for waste disposal;
(m)  Preventive maintenance program.
9.        The consultants st.all analyse prospective costs and revenues of
the plant assuming good operating procedures.  The consultants shall base



ANNEX 8
Appendix 2
Page 5
the financial analysis on estimates of annual capital and recurrent costs
and conduct breakeven calculations taking into account, inter alia, raw
material prices, capacity utilization and sales prices.
10.       The consultants shall prepare a project preparation report which
shall contain all the information outlined above. This report shall be
submitted within two months after HPMC has decided to establish the plant
and informed the consultants accordingly.
Preparation of Tender Documents
11.       Im,nediately after project preparation the consultants shall
prepare all the documents for tendering the construction and equipment supply
and installation contracts, including inter alia:
(a) Bidding advertisement and tender invitations;
(b) General contract conditions;
(c) Special contract conditions;
(d) Technical specifications including arrangements with local
contractors for civil works;
(e) Design drawings required for bidding and construction:
(i) Structural engineering designs;
(ii) Civil engineering layouts including site drawings; and
(iii) Machinery layout and specifications;
(f) InstructiLon to bidders;
(g) Form of contractor's bids (bid form);
(h) Form of construction contract; and
(i) Questionnaires and qualification forms as needed for
qualification of contractors.
The above documents shall show clearly all requirements necessary to carry
out the construction contracts and shall conform to accepted Indian
engineering practices. The consultants shall submit all documents to HPMC
for consultation, review and approval before having tender documents
provided in final form. The engineering consultants would have the major
responsibility of providing clarification of the tender documents to inquiring
suppliers, and notification of such clarifications to all other contractors
and suppliers.



ANNEX 8
Appendix 2
Page 6
Bid Evaluation
12.       The consultants shall assist HPMC in analyzing the bids and make
recommendations as to award of contract. The consultants (as well as HPMC)
shall base this procedure on the most recent version of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits", Sections 4.2 to 4.10.
Execution
13.       Supervision.  The engineering consultants shall provide a resident
engineer at the location of the future plant to supervise construction and
equipment installation. The responsibilities of the resident engineer are
spelled out in para 1, m-s.
14.       Initial Operation.  Both the engineering consultants and the
equipment supplier shall provide one resident engineer each at the plant
location during the first operating season of about three months to supervise
test runs and adjustment of machinery and to assist in training the plant
staff. The engineering consultant shall, towards the end of the first
operating season, make the final inspection and submit the acceptance documents
to HPMC.
Time Estimates
15.       The above described activities would require the involvement of one
or several engineers, for some periods on a full-time basis and for other
periods on a part-time basis. Tentative time requirements which have been
estimated according to the functions to be performed are presented below:
Man-months
1.   Feasibility Study                                 10
2.   Project Preparation                                 5
3.   Preparation of Tender Documents                    3
4.   Bid Evaluation                                      1
5.   Supervision                                        6
6.   Initial Operation                                   3
Total                                   28



ANNTEX 9
Table 1
INDIA
HImACHAL PBAD3SH APPLE PROCESSING AND MA.RTING PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
(Rs millions, unless otherwise stated)
of which fore-gn
exchange component
:te.                      19T`   1975   1976   1977   Total    Amount  Total
Road Works                   11.2   16.8   11.1    5.9    45.0        9.0      20
Processing and
Marketing Facilities        1.8   15.7   10.3    2.9    30.7       14.1     46
Cableways                      -      7.2    7.3     -      14.5     13.1      90
Road Maintenanze Equipment   1.1    1.1    2.6       -       4.8      4.1      85
Technical Assist4nce,
8    Training and Project
Evaluation                  1.5    2.0    1.5    0.5       5.5      3.3     60
Permanent Working
Capital of HPMC             5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    20.0        _
Subtotal           20.6   47.8   37.8   14.3   120.5      43.6      36
Physical Contingency /1       2.1    4.8    3.4    0.9    11.2        4.0      36
Price Contingency /2          3.2   12.1    9.7    6.4    31.4       11.4      36
Total Project Cost           25.9   64.7  50.9   21.6   163          59        36
US$ Million Equivalent        3.4    8.6    6.8    2.9    21.7        7.8      36
/1  L or details see Annex 9, Tables 2 to 9.
/2 7t per annum.
November 29, 1973



INDIA
HIM&CHAL RADICSH APPIE IPROCESSING AND NAtRETIDI PIOJECT
Investment Cost of Model Packin  Houses and Collecticn Statimns
(in Rs'OOOE unless otherwise ste
TOTAL COSTS F__EIGN ECBACNGE COMPONENT
1    Collection                 ',O     - ,OOO- T3,00-  Collection
ton     ton     ton      Station      j       ton     ton      ton      Station     Fconcm,rn  Life
A.  Land (1 ha)                                            10      10      10         10        -       -       -        -          -           indcPi n; t.e
B. Civil Works
Site Preparation and Development                    30      30      30         30        20       6       6       6           6              25
Building l/                                        450     450     450        450        25     113     113     113         113              25
Surro,undings and Utilities                        100     100     100        100                30      30      30          30              25
Subtotal                                 W2 X                                                    i i w  -  :E9    *fl79  v19
C. Equipment 2/
GrSa-ding-                                         263     215     215         -        100     263     215     215          -               10
Packing and Handling                                93      81      68         75       30       28      24       20         23              10
Jeep                                                42      42      42         -         25      11      11       11         -               1o
Generator                                           30      30      30         -         50      15      15       15         -               10
Miscellaneous                                       12      10       8         15       30        4       4       3           2              10
Subtotal                                 1 g337                      _m         p M;3/  =1     m g
Total                                             968      53680 E4/  470                       428     413        1714
Add:  Physical Contingency (5%)                            52      48      48          34       1  4/  24        21      21          9
Grand Total                            1082   1,016   1001           714        4£ 4/  19      Jj=      434        183
1/ 1,500 m? at Rs 300/m2.
2/ Installed; breakdown of grading, packing and handling equipment given in Annex 5.
2/ This iercentage is only true for model packing houses; it is 28% for the collection station model.
v  This percentage is only trie for the 5,000-ton model packing houses; it is 43% for the smaller packing houwes and 26%
tor the collection station model.
December 19, 1972



ANNEX 9
Table 3
INDIA
HIMACHAL PRADESH APPLE PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
Capital Costs of Model Cold Storage
(Capacity - 2,000 tons per Season)
Total     Foreign Exchange   Economic
Cost         Corponent          Life
(Rs'000)   (Rs'000)     M      (Years)
A. Land (l ha)                             50         _         -        -
B. Civil Works
Site Preparation and
Development                      44          -        -         25
Building 1/                       900         360       40        25
Insulation  /                     350         140       40        25
Electrification                   100          30        30       25
Transformer                       190         114        60       25
Water Mains                         10          2        20       25
Subtotal                   1,594        -64        70
C. Equipment
Elevators                          90          45        50       10
Refrigeration                      700                            100 5°  lO
Subtotal                     790         395       t
D.  Engineering (4% of B plus C)           26         -         -
Total                           2           1.04        71
Add: Physical Contingency (10%)           253        104        41
Grand Total                     2783        1.45
1/ 30 m x 33 m x 15 m.
2/ 7.5 cm fiberglass.
December 13, 1972



ANNEX 9
Table 4
INDIA
HIMACHAL PRADESH APPLE PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
Investment Cost of Transshipment Center at Delhi/Haryana Border
Foreign Exchange Economic
Total Cost        Component         Life
(Rs'OOO)     (Rs, 0      )       (Years)
A.  Land (2 ha)                                    50            -           -   indefinite
B. Civil Works
Site Preparation and Development             55            11          20     25
Concrete Floor                              100            25          25     25
Structure and Insulated Roof                250            63          25     25
Wdalls and Foundation                        50            13          26     25
Office Block                                 50            13         26      25
Electricity and Water                        30            13         43      25
Pax mng and Fencing                          90            27          30     25
Subtotal                               625           165         26
c. Equipment
Pallets                                      53            11         21      10
Hydraulic Pallet Trucks                      15             4         27      10
Sundry Equipment and Small Tools              5             2         40      10
Subtotal                                73            17         23
Total                                  748          182          24
Add:  Physical Contingency (5%)                    37             9          24
Grand Total                            785
December 15, 1972



ANAfL\EX 9
Table 
IND.A
HIMACHAL PRADLSH APPLE ?ROCESSING AND MkR1iTING PR0JTCT
Investment Costs of Juice Concentrate Plant
(Annual Capacity: 12,000 tons)
Foreign Exchange
Total Cost     Component       Economic Life
T6Rs'000)   (Amount)     7       (Years)
A.  Land (1 ha)                        20          -         -      indefinite
B. Civil Works
Site Preparation                 10           2        20        25
Warehouse - 300 m2 @ 300 Rp/m2  90           27        30        25
Production Area - 250 m2 @
42° Rp/m2    100          30        30        25
Boiler Room - 150 m @
300 Rp/m2         45          14        30        25
Procurement Area - 850 m2 @
250 Rp/m2   213          64        30        25
Office and Lab - 350 m2 @
400 Rp/m2     140          42        3°        25
Subtotal                    X         179         30
C. Equipment                        12
General                       1,882      1,129         60       10
Production                    2,320      1,856         70       10
Laboratory                      150        120         80       10
Bottling                         07        184         60       10
Subtotal                 3,659                    71
D. Engineering (8% of B plus C)       421         421       100
Total                    5,698      3889          68
Add:  Physical Contingency (10%)      570         389        68
Grand Total              6 268                    68
1/  Installed; detailed equipment descriptions in Annex 5, Appendix 2.
December 19, 1972



AiNNEX 9
Table 6
i.3DIA
-,-'a'v;:,' ?Rai. J2   -i PROCESSING AND  ARTLNG PRCJECT
?>eAsira a   i&iAling .Facilities Cost Estimates
7 TAoo, unless otherwise stated)
Foreign
Exchange
Component
1971     197       1976    1977    Total   76    Total
.  ackThr Houses 1/
land            lC6                    30        30      -       120    -          -
Civ-_  Works                 580    2,900    i,740  l,7hC       6,960    25    1,740
zeurA nt                    . 0                                                  i,2,2200  958   1,166    5064 72  6
S-a ota             -1,080    5,130    3         2,906   12,14               3
::~. Collecttion Stations 1/
Land                         10        20        -       -         30    -         -
Civil Works                  -        580    1,160       -      1,740    25       435
Equipment                     -       180        go      _        270    28        76
Subtotal                10       780    1,250       -     2,040    25        511
I'-.  Transsnipment Center
Land                         50        -         -       -         50    -         -
Civil Works                   -       625        _       _        625    26       165
Equipment                              7         -7                      2         17
Subtotal                T                  _                       24       172
iV. Cold Stores
Land                        200        -         -       -        200    -         -
Engineering                 190        95        95      -        380    -         -
Civil Works                  -      4,782    1,594       -      6,376    40    2,550
Equipment                     -     2 370       790      -      3 16              580
Subtotal               390    7,E7    2,479         -    1011       41    4,13
V. Processing Plant
Land                         20        -         -       -         20    -
Engineering                 221       100       100      -        421   100       421
Civil Works                   -       300       298      -        598    30       179
Equipment                     -     1.500    3,159       -      .659    71    3
Subtotal               21   1,900    3,557         -     5,695           3.,9
Total                         15,77              140  2806
Jrx~* 2Oitu                                                            24encie 5
?rrrsical Con-w3rgency 2/    12t0   l,225       &18     145    2,328    6    1,082
Price Contingency 2/        272    3 825    3 451   1 220    8 768    46    4 018
Subtota'               392       >      46 >                        W l
Grand Total           }3    20,825   1i2513 h,271   hl,8h2             40    ,198
o1/r'or  acking house and co-.lec tion center locations and capacities see Annex 5, Table 2.
/ For )nysica1 conuingencies of tne various investment items see Annex  9, Tables 1-h.
^. 7, ier aan-jm; 1972 costs hava been used for basic estimates.
Dece;mber 22, 1972



AIRI EX 9
Taible 7
INDIA
HIl!ACHAL PRADESH APPLE PROCESSING
AND MIARETING PROJECT
1/
Projeci, Evaluation Cost7
A. Staff Remuneration                                              Rs
1   Senior Researc  Officer at Rs 18,000p.a.                       63,000
9   Investigators=at Rs 8,400p.a.                                 264,600
5   Subordinate Staff at Rs 3,600p.a.                              63,000
Subtotal                390,600
i3. Travel Expenses
150,000 km p.a. by road at Rs 0.60                             90,000
C. Miscellaneous
Stationary, Printing and Supplies         3/                 250,000
Tota                    730,600
/  Only for the IDA disbursement period of 3½ years.  Tentative terms of
reference are in Annex 12.
2/ Master's degree level.
Including physical contingency of 10"
May 31, 1973



ANNE 9
Table 8
INDIPk
HIMACHAL PRADESH APPLE PROCESSING AND NARKING PROECT
Cost Estimates for Road Maintenance E&uiDment
Foreign Exchange
Total            Component
- - - (Rs 1000)- - -(%
3 Bulldozers - rubber tired with
snowplow blades attached
(125 Hp) at Rs 440,000                   1,320          1,122         85
3 Front End Loaders - rubber
tired (100 Hp) at Rs l4o0,ooo             1,320         1,122         85
4 Jeeps at Rs 40,000                          160           136         85
10 Tip Trucks - 7 ton
at Rs 112,000                             1,120           952         85
3,920         3,332         85
Spare parts (15%)                           588           429         85
Sub-total                        4,508         3,831         85
Assorted Road Making Tools                  320           272          85
Total Cost                       4,828         4,103         85
Physical Contingency (10%)         483           410         85
Total Cost plus
Physical Contingency            5 311         14513         85
October 16, 1973



ANE  9
Table 9
flIAI
HIMACHAL PRADESH APPLE PROCESSING ANDMARKETING PROJECT
Investment Cost of Model Cableway
(Length: 5 km) 1/
Foreign Exchange   Economic
Total Cost      Component          Life
(Rs5000)    (RsROOO)    (%)   (Years)
A. Civil Works
50 concrete loading platforms,
10 m2 each @ Rs 1,420              71.0         17.8       25        25
Foundation of 35 trestles             99.0         24.8        25       25
Foundation for driving units            7.0         1.7        25       25
Subtotal                    177.0         W.3        2;
B. Equipment 2/
10 km of cable @ Rs 113,600        1,136.0      1,136.0       100        5
35 steel trestles O Rs 11,360        398.0        398.0      100        10
Driving unit, incl. 50 HP motor        57.0        28.5        50       10
Miscellaneous 3/                      43.0         21.5        50       10
Subtotal                  1,663.0     1,5840         97
Total                     1,810.0      1,628.3       90
Physical Contingency (20%)              362.0       325.7        90
Grand Total               2,L172.0    1954.0         90
1/  For more details on specifications and operations, see Annex 6.
2/ Installed.
3/ Cradle cars and sundry equipment.
October 16, 1973






ANNEX 10
INDIA
HIMACHAL PRADESH APPLE PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated IDA Disbursements (Cumulation) /1
Year             Quarter             Rs million              US$ million
1974               3                    6.0                     0.8
4                   10.5                     l.4
1975                1                   18.6                     2.5
2                   23.2                     3.1
33.8                     4.5
lw  45.0                 6.0
1976                1                   55.6                     7.4
2                   62.2                     8.3
3                   70.8                     9.4
4                   76.7                    10.2
1977                1                   86.0                    11.5
2                   88.6                    11.8
3                   93.9                    12.5
4                   97.5                    13.0
1978                1
/1  Assuming effectiveness by July  1, 1974.
October 16, 1973






ANNEX 1 1
Page 1
INDIA
HIMACHAL PRADESH APIPLE PROCESSING AND NARKETING PROJECT
Horticultural Produce Processing and Marketing
Corporation
A. Background
General Objectives
1.        The major objectives of the project are to improve the marketing
of apples in India, and in HP in particular; to bring about higher incomes
to growers; and to deliver to consumers fruits of higher quality at current
or lower prices. The task is demanding, because production is projected to
grow at about 14% per year during 1972-78, a rate consideraly higher than
the 9% consumption increase estimated on the basis of India's annual urban
population growth rate of about 5%, annual average per capita income growth
of 2.5%, and an income elasticity of 1.5 for demand for apples.
2.        While the rate of production increase is expected to decelerate
from 24.5% in 1972 to 9.0% after 1978, and there will probably be no pres-
sure for the demand gap to increase, farmgate apple prices are likely to
suffer severely unless systematic efforts are made to tide over the anticipated
demand shortfall in the next five years or so. This medium-run demand short-
fall can be at least partially offset by measures designed to: (i) extend
the marketing period; and (ii) expand the market into cities hitherto largely
untapped.
Project Program
3.        Without carrying out a coordinated program designed to enhance
marketing efficiency, it would not be possible in future to keep the grower's
income per unit of output from seriously declining, in view of the large
increases in supplies coming forward over the next few years. The project
program is designed: (i) to extend the marketing period of the fruit through
earlier deliveries to the terminal markets, using a faster forwardin.g service
and withdrawing some supplies from the fresh apple market and cold storing
them for off-season marketing; (ii) to expand the market into cities hitherto
largely untapped; (iii) to reduce marketing and transportation costs, both
explicit and implicit, in particular the intermediary margins; (iv) to
improve apple quality and its public image by introducing quality control
and adopting in due course higher grading standards; (v) to utilize the
large quantities of culls now being wasted, for commercial production of
apple juice concentrate; (vi) perhaps the most important of all, to establish
a marketing organization engaged in trading apples and apple products that



ANNEX 1 1
Page 2
would procure them through straight purchase and consignment, and sell them
through its own wholesale organization, thereby offering the growers an
alternative to the existing unsatisfactory wholesale channels with the com-
mission agents, and their current malpractices.
B. Operations
General
4.        The project calls for a number of interrelated and coordinated
activities: (i) procurement; (ii) grading and packing; (iii) cold storage
units; (iv) manufacture of apple juice concentrate; (v) forwarding;
(vi) trading of off-season cold stored apples; (vii) collective marketing
of fresh apples; (viii) credit to farmers; and (ix) credit to traders.
Procurement
5.        Procurement of apples would best be done at the packing houses.
HPMC would canvass growers in the area as well as the "pre-harvest con-
tractors", offer firm prices for specific variety grades as early as possible,
and enter into firm contracts. During the early operational phase, HPMC
should enlist support from SDH and the Fruit Development Board to encourage
growers to participate.
Grading and Packing
6.        The packing operation is a pre-condition for all of the activities
indicated. The primary function of packing houses would be to introduce
appropriate quality control for apple marketing. It would standardize the
grading, packing, and packing materials, facilitate coordinated forwarding
of the fruit, provide a ready medium to embody innovations in more efficient
and economical packing materials, and serve as the channel for the culls
to be sold and transported to the juice concentrate plant.
7.        The total capacity of the packing houses, despite a practically
unlimited economy of scale on the packing operation itself, is limited by
the volume of apple production within technically determined radiuses in
the areas of concentrated production (Annex 5). The combined capacity
appropriate to the time horizon for which production can be projected with
reasonable certainty is an input of about 55,000 tons per season for the
twelve packing houses. This would be about 40% of the output of the project
districts, or about 22% of estimated total production in HP for 1978. The
net output of the project's packing houses would be 40,000 tons per season.
This is large enough to enter into the market with sufficient impact.
The capacity of each house ranges between 27 and 46% of the total output of
the district it covers, its throughput requirements would not be difficult
to procure.



ANNNEX  1
Page .3
8.        The packing houses, however, require heavy investment in plants
and equipment. Packing quality would be substantially improved, but the
unit packing cost is likely to be somewhat higher than that of the grower,
since he packs without (in most instances) hiring any paid labor or making
any cash outlay on facilities. Although a packing house would have a
captive market of about 50% of its capacity, it is highly desirable for it
to operate at or near its full capacity, if the project objectives are to
be attained. Since the project as a whole is viable, it should be possible
for HPMC to provide a xackin- service to outside customers starting at
rates substantially lower than its full cost (in order to make the service
attractive to growers) for an initial promotional period of, say, three to
four years, during which rates would be raised to cover the full cost.
9.        The full cosz of packing 40,000 tons is about Rs 15 million, or
about Rs 6.92 per 18 kg case. Of this, Rs 5.17 is for the packing material.
While HPMC would charge the full cost to its own packing, it could probably
attract enough apples for full capacity operation if it charged to the
growers, say, Rs 4.00 for the first year, Rs 5.00 for the second year,
Rs 6.00 for the third year, and up to the full cost of Rs 7.00 beginning
the fourth year. Since the bulk of the throughput during the promotional
period would be for HPMC's own apples to which the full rate would be
applied, the operating losses from concessionary rates would not be exces-
sively large. At the anticipated concessionary rates, as shown in Table 1,
the packing operation is expected to accumulate losses for the first three
years, and then to start generating moderate annual net profits of about
Rs 400,000, and emerge with a positive cumulative profit in the eleventh
year. The financial rate of return on this component is 14%.
10.       Quality control would be implemented in the packing houses by SDH
much as provided for in the Agriculture Produce Marketing Act of 1937.
Official horticultural inspectors would be assigned to the houses during
the season to enforce the designated quality standards for fruit and packing
materials.
Cold Storage Units
11.       The cold storage component of the project is intended to:  (a) make
it possible to withdraw a sizeable portion of the apple supply during the
fresh apple marketing period, to relieve the downward pressure on fresh
apple prices likely to arise as a result of the projected demand shortfall;
and (b) to profit from the attractive off-season prices, and use the ad-
ditional income to cover a substantial portion of HPMC's overheads.
12.       The design of each cold storage unit calls for a number of important
considerations. Its volume must be large enough to have the intended impact
on fresh apple prices, and to exploit the economies of scale in cold storage
costs. From the commercial point of view, however, it should not be so large
as to spoil the off-season prices, or to make it difficult for HPMC to
purchase the required quantity of fruit at tenable prices, for the attempt
at nrempting a significant portion of project area output may give rise to
an inordinate price increase.



ANNEX 1 1
Page 4
13.       Pla-n.ing the cold itorage capacity on the assumption that a service
would be provided on a rental basis would not be practical because of:
(a) uncertaintv over E e degree of utilization for storing apples; (b) the
need to maintain the identities of nmnerous individual lots both for owner-
ship and quality; (c) the probable complications in marketing strategy;
and (d) the scope for disputes arising from liability for quality deteriora-
tion and apportionment of sales proceeds, etc. The bulk of the cold storage
apples would thus have co be owned by HPMC. Bdecause of these considerations,
the project's total cold storage capacity estimated to be commercially safe
is about 8,000 tons td-._W-, .ogether with the 2,000 torn unit in Delhi and
anorne: of 2,000 tons i-  Bonbay already built by the Agro-Industries
Corpora-on, would bring the total capacity to 12,000 tons.
14.       Since existing Indian cold storage installations are not fully
suitable for apple storage, new units with adequate temperature and humidity
control would have to be installed. It is extremely important for HPMC's
off-season marketing activities that the apples offered for sale were of
the highest quality on the market. The commercial success of the project
depends very heavily on HPMC's ability to maintain this quality for its
off-season apples.
15.       The advantages and disadvantages of having the cold storage units
in the producing areas or at terminal markets were considered. It was
concluded that they should be located in Delhi and Calcutta. The overriding
consideration was their off-season use. In the producing areas they could
only be used for apples, because nothing else requiring cold storage is
produced there in sufficient quantities. At terminal markets they could be
used for storing potatoes and other commodities when not used for apples.
The bulk of the new capacity, 6,000 out of 8,000 tons, would be located in
Delhi to maximize both the multi-purpose usefulness and the flexibility
of choice between the various terminal markets for the final dispatch.
Since AIC already has a 2,000 ton unit in Bombay, the remaining 2,000 ton
unit would be in Calcutta. An additional important consideration in locating
most of the capacity in Delhi has been that the harvested fruits can be
delivered there without being excessively heated en route. During off-
season marketing the temperature en route becomes substantially cooler, so
that overheating is avoided.
16.       Income projections for the cold storage units are given in Table
2. The fairly high rate of return of this activity of 27% is based on
conservative assumptions.
Apple Juice Concentrate
17.       At oresent, large quantities of culls, which make up about 20% of
total productiDn, go to waste. Commercial utilization of them has been very
earnestly soughrt by the apile industry and the HP Government.  Under the
project's packing house systen, culls would be a ready source of raw
material for a concertrate .:ant.  The market potential for apple juice
concentrate appears to be quite good, and the bottling plants which have



ANNEX 11
Page 5
proliferated in India in recent years with Cocoa Cola and other ready-to-
serve beverages seem to be a logical market outlet for the product. An
arrangement for sole distributorship with an established marketing firm
would be the best solution for mzrketing the product. However, HPMC should
be prepared later to sell to individual bottling plants, or even to bottle
itself. Income projections for the juice concentrate plant are given in
Table 3.
Forwarding
18.       Forwarding activities would be one of the key components of the
project. There are three important reasons for this. First, as shown in
Table 4, a significant reduction in the cost of transportation is feasible,
and any possible reduction under a large scale marketing operation would
be an important incentive to growers to use HPMC for collective marketing
and, therefore, for packing their fruits at HPMC's packing houses. Second,
the shortening of the shipping time for the fruits to reach the terminal
markets would extend the marketing period by making it possible to get
the fruits on the market about two weeks earlier. This, together with the
off-season marketing out of cold storage, would play a critical role in
filling the anticipated demand gap. Third, the operation would provide
the badly needed protection against weather and rough handling, to which
the fruits are extremely vulnerable. A further important benefit from the
operation would be the intelligence gained on fruit movements to the various
destinations. Income projections for the forwarding operation are given
in Table 5.
Trading of Cold Stored Apples
19.       Since it is imperative to extend the marketing period by with-
drawing fruits into cold storage for marketing them off-season (an activity
that calls for HPMC to possess and own the fruit), HPMC would buy fruit for
storage purposes. Fortunately, the off-season prices have been quite
attractive and, since the quality of the cold stored apples would be superior
to any competitors', the operation is expected to be quite profitable, even
on very conservative assumptions for buying and selling prices and various
marketing costs. This would be an entirely new channel through which growers
could sell their fruit at definite prices and for cash. The assumptions and
the income projections for this operation are given in Tables 6 and 7.
Collective Marketing of Fresh Apples
20.       Since off-season marketing requires its own organization, and HPMC
would already be engaged in forwarding operations, its sales offices would
provide marketing services to growers interested in selling their fruits
through a channel other than the conventional consignment. This would be
done on a commission basis, and the financial projections and assumptions
are given in Tables 8 and 9.
21.       With the two types of trading operations outlined above, growers
would have a choice of options: (i) to market their apples through con-
ventional channels controlled by the commission agents; (ii) to sell their



ANNEX 11
Page 6
fruits to h-PMC for cash to meet its cola storage requirements; and (iii) to
enzrust their fruits to h?MC for collective marketing on concessionary
commission rates and with advantageous advance payment arrangements.  As shown
in the chart appended to Annex 4, all apples marketed under the project would
by-pass the conmission agents (as distinguished from the wholesalers), and
would be sold for definite prices, while the sales would be directly between
HPMC's sales offices and the wholesalers and subwholesalers, avoiding the
exorbitant and repetit.ve commission charges and the concomittant malpractices.
22.       The competitiveness of HPMC's marketing would be greater in terminal
markets other than Delhi, because the scope for a reduction in transportation
cost and the elimination of intermediary margins would be greater the more
distant the market. HPMC should not, however, overlook the importance of
the Delhi market, because without a strong base there it would neither be
able to maintain the necessary operational flexibility for ultimate distri-
bution of its fruits nor to acquire the critical market intelligence.
Credit to Farmers
23.       Under the existing system of consignment sale, the bulk of the
growers obtain advances free of interest from commission agents at the time
of fruit setting (Annex 4, para 28). The amount is usually up to Rs 6.00
per case for the estimated production. Without providing similar credit,
HPMC is unlikely to acquire sufficient fruits. It should, therefore,
advance at least Rs 10.00 per case in, say, four monthly installments
immediately following the fruit setting, and obtain reimbursement at the
time of sale. it would, of course, pay the full amount upon taking possession
of fruit purc>ased on its own account for off-season marketing. In addition,
the packing and forwarding services would have to be provided on credit,
and payment made on realization of the proceeds. These credit facilities
would be the main incentive to farmers to market their fruits through HPMC
during its early period; at a later stage other benefits could be considered.
Credit to Traders
24.       HPMC would build up its own distribution network for marketing
both fresh and cold storage apples. Its main distributors should be the
existing Mashakhoras and small wholesalers. Since they now procure their
fruits on credit from the commission agents, HPMC would offer at least
as good credit facilities. A one-month term for such credit should be
adequate.
C. Organization
25.      HIPMC's entire operation would require close coordination of its
cui,e diverse activities. The buying, selling and contracting of goods
and services would require procedures under wlhich authority is sufficiently



ANNEX 1 1
Page 7
delegated to units operating at different levels. HPMC should be both auto-
nomous and integrated. The management would have full power to appoint and
remove its employees, set up its own accounting procedures, and establish
its own wage and salary scales and other employee benefits, etc. At nego-
tiations IDA and the Indian delegation agreed on the Articles of Association
of HMPC.
26.       HPMC would be a fully-owned subsidiary of AIC and an autonomous,
commercially-oriented enterprise. The board would be composed of 15
directors, of which 8 would be appointed by AIC; 5 by HP government,
including the chairman and representatives of the Departments of Finance and
Agriculture, PWD and SDH; and one by the HP Fruit Development Board; the
managing director would also be a member of the board.
27.       Proposed organization of the staff and employees is reflected in
Table 10. Project success depends on competent and dedicated management
and employees. It has been assumed that by offering competitive salaries
and responsible positions, HPMC would be able to recruit the competent and
dedicated personnel necessary for commercial operation.
D. Finance
28.       Annual cost projections for the Read and Branch Offices are given
in Table 11. Consolidated income statement projections covering the various
activities are the basis upon which the financial rate of return has been
calculated (Annex 13).
E. HPMC's Impact on Oversupply
29.       On the basis of projected production and estimated growth rate of
demand of about 9% a year, the estimated oversupply of apples without the
project during the traditional marketing season would be:
Year                Thousand tons
1973                      10
1974                      18
1975                       27
1976                      32
1977                       35
1978                      39
Project implementation would mean that about 5,000 tons would be marketed
ahead of and at least 10,000 tons after the conventional marketing period,
so that the oversupply would be reduced considerably. Some of the remaining
oversupply would be reduced by sales in cities virtually untapped previously
as apple markets.






ANINEX 11
Table 1
INDIA
HIMACHAL FRADESH APPLE PROCESSING AND MARXETING PROJECT
Incone Projections for Packing Operation
(In thousand Rupees unless otherwise stated)
1978 and
1975        1976         1977        orward
I.  Revenues               (Rs per ton)
Packing charge
Cold storage apples 1/  Rs 385       2,310.0      3,850.0     3,850.0      3,850.0
Consignment apples 17   Rs 385       1,925.0      3,850.0     3,850.0      3,850.0
Customer apples 2/      Variable       770.0      3,300.0     6,600.0      7,700.0
Subtotal                 -         5,005.G    11,000.0    14,300.0    15,400.0
Haulage to stations 3/   Rs 14          280.0        616.0       770.0        770.0
Revenue total            -         5          11,616.0    15,070.0    16 170.0
II.  Operating cost 4/    (per station)
kr.ges
5,000 t. station         72.0          288.0        576.0       648.0        648.0
4,000 t. station         65.8            -           65.8        65.8         65.8
3,000 t. station         56.8            -            -         113.6        113.6
Collection station      44.4            44.4        133.2       133.2        133.2
Subtotal                -            332.4       775.0        960.6       960.6
Repairs and maintenance
5,000 t. station        18.7            74.6       149.6        163.3        163.3
4,000 t. station        16.9             -           16.9        16.9         16.9
3,000 t. station        16.4             -            -          32.8         32.8
Collection station       8.2             8.2         24.6        24.6         24.6
Subtotal               -              81.0       191.1        237.6        237.6
Utilities and miscellaneous
5,000 t. station         20.0           80.0        160.0       180.0        180.0
4,000 t. station        18.0             -           18.0        18.0         18.0
3,000 t. station        15.0             -            -          30.0         30.0
Collection station        5.0            5.0         15.0        15.0         15.0
Subtotal 3/                             ".      7193.0        243.0        243.0
Haulage to station (Rs 14 per ton)      280.0        616.0       770.0        770.0
Packing materials (Rs 285 per ton)   4 132.5       9,120.0    11,400.0   11,1400.0
Operating cost total                    .     10,o95.1    13,611.2    13,6l.2
III.  Operating profit                        372.1        720.9     1,458.8      2,558.8
IV.  Depreciation 5/       (per station)
5,000 t. station         67.2          268.8        537.6       604.8        604.8
4,000 t. station         61.0            -           61.0        61.0         61.0
3,000 t. station        59.5             -            -         119.0        li9.0
Collection station      32.2            32.2         96.6        96.6         96.6
Depreciation total       -           301.0        -95.2        814El
V. interest 6/
5,000 t. station        97.8           391.4        782.8       880.6       880.6
4,000 t. station        91.9             -           91.9        91.9         91.9
3,000 t. station        90.6             -            -         181.2       181.1
Collection station      64.6            64.6       193.8        193.8       193.8
Interest Total          -            456       1,6.347
VI.  Net Profit Before Tax      -           (384.9)        (2.        770.2)      329.9
1/  Based on a packing charge of iBs 7.00 per 18 kg  case.
2/ Based on packing charges of Rs 4.00 for 1975, Rs 5.00 for 1976, Rs 6.00 for 1977 and
Rs 7.00 for 1978 and onward.
3/  The packing stations are to haul the apples from the roadhead to the stations, and
the average haulage is estimated to be Rs 14.00 per ton, which is to be reimbursed
by the forwarding operation, which, in turn, would charge it to the freight rates.
4/  See Annex 5, Tabie 4 and 5.
3'/  See annex  9, Table 2.
'/  At 9.5%        per annum on investment on fixed assets.
February 14, 1973



ANNEX ll
Table 2
Th'-LMA
.i A/-;-- ?'AEtS. ATQE ?li0C2SSiDG AND MAR. TING PROJECT
ncc;ae Pr;jec-tions for Cold Storage Operation
(in t;-,ousand Rupees unless otherwise stated)
1977 and
1975         1976       onward
l. .evern.les
Delhi
Irjoject's agple V/            1,320.0      1,980.0      1,930.0
Customer service 2/                -          360.0        360.0
Galcutvta
-roject's apple V/                 -          o60.0        660.0
Customer service 2/                -            -          120.0
Revenue total               1 ,320.0      3,000.0      3,120.0
Ii. Operating cost 3/
Pages
Delh-i                           135.0        135.0        135.0
Calc-tta                           -           90.0         90.0
R.epairs
Delhi                             79.2        118.8        118.8
Calcutta                           -           39.6         39.6
Utilities
Delhi                             93.8        1b0.7        14C.7
Calcutta                           -           46.9         46.9
Insrurar-ce
Delh                             24.0         36(.0        36.0
Ce.ac,9-a                          -           12.0         12.0
Vlisceli-aneous
Del.i                            ',2.0         18.G         18.0
Calcut-ta                      ____             6.0          6.0
Uparating cost total           34-.0        643.0        643.0
ill.   ners_r~g profit                   976.0      2,7.0         2,3477.0
TV. Lep-reciatio 0,
Delh-i                            297.0        445.5        445.5
Calceutt a                          -          148.5        148.5
Deoreciatior tot,al           297.0        591.0        597.0
V.  Interest 5/
Delhi                            480.6         720.8        720.8
Calciurpc,a                         -          240.2        240.2
!xi-;,crest totl              480.6        961.0        91T .0
VI.   ri9 i98.                                        02.0        922.0
1/  A;th 'bie :a   of - 6.00 per 13 kg  case per season.
2/  A; &e :aAa Uf IaI 1. 20 per bag of 50 kg  per month.
3j  See Annex 5, Taolo. £
:,/  See e   anex 9, -a bl  3.
,/  At tcic rat,. of 9.5 % oer year on investment,
Annex  9, r laGve  2.
iebruary  Lr,  19 ?3



ANNEX 11
Table 3
INDIA
HIMACYiAL PRADESE APPL-L PROCESSING AD MAPKRKL=NG PROJECT
Income Projections for Juice Concentrate Plant
tin thousand Rupees unless otherwise stated)
1978 and
1976       1977     onward
2/
I.  Net sales  Rs 8,Ooo/t                  2,200.0    6,6oC.0    8,300.
3/
II.  Cost of raw material  Rs 500/t         1,375.0    4 125.0    5,500.0
4/
III.  Operating cost
1Uages and salaries                     217.2      217.2       217.2
Repairs and maintenance                 1h5.7      145.7       145.7
Merchandize container                   237.2      711.6       948.8
Utilities                               420.0      420.0       420.0
Insurance, etc                           12.7       12.7        12.7
Operating cost total                1,032.8    1,507.2    1,7T4.
IV.  Operating profit                        (207.8)     967.8    1,555.6
5/
V. Depreciation
Building                                 25.9       25.9        25.9
Eauipment                              503.2       503.2       503.2
Depreciation total                     529.1      529.1       529.1
6/
VI. Interest
On long term debts                     541.4       541.4       541.4
On short term debts                      48.o      147.0      -193.5
Interest total                        589.        688.        734-9
VII. Profit                                 (1.326.3)    (2_9.7)    291.6
1/  The first year of operation is assumed to be essentially a test-run
period at the 25%         level of capacity output, and the second year
operating at the 75% level.
2/  The selling price of the concentrate is estimated to be as 8.00 per kg
and this is a conservative estimate. A reputable potential customer indicated
its willingness to pay as much as Rs 10.00 per kg provided the product
ouality is acceptable and enough supply is assured.
3/  The price of cull apples delivered to the plant is conservatively estinated
to be Xs .50 per kg , or Rs 9.00 per case inclucZnf as .25 in bhauage.
lo/ See Annex 5, Table 8.
;/  See Annex  9, Table 5.
~/  Interest on long-term debts is at 9.5%          on the total investment
of Rs 5,628,000 on fixed assets, and        on short-term debt is
3.0%    for three. months on working capital.
February 14, 1973



INDT A
HIIIACHiAL PIiADESH APPLE PTiOCESSTNG AITD MA1-UKETiNG PROJECT
1/
Conparison of the Current and the Project's Apple Transportation) Cost
(in Hupees per 15 kg case)
Delhi         Bombay and 1lyderabad      Calcutta       Madras and Bangalore
Current Project's   Current Project's   Current Prcject's   Current ProjectLs
Orchard to roadhead             1.50    1.20         1.50    1.20         1.50    1.20          1.50    1.20
Haulage to packing station        -       .25           -      .25           _      .25           -       .25
Forwarding charges at origin    .25       .30          .25     .30          .25     .30          .25      .30
Freight from origin             2.75    1.80         2.75    1.80         2.75    1.80          2.75    1.80
Forwarding charges at Kalka      .30       -           .30      -           .30      -           .30      -
Freight from Kalka                -       .85          -      3.45           -     3.25           -     7.10
Octroi at Delhi                  .35      .25          .35      -           .35      -           .35      -
Unloading at Delhi               .10      .10         .10       -           .10      -           .10      -
MisceUllaneous at Delhi          .10       -           .10      -           .10      -           .10      -
Forwarding charges at Delhi       -        -           .30      -           .30      -           .30      -
Freight from Delhi                -        -         4.50       -         3.50       -          8.00      -
Octroi (or tax)                   -        -           .20     .20          .50     .5°          .15      .15
Unloading                         -        -           .10     .10          .15     .15          .10      .10
Miscellaneous                     -        -           .10      -           .10      -           .15       -
Total                    5.35    h.75        10.55    7.30         9.90    7-45         14.05   10.90
1/ The estimates for the current transportation cost are derived from Annex 4, Table 2.
February 14, 1973



ANNEX 11
Table 5
INDIA
HIMACHAL PRADESH APPLE PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJZCT
1/
Income Projections for Forwarding Operation
(in thousand Rupees unless otherwise stated)
1977 and
(Rs per ton)   1975          1976        onward
I. Revenues
Freight, fresh apple trading  2/                1,790.1        3,580.o       3,580.0
Freight, cold stored  apples 37                 2,485.7        4,142.8       4,142.8
Freight, customer apples 4/                       455.o        1,560.0        2,600.0
Transshipment charges 5/                            38.5         132.0          220.0
Revenues total                                14,769 .3      9,741 4.B    10,5142.8
II. Operating expenses,
Freight
To Kalka 6/                           99      1,435.5        3,168.0       3,960.0
Kalka-DeLhi                           66        448.8          765.6          765.6
KaLka-Bombay                         207        331.2          662.4         662.4
Kalka-Calcutta                       215        247.3          494.5          494.5
Kalka-Madras                         4°5        324.0          648.o         648.o
Kalka-Hyderabad                      207         72.5          144.9          144.9
Kalka-Bangalore                      405        121.5          243.0 o3
Subtotal                             -      2,0.           6,126.46      6,910.4
Freight from Delhi (cold storage apples)
Bombay and Hyderabad                 207        484.4          807.3         807.3
Calcutta                             215        296.7          494.5         494.5
Madras and Bangalore                 405        534.6          891.0          891.0
Subtotal                             -      1,315.7        2,192.8       2,192.8
Haulage to packing stations  /          114       203.0          448.o         560.0
Forwarding charges at origin 8/       2 3/4        39.9           88.o          110.0
Loading and unloading 2/
Kalka                                  5½        79.8          176.0         220.0
Delhi/Haryana                          5½2       19.3           66.o         110.0
Subtotal                                       99.1          2.0           330.0
Wages and salaries
Kalka                                           128.8          128.8         128.8
Delhi/Haryana                                    64.4           64.14         64.4
Subtotal                                      193.2          193.2         193.2
Rental on Kalka facilities 10/                      32.0          32.0           32.0
Repair and maintenance 11/                          9.7            9.7           9.7
Operating expenses total                      4;873.4        9 332.1      10 346.1
III.  Operating profit                                   (104.1)         B2.7          196.7
IV. Depreciation
Building (Rs 625,000)                               25.0          25.o           25.0
Equipment (Rs 73,000)                               7.3            7-3           7-3
Depreciation total                               32.3           32.3           32.3
V. Interest
Long-term debt (Rs 682,500)                        71.1           71.1          71.1
Short-term debts 12/                               13.0           46.8          78.0
Interest total                                   84.1          117.9         149.1
VI.  Profit before tax                                  (o.)           (§.)           I~J3
1/  Since the forwarding activity is essentially an infrastructure, the plan is not
profit oriented. For the basic rates, see Annex ll,Table 1.
2/  See Annex ll,Table 9.
3/ See Annex 11,Table 7.
v/  See for the volume Annex 11, Table 1.  It is shipped
only up to Kalka, and the rate is rHs 130 per ton.
5/ At the rate of Rs .10 per 18 kg  applicable only at Delhi/Haryana.
6/  All the fruits packed by the packing stations will be brought to Kalka for
onward transportation.
7/ See Annex l1,Table'l, the item on "Haulage". ESxcludes the haulage of cull apples.
1/  As .05 per case to be paid to the forwarding agents.
9/ The work will be on contract bases, and is estimated to be Rs .05 per 18 kg
case for both loading and unloading.
O   The projection assumes renting the existing Kalka facilities, although they
may be integrated with the project. Either way the results would be similar.
11/  See Annex 5, Table 7.  The Delhi/Haryana total cost is estimated to be 1/2 of
the Kalka total cost.
122  The borrowing is for the freight for the consignment apples.
February 14, 1973



ANNEX 11
Table 6
INDIA
HIMACHAL PRADESH APPLES PROCESSING AND MARK±TING PROJECT
Operating Profit from Trading of Cold Stored Apple9
(in Rupees per ton, unless otherwiise stated)
Bombay &              Madras and
Delhi   Hyderabad   Calcutta   Bangalore   Total
Wholesale Selling Price-/ 2,256        2,767      2,705       2,920      -
Storage Loss & Spoilage2/    68           83         81          88      -
Roadhead oostY/            1,204       1,204      1,204       1,204      -
Packing Cost4/              385          385        385         385      -
Freight to Delhi5/          195          131        131         131      -
Freight from Delhi-/          -          207         215        405      -
Cold Storage Charge-         330         330        330         330      -
Insurance/                   11           14         14          15      -
Interest Charges-/           94          103        103         112      -
operating profitXO/          (31)        310        242         250      -
Total Traded Tonnage _1/  1,600        3,900      2,300       2,200   10,000
Total Interest 12/
Charges          (Rs) 150,400      401,700    236,900    246,400  1,035,400
Total Operating 13/
Profit           (Rs) (49,600)  1,210,000    557,300    550,700  2,268,400
1/   The off-season average selling price is assumed to be Rs 10.00 higher per
18 kg case  than the fresh apples.  See the prices of fresh apples in
Annex ll,Table 8.
2/   Storage loss and spoilage at the average rate of 3%.
3/   The roadhead price is assumed to be Rs 1,204 per ton, about 9%
above       the current Rs 1,083 per ton.
4/   See Annex 11, Table 1.
5/   See Annex 11, Table 4.
'/   See Annex 11, Table 4.
7/   The storage charge is assumed to be Rs 6.00 per 18 kg case  per season.
&/   One half of 1.0%         of the selling price.
9/   The interest charge is assumed to be 4.5% (9% per year)
on the roadhead price, packing cost, freight, cold storage charges.
10/   See Annex 11, para 22.
11/   The relative volume of sale at each of the markets will be in proportion
to the current relative size of the market. See Annex 4, para 35.
12    Interest charges per ton multiplied by total traded tonnage.
13/   Oneratinm  nrofit oer ton multirlied by total traded tonnage.
February 14, 1973



ANNEX 11
Table 7
INDIA
HIMACHAL PRADESH APPLE PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
Income ProJections for.Trading of Cold Stored Apxles
(in thousand Rupees unless otherwise stated)
1977 and
Rs/average/ton        1975         1976       onward
I.  Sales Proceeds-/    .97 x 2,704.64       15,788       26,234        26,234
II.  Roadhead Cost              1,204.00        7,224      12,040        12,040
III.  Packing Cost                 385.00        2,310       3,850        3,850
IV.  Freight                      360.28        2,161       3,603        3,603
V.  Cold Storage Charge          330.00       1,980        3,300        3,300
VI.  Insurance                     13.74           83         138          138
VII.  Interest on Short-Term Debts   -             621       1,035        1,035
VIII.  Operating Profit                           1,409       2,269        2,269
Tonnage Mar eted in Terms
of Input 2/                               6,000       10,000      10,000
/  For the basic assumptions underlying these projections, see Annex 11,
Table 6.
2/ A storage loss and spoilage rate on the average of % is allowed.
February 14, 1973



ANINEX 11
Table F-
LDIA
L ~2A0LS1  7 kiD7&2  IPI)-L'Li P7ESSIYGxr AI,D MKAAHETIhG ?.7OJECT
rceratinri: ?rofi^t frcm Fresh Apple Trading
(In Rs per ton if not otherwise stated)
Bombay and            Madras and
Delhi  Hyderabad   Calcutta  Bangalore         Total
.etaii price 1/            2,218       2,882      2,802      3,082
.etaii rf.srgin 2/            44)4         576       560         617
>IashaLncrras margin 3/         68          89         87         95
>.o1esa e   ps ice 4         1,70G,      2,217      2,155      2,370            -
CoTr.Liss0cz 5/                 85         110        107        118            -
Fre i ht                       195         335        343        533            -
ac_;C-n.g co, , /            335         335        385        385            -
L..adhead vaLue 8/           1,041       1,337      1,320      1,334
'arketed t,onnage \vsj .,600a            3,900      2,300      2 2C0         10,000
Total cc,mrr ssio,n~ (As)  136z,000   4l29,000QC    246,100    259,600    1,070,700
Less -.otal interest on
advances (Rs),./         54,240    148,590      38,182     96,888        387,900
To-tal operating profit     81,760    230,410    157,918    162,712         682,800
1/ It is assumed that the apples marketed under this system will fetch the
retail prices prevailing in 1970/71.
2/ Assumed to be the usual 25%.
3/ An increase from the current 2% to 4/.
9/ The wholesale prices under this system will be slightly lower than
those estimated for 1970/71 because of the increase of the Mashakhoras
margin.
5/ At the rate of 5% on the selling price.
T/  See Annex 11, Table 4.
7/ See Annex 11, Table 1.
7/ The roadhead values here are nominal, and all the consignees will receive
the weighted average per case per different size-grades apples delivered
to the packing house regardless of where their individual apples are
actually sold. The weighted average for all size-grades here works out
at Rs 1,305 per ton, about 20% above the 1970/71 average of Rs 1,083.
9/ At the rate of 9.0% a year on the advance of Rs 10.00 per 18 kg case plus
the packing cost and freight charge.
be'u. iru - ' , 1r73



ANNNEX 11
Table 9
HIMACHAL PIDES,H APPLE PROCESSInG AND MARKEb`TG PROJECT
Income ProJectiona for Fresh Apple Trading
kin thousand upees unless otherwiise stated)
1977 and
(Rs per ton)    1975          1976        onward
2/                   -____
I.  Sales proceeds         Variable    10,773.2       21,546.4      21,546.4
II. Roadhead cost           1,304.57      6,522.8      13,045.7      13,045.7
III. Operating cost
Freig'ht to
Delhi                  195.00        156.0         312.0        312.0
Bombay and Hiyderabad  335.00        653.3       1,306.5      1,306.5
Calcutta               343.00        394.5         788.9         788.9
Madras and Bangalore  533.00         586.3       1,172.6      1 172 6
Subtotal               -         1,790.1      3,80
Packing cost            385.00      1,925.0       3,850.0       3,850.0
Interest on advances      -           194.0         387.9         387.9
Operating cost, total              3,909.1       7,817.9      7,817.9
LV.  Total operating profit                 341.3         682.8         682.8
Tonnage marketed                    5,000 tons  10,000 tons  10,000 tons
1/  For the assumptions underlying these projections, see Annex 7, Table 8.
2/ The wholesale price varies from market to miarket.  See the wholesale
prices given in Table 8.
February 14, 1973



ANlWEX 11
Table lO
INDIA
HIMACIIAL PRADESH APPLE PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
1/
Summary of Positions in the Head and Branch Offices-
Position Classes
Offices &      Managing  Deputy M. Department   Principal  Staff        Clerks,    Messen-
Branches       Director  Director       Heads    Officers Assistants  Typists,etc.  gers  Total
Office of
Gea3ral Man-
ager               1        -             1         -          1           -       1      4
Off%ce of
Deputy G.
Manager            -        1             -         1          -           -       -       2
Office of
Controller         -        1             -         1         -            -       -       2
General Ser-
vice Division      -        -             1         2          2           2       2       9
Accounting
Division           -        -            1          1         2            -       1      5
Planning
Division           -        -             1         1         1            -       1      4
Engineering
Division           -        -             1         3          1           -       1       6
Forwarding
Division           -        -             1         3         -            _       _      4
Processing
Division           -        -             1         3         -            _       _       4
Marketing
Division           -        1             -         2         1            1       _      5
Subtotal        1        3             7         17        8            3       6     45
f3inhi Branch      -        1             -         4          -           1       1       7
Bombay Branch      -        1             -         3         -            1       1      6
C;'cutta Branch    -        1             -         3          -           1       1      6
Subtotal        -                               4          -                          Tr
Total Number of                           7 ___  78_
Positions                              -
M1nthly pay per
post Rs          2,600    2,000         1,500     1,000      700          500     400     -
T he positions will be fully filled by 1976.  There will be vacancies for five principal
officer positions in 1975, two processing and one each for General Sertieoe, Engineering,
and Forwarding.
February 14, 1973



Table 11
H4IMACHAL PRADESE APPLE PR,OCESS7NG AYD XARKTTING PROJECT
Overhead _xpenditure Projections for E-ad Office and Branches
2Tn mnousana uapees) 
1977 and
1975          1976           onward
I.  Wages and salaries- (per annum)
Managing Director    31.2           31.2          31.2            31.2
Directors             24.0         144.o         144.o           144.0
Department Heads     l&.O          126.0         126.0           126.0
Principal Officers   12 0          240.0         324.0           324.0
Staff assistants       8.4          67.2          67.2            67.2
Clerks, typists        6.o          36.o          36.0            36.0
Messengers, etc.       4.8           43.2         43.2            43.2
Subtotal                       67-7          771.6           77 1.6
II. Travel  and per diems/                129.6        147.6           147.6
III. Office rentals        (per annum)
Simla                              120.0         120.0           120.0
Delhi                                24.0         24.0            24.0
-_  Bomb ay                              24.0         24.0            24.0
Calcutta                            24.0          24.0'           24.0
Subtotal                       192.0         192.0          192T.
IV. Office supplies                        75.6         75.6            75.6
V. Communication                           96.0          96.0           96.0
VI. Contribution to Fruit Dev-
elopment Board  3/                    30.0          50.0           100.0
VII. Maintenance, etc.                      57.6          57.6           57.6
VIII.  Contingencies (10% of above)         127.0         139.0          144.0
Total                        1,395.4       1,529.4         1584.-4
1/  For details of positions see Table 10.
2/  Based on the assumption that 41 officers, o" Principal and higher grades,
would travel for 60 days a year at a cost of Rs 60.00 per day including
travel expenses.
3/  This contribution is currently being made at the rate of .Bs .05 per case
handled at Kalka by the Agro-Industries Corporation.  It is considered that
this essentially promotional expenditure should not be charged to transportation
but to overhead.
February 14, 1973






ANNEX 12
Page 1
INTDIA
HDMACHAL PRADESH APPLE PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
Project Evaluation Procedures
1.        This would be the first Bank/IDA project setting up a large-scale
integrated system aimed at improving processing and marketing of a perishable
horticultural crop. It is tnerefore very important to IDA as well as to the
project that evaluation procedures are provided for and funded.
2.        Assurances were obtained from HP Government that it would enter
into a contract with an appropriate institution, such as the University of
Simla, the National Council of Applied Economic Research or the Directorate
of MIarketing and Inspection, which would evaluate the impact of the project.
The contract would specify: (a) the senior research officer who would be
in charge of the evaluation as well as the personnel who would collect the
data and perform the analysis; (b) the time period for data collection,
for analysis and for reporting; and (c) the compensation to be paid to the
institute by the Government and the timing of such payments.
3.        Evaluation should commence immediately after the effective-
ness of the credit, so that data can be collected on the operations of the
present system and compared with those of the new system after full develop-
ment of the market facilities. Suggested terms of reference for the
evaluation appear as Appendix 1, and costs in Annex 9, Table 7.






ANNEX 12
Appendix 1
Page 1
INDIA
HIMACHAL PRADESH APPLE PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
Tentative Terms of Reference for an
Evaluation of the Project's Impact
Purpose
1.        To examine the changing marketing pattern and to estimate the
benefits resulting from the project.
Scope
2.        The behavior of the following factors would be specifically
evaluated before and after introduction of the new system.
(a) detailed production data, particularly area under apples
(irrigated and rainfed) and apple yields, by varieties;
(b) farm-gate prices;
(c) losses incurred in transporting the apples from farms to
the terminal markets;
(d) handling losses at all stages between harvesting and
consumption of the apples with particular emphasis on
culls and their disposal;
(e) storage losses;
(f) processing and marketing costs, including storage costs;
(g) quantities of apples marketed by project area patwars,
varieties and years and breakdown of apple throughputs
of the various project facilities;
(h) weekly pattern of marketings;
(i) market intelligence available to growers on prices, supplies,
production, etc.;
(j)  market intelligence available to traders (wholesalers, sub-
wholesalers and retailers) on prices, supplies, etc.;
(k) quantities and pattern of dispatches of apples to terminal
markets;



ANUEX 12
Appendix 1
Page 2
(1) all trade margins between farm-gate and consumer prices, by
varieties, patwars, consumer markets, and weeks;
(m) number of market functionaries (i.e. wholesalers, subwhole-
salers, retailers, and all employees of those, etc.);
(n)  quantities of apples channelled through the project
facilities - as proportion of total quantities marketed;
(o) growers' motivations as to (1) using alternative market
channels, and (2) determining their production programs
with particular emphasis on apple cultivation;
(p) the size of growers using HPMCIs facilities; and
(q) consumer behavior and competing products.
In addition, the evaluation would focus on the impact of HPMC on the current
ralpractices in the distribution channel.
Research Methodology
3.        Five catchment areas of packing houses constructed in the first
two years of the credit disbursement would be selected for evaluation. The
selected areas would be appropriate - two in Simla District, two in Kulu
District and one in Miandi District - to allow maximum variability in the
volume and area of their operations. Data collection would commence well
before the first apple harvest season after the date of effectiveness, i.e.,
prior to the construction of the facilities and would continue for two years
subsequent to the end of the disbursement period. This would be essential
since the purpose of the study would be to compare the performance of the
existing and the project systems, and since changes in the marketing patterns
will occur only gradually over time.
4.        One field investigator would be assigned per area studied.  If
he cannot be located in the area, he should be able to make frequent
trips to the market yard, e.g., one trip per month in the off-season and
a continuous stay in the area from June to November.
5.        An additional investigator would be assigned to study all activi-
ties connected with the transshipment centers in Parwanu and at the Delhi/
Iharyana border, and another three investigators would be working in the three
dominant terminal markets: Delhi, Calcutta and Bombay. These investigators
would start their studies at the same time as the investigators in the
packing house areas. While the investigator assigned to the transshipment
centers would stay in the field from June to late October continually, and
during the rest of the year would be there twice a month, the investigators
in the terminal markets woa.Ld conduct field work all year round.



ANNEX 12
Appendix 1
Page 3
6.        The data gathering would be a combination of statistical information
and direct observation.
7.        In gathering information the following requirements should receive
prime attention. Every effort should be made to collect, at least weekly,
prices series and marketing costs for major apple varieties originating
in Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh axd Jamu and Kashmir, and also for other
domestic fruits. The survey should cover all processing and marketing
activities between harvesting and consumption as completely as possible.
8.        If it is not feasible to collect data from all the traders on their
purchase and sale operations, data from at least five major wholesalers and
subwholesalers each, and a multiple of retailers should be collected.
9.        Direct observation would involve maintenance of a diary by each
investigator with detailed information on the following factors:
(A) In the packing house areas:
(a) names and apple areas (by varieties) of each grower;
(b) major marketing arrangements for each grower (preharvest
contract, commission agents, alternative project
channels, etc.);
(c) terminal markets to which supplies of each grower are
shipped and, if possible, name of wholesaler;
(d) population of the area;
(e) description of the road network connecting the
producer areas with the major highway system;
(f) complete throughput records for all forwarding
agents in the area;
(g) complete throughput records for the packing house;
(h) as many price records as possible;
(i) transport arrangements, particularly truck load
records;
(;) interviews of growers regarding their views on project
system vs. conventional system;
(k) description of availability of market intelligence
to growers.



ANNEX 12
Appendix 1
Page 4
(B) In the transshipment centers:
(a) number of incoming and outgoing truck loads by area
of origin and destination, varieties, and, as often
as possible, by forwarding agent, grower and wholesaler;
(b) duration of stay of each lot and storage losses in
transshipment center;
(c) utilization of truck capacities and arrangements of
truckers to increase utilization by transporting other
commodities;
(d) records on uses of transshipment center during the
off-season.
(C) In the terminal markets:
(a) throughput of a representative sample of wholesalers,
subwholesalers and retailers, at least by weeks during
the Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and
Kashmir harvest seasons and semi-monthly during the
off-season, and by varieties;
(b) purchasing and selling prices related to the above
throughputs, by States (and for Himachal Pradesh, as
frequently as possible, by areas) of origin;
(c)  cost structure pertinent to apple marketing of the
above sample of traders;
(d) description of buying, selling and storage arrangements
of these traders showing the proportions of major market
channels;
(e) interviews with traders regarding their views on the
project and their inclinations to cooperate or compete
with the project;
(f) interviews with a stratified sample of consumers
regarding their preference for certain apple varieties,
processed apple products and other major fruits, prices
paid for these goods, willingness to buy cold storage
apples in the off-season and at which prices (to prepare
demand and price projections), etc.
Analysis of the Data
10.       The data collected would be analyzed by the senior research
officer with the support of the investigators and, if possible, other



ANNIEX 12
Appendix 1
Page 5
research workers attached to the institute. A report containing the principal
data and the findings of the analysis would be made available to HP Govern-
ment annually as a basis for reviewing the marketing strategy, and to IDA as
a basis for preparing similar projects.






INDIA
HIMACiAL PRADESH APPLE PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
H.PMC's Pro Forma Income Statements /
(in million Rupees)
REVTMEIt                                                       1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    i985 195          6    1987    1988    1989    199o    1991    199'
Pack:,g Stettoos                                              -      5.3    11.6    15.1    16.2    16.2    16.2    16.2    16.2    16.2    16.2    16.2    16.2    16.2    16.2    16.2    i6,2    16.2    16.2
Coll Storages                                                 -       1.3     3.0      3.1     3.1      3.1     3.1      3.1     3.1      3.1      3,1     3.1      3.1      3,1     3.1.    3.1       3.1     3.1      3.1.
Juice Concentrate Plants                                      -        -      2.2     6.6      8.8      8 8     8.3      8.8     8.8      8.8      8.8     8.8      8.3      8.8     8.8    83.8      8.8      8.       3.38
Forwarding ,perations                                         -      4,8      9,4    10.5    10.5    10.5    10.5    10.5    10.5    10.5    10.5    10.5    10.5    10.5    10.5    10.5    10.5    10.5    10.5
Cold Storage Apple Trading                                    -     15.8    26.2    26.2    26.2    26.2    26.2    26.2    26.2    26.2    26.2    26.2    26.2    26.2    26.2    26.2    26.2    26.2    26.2
Fre5t Apple Traling                                           -      7.0    14.0    14.0    14.0    14.0    14.0    i4.0    14.0    14.0    14.0    14.0    14.0    14.0    14.0    14.0    14.0    14.0    14.0
Rentals fro, Catleways                                        -        -       -        -       -       3.8     3.8      3.8     3.8      3.8      3.8     3.8      3.8      3.8     3.8      3.8      3.8     3.8      3.8
Interes- on Short-term Deposit /2                             -        .2      .2       .4      .6       .4      .4       .4       .4      .4       .4      .4       .4       .4      .4       .4       .4      .4       .4
Revenue Total                        (1)         -      34.4    66.6    75.9    79.4    83.0    83.0    83.0    83.0    83.0    83.0    83.0    83.0    83.0    83.0    83.0    83.0    e3.0    83.0
OPERATITOi COST
Facking Stations                                              -      4.9    10.9    13.6    13.6    13.6    13.6    13.6    13.6    13.6    13.6    13.6    13.6    13.6    13.6    13.6    13.6    13.6    13.6
Cold Storages                                                 -        .3      .6       .6      .6       .6       .6      .6      .6       .6       .6      .6       .6      .6       .6       .6       .6      .6       .6
Juice Concentrate Plants                                      -        -      2.4      5.6     7.2      7.2     7.2      7.2     7.2      7.2      7.2     7.2      7.2      7.2     7.2      7.2     7.2      '7.2     7.2
Forwarding Operanions                                         -       4.9     9.3    10.3    10.3    10.3    10.3    10.3    10.3    10.3    10.3    10.3    10.3    10.3    10.3    10.3    10.3    10,3    10.3
Cold Storage Apple Trading                                    -      13.8    22.9    22.9    22.9    22.9    22.9    22.9    22.9    22,9    22.9    22.9    22.9    22.9    22.9    22.9    22.9    22.9    22.9
Fresh Apple Trading                                           -       6.5    12.9    12.9    12.9    12.9    12.9    12.9    12.29    12.9    12.9    12.9    12.9    12.9    12.9    12.9    12.9    12.9    12.9
rurrent Expenses for HPMC                                     -       1.4     1.5      1.6     1.6      1.6     1.6      1.6     1.6      1.6      1.6     1.6      1.6      1.6     1.6      1.6      1.6     1.6      1.6
Interest on Short-term  Debt 2                                -        .3      .6       .3      .2       .5      .5       .5      .5       .5       .5      .5       .5      .5       .5       .5      .5       .5       .5
Operating Cost Total                 (2)         -      32.1    61.1    67.8    69.3    69.6    69.6    69.6    69.6    69.6    69.6    69.6    69.6    69.6    69.6    69.6    69.6    69.6    69.6
OPERATING PROFIT:  (1)-(P)                           (3)         -       2.3      5.5     8.1    10.1    13.4    13.4    13.4    13.4    13.4    13.4    13.4    13.4    13.4    13.4    13.4    13.4    13.4    13.4
INTERESI ON CASFi SURPLUS (DEFICIT) /2              '4)          -        -       -        -       -        .6      .9       .8       .6      .8       .9     1.0       .3      (.3)    (.3)    (.3)    (.2.    (.5)    (.5'
PROFIT BEFORE INTEIEST AND DEPRECIATION              (5)         -       2.3      5.5     8.1    10.1    14.0    14.3    14.2    L4.0    14.2    14.3   1.4. 4    13.7    13.1    13.1    13.1    13.2    12.9    12.9
(3),(47 
LESS 3RTEREST ON LONG-TERM DE3T 13                   (6)         -       1.3      3.2     4.2      4.3     4.2      4.1     3.9      3.6      3.4     3.1      2.8     2.5      2.1      1.7      1.3      .8       .3       .1
LESS DEPRECIATION                                    (7)         -        .6      3.0     4.3      4.3     4.3      4.3     4.3      4.3     4.3      4.3      4.3     4.3      4.3      4.3      4.3     4.3      4.3      4.3
PROFIT BEFORE TAX:  (5)-(6)-(7)                      (8)         -        .4      (.7)    (,4)    1.5      5.5      5.9     6.o      6.1      6,5     6,9      7.3     6.9      6.7      7.1      7.5     8.1      8.3      8.5
UMS TAX /4                                           (9)         -        .2       _       -        .8     3.0      3.2     3.3      3.4      3.6     3.8      4.o      3.8     3.7      3.9      4.1     4.5      4.6      4.7
PROFIT AFTER TAX:  (8)-(9)                          (10)          -       .2      (.7)    (-4)      .7     2.5      2.7     2.7      2.7      2.9     3.1      3.3      3.1     3.0      3.2      3.4     3.6      3.7      3.8
/1 For the data on revenues and current expenses see Annex 11.
For permanent working capital requirement, Rs 5.0 million each in 1974, 1975, 1976 and 1977 is provided in the form of capital subscription.  Net short-term  deposit is
assumed to earn 0.33% per month, and net short-term debt is assumed to cost 1.03 per month. Interest earned sn deposit in excess of or paid on deficit short of Ra 20.0 million
(which is considered to be the average working capitaLl requirement) is, to simplify calculation, accounted for under INTEREST OR CASH SURPLUS (DEFICIT) at 6% per  .nnum.
h  The long-term  debt vith interest at 9.5% per annum is amortized over 15 year perieds (including grace periods of two-three years).
At the rate of 55% of PROFIT BEFORE TAX.
November 29, 1973



INDLA
HMACHAL PRADESH APPLE PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
HPMC's Cash flow Pro,iections and Rate of Return
in m      1ion Rupees
1974    Il      1976    19' 1    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1983    1939    199ou    1 91      2
I.  CAH LOPRLCTOS                                                                                                                                                         9                                        2
Cash Outflov
Operating Costa  I                             (1)         -    32.1   61.1    67.8   69.3   69.6   69.6   69.6   69.6   69.6   69.6   69.6    69.6    69.6   69.6   69.6    69.6    o9.E    69.6
Investment Costs.                             (2)         1.8   22.9   17.6    2.9         -       -      4.5     4.6      _       -        .7    13.3    11.1     1.3              -      4.5      4.6      -
Debt Service                                                      1.3     3.2     4.2     5.5     5.5    6.4      6.4     6.4     6.4    6.4       6.4     6.4     6.4     6. 4    6.4     6.1      2.9     .1
Tivdex L:                                                          :2                      :   8  3.0     3.2     3.3     3.4      3.6     3.8     4.0     3.8     3.7     3.9     4.1     4.5      4.6     4.,7
Dividend /5                                                -       -       -       -       -      2.0    2.0      2.0     2.0     2.0     2.0      2.0     2.0     2.0     2.0     2.0     2.0      2.0~  2.
Outflow Total                                 1.8   56.5   81.9    74.9   75.6   80.1   85.7    85.9   81.4   81.6   82.5    95.3   92.9   83.0    91.9   82.1    ,.6.7                 3.7    -.7
Csh Inflow
Operati%  Revenues Ll                          (3)         -     34.4   66.6   75.9   79.4   83.0   83.0   83.0   83.0    83.0   83.0    83.0    83.0   83.0   83.0   83.0    83.0    53.    -3.0
Long-term Loans /6                                        1.8   22.9   17.6       2.9                          -       -            -       -       -                   -           -        -
Equity                                        (4)         5.0    5.0      5.0     5.0      -       -       -       -            -       -
InteresAon Cash Surplus (deficit) /8                       -       -               -       -       .6      .9      .8      .6      .8      .9      1.0      .3    (.3M    (.3)    M)    (.2)    '5          :.5s
Inflow Total                                  6.8   62.3   89.2    83.8   79.4   83.6   83.9   83.8   83.6   83.8   83.9   84.0    83.3    82.7   82.7   82.7   82.8    82.5    82.5
Net Cash Flow                                                5.o    5.8      7.3     8.9     3.8     3.5   (1.8)   (2.1)    2.2    2.2        1.4  (11.3)   (9.6)    (.3'       .8     .6    (3.9'   '1.2)    5.,
Cumlative Net Cash Flow                                      5.0   10.8   18.1   27.0    30.8   34.3   32.5   30.4    32.6   34.8   36.2   24.9    15.3    15.0   15.8    16.4   12.5    11.3    17.1
II.  FfIACIAL RATE OF RETURN
Net Be       b      tte )     /9                 (5)        (6.8)  (25.6)  (17.1)      .2   10.1   13.4      8.9      8.8   13.4   13.4   12.7         .1     2.3    12.1    13.4   13.4       8.9     8.8    50.-
Pbyxical Contingencies /10                                    .1    2.7      2.3      .1      I           -            -       -       -       -       -       -               -        -       -       -
Net Renefit (inel. physical contingencies)        (6)       (6.9)  (28.3)  (19.4)    .1   10.1   13.4    8.9          8.8    13.4   13.4   12.7        .1     2.3   12.1    13.4    13.4       8.9     5.8    50.5
Rate of Return (incl. physical contingencies)               14%
1 See Table 1.
Annex 9 (Tables 1 and 6).
See Table 1 tootnote 3.
Se Table 1.
At the rate of 10% on the face value or the equity shares of Ra 20.0 million.
These would cover the entire initial investment cost. For details of financing see paris 3.15 to 3.18 of main report.
Bee Table 1 footnote 2.
oSe Table 1 footnote 2.
At the end of the period for which the rate of return iS calculated, the depreciated value of the physical assets is
eetimated to be Ra 17,400,000. Rs 20.0 million in working capital is included in the cost stream and is salvaged at
the end of the period in its entirety.
/10 Annex 9.
Rovember 28, 1973



ANNEX 14
Page 1
INDIA
HIMACHAL PRADESH APPLE PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
A. Introduction
1.        At full development the project would provide an integrated
and efficient processing and marketing system for about 55,000 tons of
apples annually (40,000 tons net of culls), or about one-fourth of total
HP production in 1977. Of these 40,000 net tons, 20,000 tons would be
customer apples which HPMC would grade and pack for a fee; 10,000 tons
would be purchased by HPMC for cold storage; and 10,000 tons would be
fresh-traded apples graded, packed, transported and marketed by HPMC on
consignment (i.e. the growers receive HPMC's sales price less fixed
deductions).  In addition, 11,000 tons of otherwise-wasted culls would be
processed into juice concentrate.
2.        Although the cold storage and cull apples would actually be
purchased by HPMC, whereas the customer and consignment apples would not
be, in order to make sensitivity testing easier and to make clearer the
relative magnitude of different costs and benefits, all apples are treated
as if HPMC did not buy them, but only handled them on consignment.
B. Costs
General
3.        Economic costs of the project, subject to the adjustments
indicated, would include: (a) all investment and replacement costs (for
processing and marketing facilities; road maintenance equipment, cableways,
road works, technical assistance, training and the project evaluation study);
(b) "permanent" working capital requirements of HPMC (for stocks) of
Rs 20 million, which would be acquired as capital subscriptions over the
first four years; and (c) operating costs of HPMC and road maintenance
costs of PWD.
Adjustments
4.        Import duties, taxes and price contingencies are, of course,
excluded, as are intra-HPMC transfer payments. Thus, of HPMC's full
development annual operating cost of Rs 69.6 million (see Annex 13, Table 1),
Rs 20.3 million paid to farmers and Rs 18.6 million of internal transfers



ANNEX 14
Page 2
are subtracted to get Rs 30.7 million of economic costs. The payment to
farmers consists of Rs 2.8 million by the Juice Concentrate Plant, Rs 12.0
million by the Cold Storage Apple Trading and Rs 5.5 million by the Fresh
Apple Trading section of HPMC. The transfer payments would be as follows
(see Annex 11, Tables 1, 2, 3, 5, 7, and 9):
From                           To                              Amount
(Rs million)
Cold Storage Apple Trading          Packing Stations                   3.85
Cold Storage Apple Trading          Forwarding Operations              4.14
Cold Storage Apple Trading          Cold Store                         2.64
Fresh Apple Trading                 Packing Stations                   3e85
Fresh Apple Trading                 Forward Operations                 3.58
Forwarding Operations               Packing Stations                   0.56
Total       18.62
5.        Based on India's indirect tax system, the opportunity cost of
$1.00 of foreign exchange is estimated to be about Rs 10, so foreign
exchange costs are converted into Rupee costs at that rate (see para 6.05).
Labor does not appear to be in excess supply at existing wages, so no
adjustment is made in the wage rates.
C. Benefits
6.        The project's benefits would result from the following:
(a) more efficient grading, packing and marketing of apples;
(b) more even temporal and regional spread of the apple
marketing;
(c) improved transportation links to the apple-growing
areas; and
(d) utilization of the otherwise-wasted cull apple for
juice concentrate.
Wholesale Premiums
7.        The 20,000 tons (net of culls) of apples that are graded and
packed by HPMC for a fee would benefit from more consistent grading (which
saves wholesalers from having to regrade) and sturdier packing (which
reduces damage) and should command at least a 5% wholesale premium over
conventionally packed and graded apples.



ANNEX 14
Page 3
8.        The cold-storage apples would command a premium of about 37%,
primarily because they would be marketed during the off season. All of
this price increase would represent an economic benefit because consumers
value apples more when they are scarce. (However, any price increases for
apples still sold in the main peak-season markets which result from the
overall supply reduction are primarily an income transfer from consumers to
producers, and hence are not an economic benefit.) The consignment apples
should sell for at least a 13% wholesale premium over conventionally-
marketed ones (based on a 15% retail premium, but larger dealer margins),
as about half of them would get to market somewhat before the peak season
as a result of faster distribution. Furthermore, these will be the
choicest of the apples, and the faster distribution will result in fresher
apples. Eventually, new urban markets may also be developed.
Transport Savings
9.        The increase in the orchard-gate value of the apples handled by
HPMC would result not only from their higher wholesale values, but also
from reduced transport costs. Orchard to roadhead transport costs should
be one-third lower with the project than without it, because the new roads
and cableways would reduce porterage distances. Transport costs from the
packing station to the final markets would fall on average by one-fourth
because apples not destined for Delhi could go direct to their destination
without passing through Delhi or other intermediate markets. There would
also be some packing station-to-market transport savings on customer apples
because due to its higher efficiency, HPMC would carry them to Kalka at
below the conventional rate.  And, an estimated 5% of total apple production
which now rots because it cannot get to market in time (due to landslides
which close the roads, the breakdown of trucks on the rough roads, or the
unavailability of porters at certain times), would be saved by the transport
improvements, especially the road maintenance equipment.
10.       Savings on transport would not be restricted to apples handled by
HPMC. The reductions in spoilage and in the orchard to roadhead transport
cost would also benefit other apple growers in the project areas. By 1977,
these growers would market about 60,000 tons on which they would save about
Rs 70 per ton, or Rs 4.2 million in total. To be conservative, output
expansions beyond 1977 are not taken into account.
11.       Savings on non-apple transport are difficult to estimate.  Although
goods other than apples account for about 80% of total tonnage on the roads
to be improved, because the new roads and cableways would be located pri-
marily to serve the orchards, and because prompt, smooth carriage is less
important for most other products, we assume conservatively that the
transport savings of all other users equal half the total transport savings
on apples from the infrastructure improvements (half of Rs 7.8 million, or
Rs 3.9 million per annum at full project development).



ANNEX 14
Page 4
12.       Finally, the prolect roads would induce new agricultural develop-
ment in areas where it is at present held back by high transport costs on
inputs and outcuts. Only rough guesses of these benefits can be made, and
it is assumed that witnin 3 km on both sides of the 400 km of project
roads, 4,000 ha would be cultivated (vs 16,000 ha already under crops, out
of a total area of 240,000 ha), with average gross output of Rs 1,640 per
ha (the present average--see Annex 1, Table 2), of which 25% is net profits.
This yields total annual benefits of Rs 1.6 million.
Summary of Quantifiable Benefits
13.       The benefits would accrue to RPMC, project apple growers, and
other users of the improved transportation system.  The annual economic
benefits of HPMC at full development total Rs 44.1 million, divided as
follows:
(a) sales price of cold store apples (Rs 2,623/ton) minus
purchase price (Rs 1,205/ton) times 10,000 tons =
Rs 14.2 million;
(b) sales price of consignment apples (Rs 2,155/ton) minus
purchase price (Rs 1,305/ton) times 10,000 tons = Rs 8.5
million;
(c) packing fee (Rs 385/ton), roadhead to packing station
haulage charge (Rs 14/ton), and forwarding charge to
Kalka (Rs 135/ton) for customer apples, times 20,000
tons = Rs 10.7 million;
(d) sales revenue from juice concentrate (Rs 8.8 million)
less farmers' income from culls (Rs 2.8 million) =
Rs 6.0 million;
(e) cableway rental fees of Rs 3.8 million;
(f) cold storage fees for other customers of Rs 0.5 million;
(g) interest on short-term deposits of Rs 0.4 million.
14.       To these are added the grower benefits, which are derived in
Annex 14, Table 1. Apples marketed by HPMC would earn growers an average
of Rs 558 per ton more than without the project; those packed and graded
for a fee would benefit the growers by Rs 164 per ton. With 20,000 tons
in eaca category, growers using EPMC would have a total annual income
increase of Rs 14.4 million at full development. Adding this income to
the HPMC revenue involves no double counting because all the costs for
which HPMC charges the growers have been subtracted in arriving at the
growers' total income from the project.  Together the benefits accruing
to kPMC (except for custone-: cold storage and interest) and the growers
using HPMC would equal the difference between the orchard-gate value of



ANNEX 14
Page 5
the apples without the project (i.e., the opportunity cost of the apples)
and the wholesale value of the apple and juice concentrate with the
project (except for those operations not affected by the project and not
involving project costs, such as the orchard-to-cable way or roadhead
transport by porters, and the transport charges and commissions paid on
customer apples after they leave HPMC).
15.       Total project benefits at full development thus would come to
Rs 44.1 million HPMC revenue, Rs 14.4 million to farmers using HPMC,
Rs 4.2 million to other apple growers, Rs 1.6 million development benefits
and Rs 3.9 million of other road-user savings, or a total of Rs 68.2 million.
Nonquantifiable Benefits
16.       The main nonquantifiable benefits are the development of a new
marketing institution which might later be able to handle additional
functions, and the social gains from improving the transportation system
in an isolated part of the country. Should production of new crops in
the area later be proved viable, for example, these nonquantifiable
benefits might prove to have been very great indeed.
D. Rate of Return and Sensitivity
17.       The project's economic rate of return was calculated to be 23%.
Because of the various project components and assumptions involved, a
number of sensitivity tests were carried out. A 25% increase or decrease
in the opportunity cost of foreign exchange would lower or raise the rate
of return by only 2%. Thus, using thy official exchange rate of Rs 7.5 -
$1.00 would yield a 25% rate of return. A change of 100% in the develop-
ment benefits and non-apple road-user savings would alter the rate of
return by just 3%, in either direction. An increase or decrease of 50%
in the benefits to the apple farmers would raise or lower the rate of
return by about 7%. A 10% increase or decrease in the total costs in
Annex 14, Table 2 would lower or raise the rate of return by around 5%.
While it appears unlikely that the economic viability of the project would
be endangered, the relatively high sensitivity to even a small cost increase
means that the management of HPMC (which will incur' 96% of the project costs
after the initial investment) must be highly competent and cost-conscious.
E. Income Transfers
18.       The quantified net benefits would all be gains in economic
efficiency. In addition, there would be income transfers to the HP
apple growers from two wealthier segments of the population: apple
middlemen and urban apple consumers. As a result of competition from
HPMC, the middlemen would probably have to reduce the commissions they



ANNEX 14
Page 6
charge the farmers. In particular, the project would considerably reduce
the market power of some 140 commission agents/wholesalers in Delhi who
control the existing marketing system but are not in a position (even if
they were willing) to invest sufficiently in improved marketing facilities
and to streamline apple marketing to the benefit of the Indian economy.
19.       The consumer-to-producer income transfer would be due to the
increase in the price of all apples during the peak season which would
result from the diversion by HPMC of apples into off-season markets.
This transfer would be partially offset by the concomitant off-season
price reductions, but as the off-season apple trade is much smaller,
the net transfer probably is to the producers. However, as the seasonal
demand curves for apples are not known, the magnitude of the transfer
cannot be determined.



ANNEX 14
INDIA                                             Table 1
HIMACHAL PRADESH APPLE PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
Economic Benefits to Apple Growers at Full Project Development
(Weighted Average of All Markets)
(Rs per ton, unless otherwise stated)
Future Conventional          Apple Packing and/or
Present      Apple Marketing             Marketing by HPMC
Apple      Without   With      Packed for  Marketed on  Purchased for
Marketing    Project   Project     a Fee      Consignment  Cold Storage
Wholesale Value /1                       2,196       1,910     1,910      2,005         2,155        2,623
Storage Charges 7T2                               -               -          -            -            447
Commissions /3                             304         264       264        277          107           227
Transport Costs: L
HP to Markets                          487          487       487        467          344           344
Roadhead to Packing Station             -            -         -                       l4 14         14
Orchard to Roadhead A                   83          100        67         67           67            67
Packing Charges /6                         322         322       322        385          385           385
Ex-Orchard Value                        1,000          737       770        795        L 238       19139
Percentage Not Spoiled                     95%         95%       100%       100%               100%
Income from Consumption Apples            950          700       770        795              1,189 /7
Income from Culls /8                       -            -         -          69                  69
Total Income                              950          700       770        864              1,258
Benefits                                   -            -         70        164                558
---------------------------------------------------------------------__------__-----------------------------
Quantity (Tons)                                               60,000     20,000             20,000
Total Benefits (Rs)                                        L.20 million  3.26 million      11.1o milliorn
14.44' million
/1  See Annex 4, Table 6 and Annex 11, Tables 6 and 8. It is further assumed that prices of conventionally
marketed apples would decline by 13%, and that apples packed for a fee would get a 5% premium.
/2  Storage, insurance and interest charges--see Annex 11, Table 6.
7   See Annex 4, Table 6 and Annex 11, Tables 6 and 8.
See Annex 11, Table [.
77  Because of the shortage of porters, orchard to roadhead prices would increase without the new roads and
cableways of the project, which would reduce the average distance of porterage.
/6  See Annex 4, Table 3 and Annex 11, Table 1.
7   Consignment and cold storage apples are combined here because they would come from the same farmers, with
the best ones sold fresh on consignment.
/8  With each ton of marketable apples there will be about 0.275 tons of culls, from which the farmers get
Rs 250 per ton.
December lb, 1973



INDIA
HIMACBAL PRADESH APPLE PRGCESSING AND MARETITNG PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return Calculations
(in Rs Millions)
1       2        3         4        5         6        7         8        9          10         11          12            13        14         15         16        17         18         19        20
I. COSTS
Investment Coats             18.8     49.6      39.2     11.0       -        2.3       5.9      8.4       _         _           2.8       12.2          15.0        1.2       -          2.3        5.9       8.4        _          -
Permanent Working
Capital of HPMC               5.0      5.0       5.0      5.0                               -          -         -           -                    -          -           -          -               -         -          -
Operating Costs
HlMC                        -      13.8     28.0      30.0     30.5      30.7     30.7      30.7     30.7       30.7       30.7        30.7          30.7      30.7       30.7       30.7      30.7       30.7       3Q.7       30.7
Road Maintenance            -       0.3       Q.7      0.9      1.1       1.1      1.1                                                                                     1.1        1.1       1.1        1.1        1.1        1.1
Subtotal                -   I .          2.7      30.9                                                                                           31.6       31.8    3 T1. 31.8                        3I 3 1   .
Total Costs                  23.8     68.7      72.9     46.9      31.6     34.1      37.7     4o.2      31.8      31.8        34.6       44.o          46.8       33.0      31.8       34.1       37.7      40.2       31.8       31.8
II. BENEFITS
HPMC Revenues                  -      16.1      33.5     38.1     40.6      44.1     44.1      44.i      44.1      44.1        44.1       44.1          44.1      44.1       44.1       44.i       44.1      44.1       44.i       44.1
Project Farmer Benefits        -       4.9      11.3     14.2     14.4      14.4      14.4     14.4     i4.4       14.4       14.4        14.4          14.4      14.4       i4.4       14.4       14.4      14.4       14.4       14.4
Other Apple Fanmer
Benefits                   -       -         1.7      3.4      4.2       4.2      4.2       4.2      4.2        4.2        4.2         4.2           4.2       4.2        4.2        4.2       4.2        4.2        4.2        4.2
Development Benefits           -        -        0.2      0.4       0.7      1.0       1.3      1.6       1.6       1.6         1.6        i.6           i.6        1.6       1.6        1.6        1.6        i.6       1.6        1.6
Other Road User Savings        -        -        1.4      3.0       3.9      3.9       3.9      3.9       3.9       3.9         3.9        3.9           3.9        3.9       3.9        3.9        3.9        3.9       3.9        3.9
Salvage Value                  -       -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -         -           -          -             -          -         -          -          -         -          -         26.8
Total Benefits                 -      21.0      48.i     59.1      63.8     67.6      67.9     68.2      68.2      68.2        68.2       68.2          68.2       68.2      68.2       68.p       68.2      68.2       68.2       95.0
III.  NET BENEFIT STREAM          (23.8)   (47.7)   (24.8)   12.2        32.2     33.5      30.2     28.o      36.4      36.4        33.6       24,2          21.4       35.2      36.4       34.1       30.5      28.0       36.4       63.2
RATE OF RETURN                              23%
December 4,1973



INDIA
HIMACHAL PRADESH APPLE PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
APPLE MARKETING CHANNELS
1. CONVENTIONAL CHANNELS
CONSUMERS
AGENTs           \           \       i     < 
_                $                  |   D~~~~~~~~~ELHI                             t'       /         /                                                              t
PRODUCERS                                                               VVHOLE___________ALE__  ,
(H.machal                                                              WHOLESALE                            t;___COMMISSION_________.____
P=adesh)                                                              M                                                 AGENTS
-                                                                 E                     C                                 E      Mlnor )            >     ;'M-    CONSUMERS
_ ~~~WHLS LE
--     Merchants
11. CHANNELS TO BE INTRODUCED BY THE PROJECT
9 MERCiANTS                                                                                        -                5~eno  ~   CONSUMERS
RCHA T                                                                                   (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Deh,)
(9 = ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CONSUMERS
PRODUCERS         HM                                                                                                       _____--_                    -_-_____(M_I__ _ _ _-__ _
CITY 0 3                                                       |                 = CONSUMERS
MERCHANTS                                                                  Eank-7CM8tR  C
World B5.tk-7208(2R)






INDIA
HIMACHAL PRADESH APPLE PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
APPLE JUICE CONCENTRATE AND ESSENCE PLANT
Material Balanre
|APPLES 11,000 kgsl.
WET POMACE 300 kg.                                                ICE 7  kg.
t DRY POMACE 90 kg                    VAPkR 70 k.
|EVAPORATION 63 kg.       ESEC 7 kg
(   RESIDUES 10 kg.
CLEAR JUICE 620 kg.I
EVAPORATION 612 kg. | CONCENtRATE 1108k!  |
ESSENCE FORTIFIED
_CONCENTRATE 6:1
World Bank-7264






INDIA
HIMACHAL PRADESH APPLE PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
General Layout and Process Flow Diagram of Juice Concentrate and Essence Plant
1f',At  11  1  '                 2
~~ > .... it 1t r--=--2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                       I          13 y-
f  t  S>S.  0 5 e j.); s.s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                     i
II  =y ..........||_   _________  ,,N,.   
t0~~~ IL,lr  i=---                                                                                                                          -
b~~~~~ A,~ 1I 20 2AXI2 9                                                                                                qI22,2X






INDIA
HIMACHAL PRADESH APPLE PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
2,000 ton Multi-Story Apple Cold Storage
t
_______                             D2IN.  DD[ 1.1P  D IW i7T §UP
116:1e]7O P,7 DLA D]         DD THE
5-~~~~~~~-E11CO XC0M MEC11 LF
E   -.    H    ~~~~~~~~~~~  0   V  X ~~~~~~~L                      , L  E L = 0lr LpnCL
_______                             LID NDD UNL WDD ]
GROUND FLOOR PLAN                                        SECOND FLOOR PLAN
EAST SIDE ELEVATION






INDIA
HIMACHAL PRADESH APPLE PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
GENERAL LAYOUT - APPLE PACKING STATION
_________________   _____                   ~~~75m
........ .... v --- X g 7 .................~~~~~~~~................................                          WO  K H P A
Lo                                                                                                       *:*: *:4j.    ...... ...........  STAFF CANTEEN  W R(tO  N
..............                                  ......                             POWER  ROOM
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...... .................
LIDDING AND LABELLING TABLES                                    - - -
SIZER  GRA                                                                                S                     -=    Y
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r                         -7                                                            -   - -_  -  -l          
ARE A   [         >UNLOADING3 
E                                                                  0                                                                 ---  -  A   -A
PACKED APPLE STORAGE               EIIIII   PRE-GRADING  STORAGE  G                         COVERED BACKLOG STORAGE SPACE
World Benk-7267



I



INOIA
HIMALCHAL PRADESH APPLE PRO(:ESSING AND MARKETING PRFCJECT
GENERAL LAYOUT - rRANSSHIPMENT CENTER
16m          4m L   6m                   16m
I, _ _
I                                                          P
I    I    _  ___    ____    _ 
ll    l   ,                                ~~~~ ~        ~~~~~PATH  
*                0           ~~~~~~~~PATH
i    l   *                         l        ~~~~ ~        ~~~~~PATH  l
I    I             *                    b      s1            PT   
JI                 *
* e
I~~ ~     ~~~                          -1 I-   
I     ' __      __D-                              i
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _,~~~~~~~~~~~ I                     _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _
I  I                                                                          zI
dAN.~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ kGF
I    I                                                                     0~~~~I o 
.. .oi  4                                     U
I UldBank-7288<1
I 
----------------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
ENTRANCE
W I .
I    I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ol ak78(






INDIA
HIMACHAL PRADESH APPLE PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF DEPARTMENT OF HORICULTURE
Technolo|r Director  Pr
/     [      ~~~~Deputy Director (Organization|\
/                  ~~~~~~~~and Administration)    
.~~~~~~~ |
7-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
Fruit  Deputy  puty               Plant
Horti cultuDral                   Protection                                                 Mashobra
Officers                ~~~~~~~Inspectors
H Hrort.)( o Der.  Bank-7319
Canningu              CorldBanklan31






INDIA
HIMACHAL PRADESH APPLE PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
Phasing Chart for Processing, Storage and Forwarding Facilities and Project Evaluation
CALENDAR YEAR                                                        1974                                    1975                                    1976                                    1977
QUARTERS                                           1          2        3          4         1        2          3        4          1        2         3          4         1         2         3         4
I. PACKING HOUSES                                                    _                                                                 _ ___           __
Planning, Land Acquisition,                                   4 Units            2 Units   3 Units                                  3 Units
Engineering, Bid Invitation- ..                     --------
Construction Contracting --                                .                           Units  ;Unis             3 Units                              3    Units
Construction -----------------.............                                                 4Uisnt3Uis
Equipment Contracting-....- -------------n
Equipment Shipping and                                                            _Un
Installation -.-......------....---                                  -4 Units                                   2 Units             3 Units
II. COLLECTION STATIONS                                                                                              Units
Planning, Land Acquisition,.
Engineering, Bid Invitation --------------------1Ui
Construction Contracting                         . ........                      1 Unt               2 Uts
Construction ---------------------------------------2LntI
Equipment Contracting,                                                                                    .t..
Supply and Installation                           -            .....-.. ...         Unit                        2 Units
III. TRANSHIPMENT CENTER
Planning, Land Acquisition
Engineering, Bid Invitation-. -                                  _
Construction Contracting                                                                         i t ,   .   . 1 Unit
Construction                                       . .                                      1 Unit
Equipment Contracting &
IV. COLD STORES
Planning, Land Acqu;:itior.,
Engineering, Bid Invitation ._           ----                           2 Units  2 U
Construction Contracting                  .its .
Construction .......                                          ..,                           2 Units                      2 Units
Equipment Contracting -----.- -------- ---------------- 2 Llits -
Equipment Shipping and                                                                               2 Units
Installation .............. .  .    . .                                                  --       ,             2 Umts  2 Units               2 Units
Test   Run  -- - - -  - - -  - -- -  - - -  - - -    --- -- -    ---- - - - - - - -  - -- -  - - -  - -  - - -
V. PROCESSING PLANT
Planning, Land Acquisition                                     1 Unit
Engineering, Bid Invitation -                       ---                                      I _n_
Construction Contracting-------------------------
Construction-.. . . . . .    - -  - - -  - - - - - - - - -    - - - - - - - - -    - - - -    - - - - - - -     -1 U i
Equipment Contracting-                                   -                                   1 Un it
Equipment Shipping and
Installation---------------------------------           .       .                                ..  .           I Unni
Test Run ---1-Unit --     l     ..                                                            - - ...... ---  _                                        _ Un_
VI.  PROJECT EVALUATION
Contracting of Evaluation
Team  ----- ------- --                                         -
Data Collection and
Reporting   -------------------------------------------    --------___--_-                                                                                              _    _ _ _  _
Preparation of                                                                                       lI
Evaluation Report -__.            ------                       -----------  -------------                                                                                   ,__ .               ____
World Bank-7320(4R)






INDIA
HIMACHAL PRADESH APPLE PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
Technical Assistance and Training Schedule
CALENDAR YEAR                                         1974                                  1975                                 1976                                  1977
QUARTERS                              1        2         3        4         1         2       3        4         1         2        3         4        1         2        3        4
1 CONSULTANTS
1 Senior Packing Plant Manager ..................                             ...
1 Post Harvest Quality Control
Specialist .....................A  ........ ...r...                                               im     i                    un..., m           mi
1Senior Food Technologist                                                     ..1.1................ ........                                                                               11i iilill  SS SSSS
1Fond Micro Biologist                                                     .l .....................                                      u       i   lsssssss
1 Senior Marketing Specialist .......................
3 Trainees Hosts Abroad .=................... ........       .....  -..............-
2. LOCAL STAFF TRAINING
1 General Packing Plant
Supervisior ................. .......... ................
IS Packing PlantManagers .       ................                                          ........ ... .....llII
1 Fdcking Plant Engineer      ............ ........
12 Packing Plant Main-
tenance Supervisors .     ............................ ............. ... ....... . 
12 Packing Line Super-
intendents ....... .......................        ....... ..... .                       ***w_ *Ri   _a I I 11 II giluu *
13 Grade and Quality In-                            -
spectors                        ... .Ell ll    iiliuilil iui
2 Processing Plant Managers ........................................ ................  ....... ........
1 Processing Equipment En-                                                             I
gineer ................................................ U
2 Food Technologists          ......................................                 .uu |   |  | | |
3 Cold Storage Managers ....................... t....... ...... ....... ... VO  >tz- _ssss
4 Cold Storage Product
Quality Control Supervisors ....................      ....... 
3Sales Office Managers               ..................  .......   ....                                                ItS
15 Salesmen------- ....................... l....  . .. .. . .. .. .. . .. .. . .. . . . .... .....1ISS
|                            .                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ACTIVITIES
Contracting and Recuriting   X                                                      g m t   In India
of Personnel   Recorlt7ng
_     Abroad                                 World Bank-7321 (3R)






INDIA
HIMACHAL PRADESH APPLE PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
TYPICAL PATTERN OF APPLE HARVEST
100%                 -  _  _   _  __                                                   _  _   _                                    _  _  _   __                                    _  _  _
90%
80%                                                                       ~
70%
80%-1-
50%
40%                                                                                                                                             J-
World Bank-7438(R)
Cumnulative Production Curve
Monthly Production Distribution Curve  E .....................






.    !  ,/ \t _ 8   F                                           I b                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I BR D 10234R
NOVEMBER 1973
\.) -                                                                            ¢  \ INDIA
C'   /                             -N                                     ((HIMACHAL   PRADESH
AFGHANISTAN   !                                    >,    .    APPLE PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
A-?        5- ,'uabcoaselile F  =        )                 PRODUCTION   AND  CONSUMPTION   OF APPLES
<     ,        ~~~~JAMMU -dr KA 5HMIR 
JABIMLI end RASH/RIB r                           D    APPLE  PUCTiO . SQUARE U RNOICATES SOU T-ONS)
- APPLE CONSUMPTION) SQUARE INDICATES 30000 0QN51
-- --j{                                        D 8  (3 NA' ONAL CAP TAL
J . , T      >                             0    OTHER MP0RT-NT TOWNS
./MACt  IA?TYr.S,- _    MARKET NG RCUTESIROATSC
PRADESH            /           A-\.A- 1 .  TALWAT INKAUTS
.  STATE R0ANDARIES
PAKISTAN                                       ...E\                                   ITTRNATION&  TOUNUARES
CCV) T<jM OBbLVna !SJI;:   A-,          C           H          I          N          A
/3ng Vnganp       /A    LbA  Nhi/ (Tr   I  B  E  T)
T TA          ~NEPAL                                                    A IK,  HUON .
Alcro  UPS RA 0554H              J.M                                                               '
( A   J                                                          AM;A N'   C ,                           A i
G-kpeEn      'APPI IM
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H h       0HAV 
SHEAR   VANGLADE~~~SH rp
RA gRy  T  OAI,..d obd       g/       onhpi                                         >5          9   Rs2e .l              j
'\, OAmTelyr,<  {/L  _ t t T 9 > _'l>%i;9 BURMA
-Y   'TplPo    |         f               j      7/
AMO,T I                       ORISSA              C-
(    / jd-n 0           74\         iod.9..       ~
B-bg y    MA //A RA S// RA                                                                     a   
+ r a b ~~/                                                                odEf/A                                            't                    SN8ATjE
op...~ ~~~~~~~~~o
Sea                   GOA  r   aBut))      (  2         COSAD5J                           --                                 cpUAnrTSa'.:;,PoP. 5rPS;2J
0                                                                  go BonaL    a
".P~~~~~~~~~~~~                                               .TA,ScS,A,P
,A    C,H&I   PRA D~ ~~~A                        A    DA TR
\  _         4                  ~ ~~~~~~~~~~0 10J0  200  3010
kP\    1,'l A)                                 I                a
-Irr                                        -P-I RaTAM/t NADILOMETERS                                                                                    B
UsirKra  I/                     k )  atSRI LANKA
(CEYLON)
SE;f                                                       ----.-



