CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 456 IN
Project Agreement
(Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
AND
HIMACHAL PRADESH AGRO-INDUSTRIES
CORPORATION PRIVATE LIMITED
DATED JANUARY 22, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 456 IN
Project Agreement
(Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
AND
'HIMACHAL PRADESH AGRO-INDUSTRIES
CORPORATION PRIVATE LIMITED
DATED JANUARY 22, 1974


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 22, 1974, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION (hereinafter called ARC) and
HIMACHAL      PRADESH     AGRO-INDUSTRIES       CORPORATION       PRIVATE
LIMITED (hereinafter called AIC).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between India, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to thirteen million dollars ($13,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition inter alia that ARC and AIC agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as hereinafter set forth:
WHEREAS by an agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and the State of Himachal Pradesh acting by its Governor, the said State has agreed
to undertake certain obligations in respect of the carrying out of the Project.
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and ARC, part of the proceeds of the credit provided for Under the
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to ARC on the terms and
conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS ARC and AIC, ini consideration of the Association's entering into
the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth:
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the term "Rs" means rupees in the currency of the Borrower.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. ARC shall, and AIC shall cause HPMC to, carry out Parts A,
B and D of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause to
be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. (a) ARC shall enter into the Subsidiary Loan Agreement with
the Borrower under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the
Association, including those set forth in Schedule 3 to the Development Credit
Agreement.
(b)   ARC and PCB shall enter into the Refinance Agreement under terms
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association, including those
set forth in Schedule I hereto.
(c)   ARC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement and under the Refinance Agreement. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, ARC shall not take or concur in any action which would have
the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving said Agreements or any
provision thereof.
(d)   ARC shall: (i) require the Participating Commercial Banks to maintain
separate accounts for Project lending; and (ii) ensure that the annual audited
accounts of such Banks are submitted to the Association within four months of
the end of their fiscal year together with a statement of Project lending for such
Banks, certified by ARC.
Section 2.03. (a) In order to assist HPMC in conducting site investigations,
preparing alternative plans, designs and tender documents, evaluating bids,
supervising construction and equipment installation and making test runs for the
cold storage units and the juice concentrate plant included in Parts A and B of
the Project, AIC shall cause HPMC to employ qualified and experienced engineering
consultants acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association.
(b)   In order to assist HPMC in training the personnel and undertaking
initial operations of the said juice concentrate plant, AIC shall cause HPMC to


﻿5
employ a food technologist and a food processing microbiologist with qualifications
and experience acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association.
(c)   In order to assist HPMC in the selection of sites and the preparation
of plans, designs and tender documents, the evaluation of bids and the supervision
of construction for the packing houses, collection stations and transshipment center
included in Part A of the Project and the cableways included in Part D of the
Project, AIC shall cause HPMC to request from Himachal Pradesh, and utilize, the
services of engineers, architects and other specialists as shall be required for the
proper execution of such works.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding under procedures consistent with the Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in April 1972 as revised in October 1972 and in accordance with, and subject
to the provisions set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) AIC shall cause HPMC to insure, or make adequate provision
for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit relent to HPMC by the Borrower against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable
by HPMC to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, AIC shall cause all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to HPMC
by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) AIC shall cause HPMC to furnish to the Association
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   ARC shall, and AIC shall cause HPMC to: (i) maintain records adequate
to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify
the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it
by the Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) without
limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.03 of this Agreement, enable the


﻿6
Association's representatives to examine the Project, the goods financed out of
such proceeds and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the
Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so relent
to it and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ARC and HPMC
Section 3.01. ARC shall, and AIC shall cause HPMC to: (a) at all times
manage their affairs, maintain their financial position, plan their future expansion
and carry on their operations, all in accordance with sound business and financial
practi,es and under the supervision of experienced and competent management
assisted by experienced and competent staff in adequate number; and (b) take
all steps necessary to acquire, maintain, and renew all rights, powers, privileges
and franchises which are necessary or useful in the conduct of their business or
in the carrying out of the Project.
Section 3.02. AIC shall cause HPMC to take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. ARC shall, and AIC shall cause HPMC to, maintain records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices their operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. ARC shall, and AIC shall cause HPMC to: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, and, except as
the Association shall otherwise agree, not later than four months after the end
of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year
as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)


﻿7
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts and
financial statements of ARC and HPMC and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Association, ARC and AIC shall cooperate fully to assure
that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association,
ARC and AIC shall from time to time, at the request of any party, exchange
views through their representatives with regard to the performance of their
respective obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations and
financial condition of ARC and HPMC and other matters relating to the purpose
of the Credit.
Section 5.02. The Association, ARC and AIC shall promptly inform each
other of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the performance by either of them
of its obligations under this Agreement or the performance by the Borrower and
ARC of their respective obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 5.03. ARC shall, and AIC shall cause HPMC to, enable the
Association's representatives to inspect all their records and documents relevant
to the Project.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreeii-ent shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of ARC and AIC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two
dates:
(i)         the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)        a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.


﻿8
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify ARC and AIC of this event.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For ARC:
Managing Director
Agricultural Refinance Corporation
Shri Niketan
F Block
Shiv Sagar Estate
Dr. Annie Besant Road
Worli, Bombay, 18 W.B.
India


﻿9
Cable address:
AGROFINANS
Bombay
For AIC:
Managing Director
Himachal Pradesh Agro-Industries
Corporation (Private) Limited
Summer Seat
Simla
India
Cable address:
HIMAGRO
Simla
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of: (i) ARC may be taken or executed by its Managing Director or such other
person or persons as ARC shall designate in writing; (ii) AIC may be taken or
executed by its Managing Director or such other person or persons as AIC shall
designate in writing.
Section 7.03. ARC and AIC shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person
or persons who will, on behalf of ARC and HPMC, take any action or execute
any documents required or permitted to be taken or executed by ARC and HPMC,
respectively, pursuant to any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿10
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ I.P.M. Cargill
Regional Vice President
Asia
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
By //s/ G. V. Ramakrishna
Authorized Representative
HIMACHAL PRADESH AGRO-INDUSTRIES
CORPORATION PRIVATE LIMITED
By /s/ G. V. Ramakrishna
Aithorized Representatve


﻿9                                   11
SCHEDULE I
Principal terms and conditions of relending
A.    Refinancing Agreement from ARC to PCB
(a)   Term: up to 15 years for any single loan, including two to three years
grace period;
(b)   Interest rate: 7%;
(c)   Security: such security as shall be prescribed by ARC.
B.    Relending from PCB to IPMC
(a)   Term: up to 15 years for any single loan, including two to three years
grace period;
(b)   Interest rate: 9-1/2%;
(c)   Security: such security as shall be prescribed by PCB.
C.    As a condition of participating in project financing, PCB shall provide the
required seasonal working capital to HPMC.


﻿12
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
A.    General
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "Procuring Entity" means
Himachal Pradesh or HPMC, as the case may be, and the provisions of this Schedule
shall apply to Himachal Pradesh and HPMC to the extent that Himachal Pradesh
and HPMC shall procure goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
B.    Contracts Governed by Guidelines
1.    With respect to any contract for aerial cableways, machinery, equipment or
material estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a)   If bidders are required to prequalify, the Procuring Entity shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be
followed and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Association
shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement
of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification, shall be furnished by the Procuring Entity to the Association for
its comments before the applicants are notified and the Procuring Entity shall make
such additions to or deletions from the said list as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b)   Except as the Procuring Entity and the Association shall otherwise
agree, such standard conditions of contract shall be used in inviting bids as shall
be agreed upon between the Procuring Entity and the Association.
(c)   Before bids are invited, the Procuring Entity shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a description of the
advertising procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such
modifications in the said documents or procedures as the Association shall
reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(d)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Procuring Entity shall,
before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name
of the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the


﻿13
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the reasons for the intended
award. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of this
Agreement, promptly inform the Procuring Entity and state the reasons for such
determination.
(e)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's prior concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were
asked.
(f)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.
2.    With respect to any other contract for civil works, machinery, equipment
or material, the Procuring Entity shall furnish to the Association, promptly after
its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of any such contract,
two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract is not consistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section
2.04 of this Agreement, promptly inform the Procuring Entity and state the reasons
for such determination.
3.    Identical or similar items of machinery, equipment or material shall, to the
extent possible, be consolidated in a single invitation for the purposes of bidding
by each participant.
4.    Minor equipment items which cannot be grouped in packages of $50,000
or more shall be procured through local competitive bidding.
5.    Civil works for Parts A and B of the Project shall be carried out through
contracts awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding under procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
6.    Civil works for Part C of the Project shall be carried out by contractors
or through force account.


﻿14
C.    Supplemental Rules on Bid Evaluation and Comparison
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids, customs duties and
other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on locally
produced goods, shall be excluded, except to the extent hereinafter provided, and
bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for
imported goods, or the ex-factory price for locally produced goods. The cost to
the Borrower of inland freight, insurance and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be taken into account
in the evaluation of bids in accordance with paragraph 4.7 of the Guidelines.
2.    For goods included in Categories II and III of the table set forth in paragraph
I of Schedule I to the Development Credit Agreement, the Procuring Entity may
grant a margin of preference to goods manufactured in India in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following groups:
(1)   Group A:    bids offering goods manufactured in India, if the bidder
shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the
Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in India equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of
such goods.
(2)   Group B:    bids offering goods manufactured in India, other than bids
classified in group A.
(3)   Group C:    bids offering any other goods.
(b)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding aniy customs duties and other import taxes in goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied locally, to determine
the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bids of each group
shall then be compared with each other and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for purposes
of award.
(c)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (b) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest bid from group A, as determined under paragraph (b) above, after adding
to the c.i.f. bid price of goods to be imported offered in each group C bid, for


﻿15
the purpose of this further comparison only, an amount equal to the smaller of
(i) the amount of customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt
importer would have to pay for the importation of goods offered in such group
C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods. If the group A bid in
such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for purposes of award;
if not, the lowest bid from group C, as determined under paragraph (b) above,
shall be selected for purposes of award.
3.    The bidding documents shall clearly indicate any preference which will be
granted, the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the methods and stages that will be followed in the evaluation
and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.


