CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 456 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 22, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 456 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 22, 1974


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 22, 1974, between INDIA, acting by its
President  (hereinafter  called  the   Borrower)   and   INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   By an agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
the State of Himachal Pradesh, acting by its Governor (hereinafter called Himachal
Pradesh), Himachal Pradesh has agreed to undertake certain obligations in respect
of the carrying out of the Project;
(C)   By an agreement of even date herewith between the Association, the
Agricultural Refinance Corporation (hereinafter called ARC) and the Himachal
Pradesli Agro-Industries Corporation Private Limited (hereinafter called AIC), ARC
and AIC have agreed to undertake certain obligations in respect of the carrying
out of the Project,
(D)   By a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and ARC, part of the proceeds of the Credit will be made available
to ARC and, by a refinancing agreement to be entered into between ARC and
the Participating Commercial Bank (as hereinafter defined) ARC will make said
part of the proceeds available to the Participating Commercial Bank; and
(E)   The Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth:
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they


﻿4
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a)   Section 5.01 is deleted,
(b)   Section 6.02(h) is deleted and Section 6.02(i) becomes 6.02(h);
(c)   In Section 2.01, the following paragraph is substituted for paragraph
5:
"5. The term "Borrower" means India, acting by its President."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Himachal Pradesh" means the State of Himachal Pradesh acting by
its Governor, a State of India, or any successor thereof.
(b)   "ARC"    means Agricultural Refinance Corporation, a statutory
corporation established and organized under the laws of the Borrower.
(c)   "AIC" means Himachal Pradesh Agro-Industries Corporation Private
Limited, a company established and organized under the laws of the Borrower.
(d)   "PWD" means the Public Works Department of Himachal Pradesh.
(e)   "SDH" means the State Department of Horticulture of Himach.l
Pradesh.
(f)   "HPMC" means Horticultural Produce Processing and Marketing
Corporation (Private) Limited, a subsidiary of AIC to be established under the
laws of the Borrower.
(g)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith
between the Association, ARC and AIC, and all schedules thereto, as the same
may be amended from time to time.
(h)   "Himachal Pradesh Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between Himachal Pradesh and the Association, as the same may be
amended from time to time.


﻿5
(i)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and ARC pursuant to Section 3.01(c) hereof, and all
schedules thereto, if any, as the same may be amended from time to time with
the approval of the Association.
W     "Participating Commercial Bank" and "PCB" mean the banks listed
in the Second Schedule to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934, which have entered
into an agreement with ARC in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.02(b)
of the Project Agreement.
(k)   "Refinance Agreement" means the agreement or agreements to be
entered into between ARC and PCB pursuant to Section 2.02(b) of the Project
Agreement, and all schedules thereto, if any, as the same may be amended from
time to time with the approval of the Association.
(1)   "Category" means a category of the allocation of the proceeds of the
Credit set forth in Schedule I to this Agreement.
ARTICLE 11
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to thirteen million dollars ($13,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time. for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods
and services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions set forth or referred to, in Section 2.04 of
the Project Agreement.


﻿6
(b)   When, with respect to any contract for the goods described in
paragraph (a) above, the lowest evaluated bid falls under Group C (as defined in
paragraph C(2)(a) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement), the Borrower shall
immediately grant permission to import the goods covered by the contract, and
no reviews of such permission to import shall be made by the Borrower or by
any of its agencies, and all foreign exchange required therefor shall be promptly
made available. When, with respect to any contract, the lowest evaluated bid falls
under Group A or under Group B (as defined in paragraph C(2)(a) of Schedule
2 to the Project Agreement), the Borrower shall (i) promptly upon receipt of the
appropriate applications, issue, or cause to be issued, such import licenses as shall
be required to implement the contract: (ii) make available, or cause to be made
available, promptly as needed, all foreign exchange which shall be required therefor;
and (iii) with respect to locally produced materials which are subject to allocation,
make, or cause to be made, allocations of such materials promptly and in such
quantities as shall be required for such contract.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1978 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 15 and
October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15 commencing
April 15, 1984 and ending October 15, 2023, each installment to and including
the installment payable on October 15, 1993 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.0 1. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project, or cause the
Project to be carried out, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity


﻿7
with sound financial, administrative and engineering practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
(b)   In order to assist Himachal Pradesh in carrying out Parts C, E and
F of the Project, the Borrower shall make available to Himachal Pradesh the
proceeds of the Credit under Categories 1(b), 11(b), IV(b) and V(b).
(c)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit under Categories
1(a), 11(a), 111, IV(a) and V(a) to ARC under a subsidiary loan agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and ARC under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, including those set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
(d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause ARC to enter into a refinance
agreement with PCB under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
icluding, inter alia, those set forth in Schedule I to the Project Agreement, as
such Schedule may be modified from time to time with the Agreement of the
Association.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause ARC and PCB to exercise their respective
rights under the Refinance Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit,
and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, shall not take or concur in
any action which would have the effect of amending, assigning, abrogating or
waiving the Refinance Agreement or any provision thereof included in Schedule
1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall take and shall cause all its agencies to
take, all action which shall be necessary on their part to enable: (i) Himachal
Pradesh to perform all of its obligations under the Himachal Pradesh Agreement;
(ii) ARC to perform all of its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
and (iii) ARC and PCB to perform all of their respective obligations under the
Project Agreement and the Refinance Agreement; and shall not take or permit
to be taken any action which might interfere with the performance of any such
obligations of Himachal Pradesh, ARC or PCB.


﻿8
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall insure, or cause to be insured, or make,
or cause to be made, adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable
to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause ARC to maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
their operations and financial condition.
(b) The Borrower shall cause ARC to: (i) establish and maintain separate
accounts in respect of all funds disbursed and received on account of the Project;
(ii) have its accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association; (iii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, not later than four months
after the end of each such year (A) certified copies of its financial statements
for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iv) furnish to the Association such other information concerning its accounts
and financial statements and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:


﻿9
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the performance by ARC and PCB of their respective obligations under
the Project Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition of
ARC and PCB and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of
the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition of ARC and PCB
and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obligations under the Development
Crenii Agreement, the performance by Himachal Pradesh of its obligations under
the Himachal Pradesh Agreement, the performance by ARC of its obligations under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the performance by ARC and PCB of their
obligations under the Refinance Agreement and the performance by ARC and AIC
of their obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.


﻿10
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement
shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery
or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect
in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately. anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   Himachal Pradesh shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Himachal Pradesh Agreement.
(b)   ARC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the Refinance Agreement.
(c)   PCB shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the
Refinance Agreement.
(d)   ARC, PCB or HPMC shall have become unable to pay any of its debts
as they mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by ARC, PCB
or HPMC or by others whereby any of the property of ARC, PCB or HPMC shall
or may be distributed among its creditors.
(e)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of ARC, PCB or HPMC
or for the suspension of its operations.


﻿11
(f)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that (i) Himachal Pradesh will be able to perform its obligations under
the Himachal Pradesh Agreement, or (ii) ARC will be able to perform its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, or (iii) ARC or AIC will be able to perform
their respective obligations under the Project Agreement, or (iv) ARC or PCB will
be able to perform their respective obligations under the Refinance Agreement.
(g)   The Memorandum or the Articles of Association of HPMC shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as, in the
judgement of the Association, to materially and adversely affect the ability of HPMC
to carry out Parts A, B and D of the Project.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b), (c) or (g) of Section 7.02
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)   any event specified in paragraphs (d) or (e) of Section 7.02 of this
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   The Himachal Pradesh Agreement has been duly executed and delivered
on behalf of Himachal Pradesh and has been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary governmental action.
(b)   The Project Agreement has been duly executed and delivered on behalf
of ARC and AIC and has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
and governmental action.
(c)   The Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly executed and delivered
on behalf of the Borrower and ARC and has been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
(d)   HPMC has been duly established under the laws of the Borrower and
under a memorandum and articles of association satisfactory to the Association.


﻿12
(e)   The consultants referred to in paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 of the
Project Agreement have been selected and the contract between them and HPMC
has been signed.
(f)   The quality control specialist, the packing plant manager and the
marketing specialist forming part of the technical assistance to be utilized under
Part E of the Project and referred to in Section 2.04(b) of the Himachal Pradesh
Agreement have been employed by Himachal Pradesh.
(g)   The Central Project Committee referred to in Section 2.13 of the
Himachal Pradesh Agreement has been established.
Section 8.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   That the Himachal Pradesh Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, Himachal Pradesh, and
constitutes a valid and binding obligation of Himachal Pradesh in accordance with
its terms.
(b)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, ARC and AIC, and constitutes a valid
and binding obligation of ARC and AIC in accordance with its terms.
(c)   That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and ARC,
respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and
ARC in accordance with its terms.
(d)   That HPMC has been duly established under, and in conformity with
the laws of the Borrower.
Section 8.03. The date July 23, 1974 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under paragraphs (b), (c) and
(d) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement and Article IV of this Agreement and the
provisions of Section 7.02 of this Agreement and those of Section 7.03 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿13
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary or
Director/Deputy Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions.
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government
of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿14
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s/ G. V. Ramakrishna
Authorized Representatiie
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ 1.P.M. Cargill
Regional Vice President
Asia


﻿15
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
I.   Civil Works                                      60% of total
expenditures
(a)  Under Parts              1,500,000
A and B of
the Project
(b)  Under Part               3,600,000
C of the
Project
II.  Equipment and Mate-                              100% of foreign
rials Procured by                               expenditures or
International Com-                               100% of local
petitive Bidding                                 expenditures
(ex-factory)
(a)  Under Parts              1,400,000
A and B of
the Project
(b)  Under Part C               200,000
of the Project
III.  Cableways
(a)  Equipment and            1,600,000          100% of foreign
engineering                                expenditures or
services                                   100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory)
(b)  Civil Works                100,000         60% of total
expenditures


﻿16
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
IV.  Equipment and Mate-                              70% of local
rials Procured by                               expenditures
Local Bidding                                   (ex-factory)
(a)   Under Parts A             300,000
and B of the
Project
(b)   Under Part C              300,000
of the Project
V.   Consultants Services,                            100% of foreign
Technical Assistance                            expenditures
and Training
(a)  Under Part B                60,000
of the Project
(b)   Under Part E              440,000
of the Project
VI.  Unallocated                   3,500,000
TOTAL        13,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the   term  "foreign  expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures for goods produced
in, or services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:


﻿17
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph 1 above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph 1 above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category other than
Category 1(b) shall decrease, the amount of the Credit then allocated to such
Category and no longer required therefor will be reallocated by the Association
by increasing correspondingly the amount allocated to Category 1(b) and the
Association will increase correspondingly (up to a maximum of 100% net of taxes)
the percentage applicable to Category I(b).
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the  Association  shall have reasonably  determined   that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement, no expenditures
for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association
may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy
of the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph 1 above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category I or
111(b) or of local expenditures under Category IV shall increase and no proceeds
of the Credit are available for reallocation to such Category, the Association may,


﻿18
by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures th .reunder shall have been made.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of a phased and coordinated plan to help alleviate
transport, storage, processing and marketing problems in the apple industry in
Himachal Pradesh, by introducing advanced facilities and technology. The Project
consists of the following parts:
A.    The construction and equipment of one transshipment center, about twelve
packing houses, three collection stations, and four cold storage units.
B.    The construction and equipment of a juice concentrate plant to utilize about
11,000 tons of apples, not marketable as fresh fruit, per year.
C.    (i)  the construction of about 97 kn, and the improvement of about
304 kin, of roads to provide: (A) all-weather road connections between
orchard areas and Project collection stations and packing houses; and
(B) links between such roads and the existing highway system.
(ii)  The procurement of road maintenance equipment.
D.   The construction of aerial cableways in selected production areas where steep
terrain precludes economic road construction.
E.    The utilization of technical assistance and the completion of a training
program in: (a) apple quality control and grading; (b) management of the
juice concentrate plant and cold storage units; (c) sale management and
promotion; and (d) aerial cableways operation and maintenance.
F.    The completion of a Project evaluation study.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1978.


﻿20
SCHEDULE 3
Principal Terms of Subsidiary
Loan Agreement
(a)   Term: 15 years including two to three years grace period;
(b)   Repayment terms: annual;
(c)   Interest rate:   6-1/4%  per annum, with    1/4%  rebate for prompt
repayment of principal and interest; and
(d)   Exchange risk:   for the account of the Borrower.


