Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
Report Nh 12248
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
(LOAN 2496-IVC)
AUGUST 13, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: 12248
Type: PCR
Agriculture Operations Division
Occidental and Central Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a resrieted diibution and may be used by recipients only in de performance of
their official duties. Its contets may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =   CFA Franc (CFAF)a/
CFAF 435        =   US$1.00b/
CFAF 1000       =   US$2.30b/
AVERAGE ANNUAL EXCHANGE RATES
YEAR              CFAF               USS
1985              449                1.00
1986              346                1.00
1987              301                1.00
1988              298                1.00
1989              319                1.00
1990              308                1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAA         Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
CAISSTAB    Caisse de Stabilisation et de Soutien des Prix des Produits
Agricoles (Agricultural Price Stabilization Fund)
CCCE        Caisse Centrale de Coop6ration Economique
CTFT        Centre Technique Forestier Tropical (Research Center for
Tropical Forestry)
CDC         Commonwealth Development Corporation
EPA         Etablissement Public A caractere Administratif (Public
Enterprise of an Administrative Nature)
EPIC        Etablissement Public a caract6re Industriel et Commercial
(Public Enterprise of an Industrial Nature)
MINAGRA     Ministere de l'Agriculture et des Ressources Animales
MINAGREF    Ministere de l'Agriculture et des Eaux et Forets (Ministry of
Agriculture and Forestry)
SODE        A State Development Company
SODEFOR     Soci6t6 pour le Developpement des Plantations Forestieres
(Forestry Plantation Development Company)
FISCAL YEARS
Government and SODEFOR: January 1 to December 31
a/    The exchange rate for the CFAF Franc is fixed at a ratio of 50:1 with
the French Franc, which is free floating currency.
b/    This is the exchange rate quoted in the Staff Appraisal Report and it
refers to the parity on November 5, 1984, at the start of
negotiations.



FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
NO" Of Dfret_eGen,d
OpseUsn Evdualn
August 13, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECIORS AND THE PRESIDEN
Subject.     Project Completion Report on Cote d'Ivoire
Second Forestry Proiect (Ln. 2496-WC?
Attached is the Project Completion Report of the Cote dIvoire Second Forestry
Project (Loan 249E WVC) prepared by the Africa Regional Office. The Borrower has not prepared
a Part I1, nor is one expected.
Implementation experience has not been satisfactory. This project and its immediate
predecessor (Loan 1735-IVC) were "old style" forestry enclave projects. Natural forest was to be
replaced by plantations, managed by public agencies for commercial purposes, and protected from
encroachment by policing. Virtually none of this has worked because of illconceived designs and
weaknesses in implementation.
Concern for the underlying causes of deforestation in Cote dIvoire-rapid population
growth, rural poverty, farmers in the forests, and pricing policies which favored agricultural crops over
forest products-were not addressed, and performance was constrained from the outset.
Implementation was marked by shortfalls in counterpart funding, weak management of finances and
accounts, and the failure of a large and costly technical assistance component. The unsatisfactory
experience has, however, provided valuable lessons for Cote dlvoire's third forestry project, the
Forestry Sector Loan (Loan 3816-IVC). This new project is innovative and progressive, and should
mark a turning point in management of Cote dIlvoire's forests.
The Second Forestry Project is rated unsatisfactory, and project sustainability judged
unlikel. The Project Completion Report, while lacking some numerical data and Part IL, is candid
and well prepared.
The project may be audited together with the ongoing Forestry Sector Loan.
Robert Picciotto
by H. Eberhard KOpp
Attachment
This documnent has a mstrieted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnance*f
their offioZl duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.7



BOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
(LOAN 2496-ZVC)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pace No.
PRL'-ACE . . . .              ... .  . . .  . . . . .i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..................                                      iil
PART Is PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE   .       .  .  .  .  ..  . . 1
1.    Project Identity           1. . .....                  . .1
2.    Background  . . . . .   . .       . .           . . .     .   . .   1
3.    Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
4.    Project Design and Organization   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
5.    Project Implementation          4.. . .4
6.  Project Results              6....6
7.    Project Sustainability         9. . . .....                     9
8.  Bank's Performance            .....10
9.    Borrower's Performance   .      .  .  .  .    .  ..  .  . .  . . .  12
10.   Project Relationship         . . . . . .  .  .  .  .  . .  .  12
11.   Consulting Services and Studies   . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
12.   Project Documentation and Data    . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE   . . . . . . . . . . .
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  14
1.    Related Bank Loans and Credits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  14
2.    Project Timetable   ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .....  .   .  14
3.    Loan Disbursements  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ......  .   .  15
4.    Project Implementation  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ......  .   .  16
5.    Project Costs and Financing ...  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..... .   .  16
6.    Project Results . . .       .... .......    .  ..    18
7.    Status of Covenants ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ......  .   .  21
8.    Use of Bank Resources   . . .   .   .        . . . . . . .     25
MAP   IBRD 18136R1
This document has a estricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the petformance |
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PRCJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
SE901IJPQRESTRY PROJECT
(LOAN 2496-IVC)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second
Forestry Prc'ject in Cote d'Ivoire, for which Loan 2496-IVC in the amount of
US$31.3 million was approved on February 26, 1985. The Loan Agreement
became effective on December 18, 1985. The Loan closed on December 31,
1990, six months behind schedule. The Special Account recovered 14 months
later, in February 1992, and the undisbursed amount of US$684,479 (2% of
total loan amount), canceled.
Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared by the Abidjan-based
Agriculture Section of the Agriculture Operations Division of the
Occidentr;l and Central Africa Department. Neither the Borrower nor the
project implementing agencies (SODEFOR, CTFT) have prepared a contribution
to the PCR (Part II). However, their comments on Parts I and III of this
report have been taken into consideration. The draft PCR was submitted to
the project's cofinancing agency, the Commonwealth Development Corporation
(CDC), which agreed with its findings and recommendations and had no
comments.
The PCR is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report;
the Loan and Project Agreements; supervision reports; correspondence
between the Bank and the Borrower; and internal Bank memorania.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
(LOAN 2496-IVC)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.    The project was a continuation of the Bank-financed First Forestry
Project (Loan 1735-IVC) which was completed on December 1985. The
principal objectives of the project were (a) to assist rovernment in
meeting the country's domestic and export needs for timber; and (b) to
strengthen forestry sector policies and institutional performance. The
project was to be executed over a five-year period, on the same four sites
as the first project. The project aimed to: establish 22,000 ha of timber
plantations on logged over forest reserves; maintain all new and existing
plantations, over an area of 57,300 ha; and provide technical assistance to
SODEFOR (for plantation works) and the Ministry of Agriculture (in the
areas of policy formulation, sector development, monitoring and
evaluation).
Proiect Design
2.    With the benefit of hindsight it is clear that the project was too
narrowly conceived, failing to address the broader environmental and social
issues associated with the rapid depletion of Cote d'Ivoire's natural
forests. Because of very severe financial and managerial constraints, the
project did not fully meet its physical targets for planting and
maintaining trees. There was no significant institutional strengthening;
the economic return was low and the environmental impact was globally
negative.
ImDlementation Experience
3.    Implemenitation was hindered by five principal factors.  First,
Government failed to provide counterpart funds on time and there was a
significant shortfall in project financing, partly owing to dollar
devaluation. Second, SODEFOR's financial management and accounting was
inadequate. Third, there was a shortfall in the technical assi6tance
provided and the quality of this assistance was severely impeded by
recruitment delays, turn over and sometime incompetent personnel. Fourth,
training was only partially successful, particularly since there was no
opportunity for national counterparts to learn from expatriate experts.
Fifth, SODEFOR's managerial capacities were severely restricted by
financial difficulties and lack of operational autonomy resulting from its
dependent relationship to Government; although the Bank made a change in
the agency's legal status a condition of loan effectiveness, this was not
enough by itself to ensure satisfactory performance.
Results
4.    Because of these problems SODEFOR was only able to establish 16,703
ha of new plantations (76% appraisal targets) and maintenance of new and
existing plantations was mediocre. Although yields projected at appraisal
are expected to be met, only approximately 80% of the newly established
plantations are projected to be fully productive because of losses due to
fire and pests, and delayed maintenance. The completion economic and
financial rates of return are respectively 6% and -1.3%, well below
appraisal forecasts. Higher-value species formed a smaller proportion of
the trees planted than initially envisaged. Returns may have been higher
if cheaper, manual methods of land clearance had been used; but initial
shortage of local contract labor encouraged mechanization. Proper
accounting of the salvage value of logs removed prior to planting might
boost final returns.



- iv -
5.    Owing to the inadequacies of the training and technical assistance
package and SODEFOR's continuing operational difficulties, no gignificant
contribution was made to institutional strengthening. However, lessons
derived from the project undoubtedly fed into preparation of the 1988
Forestry Master Plan which marked a significant evolution in Government's
approach to sector issues.
6.    The issue of farmer encroachment on the forest reserves was not
addressed by the project. However, the planting program did not lead to
significant evictions. From an environmental standpoint, establishment of
the plantations was probably preferable to the likely "no project" option
under which these degraded forest reserves could well have been
clandestinely cleared for cropping. Compared to (food) crops, the
plantations will eventually provide better protection from erosion and
leaching and will help to enhance rainfall retention. Nevertheless,
notwithstanding the conduciveness of this habitat to certain species of
bushbucks, the establishment of plantations has resulted in a significant
los1 of biodiversity by comparison with natural forest. This loss would
have been less marked if, before planting, the land had been cleared
manually rather than by machine, mechanized clearing also facilitated the
spread of weeds, aggravating fire hazard.
Sustainahbilitv
7.     Although there was soime carry-over of senior management and
technical assistance, the project did not leave a strong institutional
legacy. Protection and maintenance of the plantations is being sustained
under the follow-up Forestry Sector Project which was approved by the
Bank's Board in April 1990. The scope of this project is much broader than
the first two foree._y projects, addressing a range of social and
environmental issues in the context of the total forest patrimony, not just
industrial plantations. Priority will be given to conserving the country's
remaining natural forests.
Findinas and Lessons Learned
8.    There are three lessons to be derived from this project.  First,
industrial plantations have a part to play in a balanced strategy for the
development of the sector but their establishment and maintenance will not
be enough to address the full gamut of social and environmental issues that
are implicated in forest depletion: forestry projects need to be broader in
conception, addressing such issues as land rights and the protection of
biodiversity.
9.    Second, the private sector should be involved in the sustainable
management of logging concessions. Adequate forestry pricing and fiscal
policies are an important pre-condition of the success of a commercial
plantation operation. Productive "commercial" plantations are unlikely to
be viable if undertaken by public entities because these entities often
ignore cost effectiveness criteria. Plantations financed by
public funds should be limited to areas where the returns from the
"productive" aspects of the operations are supplemented by positive
exter'ialities derived from the protection of watersheds and natural
forests.
10.   Third, in designing plantation projects every attempt should be made
to ensure that funding arrangements will permit adequate maintenance and
fire protection. To this end the financing of recurrent ccsts should be
based on a share of the proceeds from timber sales, minimizing dependence
on funding from the government's general budget.



REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
(LOAN 2496-IVC)
PART Is PROJECT REVIEW FROM 8ANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Protect Identity
Name               :  Second Forestry Project
Loan Number        3  2496-IVC
RVP Unit               Africa Region
Country            :  Republic of C6te d'Ivoire
sector             :  Agriculture
Sub-Sector         s  Forestry
2.    Backaround
2.01        The project was a continuation of the First Forestry Project
(Loan 1735-IVC), co-financed by the Bank and the Commonwealth Development
Corporation (CDC), which was completed in December 1985 after establishing
20,000 ha of industrial plantations on four different sites. Its
objectives were consistent with the strategy outlined in the National
Development Plans of 1976-80 and 1981-85. According to these Plans, the
Government sought (i) to manage 3.0 million ha of permanent forest reserve
on a sustainable yield basis; and (ii) to create 0.5 million ha of short-
rotation timber plar.tations, located on the more degraded parts of the
forest reserve. The overall objective was to help meet the country's
estimated long-term needs for timber and relieve pressure on natural
forests.
2.02        When the project was appraised timber exports were Cote
d'Xvoire's third largest export earner after cocoa and coffee. The
project's prime rationale was to enhance the sustainability of the
country's timber production, as timber output was dwindling. Indeed, Cote
d'Ivoire has had the highest rate of forest depletion in Africa, with dense
forest cover declining from 12 million ha in 1960 to under 3 million ha
today. This devastation has been partly a consequence of commercial
logging. But it also has much to do with the spread of extensive
agriculture in the forest zone, fuelled by the high growth rate of the
indigenous population and the influx of migrant labor from the savanna of
Cote d'Ivoire and from the poorer Sahelian countries. Government's
promotion of export crops also contributed to deforestation.
2.03        The Project was identified during the implementation of the
First Forestry Project and prepared by the Government in 1982-83. It was
jointly appraised by the Bank and the Commonwealth Development Corporation
(CDC) in October 1983. Negotiations took place in November 1984 and the
Board approved a loan of U$31.3 million on February 26, 1985. The Bank
loan was signed on March 18, 1985 and became effective on December 18,
1985. CDC, which was also cofinancier of the First Forestry Project,
signed a loan of $10.0 on November 18, 1985.
3.    ProJect Obiectives and Description
3.01        The project's principal objective was to meet the country's
domestic and export needs for timber by complementing supplies from
industrial plantations by those from natural forest. This was to be
achieved, first, by maintaining and enlarging the plantations established
under the First Forestry Project; second, by reinforcing the management
capacity of SODEFOR, the forestry parastatal; and, third, by improving
sector planning and policy-making.



-2-
3.02        This was to be a five-year project, centered on the same four
plantation sites as the first project', aiming tos
(a)   Mechanically clear and plant with high value species in short
and medium rotation, 20,000 ha of logged-over forest reserve
and replant 2,0G0 ha of plantations established under the First
Forestry Project which had been destroyed by fire;
(b)  SThin and prune 17,800 ha of immature trees planted under the
first project, and 17,500 ha of trees planted before this
project; and maintain and protect the whole plantation area
(57,300 ha);
(c)   Construct and maintain 1,760 km of forest tracks at the four
plantation sites;
(d)   Provide 264 man-months of technical assistaace to the
Agriculture Ministry (MINAGREF) for studies in support of
policy reform and for smallholder forestry programming, and for
project's financial control;
(e)   Provide to SODEFOR 240 man-months of long-term technical
assistance to assist in executing the planting and maintenance
programs; and 50 man-months of short-term consultant services
in marxeting, organizational reform, fire control, and
training; and
(f)   Support production-oriented research in vegetative propagation
and small diameter wood utilization; provide in-service
training for SODEFOR staff, including local and foreign study
tours.
3.03        The cost of the project was estimated at U$S1.6 million, with
foreign exchange costs of U$29.S million (57%). The project was to be
financed by a Bank loan of U$31.3 million and a CDC loan of US 10.0 million
equivalent, with Government providing the equivalent of US10.3 million.
4. Proiect Design and Orcanization.
4.01        The project had a very narrow focus: its objective was the
establishment and maintenance of industrial plantations on degraded natural
forests. The main design efforts were in the area of institutional
strengthening, aimed at increasing SODEFOR's effectiveness and enhancing
Government's capacity for policy-making, planning and monitoring in the
forestry sector. Environmental and social considerations had no impact on
project design; in this respect, the lessons learned from the First
Forestry Project were not properly assimilated.
4.02        Environmental Issues.  An awareness of environmental issues was
reflected in the section of the Staff Appraisal Report dealing with
sectoral issues and risks. However, this awareness did not affect the
design of the project. In particular, it was recognized that the
"logged/degraded" forest to be cleared for establishing industrial
plantations had an environmental value as forest cover. Because the forest
had been logged several times, it was assumed to have only limited salvage
value. Little consideration was given to its potential as a functioning and
regenerating ecosystem which could be managed for sustainable timber
production while continuing to provide valuable environmental services. As
a result, potential returns from the management of the degraded natural
forests were not examined as an alternative project design and the
opportunity cost of land to be planted under the project taken to be nil.
The four plantation sites were established on degraded natural
forest reserves (for6ts classees) which had already been logged over. The
four sites (Tene, Sangoue, Mopri and Irobo) are located between 120 and 290
km north-west of Abidjan (Map, IBRD 18136R).



4.03        The project supported the continuation of mechanized land
clearing methods introduced under the First Project. It was assumed that,
given labor shortages in forest areas, mechanization was the only way to
meet the planting targets set under the project. This assumption was
unsubstantiated--before the First Forestry Project, SODEFOR had been able
to establish up to 3,000 ha/year on sites prepared by hand. Also, although
there is much evidence of the poverty and fragile nature of tropical soils,
there was no discusaion of the potential adverse impact of mechanized
clearing on soil structure and dynamics. Nor wao any consideration given
to the fire risk created by weed invasion following land clearances fires
on industrial plantations in 1982-83 appear to have followed the
introduction of mechanized clearing in 1980.
4.04        Social Aspects.  Like the First Project, the project design
contained no immediate social goal. The SAR shows a growing awareness of
the importance of socLal factors in forest policy and operations,
emphasizing the need for a broader view in managing the sector. The
problem of agricultural encroachment on gazetted forests was recognized in
the SAR but given only cursory treatment in project design and
social/economic appraisal. The project design was that of a typical
enclave project and agricultural encroachment was seen as a "risk" to be
contained through active investment in reforestation and through
strengthened police action. Indeed, one of the main justifications of the
project was that the alternative would have been complete degradation and
conversion to agriculture, with the underlying assumption that it would
have detrimental ecological consequences. While this would be true for food
crops, it is not clear that forest plantations are superior to tree crop
plantations for trapping C02, producing 02 and protecting soils, water
tables and biodiversity. Strong police action by the State was unlikely
because the government had consistently encouraged the growth of commercial
agriculture, implicitly encouraging forest depletion. This contradiction in
the government's position made it unlikely to take a strong line against
indigenous populations in the vicinity of gazetted forest who continued to
assert their customary claim to these lands.
4.05        Institutional Strenothenina.  The project's emphasis on
institutional strengthening was a response to SODEFOR's management
difficulties during the First Project. These difficulties were attributed
mostly to its transformation, in 1980, into an Administrative Agency
(Etablissement Public a Caract&re Administratif - EPA) with bureaucratic
procedures ill-suited to an institution with decentralized operations and a
production-oriented mandate. Much hope was placed at appraisal on the
positive impact of: (i) a change in SODEFOR's legal status to that of a
somewhat more autonomous entity (Etabliesement Public a Caractere
industriel et Commercial - EPIC) with greater flexibility to manage its own
budget and implement its work plan (approval by Government of SODEFOR's new
statutes was a condition of Bank Loan effectiveness); (ii) continued
technical assistance in critical areas; and (iii) training of SODEFOR
staff. However, these changes did not tackle the real weaknesses and
constraints in SODEFOR's management. Indeed, SODEFOR remained, in spite of
its changed statutes, totally dependant on budgetary funds for its
operations and continued to be subjected to administrative procedures and
controls for the management of its human and financial resources.
4.06        Surprisingly, project design did not include any monitoring and
evaluation component, except for the strengthening of the Ministry of
Agriculture's capability (through the provision of a specific technical
assistance) to exert a stricter control over SODEFOR and project's
financial management. Only scant attention was paid to strengthening
SODEFOR's internal technical follow-up and cost-accounting systems to
closely monitor the effectiveness of field operations at each of the four
planting sites and take remedial action if necessary. Moreover, no attempt
was made to obtain baseline data and set up the monitoring mechanisms for
assessing the project's impact either on the environment or on the various
population groups affected by the project.



-4-
S. Pro2sct Imolementation
S.01        The project's achievements fell significantly short of the
objectives set at appraisal, both in terms of physical targets and of
economic and institutional impact. This poor performance was the result of
(i) weaknesses in project design and (ii) financial, management and
institutional problems that plagued SODEFOR throughout the project period.
5.02        Inadecuate Proiect Fundina.  During the entire project period,
SODEPOR suffered from increasingly acute financial problems due to
Government's inability to provide the expected counterpart funds. For a
while, SODEFOR managed to keep operations going by runnlng down ISRD's
special account, withholding taxea and payroll deductions due to the State
and running suppliers credit up to unsustainable limits. Bank supervision
missions discovered that Bank's funds were sometimes diverted to non-
project (although legitimate) activities. As a result, the Bank requested
that each withdrawal application be separately audited. Although this
procedure was necessary, it also lengthened disbursements delays and
aggravated the liquidity position of SODEFOR. By 1989, the latter's
financial situation was critical, suppliers stopped delivery and operations
came to a virtual standstill. Planting was continued at a very slow rate
maintenance was drastically reduced (all pruning and thinning stopped) and
the fire protect'on system virtually collapsed.
5.03        SODEFOR's Statutes.  Contrary to expectations, the change in
SODEFOR's legal status did little to enhance its operating efficiency. In
its new form (EPIC), SODEFOR was to have considerable autonomy over day-to-
day running and financial management, with major strategy decisions being
left to Board of Directors (Conseil Consultatif de Gestion). However, this
Board did not convene once during the life of the project. Consistent with
SODEFOR's new statutes, Government appointed an Agent Comptable to SODEFOR
to be the its chief accountant. However, this person reported solely to
the Finance Ministry and soon came into direct conflict with SODEFOR's
(expatriate) Director of Resources, a conflict that aggravated SODEFOR
financial management difficulties. SODEFOR's budget and operations was to
*          be defined by an annual contract to be negotiated with Government but since
counterpart funds were so slow to materialize, the contract counted for
little and negotiations were meaningless.
5.04        SODEFOR's Management.  Problems arising from the lack of
counterpart funds and the difficulties in dealing with the "Agent
Comptable" were exacerbated by SODEFOR's poor accounting and financial
management. Improper reconciliation of accounts and lack of internal
controls were the subject of repeated qualifications of annual audit
reports; these reports were produced with considerable delays and their
recommendations mostly went unheeded. SODEFOR's internal management
information system remained very weak, and a low priority, until the end of
the project. A cost accounting system was set up but mostly used to budget
for next year's operations and not as a management tool. Forest operations
data were collected but not presented in a form which could enable managers
to understand and control operations fully. Only towards the end of the
project was SODEFOR able to produce (partial) comparative studies on the
returns to different species and establishment costs at different project
sites. Comparisons of the cost-effectiveness and relative performance of
mechanized and manual clearing methods are still to be completed. By the
project's end, owing to the lack of an effective management information
system, SODEFOR was able to provide only incomplete information on project
costs, technical performance and environmental and social impact.
5.05        Technical Assistance.  Two of the seven technical assistance
positions (Financial Controller at Ministry of Agriculture and Civil
Engineer at SODEFOR) were never filled. The village plantation specialist
at the Ministry left after one year and was never replaced. Th.-re were
long delays in hiring the project's remaining technical assistants, due to
bureaucratic procedures and a Government-imposed cap on TA positions. The
Ministry's forestry planner and SODEFOR's marketing specialist were hired
only in 1988, two and a half years after effectiveness. In total, 219 man-
months of long-term technical assistance were provided under the project
instead of the 550 envisaged. These delays, the lack of proper monitoring
of TA performance, including by the Bank, and the absence of Ivorian



- 5 -
counterparts to be systematically trained oeverely limited the
institutional impact of the project's technical assistance component. In
addition, Government's decision (in 1983) to take over from the Bank the
management of technical assistance experts resulted in a substantial
increase in its costs--the average monthly cost of TA was $13,000, compared
to $5,000 during the First Project. This was because experts were
contracted through consulting firms instead of being hired individually.
5.06        Technical. Environmental and Social Issues.  Effective
implementation was limited by weaknesses in technical management at
chantier level where much data was collected but not used, management and
motivation of staff were poor and internal control systems inadequate.
There is evidence that inadequate maintenance and poor timing of operations
has reduced the expected performance of the plantations. A number of
environmental problems were not properly dealt with: loss of top soil, soil
compaction, loss of biodiversity and weed infestation, all of which were
exacerbated by mechanized land clearing, a procedure which also increases
fire risk.   However, there was no serious attempt to reassess clearing
methods. The few attempts to deal with the problems tackled the symptoms
(increased weeding) rather than the causes.
5.07        Throughout implementation, illegal settlers continued to be
perceived as the main project risk. SODEFOR--assisted by the World Food
Program--tried to encourage settlers to leave the chantiers. These efforts
were largely unsuc-essful (possibly counterproductive in certain cases
because the distribution of free food may have encouraged people to move
into the chantiers). Where settlers were successfully expelled, there was
no attempt by SODEFOR at proper resettlement. Throughout the project there
was no serious attempt to understand the attitudes of the rural population
towards forests or the complex relationships between indigenous groups and
migrants; no consideration was given to involving local populations in the
management of forest resources.
S.08        Training and-Research.  Although generally effective, SODEFOR's
in-service training program was slow to start. Study tours could have been
more relevant and better organized. Accurate records of these activities
were not kept. A major opportunity for in-service training was missed as
no attempt was made to appoint counterpart staff for working closely with
technical assistance experts. The research contract with the Forestry
Research Institute (CTFT) was not signed until May 1988, two and a half
years after loin effectiveness. The delay resulted from a combination of
poor communications between SODEFOR and CTFT and diverging views over what
legal form the contract should take.  Even the reduced program (CFAF440
million over two years instead of CFAF870 million over five years) could
not be comoleted because of SODEFOR's financial difficulties.
5.09        The Ministry of Agriculture failed to guide or monitor
SODEFOR's activity, either directly or through SODEFOR's Board (which never
met). The financial controller charged with monitoring the project's
implementation and financial management was never recruited. The
smallholder forestry specialist stayed only one year and was never
replaced. The only positive development of the project at the level of the
ministry was the development of a long-term National Forestry Plan and
Action Program. The preparation of the National Plan, started in 1984
under the First Forestry Project, permitted a very critical assessment of
the country's dwindling forest reserves, the government's forestry policy
and the exploitative attitudes of farmers and the forestry industry. This
analysis provided the basis for a much broader approach to sector issues,
shifting the emphasis from industrial plantations to the conservation of
the country's remaining natural forest for the sustainable production of
timber and environmental protection.



-6-
6. Proiect Results
6.01        Neither physical nor institutional objectives were fully met
under the project. Physical achievements were as follows:
New           Area Planned  Actual Area  Productive Mean Incremental  Mean Inc. Yfeld
Plantations      (ha)       the)       (ha)   Yield (n3ihaiyre Final Cut (01halvr)
Teak             7,500      6,050      4,800     9.1  11.4    2.8  3.8
Frake/Framire   5S500      6.350       5.200    11.9  11.1    5.8  5.2
Gmetina          5,200      2,400      2,100    13.3  15.2    8.5  7.3
Cedrelda        1,100        800        650    17.9  14.0    4.5  4.2
Santa           1,100        400        350    12.3  11.3    3.5  4.6
Pine             1.600       700        500    19.2   9.8   12.0  4.0
Total           22.000     16,700     13,600
100X       76%        622
Maintenance     57,300     40,000
100X       70X
6.02        The nlantina taroets were met at 76% and the maintenance
targets at 70%. This shortfall in planting appears proportional to that of
the CFAF value of external project funds owing to the depreciation of the
dollar during the project period (US$l = CFAF435 at appraisal and CFAF308
on average for actual IBRD loan disbursements). However, actual plantation
establishment costs were substantially higher, in CFAF terms, than
estimated at appraisal. There was a significant shortfall in other project
components (Technical Assistance, Research, Training) and the corresponding
savings were used to finance planting operations. The total CFAP cost of
plantations established under the project was in line with appraisal
estimates (CFAF9.5 billion), even though the area actually planted was
significantly less than projected. The unit cost of establishment and
maintenance operations, was, in CFAF terms, about 20-25% higher than
appraisal estimates. The non-attainment of maintenance objectives reflects
the priority that SODEFOR gave to achieving planting targets. Poor
maintenance had a negative impact on the project's output. Of the 16,700
ha of new plantations, it is estimated that only 81% (13,600 ha) will be
really productive owing to the effect of fire, pests and losses from poor
maintenance.
6.03        Siecies selection was geared towards the general climatic
conditions of each of the four "chantiers" in accordance with lenders'
recommendations. However, the results of soil surveys carried out before
land preparation were not used to match species with site conditions. With
the exception of pine plantations, expected yields from the productive
plantations are in line with appraisal estimates (both for total yields and
for yields in final marketable cuts). As envisaged at appraisal, teak was
planted over 36% of the area. However, there was some reduction in the
overall value of the species mix as the higher-value Gmelina was planted on
15% of the area (down from 24%) while the lower-value Framire/Frake covered
36% (instead of 25%). The collapse of SODEFOR pruning and thinning
operations in 1988/89, if not quickly corrected, will have a negative
impact on timber quality and the fire protection system should be
strengthened to reduce the very real danger of catastrophic fire damage.
6.04        The rates of return estimated at appraisal have not been
achieved. The financial rate of return (FRR) of the project, not computed
at appraisal, is estimated to be a negative - 1.3%, and the re-estimated
overall economic rate of return (ERR) over the period 1986/2038 stands at
6% compared to 12% predicted at appraisal. In line with the methodology
used at appraisal, the re-estimated ERR does not consider an opportunity
cost for land nor does it include the social and environmiiental costs of the
project. This is indefensible. The potential value of forest land, either
under sustainable management of the degraded natural forest or through
conversion to cropping represents an opportunity cost that should have been
included in the economic analysis. Taking these costs into consideration
would clearly further reduce the project's overall ERR.



-7-
6.05        There are several reasons for this shortfall in project's net
benefits. They include overoptimistic assumptions at appraisal about wood
utilization and prices, and underestimation of risks due to pests and fire.
However, a large part of the shortfall appears to be due to cost overruns,
the non-realization of projected revenues from salvage and thinning as well
as the negative impact of poor maintenance on wood quality, all of which
were within SODEFOR's management control.  A better selection of species
according tow commercial criteria, increased attention to the cost
effectiveness of different land clearing and planting techniques, tighter
cost control at chantier level and better sylvicultural and maintenance
operations would have made a significant difference in the financial and
economic viability of plantations.
6.06        The short-term soclal and environmental imnact of the project
was mixed. The project has created a forest cover which serves to preserve
hydrological functions, particularly rain infiltration and ground water
recharge, protects the soil from erosion and allows organic material and
nutrient cycling to develop. These are positive impacts if set against a
"no project" option of agricultural development (with a large share of
annual food crops through slash and burn techniques). However, if set
against the natural forest that was cleared and which performs these
functions better, the ecological impact of the project is clearly negative.
The soil has been visibly degraded by erosion and the top soil damaged
during mechanical site clearance. Mechanical preparation and complete
clearance also encouraged invasion by dominating Eupatorium weed which
created a serious fire risk and reduced the level of floral diversity. One
of the project's significant negative impacts has been a loss of
biodiversity. Although plantations support moderate densities of some
mammals locally valued as game (bushbucks for example) the number of
species of plants, birds and mammals found in plantations is greatly
reduced compared to natural forest, manually prepared plantations and even
old fallow land.
6.07        The project did have some positive social effects, mostly on
the standard of living of SODEFOR's employees. It also created jobs in the
chantiers for temporary workers. It supplied certain social services
(primary education, health care, water supply) and infrastructure (roads)
to the local population. Although the project did not develop a
sustainable policy to deal with agricultural encroachment, there was at
least no forceful eviction of farmers. On balance, there is no evidence of
an adverse impact on population's welfare.
6.08        The impact of instLitutional strengtheninga measures was also
much less than expected at appraisal. Although project design took account
of the problems encountered during the First Forestry Project, the
corrective measures introduced (essentially a change in SODEFOR's statutes
and a continuation of technical assistance) did little to remove the
constraints on SODEFOR's operating flexibility and did not contribute to a
real change in its management philosophy. Cumbersome financial systems,
problems of internal control and low staff morale continued to plague
operations.
6.09        The impact of technical assistance on operations and transfer
of know-how was very limited. None of the TA provided the training of
counterparts necessary to ensure sustainability. Finally, research
activities were severely curtailed and did not lead to better plantation
performance. Research programs started late and were left unfinished
because of SODEFOR's financial difficulties. There were also poor linkages
between SODEFOR and CTFT and the latter's emphasis on academic/long-term
research was of less value to SODEFOR than applied research, focusing on
the practical problems of plantation establishment and maintenance.
6.10        The project had one (indirect) positive impact. SODEFOR's acute
financial and management difficulties raised awareness of the need for
tighter planning and controls, emphasizing the importance of cost
minimization, choice of tree species and choice of plantation techniques.
The continuing difficulties with farmer encroachment also drew attention to
the need to address the social dimension of forestry. This sounder approach
to forest conservation, environmental protection and sector management,
derived in large part from the Second Project's operations and



difficulties, has been embodied in the country's National Forestry Plan and
is being supported under the Bank-financed Forestry Sector Loan.
7. Proiset Sustainabilitv
7.01        Little is known about the long-term sustainability of tropical
hardwood plantations in Africa using mechanical land clearance techniques.
The damage to the soil and the loss of biodiversity appear to recover to
some extent folllowing site clearance. There is no indication that the
plantations will not grow successfully until harvesting. However, even if
this proves to be the case, the expected financial and economic rates of
return are low and the prospects for sustainability are poor. Moreover,
even these low rates of return will not be attained unless SODEFOR's
performance improves. Substantial efforts are needed to make SODEFOR cost-
conscious and responsive to market signals. Management of the chantiers
has to be strengthened, internal controls tightened and monitoring and
evaluation mechanisms set up. Valuable technical experience has been
acquired during the project which could reduce costs and improve
sylvicultural practices and yields. It is imperative to reform the
financial relationship between SODEFOR and Government, ensuring that
SODEFOR receives adequate and timely funding for maintenance and forestry
protection.
7.02        Available evidence shows that, in mechanized plantations, the
level of biodiversity will remain low, even if species adapted to the
simplified ecosystem can be sustained. Manual "understory" plantation
methods are far superior to mechanized plantations in terms of protecting
biodiversity, conserving soil fertility and reducing fire risks; these
methods perform at least as well in terms of timber productivity and are
less expensive. They should therefore be favored if plantations are to
make an economically and ecologically sustainable contribution to the
supply of timber for the country's future needs.
7.03        The other major risk to project sustainability stems from
demographic pressure from land-hungry farmers. SODEFOR has so far shown
little ability to control agricultural encroachment. In the future, these
pressures will increase, as the population of Cote d'tvoire is growing at
close to 4% p.a., and will interfere with the management of existing
plantations as well as severely reduce the scope for further plantation
development. It is unclear whether the government will be able to devise
and implement effective and socially acceptable measures to relieve
plantations and gazetted forests from these pressures.
7.04        Concerns raised by, and lessons learned from, the Second
Forestry Project have been taken into consideration in the formulation of
the government's National Forestry Plan and the design of the Bank-financed
Forestry Sector Loan (3186-IVC). Under this project, SODEFOR has switched
back to manual land clearance and planting methods and is implementing a
strengthened program to catch up with three years of neglected plantation
maintenance and improve its fire prevention system. SODEFOR management
structure is being decentralized while effective internal control systems
are being set up. The government has granted SODEFOR a reasonable leve-l of
financial security by allowing it to retain part of the proceeds from log
exports to finance its operations. A reform of forestry fiscal policies
has been implemented, substantially increasing the stumpage price of
timber. Finally, an innovative mechanism has been initiated (Commissions
Paysans/Forets) to associate local populations in the management and
conservation of natural forests and plantations. These measures have
improved markedly the prospect for long-term sustainability of the
plantations established under the (First and) Second Forestry Project.
8. Bank's Performance
8.01        Strengths and Weaknesses.  The Bank's overall performance was
poor. Several concerns were identified at preparation and appraisal, on
the basis of experience from the First Forestry Project:
SODEFOR's management weaknesses, illegal intrusions in forest reserves,
ecological issues. However, project design did little to address these
issues. The measures taken to correct SODEFOR institutional weaknesses
were essentially cosmetic; they did not entail the structural reforms



-9
needed to ensure adequate flexibility and autonomy in management and
sustained improvement in the technical efficiency and cost effectiveness of
operations. Also, the choice of mechanized clearing and planting was never
questioned, although its adverse ecological impact was already visible at
appraisal, essentially because manual clearing was judged impractical for a
project of the size envisaged. There was no consideration of alternative
use of land. There was no consideration of alternative methods of
plantation establishment. Social issues were overlooked, even though
farmer encroachment was considered a serious problem and in spite of a
growing recognition within the Bank of the importance of social factors in
forestry project design and implementation. Finally, the appraisal did not
envisage any mechanism to monitor the technical, environmental and social
aspects of the project.
8.02        The Bank's performance during implementation was also weak:
reactive rather than pro-active. When issues were identified,
recommendations were aimed more at treating symptoms than causes.
Admittedly, project management was constrained by factors beyond SODEFOR's
or Bank's control: exchange rate changes and the government's budgetary
difficulties. However, the Bank should have made more forceful attempts to
rectify internal management problems, the weaknesses of the technical
assistance program and the lack of coordination and complementarity between
SODEFOR's activities and the project's research component. Also, as
ecological and environmental issues became more pressing, and Government's
forestry sector policies focused more on forest conservation through the
preparation of the National Forestry Plan, Bank supervisions should have
tried to reorient the project toward more environmentally-friendly
techniques of plantation establishment. However, the ecological and social
impacts of the project were hardly discussed during implementation nor was
specialized expertise requested for supervision. There was no mention
during the project period of the need to set up a research or monitoring
program to guide management on environmental or social issues.
8.03        Lessons Learned.  The project demonstrated the limit of
"enclave" plantation operations in addressing structural problems in
forestry sector development. It also drew attention to the importance of
the policy environment in ensuring sustainability. The main lessons from
the project are as follows:
-     The project did not make a major contribution to decreasing the
rate of forest depletion and/or reproducing forest assets.
Clearing secondary natural forests (providing multipurpose
uses) to establish artificial plantations should be avoided.
Although it can be argued that plantations helped in preserving
areas that would otherwise be depleted today, they provide only
some of the environmental benefits derived from "degraded"
forests. Also, given the high establishment and maintenance
costs, planting rates are small in comparison to existing
depletion rate (a rate of 1/50) and cannot make a dent in the
depletion problem.
-     Productive "commercial" plantations are unlikely to be viable
if undertaken by public entities. If the implementing agency
is insulated from commercial pressures, there is a real danger
that critical decisions (species choices, planting techniques,
marketing arrangements) will not be related to cost
effectiveness or commercial considerations.
-     Plantations financed by public funds should be limited to areas
where the returns from the "productive" aspects of the
operations are supplemented by positive externalities due to a
clear protective role (watershed management, protection of
natural forests). Purely productive plantations should be
considered as one of several land-use alternatives. The latter
choice is best left to private operators in the context of an
adequate institutional policy and incentive framework.
-     The promotion of private interests in commercial plantations,
and their sustainability, is crucially dependent upon the
policy context in the sector. If commercial logging of natural



- 10 -
forests is allowed and forestry taxes are much less than the
real stumpage value of timber, the financial viability of
plantations will be undermined. Adequate forestry pricing and
fiscal policies are an important pre-condition of the success
of a commerclal plantation operation.
-     Specialized input at appraisal and during implementation of the
plantation project is necessary for a proper perception of
ecologlcal issues (soil degradation, hydrology, biodiversity,
fire risk) and is therefore an Lmportant element in the success
and ultimate sustainability of the project.
-     Plantation projects cannot be viewed in isolation from their
social context. Given thelr long gestation perlod, severe
conflicts ,ver access to land are likely to arise. These can
only be mitigated by proper land tenure and agrlcultural
sedentarization policles; and by full particlpatLon of the
local population Ln the management of resources and derived
ben. f its.
-     The sustainability of plantations critically depends on proper
maintenance and fire protection. The instltutional appraisal
should therefore pay particular attention not only to the cost
effectiveness of plantation establishment and maLntenance but
also to ensuring financing of current costs. Direct finance
from Government general budget should be avoided lf possible
with minimum funding based on a share of timber sale proceeds
or other revenues generated by the sector.
9. Borrower's Performance
9.01        Borrower's performance was mixed at best.  The government's
inability to provide counterpart funds constantly undermined project
implementatLon and flnally brought the project to a stand-still. It also
indicated that the project was not a high priority in the government's
investment program. The policy environment of the project was not
favorable to sustainability. The government's promotion of commercial
agriculture led to competition over land use; yet local officials and
politLcal figures were reluctant to tackle the associated issue of
encroachment. The Ministry of Agriculture provided no guidance or
monitoring. SODEFOR's Board of Directors never met. Weaknesses in
SODEFOR's financial management and long delays in the production of
audits--all heavily qualified--elicited no response from Government. To
date, neither SODEFOR nor Government has made an effort to prepare a
completion report. Government's only achievement under the project, albeit
a major one, was the preparation of Natlonal Forestry Plan.
10. Proiect Relationshin
10.01       On technical matters, a good rapport was established between
SODEFOR and Bank staff. SODEFOR implemented technical recommendations made
during Bank and CDC supervision missions. However, the project's severe
institutional and counterpart funding problems sometimes placed a strain on
relations with Government. Research cooperation between SODEFOR and CTPT
was not as productive as expected. CTFT programs were hampered by
SODEFOR's financial difficulties and CTFT was not truly responsive to
SODEFOR's requirements for applied research. Relations between the Bank
and CDC were excellent. CDC mostly relLed on Bank staff for information
about institutional and financial issues while the Bank relied on CDC's
expertise in technical forestry matters.
11. Consulting Services and Studies
11.01       There were considerable delays in recruiting technical
assistants and the quality of their work was poor. Neither Government nor
the donors properly supervised technical assistance activities. Work on
smallholder forestry and the establishment of an efficient cost accounting
system did not yield any tangible results. Work on the marketing of
plantation timber yielded lLmited results only at the end of the project.
Short term consultants were hired in 1986 and 1987 to (i) study the



- 11 -
management of SODEFOR's human resources; and (ii) make soil surveys and
train the soil survey team. However, the National Forestry Plan--which was
strongly influenced by the lessons learned from project implementation--is
a major strategic document providing the framework for reforms undertaken
in the sector under the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program supported by
the Bank (Ln 3127-IVC) and the Forestry Sector Loan.
12. Proiect Documentation and Data
12.01       SODEFOR regularly prepared project implementation reports
which, although of a general nature, were of adequate content and quality.
However, detailed technical and cost data, even when collected in the
field, were not analyzed or used by management. Financial reporting and
accounting was poor and annual audits systematically late. SODEFOR has not
prepared a completion report. An invaluable source for the analysis of the
project's achievements and shortcomings is the CDC-ODA Joint Evaluation
Study (1991) which contains sound analysis of the technical, institutional,
environmental and social issues pertaining to the project.



- 12 -
PART I X.
Not yet received from the Borrower.



- 13 -
PARW  RIII  IZIX lZ      i4NFO IEl
1.   Related Bank Loans and Credits
Year of
Loan/Credit_T&1   &Mroal  Pur=ot                                  Status
Forestry Project    1979        Plantation of 20,000 ha of        Completed
(Loan 1735-rVC)                forest plantations and
strengthening forestry
management and planning
capabilities in SODEFOR and
Government.
Forestry Sector     1990        Protection and sustainable        On-going
Project                        management of 1.S million ha
(Loan 3186-IVC)                of natural forest
establishment of 9,000 ha of
new plantations and
maintenance of 60,OOO ha of
existing ones, applied
research and sector policy
reforms.



- 14 -
2.    PX2leet TiAetable
Date        Date
Stm                           Planned      tevied      Date Actual
- Identification                                              1986
- Preparation                                          03/82-02/83
- Project Brief (UPS)         01/83        01/27/83       08/26/83
- Preparation                 11/83        11/18/83       09/1S/83
- Appraisal Mission           03/84        09/22/83       09/22/83
- Loan Negotiations           06/84        01/15/84       11/05/84
- Board Approval              09/84        10/25/84       02/26/85
- Loan Signature               N.S.        03/18/85       03/18/85
- Loa& Bffectiveness          10/84        12/18/85       12/18/85
- Loan Completion               .S.        12/31/89       06/30/90
- Loan Closing                10/89       06/30/90        12/31/90
om2nMnts          Policy issues raLsed at last stage curtailed substantial
revisions at Yellow and Green Covers. The time lapse
between Board and Effectiveness is due to a much weaker
institutional environment than at appraisal.



- 15 -
3,      Loan Dib-ngurae nts
Disbursements (In US$ '000)
Loan 2496-IVC
Bank F1ical Year      Estimated          Actual          Actual as X      Actual as X of
and ouarter          Cumut1tve        SumuQtivo        of Es-timt2d       Lgffl Amant
19E5          3               0             1,545                  0           5
4               0            2.253                  0            ?
1986          1               0             3,669                  0          12
2           4,400            5,515                125           18
3           5,450            6,941                127           22
4           6,500           11,280                174           36
1987          I           7,750            11,425                147          37
2           9,050           13,560                150           43
3          10,450           15,896                152           S1
4          11,850           19,004                160           61
1988          1           13,100           20,267                15S          65
2          14.350           21,845                152           70
3          15.750           22,133                141           71
4          17.150           23,592                138          75
1989          1           18,700           25.354                136          81
2          20,250           26,193                129          84
3          21.550           26,91S                125          86
4          22.850           27,734                121          89
1990          1          25,150            28,169                112          90
2          27.450           28,419                104          91
3          28,650           29,09B                102          93
4          29,650           29372                  99          94
1991          1          30,550            30,616                100          98
2          31.300           30,616                 98          98
3          31,300           30,616                 98           98
4          31,300           30,616                 98          98
Effective Dates 12/18/85; Closing Date: 12/31/90;
Date of final Disbursements 01/14/92
Sources LOA1071 Disbursement Report



- 16 -
4.    Ztq.asa t.1anak
Appraisal               Actual
HA PlAntednted lbv ice.)                                      Ilaiv
Teak                                  7,500          6,050         4,800
Gmelina                               5,300          2,400         2,100
Pine/other                            1,500            700           500
Framire/Frake                         5,500          6,350         5,200
Samba                                 1,100            400           350
Cedrella                              1,100            800           650
22,000         16,700       13,600
NA Maintained                        57:300         40,000
Technical Assistance (Man-Months)
MINAGRA                                 264             37
SODEFOR                                 2              in
S54            219
i,    Prolect costs and Pinancina
A. Project Csts
Appraisal Estimates               Agtual
(CPA m)   (US$ m)         (CA m)       (UsS a)  /
Vehleles & Equipment              6,090     14.0            3,434        11.1
land clearlng and
plantatlon costs                  9,483     21.8           9,445         30.7
Consultants & Tech. Assistance    1,305      3.0              770         2.5
Research & Testing                1,174      2.7             296          1.0
Study tours                         391      0.9               5            -
Operating costs                   4,002      92i 3.230                   10.
22,446     51.6          17,180        55.8
..===        wa    .    ...$s 0 .........=..........  a.n.=
A/ At US$l a CPAF) 435 as per SAR estimates.
k/ At US$l - CPAF 308, ayraee rate actually realized on IBRD loan disbursements.



- 17 -
S. Proieot Finanoina
Original     lot Amninant    2nd Amendment        Actual
Allocation     03/02/88         07/03/90      Di eursements
jUrN E nitU  re Caeory        .JUL....    ...UL...               UIL...    ...411L..
(1)    Vehcles end eVWapuont         7,440,000        4.600,000       6,100,000        6,334.403
(2)    Lwad cleering, soft            12,100,000      16,300,000      18,300.000       17,504,118
preparation, planting.
mlntenanc. and protection of
forest plantations under
Part A of the Project
(3)    Consutants and mnpmanmt        3.200,000        2,800.000       2,400,000        2,387,829
staff recruited for Parts R,
C and 0 of the Project
(4)    Research under Part 3.1 of     1,000,000          800,000         800,000          721,719
the Project
(5)    Testing undr Part 1.2 of the     100,000          100,000               0               0
Project
(6)    Study to"rs under Part C.4 of    200,000          200,000          10,000           7,190
the Project
(7)    Local staff costs, office
suplles, fuel and lubfecants
for Parts A, C.3 and C.A of
the Projects
(a) until June 30, 198?        1,000,000       1,000,000        1,508,463       1,604,805
(b) until  ay 31, 1990         1,600,000       3,000,000        1,420,000       1,906,919
(C) after Nay 31, 1990                                            760,537        640,962
(8)    Calf Ing Special Acount         1,540,000      2,500,000                0       (492,430)
(9)    Unallocated                    31100000                a                0              a
Total                         31,300,000      31,300,000       31,300,000      30,615,522
Canceled                               0               0                0          84,478
SndiabursedW                                                                           Q
TOTAL                         31,000,000      31,000,000       31,000,000      31,000,000
Source: LOA1071 Disbusaent Report and Nonthly Disbursemnt Swmrles.
2. Proje ct Financiga Plan
Planned                               Actual  (% 
(CPA m)    (USS m)   1                 (CPA m)        (US$ m) 12/
IBRD                                 13,616        31.3                     9,441          30.6
CDC                                   4,350        10.0                     4,141          13.4 /
Government                           ,4.A48. 2     1I0I                      .3,S98        I
22,446        51.6                    17,180          55.7
a,      At US$1 - CFAF 435 as per SAR estimates.
k/      At US$   - CFAF 308 exchange rate actually realized on IBRD loan
disbursements.
S/      The CDC loan was disbursed in Pound Sterling.   The wexcessw  (of US$ 3.4 m).
probably reflects the differences in exchange rates.



- 18 -
6.    Progict Results
A. 2irect Benefita
1.          limber Production.  The main direct benefits of the project
will be the timber, fuelwood and thinning from th. project plantations.
These benefits are expected to commence in about 1992/93, peak with final
cute of the plantations between the year. 2034-38 for teak and
2014-20 for other species. (These have been taken into account in
calculation of rates of return for the project). Total production for maln
species will amount to about 2.9 million m3 of which 606,000 m3 of thinning
and fuelwood and 2,300,000 m3 (final cut) timber as follow8s
ThinningiFuelwgod     Final Cu       Total       Yexas
------------(m3)-----------------
Teak                   432,000             86.,000    1,296,000   1998-2038
Frake/rramire           96,600             821,600       918,200   1998-2020
Omelina                 46,200             411,600       457,800   1992-2018
Cedrella                13,000              81,900        94,900   1996-2020
samba                    7,700              49,000        56,700   1996-2018
Other                   11,000               68,500       79,500   1996-2020
606,500           2,296,600    2,903,100
2.          Jobs createq.  Jobs created by the project is indicated by the
following data of employment as of March 30, 1992 at the four project
plantationes
SODEFOR
_ Ha     ZRO}O HPQUI SANlItOUI MM   ZTA&
Permanent Staff                 149         67      81       76      72    445
Seasonal                          -        213    302       323    326  1,164
Sub-contractors (tAcherons)       -                350      50      =    d,4SO
149       480    733       899    798  3,059
=m.      m       i= .   ..   i..umin



- 19 -
S. Economig Imoact
Appraisal         Actual
gstimake    (AT end of Xmplementatlon)
Economic
R&Rg of Return                  12.0               6.0
Teak                                               7.2
Omel"na                                            7.6
Framlre                                            7.0
Frake                                              3.5
Samba                                              2.5
Cedrella                                           2.5
Underlying
Agoumptignis
The analysis was based on the following assumptiones
Costs.  Establishment and maLntenance costs were based on
actual costs during project implementation as recorded by
SODEFOR for now plantings and the maintenance and protection of
exLsting plantatLons, and malntenance norms provided by
SODEFOR.
Benef ts. They were eatimated as follows:
-     growth rate' and yields (total and fLnal cuts) based on
data from SODEFOR's plantations and mlssion estimates.
-     Estimates of losses due to fire or pests (Lit is assumed
that 1% of plantings will be lost each year during the
first 10 years).
=     Re-estimated stumpage values of products for the
different species. It has been assumed that teak price
would increase by 2% p.a. in real terms and those of
other specLes would increase at 1 p.a.
The treatment of the economic value of salvage logging and of
non-wood production (essentially bushmeat) under the project
critically depends on the assumed "non-project situation". If
slash and burn agriculture had destroyed the standing timber,
the economic value of salvage logging should be a benefit of
the project. if the trees had been logged (either before
agriculture or through sustainable management of natural
forests) then salvage logging is not a benefit of the project.
given the uncertainty about the "non-project* situation, no
additional benefits has been ascribed to the project from
salvage logging.
Also, although it was assumed ln keeping wlth appraisal
assumption that the opportunity cost of land was zero. This is
most probably not correct. Since benefits could have been
derLved elther from sustalnable management of the degraded
forests (wood and non-wood products) or lts conversion to
agriculture. Including a positlve opportunity cost of land in
the analysio would diminish further the economic viability of
the project and of industrial plantations in general.



- 20 -
C. Financial Impagt
Appraisal
Etima            Actgal
Financial Rate of Return             Not Estimated      -1.3%
Comene    The decline in financial rate of return is due to the following
factorss (a) a shortfall in total area cleared for new
plantations (76% of appraisal targets 16,192 versus 22,000 ha;
(b) losses from fire and pestilence, difficult soil conditions
(bottomlands, excessive vegetatlon) and poor maintenance
practices which have reduced yields to approximately 79.63% or
12,894 ha of plantations established (Annex 1 and Table 1) (ac)
fLnal cuts currently estimated around 50% of forecasts as a
result of mixed species planted - commercial and revenue
earnings considerations were not the determining criteria in
the species selected; and (d) limited awareness of the salvage
value of already existing forest - CFAF 2,00/m3 maintained as
an approximate value (Annex 7).
D   Studie
Studies          ftat!s Imiact of Study
Plan Directeur   Completed    The study was proposed by MINAGREF
Forestier                      Consultant financed under the project.  It
had a major lmpact ln changing the
attitudes of the Government in focussing on
broader sectorial issues concerning forest
conservation and changes in policy
framework for the sector.



- 21 -
7*.  Etaaun of f ani
SECTION                    D DESCRIPTION: LOAN AGREEMENT               J                   STATUS
The Sorrower wIll:
3.01 (a)   Carry out Parts C.1 and 2 and D.2 of the Project throush       Full compltance
NINAGREf and cause SCOEFOR to carry out Parts A, 5.1 and 2,
C.3 and 4 and D.1 of the Project, all with due diligence
and efficiency In conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, forestry and research practices,
and provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
3.01 (b)   Cause SODEFOR to perform in accordance with the provisions     Full complisnce
of the Project Agreement all the obligations of SODEFOR
therein set forth, take or cause to be taken all action,
Including the provision of funds, facilities, services and
other esources, necessary or appropriate to enable SOOEFOR
to perform such obligations, nd not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or Interfere with such
performance.
3.01 (c)   Establish and maintain at the CM a revolving project           Ci)  Full cotplince
acctunt in CfAF In the nama of SWOEFOR and (f) ake an         (if) Govt's contribution touards the
initial deposit therein of CFAF 225,000000; and (it)         Project was irreular due to treasury
thereafter replenish said account as and when required to     problet. CAA took 6-8 months to
ensure that, on the first day of each calendar quarter        re Iiburse expenditures drawn on the
during each year the project is executed, an eount equal to  revolvfnr project account, inducfn
at lest the initial deposit is available to SOEFOI In that  WDEFOR to run heavy supplier's credit
accut to finance Its estimated expenditures in CFAF for       and suspension of fiteld operations under
the Project during the following calendar quarter.            the Project, In 1989.
3.02       Employ (1) a financial controller to control the budget and    Ci) Not comliped with: the Director of
penditures of SODEFOR on behaltf of the Borrower; (if) an     Resorces assumd this role with the
oecmist and a planner to assist the Borrowr In carryfng       approval of the Bank and CDC;
out Part C.1 of the Project; (ill) a Forester to assist the   (Ci) responsibilities were dropped for
Borrwer In carrying out Part C.2 of the Project; and          fear of conftlets beten NIARUA and
(iv) consultants an  experts to carry out Part D.2 of the     SOOEFOR. Incrient served s
Project; such controller, eoomist, planner forester,          Statistician Instead;
consultants and experts to have qualificatfons, experience    (fif) and Civ) Full compliance but with
and term  and conditfons of emplotyent satisfactory to the    delays.
Bank...
3.03       Not later than October 31 of each year, submift to the Bank    Could not be complied with on a regular
for Its review, the Contract Plan lor the following year.     basis: Contract Plan ws sustituted by
*Fiches de Projet reflecting aWproved 3-
year budget in the BSIE.
3.04 (a)   furnish to the Bank, for its review  nd dfscussion, not        Full compliance
later than (f) April 30, 1985, a draft National Forestry
Plan and Action Plan for the years 1986-1990; and (1i)
Deceober 31, 19, said National Forestry Plan ar4 Action
Plan in Its finalized form.
3.04 (b)   Implent said National Forestry Plan in accordance with a       Full compliance
timetable established In cooperation with the Bank.
3.05        ...Define the scope and terms of reference and establish a    Full coWtiance
timtable, in cooperation with the Bank, for the studies to
be carred out within the framework of the National Forestry
Plan referred to in Section 3.04 above.
3.06 (a)    ... Undertake to insure, o. make adequate provision for the   Full compliace
insurance of, the imported goods to be ffnacd out of the
proceeds of the Loan agsinst hazards incident to the
scquisition, transportatfon and delivery thereof to the of
use or installation, and for such insurance any fndemnity
shall be payable In a currency freely usable by the Borrower
to replace or repair such goods.
3.06 (b)   Cas all goods and services financed out the proceeds of        Full compliance
the Loan and allocated to Parts C.1  n 2, nd 0.2 of the
Project to be used exclusively for such Parts.
6~~...... . 



- 22 -
SECTION               DESCRIPTION: LOAN ACREEMENT (Continued)             |                 COMPLIANCE
3.0? (a)    (1) Matntsin records and procedures adequate to record and      Fult cotpliance
monitor the progress of Parts C.1 and 2 and D.2 of the
Project (including their cost end benefits to be derived
from them), to Identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in
Parts C.1 and 2, and 0.2 of the Project.
(1i) Enable the Bank#s representatives to exmnine the goods    Full compliance
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant
records and documents.
(Mii) Furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all such         Fully complfed mith although not on a
Information as the Sank shall reasonably request concerning    regular basis.
Parts C.1 and 0.2 of the Project, their cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from them, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Parts
C.1 and 2, and D.2 of the Project nd the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
3.0? (b)    Prowptly after completion of Parts C.1  nd 2, and 0.2 of the   Not cotplied with.  Information to be
Project, but fn any event not later than six mcnths after       provided In S0EFOR's PCR not yet
the closing date or such later date as may be agreed for        submitted.
this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, prepare and
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and In such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the
execution and initial operation of Parts C.1 and 2 and 0.1
of the Project, their cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from them, the performance by the Borrower and
the Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan
Agreemnt and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan.
3.08        Following the cotpletion of the Project, maintain or eause      The plantation program Is being
to be maintained the plantations included In Part A of the      maintained and supervised under the
Project In conformity with sound technical practices, untit    follow-up Forestry Sector Project.
maturity of the timber, and shall provide promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
4.02 (a)    .... Naintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts       Despite Bank efforts, NINAGRA has never
adequate to reflect In accordance with consistently             been able to produce separate accounts
maintained approprfate accounting practices the operations,    for Parts C.1  nd 2  nd D.2 of the
resources and expenditures in respect of Parts C.1 and 2,       Project.  However, expenditures under
and 0.2 of the Project, of the departments or agencies of       these relate to expatriate technfcal
the Borrower responsible for carrying out such parts of the    assistance and studies for which Bank has
Project or any pert thereof.                                    made direct payments.
4.02 (b)    Mi) Maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts        Complied with: hoever, Project account
reflecting all expenditures on  ccount of which withdrawals    at CA was lmproperly kept. Because of
are requested from the Loan Account on the basis of SOEs;       treasury problems, SODEFOR used funds
(if) retain, until one year after the Closing Date all          from the Project account to meet Its most
records ....evidencing the expenditures on account of Which    urgent payments (salaries, mrl
withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the basis suppliers) and deferred payment to major
of SOEs; (fii) enable the Bank's representatives to eomine    suppliers as long as possible.
such records.
4.02 Cc)    Ci) Nave the accounts referred to in paras (a) and (b) of       No audit report for NINAGRA tas received
this Section for each fiscal year audited  In accordance        during the life of the project  see
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied,      Section 4.02 (a) above.
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; Cii) furnish
to the Bank, as soon as possible, but not later than six        Full copiance with delays In the case
months after the end of such year, a certified copy of the      of SODEFOR.
report of such audit...; and (ifi) furnish such other
informatfon concerning said accounts, records and
xpenditures  nd the audit thereof as the Bank should from
time to time reasanably request.



- 23 -
SECTION                   DESCIPTION: PROJECT AGRtEENENT                                    COMLIANCE
SODEFOR wIll:
2.01        Carry out Parts A., 5.1 and 2, C.3 and 4 end 0.1 of the         Not  atfsfactorily complied withs
Project... with due diligence and efficiency and in             SODEFOR's overasl finteisal manaement,
conformity with appprfiate adinistrative, financial,            internal control and acowntfng were
research and forestry practices.                                Inadequate. lag in availabflity of
counterpart funds aggravated SOEFOR's
cash flow.
2.02 (a)    ...Eaploy an operational methods engineer, a civil engineer,   Full compliance wfth delays.  Noweer,
a marketing expert and an accountant whose qualifteatins,       Civil Engineer post was swapped for an
experience and terms and conditions of employment               Agro-Forestry Engineer with consent of
satisfactory to the Bank...                                     the Bank; Narketing Expert post filled
only in 1988 *nd was replaced frequently.
2.02 (b)    tl) Enter Into a contract with scientific institution           Full complIance with delays: contract
specialized In tropical forestry, satisfactory to the Sank,    drafted 1985 was signed three yre later,
providing for the res arch referred to in Part 5.1 of the       thus, onty 6 out of 12 areas of work were
ProJect; and                                                    completed.
(ti) Contract with a scientific Institution specialized in      Fult com'lfance
tropical forestry, satisfactory to the Bank, providing for
the testing referred to In Part 8.2 of the Project...
2.03        Prepare and furnish to the Bank for approval before August      Full compliance with delays; Contract
31 of each year until completion of the project: (i) a work    Plan was substituted by "Fiches de
program for land clearing, soll preparation, planting,          Projet  reflecting 3 yeas budget
mafntenance and protection to be carried out during the next   approved in the BSIE.
Fiscal Year under Part A of the project, together with a
budget therefor and a Contract Plan for the Fiscal Year; and
(if) a program of training and study tours to be carried out
during the nxt Fiscal Year under Part C.4 of the Project,
together with a budget therefor.
2.04        .... Procurement of the goods and civfl works required for      Full compliance
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan to be governed by the provfsions of Schedule I to the
Project Agreement.
2.05 (a)    Insure, or m"ke adequate provision for the insurance of the    Full compliance
imported goods to financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
nd made available to it by the Borrower against hazards
incident to the acquistion, installation, and for such
Insurance any indemnity payable In a currency freely usable
by SOOEFOR to replace or repair such goods.
2.05 (b)   Cause all goods and services financed out the proceeds of        Full compliance
the Loan and made available to SCDEFOR by the Borrower to be
used exclusively for the purposes of the Project
2.06 (a)    Furnish to the Sank, promptly upon their preparation, the       Full compliance
plans, specffications, reports, contract documents and work
and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail
as the Sank shall reasonably request.
2.06 (b)    (f) Maintafn records and procedures adequate to record and      Full compliance with delays.
monitor the progress of Parts A, 3.1. and 2, C.3 and 4 and
0.1 of the Project....to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Project.
(fC) Enable the Bank's representatives to visit the             Full compliance
facilities and construction sites included in Parts A, 5.1
and 2, C.3 and 4 and 0.1 of the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any
relevant records and documents.



24 -
SECTION  I         DESCRIPTION: PROJECT AGREEMENT (Continued)          I                 COMPLIANCE
2.06 (b)    (ill) Furnish to the Bank at regular lntervals all such       Fully complied with although not on a
information as the Sank shalt reasonably requested            regular basis.
concerning Parts A, 9.1. and 2. C.3 and 6 and 0.1 of the
Project, their cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to
be derved fro them, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Loan and the goods and services financed out of such
Proceeds.
2.06 (d)   Promptly after complotion of Parts A, 3.1 and 2, C.3 and 4     Not yet complied with: SCOEFOR*s PCR not
and D.1 of the Project, but In any event not ltter than six    yot submitted to the Bank.
months after the closing date or such later date as may be
areed for this purpose between SODEFOR end the Sank,
prepare and furnish to the Sank a report, of such scope and
in such detail as the Dank shall reasonably request, on the
execution and fnitial operation of Parts A, 3.1 and 2, C.3
and 4 and 0.1 of the Project, their cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from them, the performance by
SCOEFOR and the Bank of their respective obligations under
the Project Agreemnt and the a4complishment of the purposes
of the Loan.
2.06 (0)   Enable the Dank's representatives to examine  ll plants,       Full compliance
installations, sites, works, buildings, property and
equlpmsnt of SODEFOR and any relevant records nd documents.
2.07 (a)   Exchano  views with the Bank with regard to the progress of    Full caopliance
Parts A, 1.1 and 2, C.3 end 4 and D.1 of the Project, the
performance of Its obligations under thfs Agreement and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
2.07 (b)   Promptly inform the Sank of any condition which interferes     Full compliance
or threatens to Interfere with the progress of Parts A, 1.1
and 2, C.3 and 4 and 0.1 of the Project, the eccomplishment
of the purpose of the Loan, or the performance by SODEFOR
of its obigations under this Agreement.
4.01 (a)   Naintafn records adequate to reflect In accordnc with          Fully complied with: however, Bank WPU
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the   missions identified misuse of Dank funds
operations and financial condition including, without         to non-project operations due to delays
limitation to the foregoing, separate accounting reflecting   In receiving counterpart funds. Since
all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are          Feb. 1989, WA were therefore audited and
requested from the Loan Account on the basis of SOEs.         certified prior to any reibuarsement to
the Special Account.
4.01 (b)   Retafn, until one year after the Closing Date, all reoords     Full compliance
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, recelpts and other
documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrwals are requested from the Loan Account on the basis
of SOEs, id shall enable the Sank's representatives to
examine such records.
4.02 (a)     ave Its accounts and financial statements ...for each year    Full c- pliance with delays (months):
audited, In accordance with appropriate auditing principles    FY85 by 11.9; FY86 by 12.9; FY87 by 4.8;
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to    FY89 by 1.9; FY90 by 6.0; Up to Jun 92 in
the Sank.                                                     progress.
4.02 (b)   Furnish to the Dank as soon as available, but In any case      Full compliance with delays
not later than six months after the end of each such year:
(i) certffied copies of its financial statemnts for such
year as se audited; and Cii) the report of such audit by
said auditors of such scop and In such detalt as the Bank
shall have reasonably requested, including, without
limitatfon to the foregoing, separate opiniors by said
auditors in respect of the expenditures and records referred
to In Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement, as to whether the
proceeds of the Loan made available to It and withdrawn from
the Loan Ascount on the basis of SO have been used for the
purpose for which they were provided.
4.02 (e)    Furnish to the lank such other information concerning safd    Full compliance
accounts, financial statements, records and expenditures, as
well as the audit thereof, as the Dank shall from time to
time reasonably ruqust.



- 25 
S. Vine gf ]ank Eeuggrces
Planned
Stan 2of Pro eat Ovlc  (Ayeagg)  RBuLeaQ  ZLnal  geMImBnl
Through Appraieal           52.0        34.0     22.3   Projects  15.0
Others      7.3
Appraisal through            S6.0       74.7     66.8   Projects  59.5
Board Approval                                          Others       7.3
Board Approval through       ...         0.0     13.1   Others      13.1
EffectLveness
supervision                  ...                        Projectas  48.0
70.Q      5?.4   Others       9.4
TOTAL                               178.7     159.6   Projects: 196.7
03inmmJJ    Other  37.1
...e Not  Rva$1able
Sources Mfriaa Reglon TRs Data Run 05/08/92



- 26 -
8. Nissions
Number     Days                     Performance
Stage of                          of           in    Specialization   Rating
ProiLect Cyco     Month/Year      Personm   Fietd  R3egsented al   Status b/,  TiMes of Problems c/
Through           Feb 15, 1983        2         1    ECU, AGR              N/A       Technical 1/
Appraisal
Apr 25-May 6,      2        12    ECU, AGR              N/A        Technical, Mnagement V
1983
Appraisal         Sep 22-Oct          4        27    ECN, FS, AGR,         N/A       Technical, Management )
through           14, 1983                           FA
Board Approval
Oct 7-30.          2        23    CR, FA                 2         Management, Technical i/
1983
May 2-11.          3         9     AGR, FA, FS           2         Management I/
1984
Board Approval    Mar 11-09,          1        8     AGR                   N/A       Financial t
through           1985
Effectiveness
Supervisfon       Mar 15, 1986        2        15    AG, FA                 2        Management, ffnancal LI
Supervision       Dec 09, 1986        1        9     SFA                    2        Management lV
Supervision       Jure 01, 1987       1        10    SFA                    3        Financial, Management 2/
Supervision       Jan 16, 1988        1        12    SFA                    3        Financial JR/
Supervision       Jun 27. 1988        1        2     FS                     3        Financial 11/
Supervision       Feb 18, 1989        2        10    SFA, FS                3        Financial JII
Supervision       Oct 02, 1989        2        6    SFA, FS                 3        Financial 1I/
Supervision       May 28, 1990        3        11    SFA, AG, FS            3        Financial Jl(
A/ Key to Specialization: AGR a Agronomist, FA u Financial Analyst, ECNU Economist,
SFA a Senior Financial Analyst.
I/ Key to Status: 1 - Project free or minor problems; 2 u Moderate problems; 3 = Major problems;
N/A a Not applicable.
_/ Types of problems:
J/ Technical assessment of fire damage at Ten. and Sangou6 forest plantations; and farmers intrusion.
jI Forest fire prevention and control measures; and SODEFOR management and operations.
}/ Revision of the project. Policy issues raised at last stage curtailed substantial revisions at
Yellow and Green Covers.
Al Role and legal status of SODEFOR in plantation and exploitation; implementation of SODEFOR
reorganization proposed by Management Audit; and forest fire risk.
/  lmplementation of SODEFOR reorganization; and Change of SOCEFOR statutes as a result of Ministerial
reorganization in Nov 1983.
Al Financial difficulties affecting project execution ard effectiveness: breakdown of SCDEFOR
accounting system which resulted in failure to draw down funds from CDC and UB Ln accounts; lack of
counterpart funds; land preparation, nursery operations and weeding were delayed or neglected.
D/ Cooperation between Agent Coanptable and Administrative Service of SODEFOR; depreciation of the $
against the CFAF; and lack of counterparts because of salary scale imposed on SODEFOR as EPIC
(Decree 85-132 of Feb 20, 1985).
3I Project Management.
2/ Availability of counterpart funds; marketing; shortcomings in accounting control.
1W Severe liquidity problems due to cessation of CDC disbursements due to non-payment of debt and CCCE
copletion of its project.
IV Lack of counterpart funds.
R/ Funding due to lack of counterpart funds, suspension of CCCE financing and delays In processing
disbursements.



IBRD 18136R1
COTE D'IVOIRE
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT                                                                                          AI^ 501. 09MW "UT         2 K-W
AMMMI SAWA. 714 -        3 140_  
i~~  M~-~~'   A                             '-~~'( O.DVAARTUVEAL ArnALS                                            1 *060
(W           0I3 NA PASr
i                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~KORIOOO
z
_OTI
o   $  T         '                 \          r ~~~~~~~~~~~O    '   .6
OMKOUNA~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IOOUO
-_    /          ~~~~~0  K 
4.         A                                                                                                                          * j  I
>  fS                r    fi <    >  ;                         O  _e                           J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/i 
-   o 0.              0
j  /                 S't                                 ^'      ''-y                                            /
o   s             ,gJi,,,              o                  OFlF o  -o o  , T -&                                                     >
RESEIWO -
/ < . ---e'"'X'''-0              '        .         .          '         _         *W
ovom ~ ~ ~ 0            *ov
_~~~~~~~~~~~I                                                                                                            )
JULY 199



