Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5151-IVC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
IVORY COAST
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
February 4, 1985
Western Africa Projects Department
Agriculture A
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be di%closed without World Bank authorizAtion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
CURRENCY UNIT     =   CFA Franc (CFAF) 1/
CFAF 435          =   US$].00 2/
CFAF 1,000        =   US$2.30
CFAF 1,000,000    =   USS2,299
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAISSTAB  -    Caisse de Stabilisation et de Soutien des Prix
des Produits Agricoles (Agricultural Price
Stabilization Fund)
CCCE      -    Caisse  Centrale  de  Coop[eration  Economique
(France)
CTFT      -    Technical Center for Tropical Forestry (Centre
Technique Forestier Tropical)
CDC       -    Commonwealth Development Corporation
EPA       -    A state administrative enterprise
EPIC      -    A state commercial and industrial enterprise
MINAGREF  -    Ministrv  of  Agriculture,  Water  and  Forests
(Ministare de I'Agriculture, et des Eaux et
Forets)
SODE      -    A state development company
SODEFOR   -    Forestry    Plantation   Development    Company
(Societe pour le Developpement des Plantations
Forestieres)
FISCAL YEARS
Government and SODEFOR: Januarv I - December 31
PROJECT YEAR
january 1 - December 31
l/        The exchange rate for the CFA Franc is fixed in a ratio of
50:1 with the French Franc, which is free floating currency.
2/        At November 5, 1984, start of negotiations.



- -                FOR OMCUIL USE ONLY
IVORY COAST
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE AND FROM WAPAA ........  (iii)
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY .....................................  (vi)
I.  INTRODUCTION .................................................. I
II. THE FORESTRY SECTOR ........................................ 1
A. Role in the Economy ...................................... 1
B. Sectoral Institutions .................................... 3
C. Sector Strategy .......................................... 7
D. Bank Involvement in the Sector ...........................9
III. THE PROJECT ............................................... 12
A. Objectives .............................................. 12
B. Project Area                      ..                         12
C. Project Description and Detailed Features       . .    12
D. Project Implementation                 ..                  16
1. Plantations ......................................... 17
2. Research ............................................ 17
3.  Smallholder Forestry ................................ 17
E. Project Cost and Financing               .       .           17
F. Procurement and Disbursement              ..               19
IV.  FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RESULTS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS.....22
A. Production  and Markets ................................. 22
B. Financial Results ....................................... 24
C. Benefits and Justification .............................. 25
D. Risks ................................................... 27
V. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION ................................ 28
The project was identified as a continuation of the first Forestry
Project (Ln. 1735-IVC) and was prepared by SODEFOR between March 1982
and July 1983. Appraisal was made by a joint IBRD/CDC team in
September/October 1983. Negotiations were held November 5-9, 1984, in
Washington, D.C. The Ivorian delegation was headed by Mr. Victor
Kouame, Deputy Director for Public Debt, Caisse Autonome
d' Amortissement. This report was prepared by Messrs. Crown, Fishwick,
and Blackden, Western Africa Region based on findings of an appraisal
mission comprising Messrs. Crown, Fishwick, Marticou and Wightwick
(IBRD), Messrs. Finch and Mordue (CDC) and Mr. ElKrief (UNESCO). Ms.
Playfair-Scott was primarily responsible for report typing.
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of
their offca duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disdosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
ANNEXES
3-1 Field Operations and Production by Plantation
3-2 Job Profiles, Internationally Recruited Specialists
3-3 Project Cost Estimate
3-4 Financing Plan
3-5 Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
4-1 Project Cash Flow, in PY 1-20 with average PY 21-30 and PY
31-40.
4-2 Consolidated Cash Flow, PY 1-20 First and Second Project
4-3 Principal Assumptions Underlying Economic and Financial Analysis
MAP
IBRD No. 18136R



- iii -
IVORY COAST
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE AND FROM WAPAA
A.  Project Working Papers  (Prepared by  IBRD  Staff, available from
WAPAA)
I.   Technical Specifications
Table 1        Availability of Land
Table 2        Choice of Species
Table 3        Forest Clearing and Preparation
Table 4        Maintenance and Silviculture
Table 5        Nurserv Production
Table 6        Yields, Rotation, Sawmill Conversion Factors
Table 7        Agro-Forestry (Smallholder Forestry)
Table 8        Fire Protection
II. Inputs and Project Costs
Table 1        Equipment and Labor Input per hectare
Table 2a       Investment and Operating Cost for Equipment
Table 2b       Vehicle Operating Cost
Table 3a       Cost per ha, CFAF
Table 3b       Road Construction and Maintenance Cost
Table 4a       Tene:  Plantation Establishment
Table 4b       Tene:  Thinning and Pruning Schedule
Table 5a       Sangoue:  Plantation Establishment
Table 5b       Sangoue:  Thinning and Pruning Schedule
Table 6a       Mopri:  Plantation Establishment
Table 6b       Mopri:  Thinning and Pruning Sched-ale
Table 7a       Irobo:  Plantation Establishment
Table 7b       Irobo:  Thinning and Pruning Schedule
Table 8        Project Costs:
Tables 101-104 Project Cost by Plantation
Table 105-106 Project Cost, SODEFOR, Research
Project Cost Summaries by Year and by Component
III. Yield and Production by Plantation and Species
Table 1-6      Tene
Tables 7-12    Sangoue
Table 13-18    Mopri
Tables 19-24   Irobo
IV.  Economic Analysis
A.   Basic Assumptions
B.   Costs



Lv 
C.   Benefits
D.   Resultant Economic Rates of Return
Tables 1-4     Derivation of Stumpage Values, bv Species
Tables 5a-d    Tene:  Input Data, NPV and ERR; Switching
Values, and Benefit/Cost Streams
Tables 6a-d    Sangoue:  Input Data, NPV and ERR, Switching
Values, and Benefit/Cost Streams
Tables 7a-d    Mopri:  Input Data, NPV and ERR, Switching
Values, and Benefit/Cost Streams
Tables 8a-d    Irobo:  Input Data, NPV and ERR, Switching
Values, and Benefit/Cost Streams
Tables 9a-d    Full Project
Table 10        Full Program, First Project Re-estimate
Table 11        Full Program, First and Second Projects
Table 12a-g    NPV and ERR, Project and Plantations with
Shadow Exchange Rate CFAF 510 = US$1.00
V.   Financial Analysis
VI.  SODEFOR Management System
VII. Forestry I, Summary of Progress (December 31, 1983)
West Africa Information
Center Code
B.  Additional Suppnrt Docx;ents
1.   (a)  Republique de Cote d'Ivoire:  SODEFOR:
Proposition de Rapport D'Evaluation d'un
Second Project                                220.198 (Al-4)
Forestier Vol I, II, III, IV);
(March 1982 & 1983)                           220.198 (C1&2)
(b)  Republique de Cote D'Ivoire:  SODEFOR:
Elements de Calculs de la Proposition
D'Evaluation d'un Second Projet Forestier;
(July 1983)                                   220.198 (B)
2.   Commonwealth Development Corporation:
Appraisal Report, Ivory Coast Hardwood Forestry
Project, SODEFOR II (1985 to 1989);
(draft Dec.1983)                                   220.432 (2)
3.   UNESCO:
Deuxieme Projet Forestier de la SODEFOR
la formation des ressources humaines;
Oct. 1983                                           220.432 (3)
4.   Centre Technique Forestier Tropical (Abidjan) (letter from



v 
Fiches-Projets (3) (October, 1983)
(i)  Optimisation de la production de plants        220.432 (4a)
(ii)  Identification du materiel et experimnentation
en agroforesteire                             220.432 (4b)
(iii)  Etude de la valorisation techuLique nationale
des produits d'eclaircies                     220.432 (4c)
5.   Socifte Internationale Forestal Ltee
Diagnostic de Gestion, Rapport Preliminaire pour
la SODEFOR (March, 1983)                            220.432 (5)
6.   IBRD, Western Africa Region, Projects Department
Staff Appraisal Report, Ivory Coast Foresty
Project                                             IVC-M1735 (B/R)
(No. 2403-IVC) (June 1979)
(b) Project File Working Papers (May 1979)
7.   IBRD, Industry Department
Staff Appraisal Report, Cong Ouesso
Wood Processing Project No. 4112-COB)
(May 1983) Congo Ln.                                2298(B/R)
8.   IBRD, Western Africa Region, Projects Department
Staff Supervision Reports (Dates 6.4.81; 4.27.82;
1.28.83; 6.29.83; 2.1.84)                           IVC-M1735
Correspondence File
9.   Appui a la SODEFOR pour l'implantation d'un
Programme de Protection contre les Incendies
de Forets                                           220.432 (6)
Rapport de Sylviculture et Management par
R. Catinot, Consultant FAO (Rome, 1984)
10.  L'industrie du Bois en Cote d'Ivoire Structure,
Performance, Perspectives, JAAKO POYRY Consult
(January 26, 1984)                                 220.432 (7)



- vi -
IVORY COAST
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Government of the Ivory Coast.
Beneficiaries:      Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forests, and
SODEFOR.
Amount:             US$31.3 million.
Terms:               20 years with 5 year grace period; standard IBRD
terms.
Cofinancier:        Commonwealth Development Corporation, London
(US$10.0 million equivalent).
Project
Description:         The project would complete works begun under the
first forestry project (Ln. 1735-IVC), in which
17,800 ha were successfully established as hardwood
plantations. In addition, the project would seek to
improve forestry sector policies and institutional
performance. Over a five-year execution period
resources would be provided for:
(a)  about 204 man months of service by experts on a
long- and short-term basis in support of
studies for policy development and for
smallholder forestry development, and 60 man
months for improved financial control;
(b)  mechanical clearing of about 20,000 ha of
logged over forest reserve, replanting this
area, along with 2,000 ha of land previously
planted which was burned over in 1982/83;
(c)  maintenance and protection of the newly plaated
forests, and plantation infrastructure, in
addition to thinning and pruning of the 35,300
ha of immature existing plantations;
(d)  provision of about 240 man months of service by
experts on a long-term basis, and 50 man months
of short-term consultants' services in areas
affecting plantation establishment; and



- vii -
(e) support for production-oriented applied research ard foreign
study tours for qualified SODEFOR staff.
Plantation works would be executed by SODEFOR, which
successfully executed the first project. The
forestry services of MINAGREF would execute the
policy oriented parts of the project.
Estimated Project Costs:
Local     Foreign     Total
------US$ Million-- - - --
SODEFOR Plantations                  13.2          17.0       30.2
SODEFOR Headquarters                  0.5           1.8        2.3
SODEFOR Plantation Research           0.7           1.1        1.8
MINAGREF Support                      0.2           1.1        1.3
Baseline Costs                       14.6          21.0       35.6
Physical Contingencies             0.3           0.6        0.9
Price Contingencies                7.2           7.9       15.1
Total Project Cost                   22.1          29.5       51.6
Financing Plan
IBRD                             8.9         22.4        31.3
CDC                              2.9           7.1       10.0
Government                      10.3  *       -          10.3
22.1         29.5       51.6
*    Including US$5.8 million taxes.
Estimated IBRD Disbursements
FY86   FY87   FY88  FY89    FY90   FY91
Annual                 6.5     5.4    5.3    5.7    6.8    1.6
Cumulative             6.5    11.9   17.2   22.9   29.7   31.3
Benefits and Risks:
The principal quantifiable benefit from the project would be
the 6.6 million m3 of standing timber produced over 35 years. This
would have a value of about CFAF 380 billion (US$880 millior.) on the
stump. This wood would provide a valuable basic resource as a
substitute for dwindlirg supplies of wood from the natural forest.
Thus, the project would assist Government to provide a reliable source



- viii -
of wood for the forestry industries, and for export. Unquantifiable
benefits would be derived from institutional strengthening and reform of
forestry policies, as well as ecological benefits.
The principal outstanding technical risk is that of fire, which
since 1982 has intensified as a result of drier conditions and an
increase in the intensity of farming near and in the forest reserves.
Fire prevention measures have been taken by SODEFOR, and the project has
been designed to minimize fire risk. Nonetheless, the spread of
farming, which exacerbates this risk, continues and cannot be fully
controlled by SODEFOR. Government would be assisted under the project
to strengthen institutional arrangements for forestry reserve control
and management of natural resources. Marketing uncertainties exist but
are not major since markets would be readily available for the valuable
species planted. Managerial risks arise since SODEFOR may be reaching
the limit of its management capacity. However, the project provides for
strengthening SODEFOR's management.
Economic Rate of Return: 122
Map: IBRD 18136R
WAPA A
February 1985



IVORY COAST
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     The Government of the Ivory Coast has asked for IBRD assistance
in financing a second forestry project, which would continue a program
for the establishment of high quality industrial tree plantations to
regenerate stocks of timber already logged out of the natural forests.
The project with an estimated cost of US$51.6 million equivalent would
be executed over a period of five years. Government would contribute
about US$10.3 mill4on equivalent, the Commonwealth Development
Corporation (London) about US$10.0 million, and IBRD US$31.3 million
equivalent. In addition to continuing industrial reforestation efforts
already begun, the project would include a component to support
smallholder forestry in the wood-scarce northern parts of the country,
and a component for the analysis of significant sectoral issues,
contributing to an improved national forestry policy.
1.02     Of the three major contributors to the forestry sector in the
Ivory Coast--IBRD, CCCE, and CDC--IBRD is now largest. With CDC, IBRD
financed the first reforestation program, which was then unique in
developing hardwood plantations on logged-over land. CCCE has since
financed a similar project, executed by the same institution, SODEFOR.
However, institutional and policy weaknesses inhibit wider investment in
reforestation, particularly by the private sector. A number of
additional donors have expressed interest in smallholder and village
level reforestation, but Ivorian institutions and policy in this area
have not developed. The project as proposed would advance further
reforms of forestry policy and the strengthening of institutions, and
IBRD has a significant role to play in assisting Government to make
these reforms.
II. THE FORESTRY SECTOR
A. Role in the Economy
2.01     Forestry is an important economic activity in the Ivory Coast
which is one of the world's principal suppliers of tropical hardwoods.
Production of logs rose from 1.1 million m3 in 1960 to a peak of 5.3
million m3 in 1977. Since then, production declined to 4.1 million m3
in 1982. In the decade 1972-82, exports of logs averaged 2.9 million m3
annually, reaching a peak of 3.3 million m3 in 1977. Annual log exports
have since declined to about 2.3 million m3 in 1982. This is explained
both by the degrading of the commercial value of the forests and by a
change in Government policy. Historically, only 25% of logs harvested



were transformed within the Ivory Coast, 75% being exported directly.
In 1972, Government instituted a quota svstem directing 40% of the cut
to local processors. This quota has been met since 1981. About 50% of
the processed wood is exported. Export earnings generated by forestry
were 16% of all exports in 1977. While the contribution fell to 14% in
1982, forestry remains the country's third most important foreign
exchange earner after cocoa and coffee. Wood is the principal source of
energy for heating and cooking for the majority of the population and
more than 5 million m3 are taken as brush and small wood per year for
this purpose. The sector still accounts for about 6% of GDP, and
provides employment for about 44,000 people, including about 25% of the
country's industrial workforce.
2.02     Forests in the Ivory Coast are being both rapidly degraded and
reduced in area. Loggers who exploited the country's forest resources
in earlier years selectively logged only the most valuable and
marketable species, with a resulting production of about 10 m3/ha,
compared with 40 m3/ha which is the maximum commercial volume available.
Encroaching farmers frequently burned the remaining stands
indiscriminately when clearing the land for food crops and tree crops,
creating a loss estimated at about 2.0 million m3 of usable wood per
year with an export value of some US$100 million. Where farmers did not
become established, succeeding generations of loggers returned to old
concessions, taking logs of lower value where these had not been
destroyed bv previous concession-holders. As the highest auality
reserves have become exhausted, the composition of exports has changed
correspondingly. In 1982 exports of first quality logs represented 25%
of the total volume of exports (35% in value terms) down from 32% in
1978. The greater proportion of lower grades now exported has in turn
contributed to a 3% per annum de-zline in the real value per m3 of logs
exported. Thus, through this process, between 1956 and 1983, the area
covered by unspoiled high forest was reduced from about 12 million ha to
about 3.6 million ha. The 8.4 million ha of degraded forest which
contains about 2 million ha of cocoa, coffee and rubber trees, continues
to support adequate forest cover to protect the environment and provide
firewood; however this resource is no longer adequate to support
commercial wood extraction, or transformation industries. Of the 3.6
million ha of unspoiled forest remaining, about 1 million ha are in
national parks or are generally inaccessible, about 2.5 million ha are
within permanent forest reserves, and about 100,000 ha in small
dispersed pockets.
2.03     Legislation governing forest use is complex, and has been
poorly enforced. As a result, loggers continue to exploit the remaining
forests, more or less uncontrolled, and farmers have followed roads
developed for logging operations, establishing cocoa, coffee and food
crops, with the widespread practice of "slash and burn" farming. Such
intrusions have also begun in the classified forest reserves and
national parks. Government now estimates that this process transforms
about 0.4 million ha of unspoiled high forest per vear. Were these
trends to continue, Ivory Coast could become a net importer of timber
before the end of the century, when domestic demand is expected to reach



-3-
the equivalent of 2 million m3 of logs per year (compared to about
900,000 m3 in 1982) and annual productie- from the remaining high forest
limited to less than 0.5 million m3.
2.04     Local wood processing capacity has been increasing rapidly
since 1972, when Government introduced local delivery quotas on loggers
(para 2.01). Abour 90 establishments were registered under the
industrial code in 1983, although many more logging firms were
operating. However, the plants established were mainly small,
inefficient, poorly managed sawmills and resulted in relatively low
value added.   As supplies of quality natural forest-grown woods are
being exhausted, wood processing industries are experiencing growing
uncertainties about the source, cost, and timeliness of supplies of raw
material, and plantation-grown wood will have to become the principal
stock for the local industry by the end of the century. The evolution
toward plantation-grown wood as a source of supply would be advantageous
for industry, in that feed stocks would be secured, be of more uniform
quality and dimension, and be more easily protected than the natural
forest. However, the forestry industries will have to be progressively
restructured since at present they are typically ill-equipped for
efficient processing of plantation-grown trees - which are generally of
smaller dimension than natural forest-grown trees. Achieving this
restructuring will require further private investment, which will be
difficult to secure without reform of concession policy and fiscal
arrangements for the sector. Government is beginning to act to meet
these needs (para 2.13).
2.05     The degradation of the natural forest to a condition that will
no longer support commercial logging would not appear to have serious
environmental consequences, since significant forest cover remains.
However, once opened to farming, the remaining forest cover is at
greater risk and is frequently rapidly destroyed with serious ecological
consequences, including soil erosion, reduced rainfall and lower water
tables, as observed elsewhere in Western Africa. As a result of such
occurrences, Government is becoming more conservation-minded in its
approach to forestry in particular, and to natural resource issues in
general.
B. Sectoral Institutions
2.06     MINAGREF:  The Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forests
(MINAGREF) has assumed overall responsibility for the forestry sector,
following a reorganization of the Government in November 1983, which
reintegrated the Ministry of Water and Forests into the former
Agriculture Ministry. The structure of the new Forest Services within
MINAGREF and its principal functions remain similar to those previously
performed. Of the 13 Directorates which comprised the former Ministry
of Water and Forests, the most important as far as the functioning of
the forestry sector is concerned are the Directorate of Forest
Production, in charge of the exploitation of the country's forest
resources; Forestry Surveillance and Control, which prepares and applies



-4-
sector-related legislation; Forestry Conservation, which delimits and
maintains forest reserves; and Reforestation, responsible chiefly for
small-scale replanting programs at the village level. In spite of the
importance of their functions, budgetary allocations for these
directorates have been small, covering little more than personnel costs.
In 1982 the combined operating budget of these four directorates was
only about 6% of the operating budget for all 13 directorates of the
then Ministry of Water and Forests, the major shares going to Fisheries
(30Z), National Parks (23%) and Training (20%).  The operating
effectiveness of the four key directorates in implementing Government's
forestry strategy is also exacerbated by the lack of clear operating
guidelines and regulations, although changes recently proposed by
Goverrment appear likely to progressively improve the situation (para
2.13). The Planning, Budget and Management Directorate of MINAGREF,
which existed before the Ministry assumed responsibility for forestry
matters, has begun to incorporate forestry affairs in its operations.
This directorate now also monitors SODEFOR's situation for the Ministry
and has been reinforced by the Financial Controller employed under the
first project. The Ministry has also received considerable assistance
from bilateral sources. However most of this has been in the areas of
parks, fisheries and forestry education, and was not directed to resolv-
ing major long-term issues facing the sector. The proposed project
would begin to address these shortcomings.
2.07     SODEFOR:  The  Societe pour le Developpement des Plantations
Foresti6res (SODEFOR), was established in 1966, as a state-owned company
with a capital of CFAF 50 million, under the control of the Ministry of
Agriculture (and later transferred to Water and Forests).  Its creation
reflected Government's concern about the problems of rapid forest
degradation, the need for sound forest management, and the desire to
begin the process of reconstituting the national forest reserves.
SODEFOR was initially given responsibility for both reforestation within
clearly delineated plantation sites and for management of the natural
forests at large. This latter has terminated and SODEFOR's primary role
is establishing and managing Government-owned plantations.  National
level conservation and preservation activities are now the
responsibility of the Forestry Conservation Directorate within MINAGREF,
although SODEFOR continues to be responsible for managing natural stands
within the forest reserves in which it conducts reforestation. In 1986,
SODEFOR will begin marketing thinnings from the plantations established
in the 1960s, and will market trees on the stump when they reach
maturity in the mid 1990s. These marketing functions are compatible
with SODEFOR's primary mandate to establish and maintain Government
owned plantations.
2.08     In 1980, as part of a national effort to increase its control
over state enterprises, Government transformed SODEFOR from being a
state development company (SODE) into a decentralized Government
administrative agency under the Ministry of Water and Forests (an EPA).
This imposed on SODEFOR a strict funding, supervision and control
regime more appropriate to an administrative arm of Government than to
an entity with a production-oriented mandate. As part of this control,



a Ministry of Finance Accounting office was installed within SODEFOR
responsible for SODEFOR's general accounting. This had the effect of
establishing an accounting system with purely administrative objectives
in parallel with an ongoing system with management objectives. The
effect of all these controls has been delays and growing inefficiency in
SODEFOR's accounting, procurement, recovery of IBRD/CDC loan proceeds,
and personnel management, and its ability to respond to emergency
situations (such as forest fires). In late 1984, Government decided to
reclassify SODEFOR as a state commercial and industrial enterprise (an
EPIC) which recognized SODEFOR's production-oriented character. While
close financial supervision of SODEFOR as an EPIC by the Ministry of
Finance will continue, in its new statute, SODEFOR is to be given more
internal management powers under supervision of a management and
technical consultative committee (similar to a Board of Directors) as
well as other specific prerogatives. These include, among others, the
ability to budget for contingencies, to hold funds generated on
government's account in excess of its budget requirements and to use
such funds for legitimate and justified expenditures within its mandate,
and to transfer budgeted resources between line items.   Approval by
Government of SODEFOR's new statute is a condition of loan effectiveness
(para 5.02 (c)). In addition SODEFOR will make an annual contractual
arrangement or contrat plan with Government (as opposed to receiving a
directive) covering its work plan, budget, and means of procuring its
required goods and services. Such measures are not permitted for EPAs
and are expected to give SODEFOR sufficient autonomy and flexibility to
execute the project efficiently, when accompanied by improvements in
SODEFOR's internal management now being implemented (para 2.09).
2.09     SODEFOR has a permanent staff of over 500 with about 1,50C
seasonal workers. It is responsible for about 54,000 ha of established
plantations at 10 sites. Of this, 38,000 ha (1983) at 6 sites are
currently being extended at the rate of 5,000 ha per year for the
production of saw logs. In addition, since the dissolution of the
Ministry of Water and Forests, SODEFOR has assumed the responsibility
for 9 small fuelwood and pole plantations. SODEFOR has three Regional
Directorates, covering the north, center, and south of the country, and
a head office in Abidjan. Overall management rests with a consultative
management committee and is exercised by an Ivorian Director General.
The Director General is supported by specialist headquarters departments
in civil works, plantation establishment, marketing, and finance and
administration. Each major plantation is managed by a plantation
manager (chef de chantier) who reports to the corresponding Regional
Director and, in a functional capacity, to the heads of the appropriate
headquarters departments in Abidjan. As part of its structural
adjustment program, supported by the Bank, Government undertook an
extensive management audit of SODEFOR, completed in May 1983 (see
Supporting Documents), which identified major weaknesses in SODEFOR's
financial and administration management and made recommendations for
correcting these flaws. Since then SODEFOR has instituted a number of
changes that have streamlined its organizational structure,
decertralized operational decisions, and administrative personnel have
been reassigned accordingly. With the aid of bilateral assistance and



-6-
proceeds from the CDC/IBRD first Forestry Project loans, reporting and
management decision-making is becoming more systematic, and staff
management skills are being improved through training. Satisfactory
measures have been taken to assure a better integration of SODEFOR's
accounting with the needs of the Government's accounting officer. These
actions would be continued for about two more years under the proposed
Second Forestry Project (Project Working Papers: SODEFOR Management
System). In spite of its management problems. SODEFOR's technical
performance has been acceptable (para 2.17). However, SODEFOR is
approaching the limit of the volume of activities it can perform
efficiently. To ensure that its management capacity is not exceeded,
SODEFOR agreed during negotiations that it would consult and reach
concensus with the Bank on any expansion or diversification beyond its
currently planned activities (para 5.01 (a)).
2.10     Forestry Education and Research:  Forestry education is
provided through several forestry schools with varying degrees of
specialization: Bouake and Bouafle for lower level staff; an annex at
the Bouake Agricultural Institute for forestry technicians; and Banco
provides field training and refresher courses. Higher-level education
is obtained at universities abroad. At present about 16 individuals are
in French and Canadian universities for this purpose. Since 1979,
Ivorian forestry education has benefitted considerably from a project
supported by the CCCE, which included expansion of the forestry school
at Bouak6. The quality of training is generally good and the number of
graduating technicians and lower level trainees appears to be sufficient
to satisfy the foreseeable personnel needs of Government and private
sector. However, there are, presently, insufficient middle- and
higher-level trainees to meet the demand.  Overseas training appears to
be the most cost-effective means of increasing this number. The
principal problem is that new graduates at all levels lack the
experience needed by operational organizations such as SODEFOR. To
address this need, as well as a general need to raise the level of
technical performance of staff, SODEFOR would engage an operations
methods engineer who would define work norms, assist line managers to
apply the norms in their work places, and monitor progress. This would
be supported by the project (para 3.09). Permanent in-service training
will also be required and would be provided under the proposed project
(an assessment of the status of forestry training, and a proposed
program for inservice training for SODEFOR are among the support
documents). Forestry research, conducted by the Centre Technique
Forestier Tropical (CTFT) has been supported bv both bilateral and
multilateral agencies. Its comprehensive research effort has responded
well to the practical needs of SODEFOR, and would be supported under the
proposed project (para 3.11).



-7-
C. Sector Strategy
2.11     Since independence, Government has taken a highly exploitive
approach to the country's forest resources, both as a source of foreign
exchange and of revenue for Government. This policy also permitted
converting land from forest to the production of perennial crops (cocoa,
coffee, oil palm and rubber) which also generated foreign exchange
earnings and tax revenue. While in the national interest, such
exploitive forestry practices also benefitted loggers, concession
holders, and farmers seeking land. Wlth abundant stands of timber,
relatively low production costs, and lax application of forestry
controls and concession regulations, there has been no incentive for the
private sector to undertake investment in forest regeneration.
Moreover, farmers who were encouraged by Government to plant cocoa and
coffee trees made these plantations as extensi-e as possible in order to
claim land. Government first officially recognized the need to begin
reforestation on a large scale in 1966. In that year SODEFOR was
created (para 2.07), and succeeded in planting about 24,000 ha of
tropical hardwoods between 1966-1976. However. SODEFOR did not become
involved in managing natural forests and had a negligible influence on
the rate at which natural forest was exploited. In 1976, the Government
enunciated two main thrusts to its forestry strategy in the 1976-80
Develoment Plan: the establishment of a 3.0 million ha permanent forest
reserve, which would be managed on a sustained yield basis, and the
creation of 0.5 million ha of short-rotation (25-35 years) timber
plantations. At the rate at which unspoiled forest areas were being
exploited (about 0.4 million ha per year) and the rate at which SODEFOR
was replanting, these targets were unrealistically ambitious.
Government did not make the changes in concession or taxation policy
which could have reduced the rate of new land opening, nor did it
reinforce forestry surveillance and control services. However in 1979
Government did launch a IBRD/CDC supported forestry project, which
enabled SODEFOR to expand its reforestation program to 4,000 ha per year
(para 2.16), and a CCCE supported project which allowed SODEFOR to
reforest an additional 1,000 ha per year. These projects were
significant in terms of SODEFOR's performance but were not adequate to
compensate for an absence of change in Government's overall sectoral
policy.
2.12     In the 1981-85 Development Plan, Government reiterated its dual
strategy and in addition, formalized targets for log extraction and the
division of this harvest between local processing and direct export. As
early as 1972, Government had attempted to direct 40% of the logs
harvested towards domestic processors (para 2.01) as a condition of
granting loggers export licenses, and in 1981 this target was reached.
Government has proposed that log production from natural forests be
limited to 4 million m3 per year with permissible log exports limited to
1.5 million m3 per year. In the longer term, domestic demand is
expected to reach 4 million m3 round wood equivalent per year by 2030,
when an estimated 2.5 million m3 of plantation-grown wood would also be
available. The domestic demand would be fully met, with residual
supplies exported. While Government was able to influence the direction



of the marketing of logs, it did not, however, make efforts to change
the administration of concession and taxation regulations which would
have conserved the natural forests. SODEFOR continued to plant at the
rate of 5,000 ha per year, and hope was expressed that this could be
raised to 10,000 ha per year to help achieve the 0.5 million ha of
substitute timber resources more quickly. Clearly, even a rate of
10,000 ha per year is not sufficient to compensate fully for the
depletion of commercially exploitable reserves, and Government's
strategy in this area will have to be further developed.
2.13     Since the re-integration of forest services into the MINAGREF
in December 1983, Government took new initiatives to redefine and
improve the execution of its forestry strategy. These initiatives open
the possibility for further dialogue and analysis which should lead to
more fundamental changes in Government's sectoral policy. First,
MINAGREF has begun to apply existing forestry law more vigorously and to
reinforce the services responsible for policing classified forest
reserves. Arrangements to house guards on site, and to equip them
adequately are being finalized. Second, taxes on the export of rare
species have been increased, and collection of cutting and concession
fees should be improved following the recent assumption of
responsibility by the Ministry of Finance. C-overnment is also-preparing
new legislation to close a loophole which had traditionally been used by
two systems of forest exploitation--a form of share-cropping, and
subcontracting--to avoid taxation, and which also reduced the interest
of the concession-holder in the efficient exploitation of his
concession. Third, MINAGREF completed a census of current
concession-holders in February, 1984, to identify those who are likely
to be viable in the long term. It has determined that at least half of
those with concessions would not have them renewed, and has decided to
renew concessions in only one of four zones in the southern forests. On
the basis of the census results a new system for awarding concessions is
being prepared which would, on a pilot basis be applied to cooperatives.
Fourth, Government's sensitivity to the fragility of the forest ecology
has been heightened since 1982/83 when about 450,000 ha of natural
forest, cocoa and coffee plantations and an additional 250,000 ha of
cropland were fire swept. The severity of the fires was attributed to
the drought, which many interpreted as being linked to a reduction in
dense forest cover. Government also began promoting greater public
awareness of the risk to the forest created by fire. As evidence of
this, Government has established a national committee for the control of
forest fires and is developing a National Plan of Action which will
involve officials down to the level of sub-prefect.
2.14     Government's dual approach to regulate the rate of forest
exploitation on the one hand, and to promote timber plantations as a
substitute source of industrial wood on the other, is sound but its
implementation lacks dynamism. The natural forest with its unique
mixture of species cannot regenerate within a sufficiently short period
of time to sustain a growing industry and the potential yield per
hectare from plantations of species with relatively short maturity
periods, significantly exceeds that of the natural forest. The dialogue



- 9 -
on the future of the forestry sector, which took place during project
preparation, has helped develop Government's sense of urgency for
reform, as indicated by the recent creation of a Forestry Sector Task
Force whose mandate is to develop a National Forestry Plan. The Bank
has been asked to assist the Task Force and and has responded
positively. The Task Force began its work in September, 1984 by
assessing the present status of Government's forestry policy.   A
preliminary report appears to confirm assessments made earlier,
highlighting that lack of resources, inadequate regulations and poor
application of laws, and a basically exploitive attitude among farmers
and the forestry industry has led to the present situation (para 2.02).
The report also indicates that the complexity of the demographic,
social, financial and political problems to be solved in developing an
appropriate forestry policy should not be under-estimated. To develop a
better understanding of how to deal with those issues, the Task Force is
addressing several areas of concern concurrently: forest protection,
reconstruction of forest resources, wood markets and marketing,
management and exploitation of forests. Goverrment expects to complete
analysis of these areas and prepare a preliminary national Forestry Plan
and Action Program by April/May 1985. The final Forestry Plan and
Action Program will be completed by December 1985. This would coincide
with preparation for and execution of the country's next five-year
development plan covering the 1986-1990 period. The action plan would
concentrate on concession policies, fiscal measures and actions to
strengthen conservation, rational exploitation and forestry
regeneration. During negotiations, Government agreed to complete these
actions by the times indicated (para 5.01 (b)).   It is clear that in
some cases, particularly in the areas of defining regulations for
concessions and fiscal measures, further analytical work will be
necessary. The proposed project includes resources for the execution of
such studies.
2.15     This Government policy will be complemented by the development
of a fuelwood policy and a more realistic approach to smallholder
forestry (agro-forestry). In the southern area of the country, the
existing forest cover is adequate to provide sufficient fuelwood but in
the northern part of the country, catchment areas for fuelwood around
urban areas have been increasing, which may indicate that some permanent
loss of forest/bush cover has occurred. Several modest attempts have
been made to distribute seedlings to farmers, in an effort to promote
smallholder agro-forestry. However, a well-programmed approach has not
been developed. The proposed project would provide resources in this
area (para 3.15).
D. Bank Involvement in the Sector
2.16     The Bank's main financial involvement in the sector to date has
been through the First Forestry Project (Loan 1735-IVC) approved in
1979. The project cost was estimated to be US$39.4 million and was
financed by a US$18.0 million Bank loan, a US$12 million loan from the



- 10 -
CDC, and by Government, US$9.4 million. It supported Government's
strategy of establishing hardwood plantations, producing trees for
export and use by local processors by providing for the planting of
4,000 ha of plantations per year for five years, within four designated,
logged-out forest reserves. The project also provided for the
maintenance of up to 22,000 ha of plantations established before
1979/80, as well as technical assistance for the Ministry of Water and
Forests and SODEFOR, the executing agency.
2.17     The project has been technica'lly successful.  In the period up
to June 1984, SODEFOR had cleared and planted about 17,800 ha of the
total program of 20,000 ha; however, fire destroyed about 2,000 ha of
this planting in 1982 and 1983 in the Sangoue and Tene plantations.
Since July, 1984, land clearing and planting has continued, principally
to establish fire belts, so that about 2,000 ha more will have been
planted by the end of the project, largely compensating for the trees
lost. Therefore it appears that about 90% of project objectives will
have been met, the shortfall being accounted for by work interruptions
caused by machinery failures (1981) and fire in 1982-83. There has been
no evidence of loss of soil fertility or erosion resulting from the use
of mechanized land clearing methods.
2.18     A completion report has not vet been prepared for the project.
Nonetheless, from recent supervision reports it appears that a cost
overrun of about 57% in CFAF terms is expected, resulting from major
unforeseen maintenance costs of heavy equipment, mandatory pay raises
for hired workers, and price rises for imports following depreciation of
the CFA franc by nearly 53% over the project period. In dollar terms,
however, a cost underrun of about 18% is now expected. With the inclusion
of more valuable Teak being planted in fire belts, and with updated
yield and price assumptions, the economic rate of return for the first
project is expected to be only slightly lower than the 11% originally
estimated.
2.19     Several valuable lessons have been learned from the First
Project which have been accounted for in the design of the proposed
project. Firstly, the experience showed that it was technically feasible
to undertake planting programs of the scale involved, which had not been
done before in Western Africa. However, the experience also showed that
management problems would likelv limit the size of such programs within
an organization such as SODEFOR to about 5,000 ha per year. Secondly,
the advent of forest fires in 1982/83 that swept some 450,000 ha of
natural forests, and 250,000 ha of crop land nationwide, also swept
parts of the project plantations. Fire protection measures have since
been implemented including increasing the emphasis given to fire
resistant species in the planting program, constructing and planting
fire belts, adopting a two-year forest clearing and land preparation
program before planting occurs to permit more thorough destruction of
clearing residues, and training and equipping of fire wardens and
brigades to control fire within plantations as well as in the
surrounding countryside. Thus, while the risk of fire may be always



- 11 -
present, it is now being managed to an acceptable degree. Finally,
experience showed a greater problem with yield-reducing fungus and
insect attacks than had been anticipated for the single species
plantations. This problem has been contained with the introduction of
species with proven resistance to such attacks (para 3.06).
2.20     Farmers, who have generally occupied logged-over land in the
forest zone, have also entered the forest reserves at the sami time as
they were being planted by SODEFOR. During the first project, SODEFOR
did not experience severe competition with farmers for the prime sites
for block planting as farmers generally prefer to occupy bottomlands.
Moreover, farmers have not crossed limits of forest plantations once
established. However, expansion of farming has begun to limit the
extent to which plantations can continue to expand in the future within
these forest reserves. By October 1983, of the 111,000 ha within the
four forest reserves, about 28,400 had been permenently occupied by
farmers, and about 37,000 ha reforested, leaving 45,600 to be committed
to new plantations or farming, including land which may be less suited
to traditional SODEFOR reforestation in blocks. Of the land used by
farmers, 12,000 ha was officially transferred to agricultural use in a
block at Irobo, but the rate of spontaneous encroachment has not been
measured. Nonetheless, within the 45,600 ha, 20,000 ha suitable for
growing timber with acceptable yields can be located for the sites of
the proposed plantations. However, it is unlikely that significant
reforestation within the four reserves will be possible after the
completion of the second project.  While SODEFOR cannot be expected to
deal fully with problems of national forestry control, SODEFOR has
embarked on more extensive monitoring of farmers, using ground crews and
aerial photography, and has begun to repossess land planted in food
crops, taking legal action as far as that is possible. SODEFOR's
efforts would be supported under the second project. Government has
also begun its program to control other forestry reserves (para 2.13).
2.21     The forestry sector has plaved a significant role in the
development of the Ivory Coast. Under favorable conditions it could
continue to do so. The sector could continue to generate sizeable
foreign exchange earnings and provide a basis for secondary processing
and employment. Wood is likely to continue to provide fuel for the
majority of Ivorians and the forests will continue to yield important
environmental benefits. However, poor application of otherwise
acceptable policies, and the lack of investment in forest regeneration
and protection threaten this future. Bank participation has and could
continue to provide a significant share of the financial support needed
for regeneration efforts, and thus demonstrate the feasibility of the
approach and techniques involved. More significantlv however, continued
Bank participation would provide appropriate support for Government to
continue the process it has begun to identify, analyse, and ultimately
remedy, policies which will otherwise impede forestry development. In
addition, this participation will help broaden policy in the area of
smallholder forestry which has not evolved adequatelv.



- 12 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
3.01     The proposed project would assist Government to realize its
goal of establishing forest plantations to substitute for dwindling
natural forest reserves, by doubling the area already planted under the
first project in four of the six active plantations controlled by
SODEFOR. It would also help strengthen the management capacity of
SODEFOR. which will continue to play a significant role in executing
this part of Government's forestry strategy in the future. At the same
time the project would provide support for MINAGREF in identifying and
analyzing issues restraining forestry sector development, to permit
Government to embark on policy reform (para 2.14). The project would
also help define, program and eventually execute a smallholder forestry
policy in the northern, woodscarce zones of the country, an aspect of
policy which has not figured prominently in Government's strategy to
date.
B. Project Area
3.02     The project plantation program would be executed in the four
forestry reserves where planting occurred during the first project. The
four plantation sites (Tene, Sangoue, Mopri, Irobo ) are located between
120 and 290 km north west of Abidjan (Map, IBRD 18136R). Their terrain
is gently undulating and soils are predominantly ferralitic with
textures ranging from coarse sand to heavy clay. The dominant
vegetation is currently high forest; transitional in the northerly
reserves of Sangoue and Tene, semi-deciduous at Mopri, and evergreen at
Irobo. Mean annual rainfall varies between 1,300 mm p.a., at Tene, the
most northerly plantation, and 1,600 mm p.a., at Irobo, the most
southerly. The principal rainy season is between April and November,
with a brief dry season in August. Mean annual temperatures are around
27  C. Retaining forest cover in these areas is considered the best use
of the land.
3.03     The plantations are adequately served by roads and plantation
infrastructure constructed under the first project. Only forest tracks
would have to be constructed under the proposed project to open new
areas to be planted and improve access for fire fighting equipment.
Sufficient local labor is available to fill the 200 permanent posts per
plantation. Technically adequate sites would be available to permit a
planting program of at least 4,000 ha per year, in spite of increased
intrusions by immigrant farmers into the forest reserves which will be
limited by measures to be taken to contain these (para 2.20).
C. Project Description and Detailed Features
3.04      The proposed project, to be implemented over a period of five
years would include:



- 13 -
(a) provision of about 204 man months of services of experts on a
long-term and short-term basis to MINAGREF for studies in
support of policy reform and for smallholder forestry
programming, and 60 man months of services in support of
financial control;
(b) mechanical clearing and preparation of 20,000 ha of logged
over forest reserve and planting this newly cleared area, plus
about 2,000 ha of land planted under the first project which
was burned over, in short and medium rotation high valued
species;
(c) maintenance and protection of the 22,000 ha newly planted
forests during the five years of the project, in addition to
thinning and pruning of 17,800 ha of immature trees planted
under the first project, and 17,500 ha of trees planted before
the first project in the four project plantations;
(d) construction and maintenance of about 1,760 km of forest
tracks in the four plantations;
(e) provision of about 240 man months of service by experts for
SODEFOR on a long-term basis, to assist in executing the
planting and maintenance programs, and 50 man months, of
short-term consultants' services in areas of marketing,
organizational reform, fire control, and training; and
(f) support for production-oriented applied research in areas of
vegetative propagation and small diameter wood utilization,
and inservice training, including local and foreign study
tours for key SODEFOR staff.
3.05      The project would be executed as shown in the following
schedule:
Physical Execution of Plantation Program
(ha)
Project Year/                   PYI    PY2       PY3     PY4     PY5
Calendar Year                1985/86 1986/87 1987/88 1988/89 1989/90  TOTAL
Forest Clearing                6,000   4,500   4,500                     15,000
Land Preparation               4,000   4,500   4,500   4,500   4,500   22,000
Planting                       4,000   4,500   4,500   4,500   4,500   22,000
Annual weeding of new
plantations                  8,000  25,000  35,500  40,000  40,500
Annual weeding, thinning,
pruning of established
plantations                 28,347  33,218   9,607  13,893  11,697



- 14 -
Planting would follow up to 18 months behind forest clearing and land
preparation to allow for efficient and controlled burning of residues
which would otherwise provide fuel if uncontrolled fire erupted in the
plantations. Thus, some 5,000 ha of area to be planted during the
project would be cleared under the last year of the first project.
Weeding operations which would be repeated two to four times per year
over 4 years would build up over the life of the project. Weeding of
plantations established prior to the second project within the four
plantations would diminish after PY2 as the forest canopy gradually
closes. Details of the execution program by plantation are given in
Annex 3-1. The corresponding phased allocation of resources needed to
execute the program, including heavy equipment, operating funds,
vehicles and personnel is given in the Project Working Papers, Project
Cost Tables.
3.06     Species would be selected on the basis of their potential
economic contributions, and planting of those with the highest value
would be extended up to the limits imposed by site characteristics.
Thus, annual planting programs would be determined after a detailed
assessment of site suitability has been made. Based on present
knowledge, it would be advantageous to introduce two new species as
principal plantation crops - Teak (Tectona grandis) and Gmelina
(Gmelina arborea). Teak has been successfully grown in the Ivory Coast
high forest zone since the early 1900's, is fire and insect resistant,
and on appropriate sites, has an economic value (measured in terms of
net present value per ha planted discounted over 35 years) at least
twice that of the next most economical, technically feasible species.
Teak was not planted extensively under the first project because it was
believed to be a long rotation crop -- requiring 50 years to produce
wood of acceptable technical characteristics. However, wood quality and
market acceptability tests have shown that trees of 35 years of age,
plus thinnings of 5 and 9 years of age, have high commercial value.
Gmelina has also been grown successfully in the Ivory Coast high forest
zone, is fire and insect resistant, and has an economic value superior
to species planted under the first project. No technical risks are
foreseen in extensive planting of these two species. Tropical pines
would also be introduced on a trial basis, as their technical
characteristics have been shown to be encouraging and their economic
value is higher than that of the species planted during the first
project -- Samba (Triplochiton scleroxylon), Framire (Terminalia
ivorensis), Frake (Terminalia superba) and Cedrela (Cedrela odorata).
Significantly less of these would be planted in the second project as
they are generally not resistant to fire or insect attack and have
economic values inferior to those of Teak and Gmelina grown on suitable
sites. Thus, they would be planted principally in areas where high
valued species could not give acceptable yields. Based on these
considerations, it is tentatively planned that Teak would occupy 34Z of
the new planted area, Gmelina 24%, pine 7%, Terminalia 25% (within which
the more valuable Framire would be favored), and Samba and Cedrela 5Z
each. However, these percentages are not considered to be targets and
the possibility of including more area in high valued species would be
kept under review. Detail on areas to be grown in each species and the



- 15 -
silvicultural factors influencing species selection is given in the
Project Working Papers, Yield and Production.
3.07     Plantation field operations would follow technical norms
established under the first project, with the following modest
adjustments. Organizational problems which inhibited the full
development of propagation of planting material through root cuttings,
undertaken on force account under the first project, would be solved by
subcontracting this activity. This technique would be gradually
introduced to produce Teak, Gmelina and Framire for which adequate seed
supplies could otherwise limit the planting program. Although more
costly than producing plants from seed in plastic pots, propagation
directly from root cuttings of proven parent stock has been shown to
increase yields up to 30% over traditional propagation methods.
Mechanical and manual weeding operations would be maintained. However,
to reduce the volumes of residue which created a dangerous build-up of
fuel for forest fires under the first project, normal operations would
be supplemented with pre-emergence herbicide spray treatments. In
addition to reducing the volumes of dry matter, herbicide treatment
would also help decrease weeding costs. Such techniques are currently
employed in European plantation management, are known to be
environmentally safe, and were tested during the first project.
Alternative methods of weed control through planting cover crops, have
also been tested and found to be ineffective. Details of field
operations are given in supplemental documents and in the Project
Working Papers, Technical Specifications.
3.08     Resources would be provided under the project to support fire
control measures introduced in late 1983. These include, principally,
provision of equipment for fire fighting and surveillance brigades,
training of plantation fire wardens and increasing contact with farmers
outside the forest reserves, who lost coffee and cocoa trees to fire in
1982/83, to assist them to build simple fire breaks. These measures
would complete prevention measures already accommodated in project
design such as the inclusion of fire belts planted with Teak as part of
the plantation program, increased planting of fire resistant species and
improved weeding practices.
3.09     SODEFOR's staff would be strengthened through an in-service
training program focussing on improved technical and financial
management, and work-related technical skills used in plantation work.
This would be accomplished by an operations methods engineer who would
diagnose needs, establish performarce norms, assist line managers to
apply these norms, and monitor progress. SODEFOR would also employ the
services of a forestry trainer for about 3 months per year, who would
design and launch the training program. Resources would also be
provided for up to 20 short term study tours in neighboring countries
and within Ivory Coast for staff in critical positions. The annual
training program and its budget would be submitted to the Bank for
approval. SODEFOR would also employ three internationally recruited
specialists in accounting, mechanical engineering and market
development.   Their job profiles are summarized in Annex 3-2.   These



- 16 -
individuals would be hired on an individual basis without regard for
their national origins. Provisions have been made to employ them for
approximately 60 man-months each. An internationally recruited
financial controller and a forester experienced in smallholder and
village forestry programming and execution would be hired by MINAGREF --
the former to monitor SODEFOR's budget and expenditures and internal
audit on behalf of the Ministry (para 3.12); the latter to identify,
program, prepare and eventually supervise the execution of smallholder
and village reforestation in the wood scarce northern regions of the
country. Government would also engage the services of a forestry
economist to assist in the application of new forestry regulations, and
a forestry planner to assist with refining the measures to be taken. In
all cases, the individuals to be employed would have qualifications,
experience and job descriptions acceptable to the Bank (para 5.01(c)).
3.10     SODEFOR would be provided with resources to secure about 12 man
months of assistance to complete its internal reorganisation, begun
under the first project (para 2.09). Another 23 man months of services
of short term consultants in areas of marketing, fire control, and tree
improvement would be provided to SODEFOR. MINAGREF would be supported
with 24 man months of consultants' services to undertake short-term
specific assignments in support of policy reform efforts which
Government has already launched (para 2.14). These resources would be
augmented with sector analyses performed as part of the Bank's economic
and sector work, and normal project supervision. In all cases,
consultants would have experience, qualifications and follow terms of
reference approved by the Bank (para 5.01(c)).
3.11     Support for production-oriented research for vegetative
propagation and for testing the technical properties and marketability
of small diameter wood would include additional equipment, local
personnel and two internationally recruited researchers to be hired by
CTFT to complement its existing facilities and personnel.
D. Project Implementation
3.12     The project would be executed under the auspices of MINAGREF,
which has overall responsibility for the Ivorian forestry sector.
Details on the timing of field operations and procurement of major
project inputs are given in the Project Working Papers, Inputs and
Project Costs. A summary of the schedule of field operations is given
in para 3.05. SODEFOR, which successfully established plantations under
the first project, would execute the plantation program and coordinate
applied plantation research. The Ministry would retain responsibility
for monitoring SODEFOR's internal audit and financial status through a
project-supported Financial Controller. The project would also support
reforms in SODEFOR's financial reporting system. The Ministry would also
be responsible for identification, programming, and eventually
supervision of smallholder forestry.



- 17 -
1.   Plantations
3.13     SODEFOR headquarters staff, .rnder the direction of the Director
General, would continue to prepare annual land clearing and planting
programs specifying the sites, areas, species to be planted and calendar
to be followed, in consultation with SODEFOR's Regional Managers and
plantation managers who would be responsible for their execution.
Annual land clearing, planting, maintenance and protection programs,
along with their budgets and modalities of their use would be completed
and submitted to the Bank for approval no later than August 31 of each
year (para 5.01(d)).
2.   Research
3.14     Research in the areas of vegetative propagation and small
diameter wood quality testing would be conducted by CTFT under contracts
negotiated with and supervised by SODEFOR. Technical proposals from
CTFT have been received for these two areas of research and are among
the support documents. Draft contracts specifying the work to be done,
personnel to be employed and budgets, would be approved by the Bank
before disbursement against eligible costs of this research (para 5.04).
3.   Smallholder Forestry
3.15     MINAGREF would conduct the identification, programming,
preparation and supervision of smallbolder forestry activities in the
north, with the aid of an internationally recruited forester. This
expert would also assist in finding sources of financial assistance for
the interventions as identified.
E. Project Cost and Financing
3.16     Project costs (including taxes) are estimated at US$51.6
million with foreign exchange costs of US$29.5 million (572). Taxes are
estimated to be US$5.8 million. Project costs were based on end 1983
prices with prices of individual items assessed to reflect increases to
November 1984, the date of negotiations. Physical and price
contingencies account for 45% of project base cost or 31% of project
total cost. Physical contingencies are taken as 5% for light vehicles,
equipment, plantation establishment costs, and operating costs. -Price
contingencies on offshore costs are based on World Bank estimates of
international inflation (8%, 1985; 9%, 1986-1988; and 7.5%, 1989) and
price contingencies on local costs are based on domestic inflation, -
estimated by the Region to be 10%, 1985; 11Z, 1986-88 and 9.5Z, 1989.
Annex 3-3 gives a detailed cost estimate, which is summarized below:



- 18 -
Suamary Project Cost Estimate
Local    Foreign    Total      % of
----US$ Million         -   Base Cost
1.  SODEFOR Plantations                 13.2      17.0       30.2      84.8
2.  SODEFOR Headquarters                 0.5       1.8        2.3       6.5
3.  SODEFOR Plantation Research          0.7       1.1        1.8       5.0
4.  MINAGREF Support                     0.2       1.1        1.3       3.7
Base Line Costs                     14.6      21.0       35.6     100.0
Physical Contingencies           0.3       0.6       0.9        2.5
Price Contingencies              7.2       7.9       15.1      42.2
Total Project Cost                      22.1       29.5      51.6     144.7
3.17     Total project cost would be covered by a Bank loan for US$31.3
million, a CDC loan for US$10.0 million, and a Government contribution
of US$10.3 million, principally for local personnel, expected recurrent
costs and the US$5.8 million payable in taxes. A summary is given
below, with details shown in Annex 3-4. Government's relatively low
contribution (20% of total project cost or 10% of project costs
net-of-taxes) is consistent with the Bank's current policy of assisting
the Ivory Coast to overcome its present financial difficulties.
Although not included as a project cost, Government would also be
required to pay about US$12.8 million in debt service on the new
IBRD/CDC loans during the five project years.
Financing Plan Summary
---US$ millions-        -
Local    Foreign    Total
IBRD                            8.9      22.4      31.3
CDC                             2.9       7.1      10.0
Government                     10.3         -      10.3
Total                           22.1      29.5      51.6
3.18     The Bank loan would be made to Government for a period of 20
years with a grace period of 5 years, at the standard variable interest
rate.  The CDC loan would also be made to Government, for a period of 20
years with a grace period of 5 years at 9%. Satisfactory fulfillment by
Government of conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the CDC loan
would be a condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan (para 5.02(a)).
Government would bear the foreign exchange risk. Of the proceeds of the
Bank and CDC loans, and Government's contribution:



- 19 -
(i) CFAF 19.0 billion (US$43.7 million) would be used by SODEFOR
to establish and maintain the project plantations;
(ii) CFAF 1.2 billion (US$2.7 million) would be used by SODEFOP to
finance plantation assisting research;
(iii) CFAF 1.4 billion (US$3.3 million) would be used by SODEFOR to
support its headquarters functions; and
(iv) CFAF 0.8 billion (US$1.9 million) would be used by MINAGREF
for smallholder forestry programing, financial control of
SODEFOR, and policy related consultancies.
Government would recover its investment in the plantations (Annex 4-1)
through the sale of plantation grown wood at maturity on the stump, and
through the sale of thinnings at roadside when these have been extracted
by SODEFOR as part of its maintenance of the plantations. These
functions have been ascribed to SODEFOR in its new legal statute (para
2.08).
3.19     Government would channel its contribution to the project
through a Project Account opened in the name of SODEFOR at the Caisse
Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA), to which SODEFOR would have access on
demand (subject to controls appropriate to its legal status), and would
deposit in this account CFAF 225 million (US$520,000) as a condition of
loan effectiveness (para 5.02(b)). At effectiveness, the Bank and CDC
would deposit in separate Special Accounts at the same institution CFAF
670 million (US$1.5 million) and CFAF 225 million (US$0.5 million
equivalent) respectively to bring working capital available to the
project to CFAF 1,120 million (US$2.6 million). This represents 3
months project costs, taxes included. Opening the Special Account to
receive the Bank advance would also be a condition of loan effectiveness
(para 5.02(b)).
F. Procurement and Disbursement
3.20     Procurement arrangements are summarized as shown in the
following table. For plantation establishment and maintenance
operations to be efficient they should be closely integrated under a
unified management such as that achieved within SODEFOR. This makes the
subcontracting of individual operations inappropriate. Consequently, as
was the case under the first project (para 2.18) plantation
establishment and maintenance valued at about US$22.2 million (Bank,
US$14.2 million) would be executed on force account.
3.21     The Bank loan would be disbursed under the following
categories, over a five and one half year period. This is shorter than
the average disbursement period for loans in the Ivory Coast (7 vears)
but is similar to experience in disbursing the first loan, and accounts
for the initial deposit made by the Bank at effectiveness representing
about 5% of the IBRD loan. It was agreed at negotiations that, since



- 20 -
GoverLment's short-term financial position was extremely tight, the Bank
and CDC would cover a larger share of SODEFOR operating costs in PY 1
and 2, and a correspondingly lower percentage in the last three project
years. This agreement is reflected in the different disbursement
percentages applicable to this category of expenditures.
Procurement Arrangements a/
(US$ millions)
Procurement Method             Total
Category of Expense                ICB         LCB        Other
Vehicles, Equipment (Heavy) b/      12.1                                  12.1
(7.5)                                (7.5)
Vehicles, Equipment (Light) cl                   1.6                       1.6
(1.2)                     (1.2)
Establishment, Maintenance d/                               22.2          22.2
(14.2)       (14.2)
Operating Costs e/                                           9.1           9.1
(3.1)        (3.1)
Long and Short Term Consultants fI                           3.9           3.9
(3.9)        (3.9)
Project Related Research g/                                  2.7           2.7
(1.4)        (1.4)
12.1        1.6        37.9          51.6
(7.5)      sh.2)                      1222.2  31.3)
a/   IBRD share in parentheses.
b/   Land clearing tractors, lorries, trailers; lots exceeding
US$150,000 each.
c/   Personnel vehicles, workshop and light field equipment; lots valued
between US$50,000 and US$150,000 each.
d/   Integrated forestry operations including forest clearing, land
preparation, planting and maintenance; on force account.
e/   Office running, vehicle running, local personnel and travel costs;
lots valued less than US$50,000 each, procured through normal
Government procedures, found acceptable during first project.
f/   Procured following IBRD Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers, and the World Bank as Executing Agency.
Subcontracted to single source research institutions, following
IBRD approval of proposed terms of reference and contracts (para
5.03).



- 21 -
Disbursement of IBRD Loan
Percent of i'otal
Amount      Expenditure
Category                                   (000's US$)   to be Financed
1. SODEFOR
(a)  Internationally Recruited                 2,200            100
Personnel, Consultants, Travel
(b)  Vehicles and Equipment                    7,460             62
(c)  Establishment Costs                      12,100            65
(d) Operating Costs
fi) up to June 30, 1987                 1,000            38
(ii) thereafter                          1,600            32
Ce)  Research                                  1,000            54
(f)  Testing                                     100            33
2. Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forests
Internationally Recruited                 1,200            100
personnel and Consultants
3. Initial IBRD Deposit                            1,540
4.  Unallocated                                    3,100
31,300
The estimated quarterly disbursement schedule is given in Annex 3-5.
All expenditures would be fully documented except for land clearing,
soil preparation, planting, maintenance and protection of forest
plantations, local staff costs, office supplies, and fuel and
lubricants, which would be disbursed against statements of expenditure.
These would be retained by SODEFOR and MINAGREF for examination during
supervision. No disbursement requests for less than US$20,000
equivalent would be accepted by the Bank.
3.22     SODEFOR would maintain records consistent with sound accounting
practices, reflecting its general financial situation and detailed costs
of operations financed by the project. SODEFOR would appoint
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and audit reports would be
submitted to the Bank not later than six months after the end of
SODEFOR's financial year. As was the case under the first project,
SODEFOR would continue to send quarterly progress reports to the Bank
detailing the work achieved at each of the four plantations being
financed under the project together with financial reports. Government



- 22 -
would be responsible for preparing a completion report at the end of the
project (para 5.01(e)).
IV. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RESULTS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Production and Markets
4.01     Production from the project plantations (20,000 ha new area
plus 2,000 ha replanted) would amount to a total of 6.6 million m3 of
round wood on the stump by 2024, when the final cut of mature Teak would
be completed. Of this total, about 4.6 million m3 or 70% would be in
the form of large saw logs and logs suitable for peeling as veneers or
plywood. This would be available principally between 15-40 years after
the start of the project. A further 1.7 million m3 or 26% of total
production would be in the form of small and low grade logs becoming
available about 10 years after the start of the project. About 0.3
million m3 or 4% of total production would be available as poles for
local consumption 5 years after the start of the project. A summnary of
project production follows. Details by type of species and plantation
are given in Annex 3-1, while details of projected annual production are
given in the Project Working Papers.
Production by Species and Class of Wood
(000 m3)
Poles   Logs from Thinnings   Mature Logs   Total    Z
Teak           270              810             1,298       2,378    36
Gmelina          -               52               988        1,040    16
Pine             -              128               640          768    12
Terminalia       -              385             1,309       1,694    25
Cedrela          -              235               158         393      6
Triplochiton     -               87               252         339      5
270           1A697             4s645        6z12   100
4.02     The world market for logs and timber is predicted to remain
buoyant in the future, particularly for high quality logs for peeling
and slicing of the species to be emphasized in project planting. World
Bank commodity analysts project a real growth in prices for tropical
logs and sawn timber of 3-4% annually to at least 1995. These prices
are for tropical red hardwoods which are becoming increasingly scarce.
Prices of substitute high quality natural woods, such as Teak, are
expected to rise at least at these rates. The rate of growth in export
prices for Ivory Coast logs and timber has consistently exceeded the
rate of growth in world markets and fob prices would normally be



- 23 -
expected to follow world market prices in the future. Past and future
price trends for sawn wood and logs of selected internationally traded
qualities are shown in the following graph.
Past and Future Price Trends of Internationally-Traded
Sawn Wood and Logs
(in constant 1981 terms)
c-
V>-
Actual   Forecast
400
300                    .-|.~        - - - --_ _    _   -. _ .-~ ~Sawn wood
300 #/__ _                                    __ 
2S00                           S _                            _ - t _ --  ~  _~ _ _ _ _Logs (Sapelli)
- -~-.   ---   -                 ~         _ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~~~Logs (Lauan)
100 0     --- -- - - ..-_ -
1975  76   77   78  79  1980  81   82   83  84   85 1990  1995
Basis:   -  Sawn wood, Malaysian, Dark Red Meranti, Standard Density,
CIF French Ports
-  Logs (Sapelli), Wesc African, High Quality (loyal and marchand),
FOB Cameroon
- Logs (Lau2n), Logs for plywood and veneers, Length over 6 m,
Diameter over 60 cm, Average Wholesale Price in Japan.
Source:     IBRD
4.03     Ivorian plantation grown wood, which would be of smaller
diameter than natural woods currently being marketed, has not been
traded in quantity. However a preliminary market survey conducted by
SODEFOR indicates that the major wood crop (Teak) could be successfully
sold either as logs or sawn timber. It is also clear that plantation
grown Teak from Asia has been accepted ir. international trade as a near
perfect substitute for natural Teak. At present, 56% of Ivorian log
production is exported as logs and a further 24% of the roundwood



- 24 -
equivalent is exported as processed timber. Twenty percent roundwood
equivalent is consumed locally. With reform in the local processing
industry and growth in local demand it is likely that the relative
importance of these markets will change over time. Because of its
quality, wood produced on plantations would find a different set of
markets than wood from the natural forest. Provided an efficient local
industry was available, and given expected growth in local demand, it
would be technically possible to export 15% percent of plantation log
production directly, transform and export a further 50% in roundwood
equivalent, and market 35% domestically. In the analysis of the
project, these percentages have been used to weigh economic and
financial prices. To account for these market uncertainties, and the
fact that production would be marketed well beyond the period covered by
the Bank's price projections, a rate of real price increases for Teak of
2% per year has been used in economic and financial analysis of the
project. Similar uncertainties surround the markets for the other
species to be planted, and a rate of real price increases of 12 per year
has been assumed for them. With project support, SODEFOR would continue
to monitor the market situation closely.
B. Financial Results
4.04     Following its mandate, SODEFOR would market wood produced on
the project plantations, as well as that produced on plantations
established since 1968 for which it has management responsibilities.
However, these plantations are the legal property of Government so that
revenue generated is Government's income, even though SODEFOR is to be
permitted to hold all or part of these funds as a reserve. SODEFOR will
continue to negotiate annual contracts with Government (para 2.08) which
will finance all plantation works on the basis of budgeted and agreed
requirements. In effect, therefore, SODEFOR does not make independent
investment decisions (although it does make autonomous technical and
operational management decisions).
4.05     Revenue will be generated by the project in PY6 with the sale
of poles taken as thinnings from Teak planted in PYI. Only 5% of the
wood to be produced from the plantations would be available by PY10.
However, debt service would begin in PYI. As a result of this
disequilibrium, annual cash flows for the 22,000 ha to be planted will
be negative up to PY13 as shown in Annex 4-1. On average, net cash
outlays for PYl-5 would be about CFAF 1.7 billion per year (US$3.9
million), and for PY6-10, about CFAF 2.7 billion per year (US$5.9
million). Of these amounts, debt servicing, which would be Government's
responsibility, would account for 66% of the net outflow between PYI-5
and all of the net outflow between PY6-10. Positive annual cash flows
would begin in PY14 and would be sufficiently large to give a positive
cummulative cash flow by PY18. The consolidated cash flow for the First
and Second Project, for the years covered by the second project is given
in Annex 4-2. With the addition of revenues generated by the sale of
wood from the first project plantations, the first positive annual cash
flow would appear in PY9 rather than PY14. Because the recurrent cost



- 25 -
of the project would continue after the end of the project execution
period, SODEFOR would require additional financing from Government of
about CFAF 1.1 billion per year (US$2.5 million) between PY6-10; CFAF
0.8 billion per year (US$1.9 million) between PY11-15 and CFAF 0.7
billion per year (US$1.6 million) between PY 16-20. Government agreed
at negotiations to assure that this funding would be made available
(para 5.01(f)). During the project execution period PYl-5, Government
would have a deficit in its foreign exchange transactions resulting from
the project of about US$1.3 million per year. Between PY 6-10 this
would rise to about US$4.9 million per year, mainly owing to debt
servicing. Between PYI1-15 Governments net foreign exchange outflow
would be about US$1.5 million per year. However after PY16, Government
would have a net foreign exchange inflow of about US$12.4 million per
year. The cumulative foreign exchange balance would therefore turn
positive at about the mid-point of the life of the plantations.
C. Benefits and Justification
4.06     The project's quantifiable benefits would be the 6.6 million m3
of standing timber produced on the four plantations (para 4.01). This
production would have a market value of about CFAF 380 billion (US$880
million, constant 1989 prices). This value is calculated on the basis
of observed fob and local market prices for Cedrela, Samba, Frake and
Framire, and on fob prices derived from world market prices for Teak,
Gmelina and Pine, all prices inflated to a 1989 basis. Fifty seven
percent of the value, or about CFAF 210 billion, would be generated
between PY31 and PY40.
4.07      An economic analysis has been made for each plantation and the
project as a whole in which:
(i) economic costs include all investment, maintenance, protection
and overhead coszs associated with new plantation
establishment over the period to plantation maturity, net of
taxes and including physical contingencies, expressed in
constant end 1983 terms. All internationally recruited and
local personnel costs have been fully costed, as has
plantation oriented research. An imputed cost of residual
equipment from the first project and the cost of clearing
forest for Second Project planting that was financed under the
first project have been included; and
(ii) economic benefits include the standing wood produced in the
plantations valued at prices on the stump, derived from
observed prices in the expected final market for the wood in
constant end 1983 terms. Base prices would grow following
world and local markets trends (para 4.02).
An opportunity cost of land has not been included as the areas to be
reforested are currently covered with degraded bush with no appreciable
commercial value, and no alternative use can be envisaged as these zones



- 26 -
have been designated by Government as forest reserves. Labor would be
drawn from local markets, which are competitive, and in which wages
adequately represent labor's economic costs. Throughout the analyses,
the financial rate of exchange (CFAF 435 = US$1.00) has been used. A
summary of the principal assumptions used in the financial analysis of
the proposed project is given in Annex 4-3.
4.08     On the assumptions given above (para 4.07) and in Annex 4-3,
the estimated economic rate of return to the project is 12%. This rate
exceeds the opportunity cost of capital in the Ivory Coast, currently
estimated to be 10%. The following summary shows the point estimate
ERR's and switching values for the individual plantations. The low rate
of return at Irobo is attributed to the fact that the plantation is
smaller and is not as suitable ecologically for Teak production on as
large a scale as the other plantations. However, the rate of return is
acceptable.
Summary of Economic Rates of Return
Point Estimate          Switching Values at 12%
Component                      ERR (%)              Benefits         Costs
(percentage change)
Full Project (22,000 ha)           12.0                   -              -
Plantations
Tene                           14.0                  -26             +36
Sangoue                        12.6                   -9            +10
Mopri                          12.6                   -8              +9
Irobo                          10.2                  +21            -27
4.09     The sensitivity of the economic rates of return for the project
and plantations are illustrated as follows. A structural decline in
benefits of up to 28% or a rise in costs of 38% would be necessary to
reduce the project economic rate of return to 10%. Such structural
shifts are not considered likely in real terms. As the project is a
second phase investment in an ongoing program, delays in implementation
are not likely. Nonetheless, a one-year delay in planting while
continuing to incur the fixed costs of the project (amounting to about
42% of total project costs) would reduce the project ERR to about 11.5%.
Plantation component ERR's would fall by about 0.5% with similar delays.
The project ERR would be relatively insensitive to exchange rate
changes, since when assuming a shadow exchange rate of CFAF 510 =
US$1.00 (as against CFAF 435 = US$1.00 used above) the ERR for the
project would rise by only 0.5%. Detail or the plantation and project
ERR is given in the Project File, Economic Analysis.
4.10     The Second Project would continue the planting program begun
under the First Project in four plantations. At appraisal of the first
project, the ERR for the full planting program at about 68,000 ha was
estimated to be 13%, on the assumption that planting of 20,000 ha would



- 27 -
be achieved in the first project, 20,000 in the Second, and 28,000
planted subsequently. A revised "program ERR" is estimated to be 12%,
accounting for the loss of some future planting sites, combining first
project and second project costs, and reestimating the value of
production from the plantations using revised yield, price and species
assumptions. A revised ERR for the First Project alone, given its
actual cost and re-estimated value of production using updated technical
and price assumptions is 10%, compared to 11.5% estimated at appraisal.
This reduction is explained principally by a reduction in potential
benefits to the project resulting from a 14% shortfall in area cleared
and the loss of about 2,000 ha of planted trees to fire in 1982183, as
well as unforeseen cost increases (para 2.18).
D. Risks
4.11     Experience under the first project has considerably reduced
technical risks to the project, even though the project continues to be
an innovative and ambitious approach to large-scale reforestation in
Western Africa. Knowledge of growth rates, and thus yields, has also
improved over the First Project period, reducing uncertainties about
future production. Developing markets for the plantation-grown wood
continues to be of concern to long-term project viability, but the
market risk is being adequately managed. The selection of species to be
planted has been modified to emphasize those whose future markets are
most likely to grow (Teak, Gmelina, Pine), without prejudice towards
smaller diameter wood from thinnings and final cuts. In addition,
SODEFOR has strengthened its capacity to undertake market development
and would continue this activity under the project, promoting plantation
grown wood. Government is also becoming aware of the need to encourage
the restructuring of local wood processing industries to meet the
inevitable change in the type of raw material that will be available
from the plantations. Government is seeking Bank assistance in this
area.
4.12     The project faces a management risk, as SODEFOR will be
required to continue plantation establishment, increase its
silvicultural activities, maintain a growing plantation area, and
intensify its protection activities, not only in the project
plantations, but also in plantations being supported by other lenders.
During the execution of the first project, SODEFOR management has been
considerably strengthened in terms of quality of management staff and
organization. However, it has not fully institutionalized the
decision-making, supervision and internal reporting systems necessary
for a firm of its size and complexity of operations. Provision has been
made in the project to support further reorganization of SODEFOR's
operations and in-service training of middle-level and upper-level
staff.
4.13     Farmer intrusion and the threat of fire will continue to
present a potential risk to the project and project design measures have
been taken to contain these risks. These include project design



- 28 -
features such as planting fire resistant species, construction of fire
belts around plantations and provision of support and training for fire
wardens and brigades. In addition, SODEFOR would work with farmers
outside the plantations to construct and plant fire breaks, and to help
extinguish fires that may be started, and would monitor farmers
occupying bottomlands within the forest reserves to ensure they
refrained from planting cccoa or coffee trees. However, controlling
land use in general is well beyond SODEFOR's capacity, and is a matter
of Government policy and Government has shown renewed commitment to
achieving this control and its efforts would also be supported by the
project.
V. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01      At negotiations it was agreed that:
(a) SODEFOR would not undertake any expansion or diversification
of its currently planned activities without prior consultation
with the Bank and CDC to arrive at a concensus that would
account for the concerns of all parties (para 2.09);
(b) MINAGREF would furnish to the Bank for comment, by April 1985,
its provisional National Forestry Plan and Action Program,
and, by December 1985, the final Forestry Plan and Action
Program (para 2.14);
(c)  SODEFOR and MINAGREF would employ internationally recruited
experts on a long-term basis, specialized in operations
methods analysis, accounting, civil engineering, wood market
development, financial control, smallholder forestry, forestry
economics, and forestry planning; and on a short-term basis,
consultants specialized in forestry training, fire control,
organization, marketing, tree improvement, and forestry sector
analyses; all with qualifications, experience and job
descriptions acceptable to the Bank (paras 3.09 and 3.10);
(d)  SODEFOR would prepare annual land clearing, planting,
maintenance and protection programs, along with the agreement
reached with Government on its budget and modalities of its
use (contrat plan) for submission to the Bank for approval by
August 31 of each year (para 3.13);
(e) SODEFOR would forward to the Bank quarterly reports detailing
work achieved at each of the four plantations being financed
under the project together with financial reports, and reports
of independent auditors on the status of SODEFOR's accounts
not later than six months after the end of SODEFOR's financial
year. Government would prepare a project completion report
(para 3.22); and



- 29 -
f)   Government would provide financing in the post-project period
to meet SODEFOR's needs (para 4.04).
5.02      As conditions of loan effectiveness:
(a)  All conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the CDC loan
would be fulfilled (para 3.18);
(b)  Government would open a Project Account at CAA in the name of
SODEFOR to which SODEFOR would have access on demand, with an
initial deposit therein by the Government of CFAF 225 million
(US$520,000 equivalent), and open a Special Account at CAA in
the project's name to receive the Bank advance (para 3.19);
and
(c)  Government would approve SODEFOR's statute (para 2.08).
5.03      A condition of disbursement  for the applied research
component would be that:
SODEFOR had obtained prior approval from the Bank on draft
contracts for research in areas of vegetative propagation and
small diameter wood quality testing (para 3.14).
5.04      On these conditions, a loan of US$31.3 million for this
project is recommended.
WAPA A
February 1985



- 30 -                     ANNEX 3-1
IVORY COAST
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
FIELD OPERATIONS AND PRODUCTION BY PLANTATION
TENE       EANGOUE      MOPRI        IROBO        TOTAL
Field Operations (ha)
- Forest Clearing              4,500        4,375        4,025        2,100       15,000
- Land Preparation             7,000        6,250        5,750        3,000       22,000
- Planting                     7,000        6,280        5,750       3,000        22,000
- Weeding of new
Plantings 1/               42,783       42,500       39,100      20,400       149,000
- Pruning and Thinning
Established Areas 1/       14,239       13,212       12,633      10,963        69,477
Production by Species
(000 m )
- Teak                            888         793          634           63        2,378
- Gmelina                         280         280          240          240        1,040
- Pine                            192         192          192          192          768
- Terminalia                      585         447          431          231        1,694
- Cedrela                         -           -            233         161           394
- Triplochiton                    154         154           31         -             339
Production by Class of Wood
(000 m3)
- Poles                           101          90           72            7          270
- Logs from Thinnings             516         453          514          21:        1,697
- Mature Logs                  1,482        1,323        1,175         666         4,646
Source:  Project Working Papers, Inputs and Projects, Yield and Production.
1/ Represents cummulation of operations over area planted.
WAPA A
February 1985



- 31 -                     Annex 3-2
Page 1 of 4
IVORY COAST
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
JOB PROFILES
INTERNATIONALLY RECRUITED SPECIALISTS
A. SODEFOR
1.   Operations Methods Engineer
The methods engineer would be responsible for ongoing analysis
of performance throughout SODEFOR's technical operations, determining
performance norms, and working with line managers on the application of
these norms. He would also examine ways in which costs could be reduced
through more efficient procedures. He would work within SODEFOR's
personnel department, in liaison with the technical department, so that
his activities would lead to continued in-service training of staff.
2.   FoTestry Marketing Expert
The marketing expert would be responsible for directing the
marketing services of SODEFOR. In particular he would:
Ca) be responsible for promoting and marketing small diameter Logs
from thinnings and eventually final fellings;
Cb) assist in the training and development of the marketing
service staff;
(c) develop a viable system of accounts receivable and billings.
He would report to the Director of the Technical Department.
3.   Chief Civil/Mechanical Engineer
The Chief Civil and Mechanical Engineer would be responsible
for the purchase and maintenance of SODEFOR equipment and vehicles, and
the organization and execution of all major works. In particular, he
would:
(a) direct all land preparation activities in SODEFOR's
plantations;
(b) ensure that spare parts for all equipment and vehicles are
available; control the stores and issue the fuel and equipment
to the SODEFOR plantations;



- 32 -                     Annex 3-2
Page 2 of 4
(c) provide training programs for operators and drivers to improve
efficiency;
Cd) arrange equipment and vehicle maintenance programs and ensure
that they are carried out;
(e)  prepare annual budgets for the purchase, replacement,
maintenance and running of all SODEFOR equipmenat and vehicles.
He would be directly responsible to the Director General of
SODEFOR, and would, with the plantation managers, supervise mechanics
and store keepers, ensuring that proper records are maintained in order
to provide SODEFOR management with the information required to evaluate
operations.
4.   Accountant
The accountant would be responsible for upgrading SODEFOR's
analytical accounting capability, in line with recommendations made by
the recent management audit. Specifically he would:
Ca) continue to implement an analytical accounting system for the
reforestation service of SODEFOR, to provide comparable data
for the four project plantations, as well as for the
plantations outside the project;
Cb) prepare annual budgets for each plantation to be incorporated
in the overall budget of SODEFOR;
Cc)  assist the Technical Director to establish quarterly reports
on the progress of all the plantations including those outside
the project;
(d) provide the Financial Controller with all data that he may
reasonably request;
(e) upgrade the training of his bookkeepers and assistant staff.
He would report to the Administrative and Financial Director
of SODEFOR.
B.   Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forests
1.   Smallholder Forestry Specialist
This forester would be responsible for the identiflcation,
programming, preparation and eventual supervision of the execution of a
smallholder forestry program in the wood-scarce regions of the north.
In particular he would:
(a) evaluate current planting programs in this region;



- 33 -                      Annex 3-2
Page 3 of 4
(b) ascertain what technical and financial assistance in this
field is planned by other donors;
(c) determine with the assistance of the forestry research
organization (CTFT) what research is required to ersure a
successful program, and how it should be carried out;
(d) prepare a plan for the dissemination of information and
planting material to the rural population.
He would work with the Director of Water and Forests and the
Service of Reforestation (MINAGREF) and would liaise with regional
SODEFOR staff and non-Government organizations already involved in rural
tree planting.
2.   Forestry Economist
Responsible for ad-hoc studies and investigations relevent to
the application of a new forestry strategy, he would in particular:
(a) identify and evaluate alternatives for investment in the
forest sector, advising government and non-government entities
on this;
(b) conduct follow-up studies to determine means of applying the
forest sector strategy,
(c) help feed back information to forestry planners to assist in
revising the strategy.
He would be directly responsible to the Director, Water and
Forests (MINAGREF).
3.   Financial Controller
The financial controller would be responsible for the ongoing
internal audit of SODEFOR activities. In this capacity he would:
(a) ensure that the analytical accounting system was providing
adequate, updated information sufficient to monitor SOPEFOR's
financial situation;
(b) ensure that SODEFOR was complying with agreed terms and
procedures concerning procurement, disbursement, and marketing
of wood;
(c)  assist SODEFOR to prepare quarterly and annual reports, and
maintain adequate budget control and budget preparation.
The Financial Controller would report to the Director of DPBCG
(MINAGREF).



- 34 -                      Annex 3-2
Page 4 of 4
4.   Forestry Sector Planner
The forest sector planner would undertake further conceptual
work, analysing forestry 'roblems and proposing their solutions. In the
near term this would concentrate on formulating concessions policy and
export tax regulations. In the longer term he would undertake studies
advancing other lines in Government's national Forestry Plan, including
among others, analyses leading to national land use zoning, structural
reform of wood industries, and the implications of the evolution of
markets.
He would be responsible to the Director DPBCG (MINAGREF).
WAPt A
February 1985



- 35              ~          Annex 3-3
IVORY COAST
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
(US$ millions)
Category                                 Local           Foreign         Total
SODEFOR Plantations
-  Vehicles and Equipment               4.1               9.6          13.7
-  Establishment, maintenance          10.5              11.3          22.8
-  Operating Costs                      5.4               2.8           8.2
Subtotal, Plantations               20.1              23.7         43.7
SODEFOR Headquarters
-  Vehicles and Equipment               0.1               0.2           0.3
-  Operating Costs                      0.6               0.4           1.0
-  Long-term Consultants  1/            0.1               1.3           1.4
-  Short-term Consultants _/               -              0.6           0.6
Subtotal Headquarters                0.8               2.5           3.5
SODEFOR Plantation Research
-  Tree Improvement                     0.9               1.5           2.4
-  Small Dimension Wood Testing         0.2               0.1           0.3
Subtotal Plantation Research         1.1               1.6           2.7
_N AGREF
-  Long-tern Consultants  1/            0.1               1.5           1.6
-  Short-term Consul-tants 1/           0.1               0.2           0.3
Subtotal MINAGREF                    0.2               1.7           1.9
Total Including Contingencies and Taxes  22.1               29.5:         51.6
of which Baseline cost                 14.6              21.0          35.6
Physical Contingencies         0.3               0.6          0.9
Price Contingencies            7.2               7.9         15.1
Source: Project Working Papers; Inputs and Project Costs
1/    Includes international bravel, insurance, allowances
WAPA A
February 1985



- 36 -
ANNEX 3-4
IVOY WOASP
SFlR  NESC PLN~J
(US$ Cfl li)
Financing Plm
Total Cost Taxes  Total Cost        Ret of Tames)
Net of Taxes  MM      CDC GOvenin1t I/
SODFC P1RATrflW~
vedles and equipt                13.7      2.1       11.6      8.6    3.0      -
- establismt and tenamxe           21.8      2.6       19.2     14.2    5.0      -
- operating cst                     8.2      0.6        7.6      2.7    1.1    3.8
Sub-total                           43.7      5.3      38.4      25.5    9.1    3.8
SMEEOR  adqd    es
- vehicls and equipment             0.3      0.4       0.2       0.1    0.1      -
- opezatirg costs                   1.0      0.1       0.9       0.4    0.2    0.3
- cons,1*   h-igh level staff
and traInmn                       2.0       -         2.0      2.0      -      -
Sub-total                      3.3      0.2        3.1      2.5    0.3    0.3
SWDEEOR Pl-antationL Researdh
- tree imprwemenr                   2.4      0.3        2.1      1.3    0.5    0.3
- 31211I dimeosim wood testing      0.3       -        0.3       0.1    0-1    0.1
Sub-total                      2.7      0.3       2.4       1.4    0.6    0.4
-coosta=nies, high levelstaff    1.9          -        1.9       1.9      -      -
Sub-total                      1.9       -        1.9       1.9      -      -
9L  (inclidig taxes)          51.6                         31.3   10.0   10.3
Taxes                                   5.8
TaL COSr (net of taxes)                          45.8       31.3  10.0    4.5
1V  Represats local personnel and reaurrent costs.
Asms:  (a) Govenmt pays local persoulel and recurrent costs.
(b) CDC does not finceTA .
(c) giere MD  and CDC cofinance, they do so 76/24
WAPA A
February 1985



SMCOh1I FORISTRI'Y PROJECT
ESHJ~lNbf I          ENT5OUSNWLH
*(US  mililun)
Bankt FY                      Amount Disbursed
and Quarter             By Quarter            Cumulative
861it
2                    4.40                   4.40                                                                     . .-
3                    1.05                   5.45
4                    1.05                   6.50                                                        /
87                           1                     1.25                   7.75
2                    1.30                   9.05                                         . .
3                    1    .4 0              1 0 .4 5                   I hi IS .,i.. d    p, o.    'i,
4                    1.40                   aI.85as                               nsfAI   I                   rr   oa
88                           I                     1.25                   13.10
2                    1.25                   14.35
3                    2.40                   15.75
4              ~~~~~~1.40              1.7-rArse15lhu.inlprilt I  jar
89                            1                    1.55                   18.70
2                    1.55                   20.25                               .i
3                    1.30                   21.55                           .-
4                     1.30                  22.85
90                           1                     2. 30                  25.15
2                    2.30                   27.4S                                                                                      a.o
3                    1.10                   28.55
4                     1.10                  29.65-                                                  I --
9                      .90                  30.55   FI                                   64                  o         si ;1
2                      .75                  31.30
j/   Assumes  a depooSt of US$1.5 million into a Special Project Account
at effectivense*s assumed to be in October 1985 /
Hoject Ending June 30, 1989.
CLosing date, December 31, 1990.
WAPA A
February  1985



IVORY COAST
SECOND FOReSTRY FPROJECT
PROJECT CASH FLOW PYI-20
WITH AVERACE PY21-30 AND PY31-40
(CVAF, Mtllions) 1/
INFLOWS                                                          OUTFLOWS                                Not Annual      Cumulative
PY                   Disbursements of    Tax Revenues 3/   Salea Revenue A        Total           Project           D Pebt Service   Total             Cash Flow        Cash Flow
IBRD/CDC Loans 2/                                           Inflow          Costs           I8RD/CDO Loans 6/ Outflow
1                        3,741               520                                  4,261             4,351             505           4,856                 (595)            (595)
2                        3,089               555                                  3,644             4,866             750           5,616               (1,972)          (2,567)
3                        3,045               579                                  3,624             5,095           1,024           6,119               (2,495)          (5,062)
4                        3,263               484                                  3,747             4,316           1,318            5,634              (1,887)           (6,949)
5                        3.915               365                                  4,280             3,767           1,952           5,719               (1,439)          (8,388)
6                          914                 9                 400              1,323             1,252           2,834           4,086               (1,763)         (11,151)
7                                                                405                405             1,101           2,717            3,818              (3,413)         (14.564)
8                                             10                 944                954             1,081           2,574            3,655              (2,701)        (87,265)
9                                             23                 570                593               997           2,484           3,481               (2,888)         (20,153)
10                                           193               2.007               2,200              910           2,367           3,277              (1,077)          (21,230)
it                                           231               1,883               2,064              859           2,250           3,107              (1,043)          (22 273)
12                                           235               2,123               2,353              918           2,132           3,049                 (691          (22,964)                  a
13                                           231               2,172               2,403              864           2,016           2,880                 (477)         (2,441)
14                                           616               4,018               4,634              688           1.900           2,588                2,046          (21,395)
15                                           544               2,739               3,283              754           1,785           2,537                  745          (20,650)
16                                           774               6,691               7,465              773           1,665           2,438                5,027          (i5,623)
17                                         1,152               9,255              10,407              589           1,548           2,137                8,270           (7,353)
18                                         1,520              12,479              13,999              555           1,431           1,986               12,013             4,660
19                                         1,290              10,999              12,289              892           1,315           2,207               10,082            14,742
20                                         1,338              11.,490             12,828              685           1,194            1,879               10,949           25,691
Average PY21-30                            1,200               9,990              11,190              600               0              600               10,590          124,822  by P"0
Average PY31-40                              500              22,260              22,760              450               0             450               22,310           335,912  by PY40
I/     Current terms, PY1-5; constant PY6 terts thereafter.
2/     Disbursed panr  pasau, see Schedule of PAtimated Disbureements.
2/     For PYI-5, taxes paid on project goods and service.; thereafter, txasc accruing from processing and earketing plantation wood,
A/     Volume of wood produced, second project, valued at prices  derived fromi FOB and local market prices.
5/     Project costs including taxes and contingencies PYI-5; estimated recurrent cost thereafter (Project File:  rnputs and Project Costa).
6/     Based on IBRD loan, at 10%, repayable In 20 year. with 5 years grace and CDC loan at 9%S  repayable in 20 years with 5 years grace.
VAPA A
February 1985



IUY CnAsr
SE=  FORm  PpM
CONSOLMDAIED CASH FLOW PY1-20
.FRSr AND SEaOND PeW3Bs
(CFAF, mi1'on) y
NEr AUAL  CU4JATIVE
INF1DWS                                              COUIFL                           CASH ROW   CASH F
i           IUL             ~SAIE REVENUiJE    IAXES 4/       lOAUL             TOEMI.          DEBT SERVICE      ITOTAL
SEOOND PRWJErT 2/   FIRST PRCUECT 3/                20TH PROJEWXrS  SBXIND PRWEXr 5/  IBRD/CDC LDANS 6/
1          4,261                                              4,261             4,856                801          5,657     (1,396)      (1,396)
2           3,644                                             3,644             5,616                912          6,528     (2,884)      (4,280)
3           3,624                                             3,624             6,119                874          6,993     (3,369)      (7,649)
4           3,747                                             3,747             5,634                840          6,474      (2,727)     (10,376)
5           4,280                 588             152         5,020             5,719                802          6,521     (1,501)      (11,877)
6           1,323                 185             132         1,640             4,086                767          4,853      (3,213)     (15,090)
7           405                   170             107          684              3,818                731          4,549     (3,865)     (18,955)
8            954                  17              11           984              3,655                695          4,350      (3,366)     (22,321)
9            593                 4,067            701         5,361             3,481                659          4,140      1,221       (21,100)
10          2,200                2,364            436         5,000             3,277                623          3,900      1,100      (20,000)
11          2,064                2,542            616         5,222             3,107                574          3,681      1,541      (18,559)
12          2,358                1,937            286         4,581             3,049                221          3,270      1,311      (17,148)
13         2,403                  194             42          2,639             2,880                211          3,081      (442)      (17,590)
14         4,634                  20               2          4,656             2,588                201          2,780      1,876      (15,714)
15         3,283                 4,426            18          7,893             2,537                192          2,718      5,175      (10,539)
16         7,465                 3,021            669        11,155             2,438                181          2,610      8,545       (1,994)
17         10,407                2,486            546        13,439             2,137                172          2,299     11,140        9,146
18         13,999                2,956            638        17,593             1,986                162          2,134     15,459       24,605
19         12,289                 514             110        12,913             2,207                148          2,207     10,706       35,311
20         12,828                  -                         12,829             1,879                 -           1,879      10,950      46,261
1/ Current terms, PYI-5; constant PY 6 terms thereafter.
2/ Source, Annex 4-1.
3/ Volum of wood produced, first project plantations, valued at prices derived fran fob and local nmrket prices used in analysis of
second project.
4/ Taxes accruing fron processing and uarketing plantation wood.
5/ Source, Annex 4-1, .
6/ Based on IBRD Loan bearing 7.9% interest repayable in 17 years with 5 years grac, and a CDC loan at 7.5% interest, repayable over
25 years with a 5 years grace.
WAPA A
February 1985



- 40 -                      Annex 4-3
Page 1 of 4
IVORY COAST
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
PRINCIPAL ASSUMPTIONS UNDERLYING
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A.   Economic Analysis
1.   General
(a) Period: 40 years including 5-year plantation
establishment and 35 year period to maturity of trees
(b) Exchange Rate: US$1.00 = CFAF 435
2.   Cost Assumptions
(a) Project Costs: PYI-5: includes cost of all vehicles,
equipment, plantation establishment, internationally
recruited specialists and consultants, research,
incremental local personnel and operating costs of
plantations and SODEFOR; cost includes physical
contingencies of 5% on all but internationally recruited
specialists, local personnel and research (Details:
Project Working Papers; Inputs and Project Costs).
PY6-35: includes plantation maintenance costs and
replacement vehicles and equipment, but not depreciation,
with 5Z physical contingencies on these costs.
(b) Imputed Costs: PYI: residual value assigned to
undepreciated heavy vehicles and equipment financed under
the First Project, and value of forest clearing financed
under First Project to be planted in PYI of Second
Project.
(c) Inputs would be purchased under predominantly competitive
conditions, so that no shadow pricing has been
undertaken.
3.   Benefits Assumptions
(a) Production: production would commence for the major
species involved according to the following table.



- 41 -                      Annex 4-3
Page 2 of 4
Production Calendar By Species
Thinnings              Final Felling
Teak           PY5, PY9, PY15, PY23               PY35
G melina              PY7, PY10                   PY15
Pine                    PY17                      PY25
Triplochiton         PY11, PY15                   PY25
Terminalia            PY9, PY13                   PY25
Cedrela                 PY13                      PY20
Volumes produced by species, by year, and by plantation are given in the
Project Working Papers: Yield and Production.
(b) Prices: economic base prices (1983/84) are derived for
each species, based on fob or local market prices
(depending on whether wood is of export or domestic
quality), by deducting the economic cost of domestic
transport, handling, and felling and reducing the value
to reflect losses in milling. These prices are weighted
to give the following average values on the stump.
Weighted Stump Value By Species
(CFAF/m3 standing)
Large Logs a/      Small Logs    Poles
Teak                      67,943           10,795        16,000
Gmelina                   17,223            9,535           -
Pine                      17,223            9,535           -
Triplochiton              15,242            3,710           -
Terminalia                18,129            3,710           -
Cedrela                   15,242            3,710           -
a/ Weighted 15% direct export as logs; 51% sawn for export; 34% sawn for
local market.
Prices are assumed to grow following world market trends at 2% per year
for large Teak logs and 1% per year for all other species. Details are
in Project Working Papers: Economic Analysis.



- 42 -                      Annex 4-3
Page 3 of 4
B.   Financial Analysis
1.   General
(a) Period: 40 years including 5 years plantation
establishment and 35 years to maturity of trees.
(b) Inflation factors: as in project costing (para 3.16)
PY1-PY5, and in PY6 constant terms thereafter.
(c) Exchange Rate: US$1.00 = CFAF 435.
2.   Outflow Assumptions
(a) Payments for goods and services for project (PYl-5) and
post project maintenance (PY6-40) include taxes, and are
presumed to be made when cost is incured for project
execution. Details; Project Working Papers: Inputs and
Project Costs.
(b) Debt Service on IBRD/CDC loans estimated as follows:
-    Second Project:  IBRD:  20 year term at 10%, 5 years
grace; 0.25% front end fee and 0.75% commitment fee
on undisbursed amount.
-    CDC: 20 years at 9%, 5 vears grace; 0.75% commitment
fee on undisbursed amount.
-    First Project:  IBRD:  17 years at 9.7%, 5 years
grace; 0.75% commitment fee on undisbursed amount;
CDC: 20 years at 7.5%, 5 years grace: 0.75% commit-
ment fee on undisbursed amount.
3.   Inflow Assumptions
(a) Disbursements of IBRD/CDC Loans made following
disbursement schedule, Annex 3-5; with CDC disbursing at
the rate of 24/76 with IBRD, when they disburse jointly.
(b) Tax revenues assumed to accrue on project expenditures
(Project Working Papers: Inputs and Project Costs) and
on the local handling and local processing of wood at the
rate of CFAF 1,850/M3 for locally market wood and CFAF
2,700/m3 for exported wood.
(c) Sales Revenue estimated assuming that the volume and
timina of wood production follows that used in economic
analysis. Base prices of wood on the stump are derived
from fob and local market prices as for the economic
analysis, with taxes being paid. These prices are



_ 43 -                      Annex 4-3
Page 4 of 4
weighted to give an average value of logs on the stump as
follows:
Weighted Stump Value By Species
(CFAF/m3)
Large Logs a/  Small Logs         Poles
Teak                   65,274           8,945          16,000
Gmelina                14,578           7,685             -
Pine                   14,578           7,685             -
Triplochiton           12,597           1,860             -
Terminalia             15,488           1,860             -
Cedrela                12,597           1,860             -
a!   weighted 15% for direct exported logs; 51% sawn for re-export and
34% sawn for local market.
Prices are assumed to follow would markets and grow at 2% per year or
large Teak logs and 1% per year for other wood. In addition, prices are
inflated by international inflation factors (para 3.16) PY1-5 and remain
at the PY6 level thereafter.
WAPA A
February 1985



I1RD 181
IVORY COAST                                         V
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT                                                                                               ARE. -f>   Z ONE SW I T      TINE
ANNUAL RAIFALL IN  N        NOPRI
' M-t s   A                                                                         (01  .-a    OFlAU1MIAT.L rlS    4  ORONO
~~~~~~~~ ~                                                   l.i                      '    INIEFAIOINAL0 SOWAAIID^lS
o~r0X   w.,w   B U R K I N A  
f   |                           \.:U414_-I         t        '             \                                     9~~~~~0I  nc."
j  UA   tA  g    -,)                .                     j        >'    o">bO  .'              \  .- \010-'%
f  /   X   L-            /"          .14      0'-'S#.                  \    '-"                           .
or.'-~~~~
-                ~~~~~0
1..~0
K  U~ '%                   \,~                                tiNNUAU
'-S ~ ~ ~        ~         ~         ~         ~        ~        ~        d
<,                    SCNlru                1,   .-                    ,                           >        nuNouuzzluif l  \4,  ,
-  s ------_                                                        ]S                           o      f         |,
g S~~~NN                                                       ,..XX           VillA A                                //  1 > 1
'                                                          i:>AC \      -                                          K'tf
+ AFRIC$,i C \ \> go/f de Guinea t
o                           -------                                                   A, GOUNI\~ i_-
\ f t,_ c,X ^ "" r 
:  j s \ t l - - - *lON.A.1N



