Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3752-IVC
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$ 31.3 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
FOR A
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
February 6, 1985
|This document has a restricted distribution aLnd may be used by recipients only in the performance of 
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
CURRENCY UNIT      =   CFA Franc (CFAF) 1/
CFAF 435           =   US$1.00 2/
CFAF 1,000         =   US$2.30
CFAF 1,000,000         US$2,299
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAISSTAB  -    Caisse de Stabilisation et de Soutien des Prix
des Produits Agricoles (Agricultural Price
Stabilization Fund)
CCCE      -    Caisse  Centrale  de  Cooperation  Economique
(France)
CTFT      -    Technical Center for Tropical Forestry (Centre
Technique Forestier Tropical)
CDC       -    Commonwealth Development Corporation
EPA       -    A state administrative enterprise
EPIC      -    A state commercial and industrial enterprise
MINAGREF  -    Ministry  of  Agriculture,  Water  and  Forests
(Minist&re de l'Agriculture, et des Eaux et
Forets)
SODE      -    A state development company
SODEFOR   -    Forestry    Plantation    Development    Company
(Soci6t6 pour le I)eveloppement des Plantations
Foresti6res)
FISCAL YEARS
Government and SODEFOR:  January 1 - December 31
PROJECT YEAR
January 1 - December 31
The exchange rate for the CFA Franc is fixed in a ratio of
50:1 with the French Franc, which is free floating currency.
At November 5, 1984.



FOR OFFICLIL USE ONLY
IVORY COAST
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Government of the Ivory Coast.
Beneficiaries:       Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forests, and
SODEFOR.
Amount:              US$31.3 million.
Terms:               20 years with 5 year grace period; standard IBRD
terms.
Cofinancier:         Commonwealth Development Corporation, London
(US$10.0 million equivalent).
Project
Description:         The project would complete works begun under the
first forestry project (Ln. 1735-IVC), in which
17,800 ha were successfully established as hardwood
plantations. In addition, the project would seek to
improve forestry sector policies and institutional
performance. Over a five-year execution period
resources would be provided for:
(a)  about 204 man months of service by experts on a
long- and short-term basis in support of
studies for policy development and for
smallholder forestry development, and 60 man
months for improved financial control;
(b)  mechanical clearing of about 20,000 ha of
logged over forest reserve, replanting this
area, along with 2,000 ha of land previously
planted which was burned over in 1982/83;
(c)  maintenance and protection of the newly planted
forests, and plantation infrastructure, in
V                                      addition to thinning and pruning of the 35,300
ha of immature existing plantations;
(d)  provision of about 240 man months of service by
experts on a long-term basis, and 50 man months
of short-term consultants' services in areas
affecting plantation establishment; and
(e) support for production-oriented applied
research and foreign study tours for qualified
SODEFOR staff.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Plantation works would be executed by SODEFOR, which
successfully executed the first project. The
forestry services of MINAGREF would execute the
policy oriented parts of the project.
Estimated Project Costs:
Local     Foreign      Total
-US$ Million--------
SODEFOR Plantations                    13.2          17.0       30.2
SODEFOR Headquarters                   0.5            1.8        2.3
SODEFOR Plantation Research            0.7            1.1         1.8
MINAGREF Support                        0.2           1.1         1.3
Baseline Costs                         14.6         21.0        35.6
Physical Contingencies              0.3           0.6         0.9
Price Contingencies                 7.2           7.9        15.1
Total Project Cost                     22.1          29.5       51.6
Financing Plan
IBRD                              8.9          22.4        31.3
CDC                               2.9           7.1        10.0
Government                       10.3            -         10.3
22.1          29.5       51.6
Estimated IBRD Disbursements
FY86   FY87   FY88  FY89    FY90   FY91
Annual                 6.5      5.4    5.3    5.7    6.8    1.6
Cumulative             6.5    11.9   17.2   22.9   29.7   31.3
Benefits and Risks:
The principal quantifiable benefit from the project would be the
6.6 million m3 of standing timber produced over 35 years. This would have
a value of about CFAF 380 billion (US$880 million) on the stump. This wood
would provide a valuable basic resource as a substitute for dwindling
supplies of wood from the natural forest.  Thus, the project would assist
Government to provide a reliable source of wood for the forestry
industries, and for export. Unquantifiable benefits would be derived from
institutional strengthening and reform of forestry policies, as well as
ecological benefits.



- iii -
The principal technical risk is that of fire, which since 1982 has
intensified as a result of drier conditions and an increase in the
intensity of farming near and in the forest reserves. Fire prevention
measures have been taken by SODEFOR, and the project has been designed to
minimize fire risk. Nonetheless, the spread of farming, which exacerbates
this risk, continues and cannot be fully controlled by SODEFOR. Government
4           would be assisted under the project to strengthen institutional
arrangements for forestry reserve control and management of natural
resources. Marketing uncertainties exist but are not major since markets
i           would be readily available for the valuable species planted.  Managerial
risks arise since SODEFOR may be reaching the limit of its management
capacity. However, the project provides for strengthening SODEFOR's
management.
Economic Rate of Return: 12%
Appraisal Report: 5151-IVC dated February 4, 1985
Map: IBRD 18136R
WAPA A
February 1985
t






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
FOR A SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of the Ivory Coast for the equivalent of US$31.3
million, to help finance a Second Forestry project. The proposed loan
would have a term of 20 years, including five years of grace, with
interest at the standard variable interest rate. The project would be
co-financed with the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC). The
CDC loan amounting to US$10.0 million equivalent would be at 9.0 percent
per annum over a period of twenty years, including five years of grace.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       The Report No. 1147b-IVC "Ivory Coast: A Basic Economic Report"
was circulated to the Executive Directors in May 1977 and published
under the title "The Challenge of Success" in 1978. The assessment of
the country's economic prospects has been periodically updated in
subsequent President's Reports on specific projects. It has been
presented in greater detail in the "Note on the Economic Situation in
the Ivory Coast" attached as Annex IV to the President's Report on the
Second Structural Adjustment Loan (P-3613-IVC) of June 9, 1983. The
paragraphs below incorporate the principal findings of a recent Bank
economic mission. Annex I provides basic country data.
Background
3.       During the first two decades after independence in 1960, the
Ivory Coast experienced an average 7% per annum GNP growth rate, one of
the most rapid in the world for a non-oil exporting country. As a
result, GDP per capita reached $1,150 in 1980, the second highest in
Sub-Saharan Africa. This achievement has been all the more remarkable
as the country has no important mineral resource or other special
natural endowment. Growth perfcrmance has been based mainly on the
efficient development of agriculture and a productive use of foreign
factors of production, capital als well as labor, within a remarkably
stable political environment, an open economic framework, and a wide
scope for private initiative supported by pragmatic public policies.
Despite important diversification efforts, the country has remained
highly vulnerable to variations in the international environment.
Foreign trade corresponds to more than 60% of GDP and the three main
agricultural products, coffee, cocoa and timber, still represent about



50% of exports of goods compared with 85% in 1960. The benefits of
growth were also unevenly distributed as the more limited potential of
the north led to lagging income growth in this region, despite
impressive gains in selected crops such as cotton. Through 1975,
fluctuations in the external terms of trade were not large.  The first
major increase in oil prices was temporari:Ly offset by favorable export
prices. The effects of moderate external shocks were also in large part
countered, internally by a price stabilizat:ion mechanism for the main
agricultural products and, externally, through membership in the West
African Monetary Union which ensures, inter alia, unlimited free
convertibility of the currency through a cooperation agreement with
France.
4.       Present economic and financial stringencies stem largely from
the difficulties the country faced in adapting to the sharp adverse
changes which have occurred in the world economy after an export boom
had led to a degree of financial imprudence. Spurred by high coffee and
cocoa prices, which led to an 80% improvement in the terms of trade
between 1975 and 1977 ancl to surpluses in the stabilization fund
(CAISSTAB) representing more than 10% of GDP in 1977, Government
launched an overly ambitious public investmient program which rose to
over 25 percent of GDP in 1978, some 40 percent of which was financed by
external borrowings.  The Government maintained the public investment
effort at some 20% of GDP between 1978 and 1980, in spite of declining
coffee and cocoa prices and the resulting 30% deterioration in terms of
trade during this period. However, this program did not generate
sustained economic growth, as public investment had been increasingly
oriented toward high-cost and excessive scale operations in sectors with
long pay off periods, such as education and transport.  Marginal returns
to investment in directly productive sectors began to drop off as most
obvious comparative advantages had been exploited. These excessive
investments, followed by a decline of export earnings and a contraction
of Government revenue, led to a severe financial crisis in 1980. While
GDP was still growing at 7.7%, fueled by still mounting public
expenditures, the public sector financial gap grew to 12.7% of GDP in
1980 while the balance of payments current account deficit reached 16.7%
of GDP.
Recent Economic Developments (1981-1983)
5.       The continuing adverse prospects for coffee and cocoa prices,
the high cost of foreign borrowings and the worldwide recession led the
Government to launch, at the end of 1980, a stringent financial recovery
plan coupled with a longer term structural adjustment program. The
financial program aimed at restoring internal and external equilibrium.
It consisted of a series of budgetary and monetary measures to contain
credit expansion, to increase government revenue, to reverse the upward
trend of current expenditures, and to restrain the investment program
while restricting external borrowings and improving the external debt
profile. This program was supported during the 1981-1983 period by a
SDR 484.5 million (US$514 million at 1983 SDR/US$ exchange rate)
Extended Fund Facility from the IMF. The first phase of the structural



- 3 -
adjustment program called for wide-ranging reforms in planning and
programming, institutions, and incentives. Public investment was
curtailed and redirected toward productive projects; public enterprises,
particularly in agriculture, were reorganized to make them more
efficient, and the price, subsidy and tariff systems were progressively
overhauled to restore the growth of output in both agriculture and
industry. The Bank made a $150.0 million loan in December 1981 in
support of this first phase of the structural adjustment program.
6.       Between 1980 and 1983 the Government succeeded in reducing the
public sector and current account deficits despite four unfavorable
factors beyond the authorities' control. First, the terms of trade
declined by a further 14% during this period and were, in 1983, some 40%
lower than in 1977. Second, the world recession has proven to be deeper
and longer than was originally expected, reducing the demand for Ivory
Coast's exports, while higher interest rates increased the debt service
burden. Third, the development of domestic oil production was not as
rapid as previously expected as it reached a level of only 1.1 million
tons a year in 1983. Finally, rainfall was far below average in 1983.
7.       The first objective of the financial recovery program had been
to reduce the public sector deficit, which is at the root of present
external imbalances. This deficit declined from 12.7% of GDP in 1980 to
10.9% in 1983, before taking into account debt amortization. Under the
program, the trend of rapid expansion of current expenditure has been
substantially slowed; implementation of a strict recruitment and wage
policy, cuts in direct and indirect consumer subsidies, and improved
financial control of parastatals enabled the Government to reduce the
current budget by about 2% in real terms; capital expenditures have been
curtailed by more than 25% in real terms during this period by
cancelling or postponing expensive non-priority projects.
8.       The balance of payments current account deficit declined from
16.7% of GDP in 1980 to 13.8% in 1983. Despite the deterioration in the
terms of trade, the trade surplus increased from 5.0% to 9.5% of GDP.
This was mainly due to a reduction of imports, which declined from 41.2%
to 36.2% of GDP following the slowdown of the economy and the
development of local oil production. The decline by about one-fourth in
the real effective exchange rate during this period was also an
important factor in the improvement of the trade account of the balance
of payments. However, the rapid rise of interest payments on public
debt, which more than tripled in CFAF terms from 1980 to 1983 and
accounted for 8.1% of GDP in 1983, reduced the impact of this
improvement on the current account. The debt service ratio rose from
33.4% in 1980 to 36.8% in 1983 because of high interest rates, slow
growth in export receipts, and the large increase of foreign borrowing
required to finance the public siector deficit. During the same period
the external debt outstanding increased from 45% to 80% of GDP.
9.       These budgetary and monestary policies have contributed to a
marked slowdown in the economy. For the first time since 1960, the
country experienced a decline in national income. GDP in real terms



-4-
declined by 8.1% between 1980 and 1983 compared with a 6.1% average
annual increase during the four previous years. This represents a 20%
decline per capita over these three years to about US$720 per capita in
1983. The secondary sector has been the most severely hit by the
recession with value added falling by 20.0% in the aggregate during this
period and by more than 50% in the case of the construction and public
works subsector which depends heavily on public investment. Inflation,
measured by the consumer price index, was about 11.3%, the average since
1980, the impact of the activity slowdown and the restrictive monetary
policy being counterbalanced by the increase in import prices and the
effect of fiscal measures.
The Present Economic Situation
10.      The economic and financial situation of the Ivory Coast further
deteriorated in the second half of 1983 as a consequence of the worst
climatic conditions sinces independence and a sharp reduction in foreign
borrowing. The impact of the 1983 drought and related bush fires is
estimated to correspond ito a 4 percent decline in GDP. Coffee
production fell by two-thirds compared with its 1982/1983 level while
the reduction in electricity supply by about 30 percent following the
drying up of the reservoirs induced the implementation of a severe
load-shedding plan. Hydroelectric plants generated about 85% of
electricity in previous years, but only about 60% in 1983. The effect
of the drought on the energy sector alone increased the public sector
and balance of payments deficits by the equivalent of 1.5 percent of
GDP. In the second half of 1983, public arrears increased rapidly, and
represented 10.9% of GDP at the end of the year. In order to avoid a
liquidity crisis the Ivorian authorities decided to intensify their
financial recovery and economic adjustment programs and to request a re-
scheduling of public external debt service payments due in the 25 month
period starting December 1, 1983. Official creditors agreed to
reschedule 100% of principal and 50% of interest falling due in the 13
month period starting December 1, 1983 and to extend a goodwill clause
for rescheduling debt service due in 1985. Private creditors
rescheduled 100% oL the principal due during the 13 months period and
agreed, in principle, to reschedule 90% of the principal to be repaid in
1985. These creditors also agreed in this context, and for the first
time in Sub-Saharan Africa, to make a $120 million loan for balance of
payments support in 1984.
11.      A much intensified financial recovery program was implemented
in 1984. It aimed at avoiding further deterioration in Ivory Coast's
external creditworthiness and at sharply reducing external and internal
imbalances. It was supported by the IMF with a SDR 82.75 million
one-year stand-by agreement. This program aimed to reduce the public
sector deficit from 10.4 percent to 4 percent of GDP and the current
account deficit from 13.1 percent to 7 percent of GDP. Government
payment arrears were to be cut by 60 percent and, after taking into
account the impact of the debt rescheduling, the overall balance of
payments was expected to be in equilibrium. To achieve these objectives
a series of tough stabilization measures was implemented. They



-5-
include a freeze on Government's current expenditures in nominal terms,
a further cut in public investment, large increases in electricity and
railroad tariffs, prices of petroleum products, and water charges, a
reduction in civil service enrollments and technical assistance, and a
reform in scholarship policy. Improvement in the financial situation of
the public sector should also stem from a large increase in CAISSTAB
receipts resulting from firm world prices for coffee and cocoa and
drawing on stocks accumulated in previous years.
12.      The second SAL of $250.7 million approved by the Board in July
1983 supports implementation of policy measures aimed at: (a) further
improvements of public finance management and investment policy, (b)
rehabilitation of parastatal enterprises and improvement of their
management, (c) additional improvements in the agricultural incentive
system, (d) resumption of industrial growth through reduction of the
excessive levels of protection and removal of distortions in incentives,
and (e) substantial reform of housing policy through a reduction of
public subsidies, enhancement of private savings mobilization, and a
shift in housing investment from the public to the private sector. The
public investment program has been further curtailed and redirected
toward productive sectors, while projects with low rates of return have
been postponed or placed on a list of non-priority projects to be
started only if borrowing on very soft terms can be secured.
Substantial progress was also made in the continued rehabilitation of
parastatal enterprises. The program of management studies and its
follow-up is being progressively implemented, albeit with some delays
from the original schedule. A monitoring system based on synoptic
tables (tableaux de bord) has been introduced in the transportation and
telecommunications sectors, and the first program-contract has been
signed with SOTRA, the Abidjan mass transit enterprise. The situation
of PALMINDUSTRIE, the oil palm company, has already much improved and
the implementation of the restructuring program of SODESUCRE, the sugar
company, has begun with the closure of the two least efficient sugar
complexes. Rehabilitation programs for the petroleum refinery (SIR),
the railway company (RAN) and the telecommunication sector have also
been initiated. Producer prices of all major crops have been
substantially increased, the consumer price of rice has been raised by
23 percent and the fertilizer subsidy has been eliminated. Although
these increases in producer prices only partially offset the impact of
the depreciation of the CFAF, they contributed to alleviating the impact
of the drought on farmers, the poorest segment of the population. The
first phase of the fundamental reform of the incentive system in the
manufacturing sector covers more than 50 percent of industrial output.
It includes a revision in import duties to harmonize effective
protection, the replacement of quantitative restrictions by temporary
import surcharges on a declining scale, and export subsidies, the
adoption of a new investment code and improvement in the fiscal system.
Important progress has also been made in implementing the housing policy
reform. The land tax and civil servant housing policies have been
improved while the land development agency is being restructured and is
introducing a system of full cost recovery for its new developments.
The Government has decided to proceed with a gradual liquidation of the



- 6 -
assets of SOGEFIHA, the largest public housing agency.  In the light of
these satisfactory develcopments the Second Tranche of SAL II was
released in July 1984.
Medium and Long-term Economic Prospects
13.     Over the remainder of the decade, the evolution of the Ivory
Coast economy will stay critically dependent on public finance and
balance of payments constraints. As is typical in a country undergoing
a rescheduling of its external debt, the challenge will be to maintain
sufficient monetary and fiscal discipline and to generate the foreign
exchange required to withstand the transition to the post-rescheduling
period, when deferred debt service payments will have to be met. This
transition period will be! difficult as payments on external debt are
projected to increase sharply following twco years of rescheduling in
1984 and 1985, and as the. necessary increase in production of tradeables
for exports and for efficient import substitution is likely to
materialize only gradually over the rest of the decade. The necessary
continuation of tight fiscal and monetary policies along with
substantial improvements in the quality of the public investment program
and further implementation of agricultural and industrial incentive
reforms, are expected to enable a resumpticn of GDP growth in real terms
at an average annual rate of 3,7% over the 1985-95 period.
14.       The public sector deficit is expected to decline in 1985.
Nevertheless, conditions are expected to remain very tight in the Ivory
Coast for a number of years.  Continued monetary and fiscal discipline
and intensification of the structural adjustment program will be
required if the stabilization is to be consolidated and the conditions
for resumed growth are to be re-established. We are closely monitoring
economic developments in the Ivory Coast and a new economic report is
presently under preparation.
15.      Of the $5,143 million external public debt outstanding
disbursed at the end of 1982, 15.2 percent was provided bilaterally by
governments, 20.6 percent by international aid agencies (of which 69.9%
by the Bank Group), and 55.6 percent by private banks and bond issues,
while 8.6 percent came in the form of suppliers credit. About 75
percent of the total capital not supplied by international aid agencies
came from four channels: internationally syndicated loans (33.3%),
France (29.1%), USA (11%) and Lebanon (5.6%). France and the European
Communities remain the principal sources of development assistance in
grant form, accounting for about 1 percent of the flow of foreign
assistance to the public sector.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE IVORY COAST
16.      Since 1968, when Bank Group operations in the Ivory Coast
started, lending has expanded rapidly and now includes forty-eight
operations totalling US$1,293.3 million, including US$14 million from



the Third Window, and an IDA credit of US$7.5 million. Of these,
seventeen have been for agriculture, supporting cotton, cocoa, rubber,
oil palm and coconut development, and rural development in the
North-East Savannah and Center-West regions. There were six road
projects and a highway sector project. The remaining twenty-four loans
were for education, telecommunications, the Abidjan sewerage and
drainage system, water supply, urban development, petroleum exploration
and development, power distribution, tourism development, small- and
medium-scale enterprises, a regional cement project, a regional railway
project and, most recently, for structural adjustment and related
technical assistance.   IFC has supported textile, fertilizers, flour
milling, development banking, and agricultural plantation operations in
the country. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Group
operations. In general, implementation of Bank projects has been
satisfactory and has improved substantially over the past five years.
The disbursement ratio has risen from 15.2% in 1977 to 37.2% in 1982.
The 1983 Ivory Coast disbursement ratio of 33.1% compares very favorably
with the Bank-wide average of 23.4% and with ratios for comparable
countries such as Tunisia (15.5%), Cameroon (24.9%) or Kenya (16.2%) for
the same year.
17.      The Bank's first two structural adjustment loans approved in
FY82 and FY84, respectively, supported the Government's program of
firm measures to adjust the economy to the deteriorating international
environment and to lay the basis for future growth. They reflect the
close and frank dialogue on economic policy between the Bank and the
Ivory Coast. Implementation of the initial stages of the structural
adjustment program has led to the development of longer-term
rehabilitation and reform programs for several sub-sectors and key
public enterprises, which are now at the project preparation stage. The
external environment in which the Ivory Coast has pursued its initial
adjustment efforts since 1981 has been much less favorable than was
anticipated. The economy is likely to remain vulnerable to public
finance and balance of payments constraints and to require sustained
adjustment efforts. A third phase of the Government's continuing
program of structural change is being prepared.
18.      Bank operations in agriculture have been in support of the
Government's policy of crop diversification, promotion of exports, and
increased emphasis on developing smallholder production. The most
recent projects approved by the Board are a rubber project and two rural
development projects for the North-East and Center-West. In June 1979,
the Executive Directors approved the First Forestry Project (paras.
38-41). The Technical Assistance project, approved together with SAL I,
provides much of the technical manpower needed for policy reorientation
and implementation of reforms in this sector. In the near future, the
Bank is considering assisting the Government in rehabilitating the sugar
subsector, providing further assistance to the oil-palm and rubber
subsectors, as well as for improved systems of extension and research.



- 8 -
19.      Thus far, the Bank Group has financed six road projects
totalling US$123.3 million, and a highway sector project of US$100
million, which was approved in November 1980. This loan, which finances
a portion of the country's highway investment program, is now fully
committed. A railway project, focusing on the improvement of the
Bouake-Petionara section of the Abidjan-Ouagadougou rail line, renewal
of rolling stock, technical assistance and training, was approved in
FY78 and has now been completed. A second highway sector project is
under study.
20.      The Bank has been closely associated with the Government's
efforts to modernize the education system, in particular at the primary,
secondary and vocational levels, through three education projects and a
fourth, focusing on rehabilitation and cost reduction, is under
preparation.  A first health project, aimec at expanding nurse training
in the country, is also being prepared.  The two Abidjan sewerage and
drainage projects, approved in FY75 and FY78, cover the first phases of
a ten-year Government program to improve sanitation in Abidjan. The two
urban development projects approved in FY77 and FY82 aimed at helping to
meet some of Abidjan's low-income housing and transport needs and at
assisting Government in carrying out its regional development policy of
shifting rapid urban growth from the capital city to regional centers.
These actions have been complemented by two water supply projects. In
the energy sector, a First Power Project was approved in July 1980 to
finance power distribution facilities and technical assistance, and a
Petroleum Exploration and Development Project for offshore hydrocarbons
was approved in June 1982. A project to develop offshore gas reserves
is also being studied.
21.      In view of the predominance of foreign ownership and management
in the private sector of the Ivorian economy, the Government is placing
high priority on strengthening local entrepreneurship. In support of
this policy, the Bank extended a loan for l-he promotion of small-scale
enterprises in FY76, which has been followed up by an artisans, small-
and medium-scale enterprise project approved in March 1979, and two
lines of credit for hote:L financing and technical assistance in the
tourism sector. The indulstrial sector is now undergoing major changes
in its policy environment as part of the country's adjustment program.
An Industrial Restructur-ing and Developmenit project, to assist existing
enterprises in adapting to the reformed environment, is under
preparation. In June 1976, the Bank also extended a loan to the Ivory
Coast in support of the CIMAO project, the clinker production plant
located in Togo and owned jointly by the Governments of Ghana, Ivory
Coast, and Togo.
22.      The Bank Group's lending in the Ivory Coast has increased
steadily from a yearly average of below US$20 million during the early
years to an average of US$164.8 million annually in the FY80-84 period.
The average annual lending rate is expected to continue to grow over the
next few years. The Bank Group's share of the Ivory Coast's external
debt is expected to rise from the present 17.4 percent to about 26
percent in the first half of the next decade; its share of total debt



- 9 -
service is expected to rise from 15.3 percent at present to about 17.5
percent by 1990.
PART III - THE FORESTRY SECTOR
23.      Forestry is an important economic activity in the Ivory Coast
which is one of the world's principal suppliers of tropical hardwoods.
Production of logs rose from 1.1 million m3 in 1960 to a peak of 5.3
million m3 in 1977. Since then, production declined to 4.1 million m3
in 1982.  In the period 1972-82, exports of logs averaged 2.9 million m3
annually, reaching a peak of 3.3 million m3 in 1977. Annual log exports
have since declined to about 2.3 million m3 in 1982. This is explained
both by the degrading of the commnercial value of the forests and by a
change in Government policy. Historically, only 25% of logs harvested
were transformed within the Ivory Coast, 75% being exported directly.
In 1972, Government established a quota system which directed 40% of the
cut to local processors, as a condition of granting export licences to
loggers. This quota has been met since 1981. About 50% of the
processed wood is exported. Export earnings generated by forestry were
16% of all exports in 1977. While the contribution fell to 14% in 1982,
forestry remains the country's third most important foreign exchange
earner after cocoa and coffee. Wood is the principal source of energy
for heating and cooking for the majority of the population and more than
5 million m3 are taken as brush and small wood per year for this
purpose. The sector still accounts for about 6% of GDP and provides
employment for about 44,000 people, including about 25% of the country's
industrial workforce.
24.      Forests in the Ivory Coast are being both rapidly degraded and
reduced in area. Loggers who exploited the country's forest resources
in earlier years selectively logged only the most valuable and
marketable species, with a resulting production of about 10 m3/ha,
compared with 40 m3/ha which is the maximum commercial volume available.
Encroaching farmers frequently burned the remaining stands
indiscriminately when clearing the land for food crops and tree crops,
creating a loss estimated at about 2.0 million m3 of usable wood per
year with an export value of some US$100 million. Where farmers did not
become established, succeeding generations of loggers returned to old
concessions, taking logs of lower value where these had not been
destroyed by previous concession-holders. As the highest quality
reserves have become exhausted, the composition of exports has changed
correspondingly. In 1982 exports of first quality logs represented 25%
of the total volume of exports (35% in value terms) down from 32% in
1978. The greater proportion of lower grades now exported has in turn
contributed to a 3% per annum decline in the real value per m3 of logs
exported. Thus, through this process, between 1956 and 1983 the area
covered by unspoiled high forest was reduced from about 12 million ha to
about 3.6 million ha. The 8.4 million ha of degraded forest which
contains about 2 million ha of cocoa, coffee and rubber trees, continues
to support adequate forest cover to protect the environment and provide



- 10 -
firewood.   However, this resource is no l-onger adequate to support
commercial wood extraction or transformation industries. Of the 3.6
million ha of unspoiled forest remaining, about 1 million ha are in
national parks or are generally inaccessible, about 2.5 million ha are
within permanent forest reserves, and about 100,000 ha in small
dispersed pockets.
25.      Legislation governing forest use is complex, and has been
poorly enforced. As a result, loggers continue to exploit the remaining
forests, more or less uncontrolled, and farmers have followed roads
developed for logging operations, establish'ing cocoa, coffee and food
crops, with the widespread practice of "slash and burn" farming. Such
intrusions have also begun in the classified forest reserves and
national parks. Government now estimates that this process transforms
about 0.4 million ha of unspoiled high forest per year. Were these
trends to continue, Ivory Coast could become a net importer of timber
before the end of the century, when domestic demand is expected to reach
the equivalent of 2 million m3 of logs per year (compared to about
900,000 m3 in 1982) and annual production from the remaining high forest
limited to less than 0.5 million m3.
26.      Local wood processing capacity has been increasing rapidly
since 1972, when Government introduced local delivery quotas on loggers
(para 23). About 90 establishments were registered under the industrial
code in 1983, although many more logging firms were operating. However,
the plants established were mainly small, inefficient, poorly managed
sawmills and resulted in relatively low value added.   As supplies of
quality natural forest-grown woods are being exhausted, wood processing
industries are experiencing growing uncertainties about the source,
cost, and timeliness of supplies of raw material, and plantation grown
wood will have to become the principal stock for the local industry by
the end of the century.  'he evolution toward plantation-grown wood as a
source of supply would be advantageous for I ndustry, in that feed stocks
would be secured, be of more uniform quality and dimension, and be more
easily protected than the natural forest. However, the forestry
industries will have to be progressively restructured since at present
they are typically ill-equipped for efficient processing of
plantation-grown trees, which are generally of smaller dimension than
natural forest-grown trees. Achieving this restructuring will require
further private investment, which will be difficult to secure without
reform of concession policy and fiscal arrangements for the sector.
27.      The degradation of the natural forest to a condition that will
no longer support commercial logging would not appear to have serious
environmental consequences, since significant forest cover remains.
However, once opened to farming, the remaining forest cover is at
greater risk and is frequently rapidly destroyed with serious ecological
consequences, including soil erosion, reduced rainfall and lower water
tables, as observed elsewhere in Western Africa. As a result of such
occurrences, Government is becoming more conservation-minded in its
approach to forestry in particular, and to natural resource issues in
general.



- 11 -
Sectoral Institutions
28.      The Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forests (MINAGREF) has
assumed overall responsibility for the forestry sector, following a
reorganization of the Government in November 1983, which reintegrated
the Ministry of Water and Forests into the former Agriculture Ministry.
The structure of the new Forest Service within MINAGREF and its
principal functions remain largely unchanged. Of the 13 Directorates
which comprised the former Ministry of Water and Forests, the most
important as far as the functioning of the forestry sector is concerned
are: Forest Production, in charge of the exploitation of the country's
forest resources; Forestry Surveillance and Control, which prepares and
applies sector-related legislation; Forestry Conservation, which
delimits and maintains forest reserves; and Reforestation, responsible
chiefly for small-scale replanting programs at the village level. In
spite of the importance of their functions, budgetary allocations for
these directorates have been small, covering little more than personnel
costs. The operating effectiveness of the four key directorates in
implementing Government's forestry strategy is also exacerbated by the
lack of clear operating guidelines and regulations, although changes
recently proposed by Government appear likely to improve the situation
progressively (para 35). The Ministry has received considerable
assistance from bilateral sources; however, most of this has been in the
areas of parks, fisheries and forestry education, and was not directed
to resolving major long term-issues facing the sector. The proposed
project would begin to address these shortcomings.
29.      The Societe pour le Developpement des Plantations Forestieres
(SODEFOR), was established in 1966, as a state-owned company with a
capital of CFAF 50 million, under the control of the Ministry of
Agriculture (and later transferred to Water and Forests). Its creation
reflected Government's concern about the problems of rapid forest
degradation, the need for sound forest management, and the desire to
begin the process of reconstituting the national forest reserves.
SODEFOR was initially given responsibility for both reforestation within
clearly delineated plantation sites and for management of the natural
forests at large. This latter has terminated and SODEFOR's primary role
is to establish and manage Government-owned plantations. National level
conservation and preservation activities are now the responsibility of
the Forestry Conservation Directorate within MINAGREF although SODEFOR
continues to be responsible for managing natural stands within the
forest reserves in which it conducts reforestation. In 1986, SODEFOR
will begin marketing thinnings from the plantations established in the
1960s, and will market trees on the stump when they reach maturity in
the mid 1990s.
30.      In 1980, as part of a national effort to increase its control
over state enterprises, Government transformed SODEFOR from a state
development company (SODE) into a decentralized Government
administrative agency (EPA) under the Ministry of Water and Forests.
This imposed on SODEFOR a strict funding, supervision and control
regime more appropriate to an administrative arm of Government than to



- 12 -
an entity with a product-Lon-oriented mandate. The effect of all of
these controls has been delays and growing inefficiency in SODEFOR's
accounting, procurement, receipt of IBRD/CI)C loan proceeds, and
personnel management, and its ability to respond to emergency situations
(such as forest fires). In late 1984, Government decided to reclassify
SODEFOR as a state commercial and industrial enterprise (EPIC) which
recognized SODEFOR's production-oriented character.  While close
financial supervision by the Ministry of Finance will continue,
satisfactory measures have been taken to assure better integration of
SODEFOR's accounting with the needs of the Government accounting office.
In its new statute SODEFOR is to be given more internal management
powers under supervision of a management and technical consultative
committee (similar to a Board of Directors'). Approval by Government of
SODEFOR's new statute is a condition of loan effectiveness (Section 6.01
(d) of the draft Loan Agreement). In addition, SODEFOR will make an
annual contractual arrangement or contrat plan with Government (as
opposed to receiving a directive) covering its work plan, budget, and
means of procuring its required goods and services (para 52). Such
measures are expected to give SODEFOR sufficient autonomy and
flexibility to execute the project efficiently when accompanied by
improvements in SODEFOR's internal management now being implemented.
31.      SODEFOR has a permanent staff of over 500 with about 1,500
seasonal workers. It is responsible for about 54,000 ha of established
plantations at 10 sites. Of this, 38,000 ha (1983) at 6 sites are
currently being extended at the rate of 5,000 ha per year for the
production of saw logs. In addition, since the dissolution of the
Ministry of Water and For-ests, SODEFOR has assumed the responsibility
for 9 small fuelwood and pole plantations. Following a management study
conducted in May, 1983 under the Government's structural adjustment
program, SODEFOR began a program for decentralizing management. Along
with improved training and some organizational changes, SODEFOR is
transferring more decision-making to regional and plantation managers.
Work has been aided by b-ilateral assistance and proceeds from the
CDC/IBRD First Forestry Project loans.  Continuation of efforts, which
will require up to two years to complete, would be supported in the
proposed Project. SODEFORts technical performance has been acceptable,
although the organization is approaching the limit of the number of
activities it can perform efficiently. To ensure that its management
capacity is not exceeded, SODEFOR agreed during negotiations that it
would consult and reach concensus with the Bank on any expansion or
diversification beyond its currently planned activities (Section 3.01(b)
of the draft Project Agreement).
32.      Forestry education is provided through several forestry schools
with varying degrees of specialization: Bouake and Bouafle for lower
level staff; an annex at the Bouake Agricultural Institute for forestry
technicians; and Banco provides field training and refresher courses.
Higher-level education isE obtained at universities abroad. At present
about 16 individuals are in French and Canadian universities for this
purpose. Since 1979, Ivorian forestry education has benefitted



-- 13 -
considerably from a project supported by the CCCE, which included
expansion of the forestry school at Bouake. The quality of training is
generally good and the number of graduating technicians and lower level
trainees appears to be sufficient to satisfy the foreseeable personnel
needs of Government and private sector. However, there are, presently,
insufficient middle- and higher-level trainees to meet the demand.
Overseas training appears to be the most cost-effective means of
increasing this number. The principal problem is that new graduates at
all levels lack the experience needed by operational organizations such
as SODEFOR. To address this need, as well as a general need to raise
the level of technical performance of staff, SODEFOR would engage an
operations methods engineer who would define work norms, assist line
managers to apply the norms in their work places, and monitor progress
(para 49). Permanent in-service training will also be required and
would be provided under the proposed project. Forestry research,
conducted by the French Centre Technique Forestier Tropical (CTFT), has
been supported by both bilateral and multilateral agencies. Its
comprehensive research effort has responded well to the practical needs
of SODEFOR, and would be supported under the proposed project (para 50).
Sector Strategy
33.      Since independence, Government has taken a highly exploitive
approach to the country's forest resources, both as a source of foreign
exchange and of revenue for Government. This policy also permitted
converting land from forest to the production of perennial crops (cocoa,
coffee, oil palm and rubber) which also generated foreign exchange
earnings and tax revenue. While in the national interest, such
exploitive forestry practices also benefitted loggers, concession
holders, and farmers seeking land. With abundant stands of timber,
relatively low production costs, and lax application of forestry
controls and concession regulations, there has been no incentive for the
private sector to undertake investment in forest regeneration.
Moreover, farmers who were encouraged by Government to plant cocoa and
coffee trees made these plantations as extensive as possible in order to
claim land. Government first officially recognized the need to begin
reforestation on a large scale in 1966, the year SODEFOR was created
(para 29), and in the decade that followed SODEFOR planted about 24,000
ha of tropical hardwoods.  In 1979, Government launched a IBRD/CDC
supported forestry project, which enabled SODEFOR to expand its
reforestation program to 4,000 ha per year (para 38), and a CCCE
supported project which allowed SODEFOR to plant an additional 1,000 ha
per year.
34.      In the 1981-85 Development Plan, Government formalized targets
for log extraction and the division of this harvest between local
processing and direct export. Government proposed that log production
from natural forests be limited to 4 million m3 per year with
permissible log exports limited to 1.5 million m3 per year. In the
longer term, domestic demand is expected to reach 4 million m3 round
wood equivalent by 2030, when an estimated 2.5 million m3 of
plantation-grown wood would also be available. Domestic demand would



- 14 -
therefore be fully met, with residual supplies exported. In addition,
the Plan reiterated the dual strategy initially enunciated in the
1976-80 Plan: establishment of a 3.0 million ha permanent forest
reserve, which would be managed on a sustained yield basis, and creation
of 0.5 million ha of short-rotation (25-35 years) timber plantations.
However, considering the rate at which unspoiled forest areas were being
exploited (about 0.4 mi:Llion ha/yr) and the rate at which SODEFOR was
re-planting (5,000 ha/yr), these targets were unrealistically ambitious
and the measures adopted insufficient.  Even a SODEFOR replanting rate
of 10,000 ha/yr, as originally hoped, would not be sufficient to
compensate fully for the depletion of comrsercially exploitable reserves,
if Government were not at the same time to implement a policy of
reducing the pace of exploitation and new land opening, and of
encouraging conservation and regeneration, through reform of concession
and taxation policies and through strengthening of forestry surveillance
and control services.
35.      Since the re-integration of forest services into MINAGREF in
December 1983, Government has taken new initiatives to redefine and
improve the execution of its forestry strategy. First, MINAGREF has
begun to apply existing forestry law more vigorously and to reinforce
the services responsible for policing classified forest reserves.
Arrangements to house guards on site, and to equip them adequately are
being finalized. Second, taxes on the export of rare species have been
increased, and collection of cutting and concession fees should be
improved following the assumption of this responsibility by the Ministry
of Finance. Third, MINAGREF completed a census of current
concession-holders in February, 1984, to identify those who are likely
to be viable in the long term. It has determined that at least half of
those with concessions would not have them renewed, and has decided to
renew concessions in only one of four zones in the southern forests. On
the basis of the census results a new system for awarding concessions is
being prepared which would, on a pilot basis, be applied to
cooperatives. Fourth, Government's sensitivity to the fragility of the
forest ecology has been heightened since 1982/83 when about 450,000 ha
of natural forest, cocoa and coffee plantations and an additional
250,000 ha of cropland were fire swept.  The severity of the fires was
attributed to the drought, which many interpreted as being linked to a
reduction in dense forest cover, Governmenit also began promoting
greater public awareness of the risk to the forest created by fire. As
evidence of this, Government has establishhed a national committee for
the control of forest fires and is developing a National Plan of Action
which will involve officials down to the level of sub-prefect.
36.      Government's dual approach to regulate the rate of forest
exploitation on the one hand, and to promote timber plantations as a
substitute source of industrial wood on the other, is sound but its
implementation lacks dynamism. The natural forest with its unique
mixture of species cannot regenerate within a sufficiently short period
to sustain a growing industry, and the potential yield per plantation
hectare of species with relatively short maturity periods significantly
exceeds that of the natural forest. The dialogue on the future of the



- 15 -
forestry sector has helped develop Government's sense of urgency for
reform, as indicated by the recent creation of a Forestry Sector Task
Force whose mandate is to develop a National Forestry Plan. The Bank
has been asked to assist the Task Force and has responded positively.
The Task Force began its work in September, 1984, by assessing the
status of Government's forestry policy.   A preliminary report appears
to confirm assessments made earlier, highlighting that lack of
resources, inadequate regulations and poor application of laws, and a
basically exploitive attitude among farmers and the forestry industry
has led to the present situation,, The report also indicates that the
complexity of the demographic, social, financial and political problems
to be solved in developing an appropriate forestry policy should not be
underestimated. To develop a better understanding of how to deal with
those issues, the Task Force is addressing several areas of concern
concurrently: forest protection, reconstitution of forest resources,
wood markets and marketing, management and exploitation of forests.
Government expects to complete analysis of these areas and prepare by
April/May 1985 a preliminary national Forestry Plan and Action Program.
The Final Plan and Action Program would be completed by December 1985.
This would coincide with preparation for and execution of the country's
next five-year development plan covering the 1986-1990 period. The
Action Plan would concentrate on concession policies, fiscal measures
and conservation, rational exploitation and forestry regeneration.
During negotiations, Government agreed to complete these actions by the
times indicated (Section 3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement). In some
cases, particularly in defining regulations for concessions and fiscal
measures, further analytical work will be necessary, and the proposed
project includes resources for the execution of such studies.
37.      Government policy will be complemented by the development of a
fuelwood policy and a more realistic approach to smallholder forestry
(agro-forestry). In the southern area of the country, the existing
forest cover is adequate to provide sufficient fuelwood but in the
northern part of the country, catchment areas for fuelwood around urban
areas have been increasing, which may indicate that some permanent loss
of forest/bush cover has occurred. Several modest attempts have been
made to distribute seedlings to farmers, in an effort to promote
smallholder agro-forestry; however, a well-programmed approach has not
been developed. The proposed project would provide resources in this
area (para 50).
Bank Involvement in the Sector
38.      The Bank's main financial involvement in the sector to date has
been through the First Forestry Project (Loan 1735-IVC) approved in
1979. The project cost was estimated to be US$39.4 million and was
financed by a US$18.0 million Bank loan, a US$12 million loan from the
CDC, and by US$9.4 million from Government. It supported Government's
strategy of establishing hardwood plantations, producing trees for
export and use by local processors, by planting 4,000 ha per year over
five years, within four designated, logged-out forest reserves. The
project also provided for the maintenance of up to 22,000 ha of



- 16 -
plantations established before 1979/80, as well as technical assistance
for the Ministry of Wate!r and Forests and SODEFOR, the executing agency.
39.      The project has been technically successful.  In the period up
to June 1984, SODEFOR had cleared and plarnted about 17,800 ha of the
total 20,000 ha program. However, fire destroyed about 2,000 ha of
planted trees in 1982 and 1983 in the Sangoue and Tene plantations.
Since July 1984, land clearing and planting has continued, principally
to establish fir- belts so that about 2,000 ha more will have been
planted by the eXld of the project, largely compensating for the trees
lost. Therefore it appears that about 90% of the project's planting
objectives will have been met, the shortfall being accounted for by work
interruptions caused by machinery failures, in 1981, and fire in 1982/83.
40.      A cost overrun of about 57% in CFAF terms resulted from major
unforeseen maintenance costs of heavy equipment, mandatory pay raises
for hired workers, and price rises for imports following depreciation of
the CFA franc by nearly 53% over the project period. In dollar terms,
however, a cost underrun of about 18% is now expected.  With the
inclusion of more valuable Teak being planted in fire belts, and with
updated yield and price assumptions, the economic rate of return for the
first project is expected to be only slightly lower than the 11%
originally estimated.
41.      Several valuable lessons have been learned from the First
Project which have been incorporated into the design of the proposed
project. Firstly, the experience showed that it was technically
feasible to undertake planting programs of the scale involved, which had
not been done before in Western Africa. Secondly, the forest fires in
1982/83 also swept parts of the project plantations. Fire protection
measures have since been implemented including increasing the emphasis
given to fire resistant species in the planting program, constructing
and planting fire belts, adopting a two-year forest clearing and land
preparation program before planting occurs to permit more thorough
destruction of clearing residues, and training and equipping of fire
wardens and brigades to control fire within plantations as well as in
the surrounding countryside. Thus, while the risk of fire may always be
present, it is now being managed to an acceptable degree. Finally,
experience showed a greater problem with yield-reducing fungus and
insect attacks than had been anticipated for the single species
plantations. This problem has been contained with the introduction of
species with proven resistance to such attacks (para 47).
42.      Farmers, who have generally occupied logged-over land in the
forest zone, have also enitered the forest reserves at the same time as
they were being planted by SODEFOR. During the first project, SODEFOR
did not experience severe competition with farmers for the prime sites
for block planting as farmers generally prefer to occupy bottomlands.
Moreover, farmers have not crossed limits of forest plantations once
established. However, expansion of farming has begun to limit the
extent to which plantations can continue to expand in the future within
these forest reserves. ]3y October 1983, of the 111,000 ha within the



- 17 -
four forest reserves, about 28,400 had been permenently occupied by
farmers, and about 37,000 ha reforested, leaving 45,600 to be committed
to new plantations or farming, including land which may be less suited
to traditional SODEFOR reforestation in blocks. Of the land used by
farmers, 12,000 ha was officially transferred to agricultural use in a
block at Irobo, but the rate of spontaneous encroachment has not been
measured. Nonetheless, within the 45,600 ha, 20,000 ha suitable for
growing timber with acceptable yields can be located for the sites of
the proposed plantations. However, it is unlikely that significant
reforestation within the four reserves will be possible after the
completion of the second project. While SODEFOR cannot be expected to
deal fully with problems of national forestry control, SODEFOR has
embarked on more extensive monitoring of farmers, using ground crews and
aerial photography, and has begun to repossess land planted in food
crops, taking legal action as far as that is possible. SODEFOR's
efforts would be supported under the second project. Government has
also begun its program to control other forestry reserves (para 35).
43.      The forestry sector has played a significant role in the
development of the Ivory Coast. Under favorable conditions it could
continue to do so. The sector could continue to generate sizeable
foreign exchange earnings and provide a basis for secondary processing
and employment. Wood is likely to continue to provide fuel for the
majority of Ivorians and the forests will continue to yield important
environmental benefits. However, poor application of otherwise
acceptable policies, and the lack of investment in forest regeneration
and protection threaten this future. Bank participation has and could
continue to provide a significant share of the financial support needed
for regeneration efforts, and thus demonstrate the feasibility of the
approach and techniques involved. More significantly, however,
continued Bank participation would provide appropriate support for
Government to continue the process it has begun to identify, analyse,
and ultimately remedy, policies which will otherwise impede forestry
development. In addition, this participation will help broaden policy
in the area of smallholder forestry which has not evolved adequately.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
44.      The proposed project was identified as a possible continuation
of the Ivory Coast Forestry Project (Ln. 1735-IVC) in 1976 by the
IBRD/FAO Cooperative Program. Preparation was begun by SODEFOR, in
March 1982. This preparation was updated in July 1983 following serious
forest fires in the first half of calendar 1983, to account for improved
fire control measures proposed during project supervision. A joint
IBRD/CDC appraisal of the proposed project took place in
September/October 1983. Negotiations were held in Washington November
5-9, 1984. The Ivorian Delegation was headed by Mr. Victor Kouame,
Deputy Director of Public Debt at the Caisse Autonome



- 18 -
d' Amortissement (CAA). Staff Appraisal Report (#5151-IVC, February 4,
1985) is being circulated separately.
45.      The proposed project would assist Government to realize its
goal of establishing forest plantations to substitute for dwindling
.natural forest reserves, by doubling the area already planted under the
.first project in four of the six active plantations controlled by
SODEFOR (Map, IBRD 18136R). It would also help strengthen the
management capacity of SODEFOR, which will continue to play a
significant role in executing this part of Government's forestry
strategy in the future. At the same time the project would provide
support for MINAGREF in identifying and analyzing issues restraining
:forestry sector development, to permit Government to embark on policy
reform (para 36). The project would also help define, program and
eventually execute a smallholder forestry policy in the northern,
woodscarce zones of the country, an aspect of policy which has not
figured prominently in Government's strategy to date.
Project Description and Detailed Features
46.      The proposed project, to be implemented over a period of five
years, would include:
(a) provision of about 204 man months of services of experts on a
long-term and short-term basis to M:INAGREF for studies in
support of policy reform and for smallholder forestry
programming; and 60 man months of services in support of
financial control;
(b) mechanical clearing and preparation of 20,000 ha of logged over
forest reserve and planting this newly cleared area, plus about
2,000 ha of land planted under the first project which was
burned over, in short and medium rotation high valued species;
(c) maintenance and protection of the 22,000 ha newly planted
forests during the five years of the project, in addition to
thinning and pruning of 17,800 ha of immature trees planted
under the first project, and 17,500 ha of trees planted before
the first project in the four project plantations;
(d) construction and maintenance of about 1,760 km of forest tracks
in the four plantations;
(e) provision of about 240 man months of service by experts for
SODEFOR on a long-term basis, to assist in executing the
planting and maintenance programs, and 50 man months, of
short-term consultants' services in areas of marketing,
organizational reform, fire control, and training; and
(f) support for production-oriented applied research in areas of
vegetative propagation and small diameter wood utilization, and



- 19 -
in-service training, including local and foreign study tours
for qualified SODEFOR staff.
47.      Species would be selected on the basis of their potential
economic contributions, and planting of those with the highest value
would be extended up to the limits imposed by site characteristics.
Thus, annual planting programs would be determined after a detailed
assessment of site suitability has been made.  Two new species, Teak and
Gmelina, which are resistant to fire and insect attack, would be
introduced as principal plantation crops. It is tentatively planned
that Teak would occupy 34 percent of the new planted area, Gmelina 24
percent, pine 7 percent, Terminalia 25 percent and Samba and Cedrela 5
percent each. However, these percentages are not considered to be
targets and the possibility of including more area in high valued
species would be kept under review.
48.      Resources would be provided under the project to support fire
control measures introduced in late 1983. These include, principally,
provision of equipment for fire fighting and surveillance brigades,
training of plantation fire wardens and increasing contact with farmers
outside the forest reserves, who lost coffee and cocoa trees to fire in
1982/83, to assist them to build simple fire breaks. These measures
would complete prevention measures already accommodated in project
design such as the inclusion of fire belts planted with Teak as part of
the plantation program, increased planting of fire resistant species,
and improved weeding practices.
49.      SODEFOR's staff would be strengthened through an in-service
training program focussing on improved technical and financial
management, and work-related technical skills used in plantation work.
This would be accomplished by an. operations methods engineer who would
diagnose needs, establish performance norms, assist line managers to
apply these norms and monitor progress. SODEFOR would employ the
services of a forestry trainer for about 3 months per year, who would
design and launch the training program. Resources would be provided for
up to 20 short term study tours in neighboring countries and within
Ivory Coast for key staff. The annual training program and its budget
would be submitted to the Bank f'or approval. SODEFOR would also employ
three internationally recruited specialists in accounting, mechanical
engineering and market development for approximately 60 man-months each.
SODEFOR would secure about 12 man months of assistance to complete its
internal reorganization, begun under the first project, and a further 23
man months of short term consultants' services in the areas of
marketing, fire control, and tree improvement.
50.       MINAGREF would be supported with 24 man months of consultants'
services for short-term specific assignments in support of policy reform
efforts which Government has already launched (para 35).    The project
would also support production-oriented research in areas of vegetative
propagation and for testing the technical properties and marketability
of small diameter wood. An internationally recruited financial
controller and a forester experienced in smallholder and village



- 20 -
forestry programming and execution would be hired by MINAGREF -- the
former to monitor SODEFOR's budget and expenditures and internal audit
on behalf of the Ministry (para 51); the latter to identify, program,
prepare and eventually supervise the execution of smallholder and
village reforestation in the wood-scarce northern regions of the
country.  MINAGREF would also engage the services of a forestry
economist to assist in executing forestry policy and a forestry planner
to assist in further policy definition and formulation.  In all cases,
the individuals to be employed would have qualifications, experience and
job descriptions acceptable to the Bank. (Section 3.02 of the draft
Loan Agreement and Section 2.02(a) of the draft Project Agreement).
l?roject Implementation
51.      The project would be executed under the auspices of MINAGREF,
which has overall responsibility for the Ivorian forestry sector.
SODEFOR, which successfully established plantations under the first
project, would execute the plantation program and subcontract with CTFT
for the production-oriented research and testing. For plantation
operations of this type to be efficient, all clearing, planting and
maintenance should be managed as an integrated operation, making
subcontracting of partial operations inappropriate. Thus, plantation
urorks would be executed on force account. Draft contracts for the
research and testing activities would be submnitted to the Bank for
approval before signature as a condition of disbursement against
eligible research costs (Schedule 1, para 3(b) and (c) of the draft Loan
Agreement). Financial oversight of SODEFOR would be provided through a
project-supported Financia:L Controller. MINAkGREF would be responsible
for identification, programming, and eventua:L supervision of smallholder
forestry.
52.      SODEFOR headquarters staff would continue to prepare annual
land clearing and planting programs specifying the sites, areas, species
to be planted and calendar to be followed, ini consultation with
SODEFOR's Regional Managers and plantation managers who would be
responsible for their execution. Annual land clearing, planting,
maintenance and protection programs, along with their budgets, and the
modalities of their use as agreed in a contrat plan between SODEFOR and
Government, would be completed and submitted to the Bank for approval no
later than August 31 of each year (Section 2.03(i) of the draft Project
Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
53.      Project costs (including taxes and contingencies) are estimated
at US$51.6 million with foreign exchange costs of US$29.5 million (57%).
Taxes are estimated to be US$5.8 million. Physical and price
contingencies account for 45% of project base cost or 31% of project
total cost, with price contingencies based on the following rates: 8%,
1985; 9%, 1986-1988; and 7.5%, 1989 for international costs; for local
costs, 2 percentage points higher in each year.



- 21 -
54.      Total project costs would be covered by a Bank loan for US$31.3
million, a CDC loan for US$10.0 million, and a Government contribution
of US$10.3 million principally for local personnel, recurrent costs and
the US$5.8 million payable in taxes. Although not included as a project
cost, Government would also pay about US$12.8 million in debt service to
TBRD and CDC during the five-year project period. The Bank and CDC
contributions would cover all foreign costs and US$11.8 million (or 72%)
of local costs net of tax. Government's relatively low contribution (20
percent of total project cost or 10 percent of project costs
net-of-taxes) is consistent with the Bank's current policy of assisting
the Ivory Coast to overcome its present financial difficulties.
Satisfactory fulfillment by Government of conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the CDC loan would be a condition of effectiveness of
the Bank loan (Section 6.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). Government
would bear the foreign exchange risk.
55.      Of the proceeds of the Bank and CDC loans, and Government's
contribution, (i) US$43.7 million would be used by SODEFOR to establish
and maintain the project plantations; (ii) US$2.7 million would be used
by SODEFOR to finance plantation related research; (iii) US$3.3 million
would be used by SODEFOR to support its headquarters' functions; and
(iv) US$1.9 million would be used by MINAGREF for smallholder forestry
programming and assistance, financial control of SODEFOR, and
policy-related consultancies. Government would recover its investment
in the plantations through the sale of plantation-grown wood at maturity
on the stump, and through the sale of thinnings at roadside when these
have been extracted by SODEFOR as part of its maintenance of the
plantations.
56.      Government would channel its contribution to the project
through a Project Account opened in the name of SODEFOR at the Caisse
Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA), to which SODEFOR would have access on
demand (subject to controls appropriate to its legal status), and would
deposit in this account CFAF 225 million (US$520,000) as a condition of
loan effectiveness (Section 6.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). At
effectiveness, the Bank and CDC would deposit in separate Special
Accounts at the same institution CFAF 670 million (US$1.5 million) and
CFAF 225 million (US$0.5 million equivalent) respectively to bring
working capital available to the project to CFAF 1,120 million (US$2.6
million). This represents 3 months project costs. Opening the Special
Account to receive the Bank's advance would also be a condition of loan
effectiveness (Section 6.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
57.      Procurement arrangements are summarized in the following table,
the Bank's participation being shown in parentheses:



- 22 -
Procurement Method (US$ millions)
Category of Expense              ICB        LCB       Other      Total
Vehicles, Equipment (Heavy) a/           12.1                            12.1
(7.5)                          (7.5)
Vehicles, Equipment (Light) b/                      1.6                   1.6
(1.2)                (1.2)
Establishment, Maintenance c/                                  22.2     22.2
(14.2)   (14.2)
Operating Costs d/                                              9.1      9.1
(3.1)    (3.1)
Long and Short Term Consultants e/                              3.9      3.9
(3.9)    (3.9)
Project Related Research f/                                     2.7      2.7
(1.4)    (1.4)
12.1     1.6        37.9      51.6
TOTAL                                    (7.5)    (1.2)       (22.6)   (31.3)
a/ Land clearing tractors, lorries, trailers; lots exceeding US$150,000
each.
b/  Personnel vehicles, workshop and light field equipment; lots valued
between US$50,000 and US$150,000 each.
c/  Integrated forestry operations including forest clearing, land
preparation, planting and maintenance; on force account.
d/  Office running, vehicle running, local personnel and travel costs;
lots valued less than US$50,000 each, procured through normal
Government procedures, found acceptablea during first project.
e/  Procured following IBRD Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and the World Bank as Executing Agency.
f/  Subcontracted to single source research institutions, following IBRD
approval of proposed terms of references and contracts (para 51).
58.      The Bank loan would be disbursed over a five and one half year
period. This is shorter than average disbiursement period for loans in
the Ivory Coast (7 years) but is similar to experience in disbursing the
first loan, and accounts for the initial deposit made by the Bank at
effectiveness amounting to about 5% of the IBRD loan. It was agreed at
negotiations that, since Government's short-term financial position was
extremely tight, the Bank and CDC would cover a larger share of
operating costs in PY 1 and 2, and a correspondingly lower percentage in
the last three project years. This agreem,ent is reflected in the
different disbursement p,ercentages applicable to this category of
expenditures, as indicatied below. Disburs,ements would cover actual
expenditures as follows:
(a) SODEFOR: 65 percent of the cost of field operations; 38 percent
of operating costs up to June 30, 1987 and 32 percent



- 23 -
thereafter; 54 percent of contracted research, and 33 percent
of contracted testing, 62 percent of vehicles and equipment and
100 percent of internationally recruited staff, consultants,
training and travel;
(b) MINAGREF: 100 percent of internationally recruited staff and
consultants.
About 10% would be unallocated. All expenditures would be fully
documented except for land clearing, soil preparation, planting,
maintenance and protection of forest plantations, local staff costs,
office supplies, and fuel and lubricants, which would be disbursed
against statements of expenditure. These would be retained by SODEFOR
and MINAGREF for examination during supervision.
59.      SODEFOR would maintain -records consistent with sound accounting
practices, reflecting its genera:L financial situation and detailed costs
of operations financed by the project. SODEFOR would appoint
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and audit reports would be
submitted to the Bank not later than six months after the end of
SODEFOR's financial year. As was the case under the first project,
SODEFOR would continue to send quarterly progress reports to the Bank
detailing the work achieved at each of the four plantations being
financed under the project together with financial reports (Section 3.07
of the draft Loan Agreement).
Production, Markets and Financial Results
60.      Production from the project plantations (20,000 ha new area
plus 2,000 ha replanted) would amount to a total of 6.6 million m3 of
round wood on the stump by 2024, when the final cut of mature Teak would
be completed. Of this total, about 4.6 million m3 or 70% would be in
the form of large saw logs and logs suitable for peeling as veneers or
plywood. This would be available principally between 15-40 years after
the start of the project. A further 1.7 million m3 or 26% of total
production would be in the form of small and low grade logs becoming
available about 10 years after the start of the project. About 0.3
million m3 or 4% of total production would be available as poles for
local consumption 5 years after the start of the project.
61.      The world market for logs and timber is predicted to remain
buoyant in the future, particularly for high quality logs for peeling
and slicing of the species to be emphasized in project planting. World
Bank commodity analysts project a real growth in prices for tropical
logs and sawn timber of 3-4% annually to at least 1995. Ivorian
plantation-grown wood, which would be of smaller diameter than natural
woods currently being marketed, has not been traded in quantity.
However, a preliminary market survey conducted by SODEFOR indicates that
the major wood crop (Teak) could be successfully sold either as logs or
sawn timber. Nonetheless, to account for market uncertainties, and the
fact that production would be marketed several years after the period



- 24 -
covered by the Bank's projections, a rate of real price increases of
1-2% has been used in economic and financial analysis of the project.
62.      Returns from the sale of wood produced by the project would
begin in PY6. Of the total value of wood produced, estimated in
constant terms (basis 1989) at CFAF 380 bi:Llion (US$880 million), 17%
would be generated between PY6-20, 26% between PY21-30 and 57% between
PY31-40. As a consequence of the delay in earning revenue from the
project and the early occurrence of debt service charges, annual cash
flows for the 22,000 ha to be planted wouldi be negative to about PY13.
On average, annual net cash outflows would be in the order of CFAF 1.7
billion (US$3.9 million) PY1-5; and CFAF 2.7 billion (US$5.9 million)
per year PY6-10. Debt servicing which wou:ld be Government's
responsibility, would account for 66% of the net outflow between PY1-5
and all of the net outflow between PY6-10. The cumulative net cash flow
would become positive after PY18. The consolidated cash flow for the
first and second projects, for the years covered by the second project
shows that, as a result of revenues generated by the sale of wood from
the first project plantations, the first positive annual cash flow would
appear in PY9 rather than PY14. Because the recurrent cost of the
project would continue ai'ter the end of the project execution period,
SODEFOR would require addlitional financing from Government of about
CFAF 1.1 billion per year (US$2.5 million) between PY6-10; CFAF 0.8
billion per year (US$1.9 million) between PY11-15 and CFAF 0.7 billion
per year (US$1.6 million), between PY 16-20. Government agreed at
negotiations to assure that this funding would be made available
(Section 3.08 of the draf't Loan Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
63.      The project's quantifiable benefits would be the 6.6 million m3
of standing timber produced on the four plantations (para 60). This
production would help assiure continuing supplies for local processing
and export to partially substitute for declining availability of natural
grown woods. As such, thLe project would help Government to achieve its
forestry strategy. Unquantifiable benefits would result from the support
given under the project to the analysis and resolution of major sectoral
problems currently limiting an expanded role for forestry in national
economic development.
64.      Based on quantifiable benefits and. a full costing of plantation
investments, maintenance, protection, research, and personnel, the
estimated economic rate of return to the project is 12%. This rate
exceeds the opportunity cost of capital in the Ivory Coast, currently
estimated to be 10%. For individual plantations, economic rates of
return are 14% at Tene, between 12 and 13% for Sangoue and Mopri, and
10% for Irobo. The lower rate of return at Irobo is attributed to the
fact that the plantation is smaller and thus has lower production
potential, and is not as suitable ecologically for Teak production on as
large a scale as the other plantations. A structural decline in
benefits of up to 28% or a rise in costs of 38% would be necessary to
reduce the project economic rate of return to 10%. Such structural



- 25 -
shifts are not considered likely in real terms. As the project is a
second investment in an ongoing program, delays in implementation are
not likely. Nonetheless, a one-year delay in planting while continuing
to incur the fixed costs of the project (amounting to about 42% of total
project costs) would reduce the project ERR to about 11.5%. Plantation
component ERR's would fall by about 0.5% with similar delays.
65.      Experience under the first project has considerably reduced
technical risks to the project, even though the project continues to be
an innovative and ambitious approach to large-scale reforestation in
Western Africa. The selection of species to be planted has been made to
emphasize those whose future markets are most likely to grow (Teak,
Gmelina, Pine), without prejudice towards smaller diameter wood from
thinnings and final cuts. In addition, SODEFOR has strengthened its
capacity to undertake market development and would continue this
activity under the project. Therefore, the market risk is being
adequately managed. A management risk arises as SODEFOR will be
required to continue plantation establishment, increase its
silvicultural activities, maintain a growing plantation area, and
intensify its protection activities, not only in the four project
plantations, but also in plantations being supported by other lenders.
However, provision has been made in the project to support further
reorganization of SODEFOR's operations.
66.      Farmer intrusions and the threat of fire will continue to
present a serious potential risk to the project and project design
measures have been taken to contain these risks. Government has shown
renewed commitment to controlling fire (para 41) and farmer intrusions
(para 42) and the project would support these efforts.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
67.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of the Ivory
Coast and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and
SODEFOR, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors.  Special conditions
of the proposed project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
i           68.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 26 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
69.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
February 6, 1985



-27 -                                         Annex I
T A B L e  3A                            Page  I  of 6
IVORY COAST             - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
IVORY COAST                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) ia
MOST                 (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT         MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960,/b    19701b     ESTIMATe/b   AFRICA S. OF SAHARA    N. AFRICA & MID EAST
AREA (THOUSAIID SQ. KM)
TOTAL                                 322.5        322.5        322.5
AGRICULTURAL                           56.1         57.7         69.3
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                     200.0        400.0        950.0              1112.9                   1149.6
ENERGY CONStWPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF OIL EQUIVALENT)          50.0        169.0        191.0               529.0                    622.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)      3460.0      5000.0        8936.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)          19.3         27.6         4l.6                Z9.7                     48.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                 17.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                   58.5
POPULATION MOMENTUM                                             2.0
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                          10.7         15.5         26.6                55.8                     36.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND               61.7        86.7         124.0               111.5                    461.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (X)
0-14 YRS                            43.8        42.9          45.0                45.4                     43.6
15-64 YES                            53.6        55.0          52.9                51.7                     53.1
65 AND ABOVE                          2.6         2.2           2.0                 2.9                      3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                 2.1          3.7 Ic       4.8 /c              2.8                      2.8
URBAN                                 6.0          7.3          8.3                 5.2                      4.5
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)           49.2         48.4         47.8                47.0                     40.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)           23.7         20.3         16.9                15.2                     11.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.4          3.4          3.3                 3.2                      2.8
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)              ..
USERS (2 OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..           ..          3.0                  *-                     22.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                          99.0         97.0        107.0                91.6                     97.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (X OF REQUIREMENTS)        118.0        120.0        112.0                98.2                    110.8
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             57.0        60.0          56.0                56.7                     70.1
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          15.0         16.0         16.0 /d             17.0                     17.8
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE            40.0         31.0         23.0                18.7                     14.6
NEALTb'
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)          38.5        42.5          47.4                51.7                     57.5
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)         167.0       146.0         119.0               102.7                    101.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..         19.0 /e             35.6                     59.7
URBAN                                  ..           ..         50.0 7e             54.1                     84.5
RURAL                                  ..           ..          5.0 /e             27.3                     38.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(1 OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  *-          5.0         25.0 /e
URBAN                                  ..        23.0          33.0 7.
RURAL                                  ..           ..         22.0 /e.
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            29190.0     14080.0       21040.0 /f          11948.3                   4345.1
POP. PER NURSING PERSON              2920.0 La   2880.0 /h      810.0 7f h         2248.9                   1831.1
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               680.0       790.0         810.0 if            986.9                    632.9
URBAN                                  *-       490.0            *-               368.7                    545.5
RURAL                                  ..      1330.0            ..              4012.1                   2513.5
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..           ..           ..                  ..                     26.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                  ..           ..
URBAN                                 3.4 /f        ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                  ..           ..
URBAN                                 1.8 /I        ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (X OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 1.0 /k        ..           ..                  ..                     46.2
URBAN                                 0.7 7         ..           ..                  ..                     77.7
RURAL                                  ..           ..           ..                  ..                     16.1



- 28 -                                     Annex I
T   8 L E   3                              Page  2  of  6
IVORY COAST               - SOCtAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
IVORY COAST                              REFERENCE GROUPS (WtECHTED AVERAGES)  A
MOST                   (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /k
RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960Lk      1970/b     ESTIMATiiL     AFRICA S. OF SAHARA    N. AFRICA & MID EAST
BDUCATtON
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                       46.0         63.0          76.0 /1             91.0                       88.3
MALE                       68.0         80.0          92.0 7!              90.5                     102.5
FEMALE                     24.0         45.0          60.0 7               73.6                      73.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                        2.0          9.0          17.0 /1             17.4                      43.0
MALE                        4.0         14.0          25.0 7               23.7                      52.3
FEMALE                      1.0          4.0           9.0 /1              14.8                      33.0
VOCATIONAL (C OF SECONDARY)              12.7          7.3          11.0 /e               5.3                      10.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                                41.0         45.0          39.0 /1              38.6                      30.3
SECONDARY                                ..         21.0            ..                 24.3                      23.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                   5.0 /k      20.0          35.0                 35.6                      43.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP               3.3         11.3          14.7 /m              20.7                      17.8
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP             15.9         15.0         121.0                100.8                     138.8
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                 0.4 /g       4.6          36.3                 18.5                      46.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                 2.3          8.8           6.7 /1              17.2                      31.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA            ..          2.0 /n        0.8 71               0.3                       1.7
LABOB YOU:S
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)              1858.0       2658.0        4403.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                       46.2         42.7          41.3                 33.8                      10.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                  89.0         84.0          79.0                 57.1                      42.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                      2.0          3.0           4.0                 17.4                      27.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  53.7         53.2          49.3                 36.3                      26.2
MALE                                   58.4         59.3          55.6                 47.6                      46.4
FEMALE                                 49.1         46.7          42.4                 25.1                       5.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 0.9          0.8           1.0                  1.4                       1.8
INCOMZ DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS               30.9            ..
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              51.8           ..            .
LOWEST 20X OF HOUSEHOLDS                6.6            ..
LOWEST 402 OF HOUSEHOLDS               16.5           ..
POVERTY TARGES GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USs PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                    ..           ..         274.0 /m             525.3                     274.8
RURAL                                    ..           ..          96.0 /m            249.0                      177.2
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                    ..           ..         487.0 /m            477.4                      402.6
RURAL                                    ..           ..         244.0 /In            186.0                     284.9
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (C)
URBAN                                    ..           ..
RURAL                                    ..           ..
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1q59 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and datl for "Most RecenE Estimate" between 1980 and 1982.
/c   Due to immigration population growth rate is higher than rate of natural increase;  /d 1977;  /I  1976;  /f 1975;
/A 1963;  /h Government personnel only;  /i African population in the city of Bouake only, for 1957-58; 7j 1956-
57, African population in urban centers of Abengourou, Agboville, Dimbokro and Man only, refer to households;
/k 1962;  /1 1979;  /I  1978;  /n 1972.
JuNE, 1984



po. ooo~0O  30 50000430000.30 .000.....0 . o . onooop'
00000=00000  30  30000  ~0   000   0.'........     010010  03
03301      ......60000303.124 .0..00000
.M.16  -0  II_   I.I.  .D                                             .... .   ...  . ...o.p00002 .....0 .330p  00    1003 d.3       ad0 j0 ooo'
'jr,oupoooq2o'3.~~oP                     I_0100040000230.3   oooooo
. .. ...... ..303  00 504.3...300I.03-
14, 11                                  j-l~~~~~~~~~~~~0300.103002010o2~00000    pP00~0   4  J   0c0
J.---   P..                                   .. . ..I                                                                              ... .... 001  04  SOo  000  0000  30000 
50  0003 3000030  1030  034 1  POO3SOO 0  20 .00  I*    PI0
4 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~050   00000   0   003306.00   30 3100.3    04
P.,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~3)0   .0<0
'41- I00  30032    0        111<3~010000.  33.. ....00J$500~0
'oood                                                 '03~~~~~0 1051 p..... ... PI '.....,P P '1 ---
oooto.00  00*  o.'o 3 100003300 00403 003.30000 Jo 001002.1040 10061<030000 001  100000'    00o0303.3o.o -  ooo,  oooj sP:.-o P-;'Iosoo
3040 -300000)  5.4 P.,0  00000  00340)3O               3000030<003
03-I Poo34  00043  04500-   301
302  4  00  P003I00 0 100I          00,000   4   0000.   oo,                                        00   0,6'   6  30   1100< 
101201~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,                                 MI 30.  0p15.0   310   00~   000   030   ...6 l3 ..0.. 00  '"o10040...13o    1oo00p  bo 
-    P                                                _00  I0004-00- 304300553350   0             --1202  03.0  --*04  00   31<---;<0  '0<031100  P0-,00  0
P-Pj ...00000   340010001  30400..I003000II                                                     3  1  0   00000''3000   03000000000    000
T-Pool   -soP-od  s         7  d...ood  to.  0   .0*00-30)0   0                                  063  6003.1 <00~ I--;  -R-'Ol0  00.0
0003  .00   300                                     04    ooo o-~           4300006    <3   0101    00
50302o  1  iJOPpI'0000                 . 60P000           2soqo'o.o0.05'200                                  3.0I0o 0'I000.00   160    .03033J23lo
03o~,io20  30030023p30000  400001000300 00300- 01-  -.Io30ooo                      -0000   .. ..0.. oI00o- 1        3.0Ooo4O,03000  V1000-30--                 .
PI,---I.;  -I...    .'I I w T-N-M-743-rP-7 .. 4 0 21)   I201< 000P00                                      0003W  P-     1,6 0b6 1<091"  I)4..3..... 't0    0
00*00 26  100000003 503'"11'  -'P.03.3.-1 20  6003103  00-
.0,0-SI paS  000003  o,i~o2o2 as. 3 1 -0.0. 041         I<330  Oo        I.    0..        P 100 I 7000000  00 70000.  03302_ 01  30I0<000IN
~  ~   30* 05 360 S 0*P00 0003503004 JO 01005 - 0012 OOoopoOoI.4  1000003  310200  13 opOOo 1,010011.100 00 60000  .6010203.1<4.0.
2001.  4302510o300001d0                  
3JI'l,'000000   106J030000060   00p0000   '0300003                                         1100000100.10<01041,00 --0 1d..' '3.00   00II "I P033.0
PS* 50~   Il:I ~         1 1  3I00000000. oO1000IOOO'I I.,0 0000 040  -1    I.o.oO' P0031Oj  00000000I              0  060   0  41'100   O000
013   Ist 30  Col04303]0001300J  13000   0003                                        000.0 d..00013 -0~<.0600  00001..00 03  003003
3-  1 ....  )00- 000.. 3   0030P0).,0  040_-J0000....3  lS                                 p0     .      00   0)0000'......0p03  30, o100p0  30.
0000000    00030054051006J03.   1000  00100JOO                                             o,.o.  3000-   013-oo 3110  400l1l0  21I                        '1000
P.                                                                       oP-t -'IJn--363 60,613 '                     `1 1900040.0   0o.1l0.3 0P.,.>
..J      02   00S00   J.0 0 JI .0113__jSO   o0  100010300
50)2b060003033*p0300001000004  S01po0o50~.q .-I003000 A, -I0000d                         '.0.SOOo.00j  0000
30*0. 30p031'051 -       0)004300        ....0 30000003502030 I0                                   00   0   304)  5-3   0.oo P-'--oo0s.t  OI.0-3
..001.oo.o0000300100300P3o    Alot-  0400, Iooso                         I  I00.0                   Ill6 00004;100'000.003o.
3.0~3500000333    000o )o.00055o5p00100 OSO)3000s0   30.1000o010.oI
Josooo          p056   jddsooooo~1...130050010101Id'  411'05    33340000000..lAlI00'000133
1500 . oosoosoO. 02020000000000p500J001   00000                               .01030000006300003040013000OV               ,30000.00 .01 I0 P.15.36.
053000 1- Jo  os...slo  IOss 02..0 031  Id0       PIIZIo0  o.300   00010                                                  1430   0  1-l'3'00300_03
50030010)05o00J00000000o~qo002o0   00000000                                    000500030000P0o0.-04.   10....00310000030360
"P. 1. I---  Al                 040014                03  00-03400'3000  3-3  00110  -3000.03  20000050.  0103000
I  P.      .....                                                                            -pP~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~01  sI  0  lO  '0346  3030
0,00  .'.0202  3  ol   oo)0.30050  03030 30000 J P .500.0000               p0061  300-, 030d-  00 0I0o  oo. p00.0  -  0332030oo'00 
00300300 p00 p002 00 03003 003030 0302003'3o 300002003 0000 00000013 01060                            000003563 pOO'P"53 '05631000001000
-      'ololopodo20030200030003920002503000000.'                                                                  .
00   3  20000J  00030             A, 0305  0100 Id.ooo   I0 Pot                                                                                 050603000
01  0    "'200 ....00  1100    -r02030d000  30  '0-10  -  1.2 0000-3 54*03                                                                               300
'0oo31di   1003d .oopP oo-   0 - o4ooooI,.-2op 00   ....3 00po00o A                  0302   00   0*030    o    o    0300   0001000 
AT,                                         - -10   -1-11005  0 '000014'030000010      0ol'500000010320  004%030300  00300   1133
00100000300010o300000  O00000  303300  001300                                                 405 0104200  pjoonol'5 200V2A.40PI."          0...30  0 06 600000
WIII11--4                                       -~~~~033000  0 1000P               040  I00,0-   --400  ..4 0000 001003...    oo.o  os)u000
020000000ooopodoooto3.5  5 0o2 4  0033  0  33000  3340           043130003100.40004liooo   100.II.00300 000   o P4I30I0
200000003010004002'303.0012030310                                                     I00050550S03000403    0p0300300005300000
I.30200001Al...054.s0. 000  30]30030001006                                                '303000000000 P.,              3;120;soPM  300roooso ;o-o  p          IP'I0
220o0001000000 -p00000  1- 0300  P3 00   3-00  -  04020004ill010N00003   4   001010000   00 3o   00J 
'ei300   0010   30000   0000  2   30000000000003000000   100301000000030400  I  30900
000All,    0002050300  000001030091   0000                                             50300000003   32000030000    30  4   33o6   0
203 30130000 220103 50003303 00003033  03 p000330 ... 000100000I00   101  4  '030300   000  ,3 03000. 000. 00
Pb   poo303000013  302030ooooo00304   oo0                                                             0003 30003 30000003 Ooo-  %   -0P003  010000-I       00   00
I I_  I P. I                 1"114~0300  30003020  30003000000  03303o  000  pOP..0033000  300 40110020. 50-,6110.3000
30300310  003  0000 30000  0050000000300000 400  'oooooooo  3030003
43s3 ool  ot  000   000300ip~ 32000  2I302030300   0100
'03043000000 03313001 3020  P00I".0'300I   5                           "300 V.040f 0000-. 0030 010  2313100  0,I-,oo    0           Tooo
*i,o0.0000000003 5103 0  2101001. 000 0o3300  300130000                        530  0  030330302o.oodo  003so0*3  00340   0000  woOt
0000P003003000-  001300  3  0000000000033010.00                       30  20003  01  31002000000302030020  31  33030.300
9 Jo     C    aft a ~ ~    ~    ~ ~ 03.  p30oOO'003J  0300000   o300*002100220300o4000
300030T      0oooo2.oo   33033130    200   020'S01lo                                              o3 o03p000303   101300130  3   q01o30o   30



- 30 -
Annex 1
Population:             9294            (eid-1983,thousandl                                        TABLE 3a:  IVORY COAST - ECONOMIC INDICATORS                           Page  4  of  6
GNP per Capita:          720           (IS, 1983)                                                  --------------------------------------------
Asount                                                                    Annual g'aNth rate (1) at constant prices
sillion US$                -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Indicator                    at current prices)                                         Actual                                   Preliminary                             Projected
1983                  ----------------------------------------------                 ------       -----       ----------__
1976     1977      1978      1979      1980                1901      1982      1983                 1904     1985      1986
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross Domestic Product          6730.7                          12.0       4.8       9.9       1.9       7.7                 0,3      -4.0      -4.4                -4.8       2.1       3.0
Agriculture                   1712.2                           8.1     -0.16      10.7       3.7       9.5                 2.7     -2.2    -11.5                 -5.2        4.5       4.5
Industry                     1123.9                           16.5      9.4      19.1       6.1       4.5                 9.7    -16.2        2.0               -16.3       3.5       4.4
Services                     2525.0                         -13.8    -16.7        36.6       6.7      20.2                 .0      -4.7      -0.3               -12.0      -0.2        1.2
Pro.laxes A lep.lluties       1369.6                          76,3      33.0    -14.3      -8.1      -9.1               -10.3       7.1      -6.1                 20.5       2.0       3.0
Consuaption                     5421.4                          14.0       9.7      11.9       2.6       9.4                -1.7      -4.6      -5.5                -6.0       1.4       5.6
Gross Investment                1170.1                          23.6      43.0      21.9      -9.8      -7.9                -9.0    -17.5    -19.9                -22.6       -0.2       2.5
Exports of INFS                 2597.6                          11.7      -7.9       5.8       2.3      13.5                 1.5       5.1      -2.7                 1.5       0.4       0.1
Imports of IMFS                2466.9                          25.7      26.0       14.6     -3.2       8.1                -8.2      -5.0    -17.9                -12.9        2.9       5.5
Iross Domestic Savings           555.5                          66.0      54.6    -20.2    -21.7    -50.4                  -37.1    -20.2       38.5                04.7       4.1    -13.7
PRICES
6DP Deflator 11980=1001          129.5                          65.5      86.4      91.0      97.4    100.0                104.3    116.5    129.5                 144.4    151.7    163.0
Exchange rate (US$1z )           381.1                         239.0    245.7    225.6    212.7    211.3                   271.7    320.6    381.1                 440.0    460.0    445.0
Share of GDP at Market PriceslX)                                                         Average Annual Increase (2)
(at current prices)                                                                 (at cDnstant 1980 prices)
1960     1965      1970      1975      1980      1985      1990            1965/1970           1970/1975           1975/1980           1980/1985           1985/1990
Iross Doaestic Product           100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100,0    100.0    100.0                       8.7                 6.3                 6.9               -2.1                  3.6
Agriculture                     43.5      39.6      31.9      28.2     27.8      27.7      28.8                 5.0                 0.7                 6.0                -0.7                 4.4
Industry                        14.1     15.9      10.5      17.0      16.6      15.5      16.3                13.4                 6.0                10.4                -4.B                 5.3
Services                        30.4      27.9      20.0      36.8      35.6      34.3      32.4                 9.4                14.6                4.6                -4.3                  2.5
Prod,laxes & Isp.Duties         12.0      16.5      20.9      18.0      20.0     21.6      21.5                 12.9                 1.4                10.4                 1.2                 3.6
Consuaption                       82.9      71.4      70.8      77.4      79.6      79.7      85.4                 8.5                 7.5                 9.0               -4.1                  5.2
Gross Investment                  14.6      21.3      20.7      22.0      24.4      13.6      11.6                 7.3                 5.3                11.6              -17.5                  0.1
Exports of 6NFS                   37.1      36.8      35.8      36.7      35.0      40.2      36.7                 0.3                 4.9                 4.7                 1.9                 1.9
lports of 6NFS                   34.5      30.1      29.1      36.6     41.2       33.5     33.7                  7.9                5.5                 12.0              -10.9                 3.0
6ross Doseestic Savings           10.6      10.7      22.8      19.4      10.9      23.8      13.0                15.6                11.4                 7.4              -16.5                 -7.2
As a Y of SDP
PUBLIC FINANCE                              1965      1970      1975      1980      1985
Current Reyenues                            28.6      32.8      29.9      31.7      2B.4
Current Expenditures                        24.6      28.7      24.1      25.7      25.6
Public Savings                               3.9       4.1       5.8       6.0       2.0
Capital Expenditures                         5.1       7.5       8.1      10.7       5.2
Foreign Financing (riet)                     0.9       1.4       2.8       0.2      10.4
OTHER INDICATORS                           1965-70             1970-75             1975-80             19BO-85             1985-90
INP growth Rate (CFAI                        0.6                 5,8                 6.2                -2.9                 4.6
GNP per Capita Iroeth Rate (CFA)             5.0                -0.2                 2.1                -6.9                 0.0
ICOR                                         1.7                 3.0                 3.7                  -                  3.5
Marginal Savings Rate                        0.3                 0.4                -0.9                 0.3                -0.2
lIport Elasticity                            0.9                 0.9                 2.5               -5.3                  1.0
-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - -_-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



- 31 -
Annex I
Population:               9294             (mid-1983,thousand)                                             TABLE 310: 10ORY COAST - ECONOMIC INDICATORSPae5o                                   6
GNP   per   Capita:        720             (US0,   1983)-- - - - - -                                                        - - - - - - - -- - - - - - -
Amount                                                                         Annual growth rate (TI at constant prices
(milli   on   US$             -  - -  - - -  - -  - - - - - -  - - -  - -  - - -  - - -  - -  - - -  - --  - - -  - -  - - -  - -  - - -  - - -  - -  - - - - - -  - -  - - -  - -
Indicator                       at current prices)                                             Actual                                      Preliminary                               Prujected
1983                     - - -  - - -  - -  - - -  - -  - - -  - - -  - -  -             - -  - - -  - -  - - -  - - -              - -  - - -  - -  - - -  - -  -
1976      1977       1970       1979       1980                 1981       1982      1983                  1984      1985       1986
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise Exports               2182.8                             28.3      18.5        6.0       -4.7     -11.4                  -5.3       10.1     -16.2                  11.4        9.0      -0.2
Agriculture                     1123.9                            39.1       19.4        9.2     -10.1      -23.3                  -8.5      13.3      -28.2                  18.7      10.5       -2.2
Industry                        105B.9                             1.2       16.2      -3.7        8.0       10.3                  0.1        4.0        1.0                 -1.5        4.0        7.0
Merchandise Imports               1799.3                             12.4      18.2       12.9       -0.8        1.1                -24.3       -5.7     -117.6                -17.7        3.4       6.7
Fund                             315.2                            17.8       10.1       15.8       10.3     -10.5                 35.8        5.4      -161.4                 -2.7       2.5        7.7
Petroleum                        340.8                            11.9       -0.3       27.0        4.1       8.2                -37.3      -14.2      -17.3                -55.6       28.0       14.0
Manufactured Gnods              1143.3                            11.3       22.9        0.7      -5.4        1.4                -39.1       -8.5      -210.5               -16.0       -3.3        3.4
PRICES
Export Index (1980=100)                                             63.0       71.7       71.1       80.5     100.0                  85.2       73.5      75.9                  72.0      70.4       72.2
Import Index (1980=100)                                             60.0       66.6       74.2      04.2      100.0                  94.9      88.4       84.0                 80.9       81.0       86.9
Term of Trade Index                                                105.0      107.7       90.8       95.5     100.0                  89.0      83.1       90.3                  90.0      86.9       83.1
Composition of Merchandise TradeiX)                                                              Axeruge Annual Increase (%l
(at current prices)                                                                       (at constant 1980 prices)
19sf      1965       1970       1975      1980       1985       1990            1965/1970             1970/i975            1975/1980             1980/1985            1985/1990
Euports                            100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0     100.0      100.0      100.0                  B."                   3.1                  8.9                   0.9                  1.9
Agriculture                       93.0       76.6      76.9       60.4       64.4      55.7       71.0                   0.3                 -2.1                  10.1                  0.7                   0.1
Industry                           7.0       23.4      231.1      39.6       35.6      44,3       29.0                   0.5                 15.7                  7.0                   1.1                  7.0
Imports                            100.0      100.0      100.0     100.0      100.0      100.0     100.0                   6.3                  4.4                   9.5                -12.B                   3.2
Fund                              10.0       16.3       10.9       9.4        9.7       18.0      28.6                  -1.7                  0.5                  12.1                  6.2                   5.9
Petroleum                          9.0        0.0        3.7      11.0       19.9       11.2      20.2                   u.3                  1.2                  11.3                -26.5                   2.0
Manufactured hoods                81.0       70.7       85.4      79.6       70.4       70.8      51.2                   9.1                  5.9                   8.7                -14.5                   1.7
Share of Trade with                                  Share of Trade with                                Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries  (TI                            Developing Countries WX                       Capital Surplus Oil Exporters (it
DIRECTION OF TRADE (a)               1965      1970       1975       1979                 1965       1970       1975      1979                  1965      1970       1975       1979
E,portn                              02.4      86.9       70.0       811.4                13.0       11.1      24.2       11.3                   0.o       0.2        0.0        2.7
Agriculture                       84.2       89,9       75.9        -                   11.0        7.9      18.2        -                    0.6        0,2        0.0       -
Industry  (EucIl, oi1()           50.3       38.2      26.5        -                    49.0      60.7       68.1        -                    0.0        0.0        0.0       -
Imports                             84.7       84,0       81.3      81.3                  14.1       14.3      21.4        6.0                   0.0       0.1        1.3       11.7
(a) To be updated



-   -   -~~~ -~~  -  -~~~ C   ~~ ". 0    0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 .. 0                                                                      .0   =           -        ~       ~        ~       ~       ~       ~        - -    -0        -    -    - -    ---
.0   .0   .0   -                                                                                    .0.0.0.0.0-.- -0-          -              -     0- -        -- - -
0-  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                                                             .0  0-  0-                                  .0~-       - -             -   -   -           -   0   -   - 0 - 0 - 0 -  
.0                                .0  0-            0- *.~~~~~ .. ~~                                                 ...                               .~~   -        0- -  *-     . -0-- -  0- 
.0  -0.0  0-.0.0                                        .0.00.                0-                                         0-                .0.0                                                     .0~~~~~-   -      -     0-  -  0-  0- - - - - - - - - 
-  .0         .0              0-           .0.0                                                              .0~~~~~~~~~     .0  0-                                                    .0 -      -.0     - - - - -                                
.0  .0  . 0          .             0                   0.                                                                         .0                                                           .0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z
0.0.0   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00-                                                                                                                               .0~~~~~~~~~Z                                           K



- 33 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 3
Status of Bank Group Operations in IVORY COAST
A. Statement of Bank Loans and Credits (as of September 30, 1984)
US$ million
Loan or      Fiscal                                        Amount (less cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower        Purpose                 Bank   IDA        Undisbursed
One credit fully disbursed                                    -    7.5
Twenty-five loans fully disbursed                         412.2    -
981-IVC    1974   Ivory Coast   Telecommunications    17.4    -                3.21
1177-IVC    1976   BIDI            DFC                      8.0    -            0.85
1347-IVC    1977   Ivory Coast   Urban Development         30.0    -            3.07
1348-T-IVC  1977   Ivory Coast   Urban Development         14.0    -            1.41
1484-IVC    1978   Ivory Coast   Water Supply              16.0    -            0.68
1501-IVC    1978   Ivory Coast   Feeder Roads              29.0    -            5.43
1577-IVC    1978   Ivory Coast   Abidjan Sewerage II   33.0    -                8.99
1633-IVC    1979   Ivory Coast   Rubber III                 7.6    -            0.03
1663-IVC    1979   CCI             Artisans                12.6    -            7.61
1698-IVC    1979   Ivory Coast   Tourism II                14.2    -            5.45
1735-IVC    1979   Ivory Coast   Forestry                  18.0    -            6.06
1777-IVC    1980   Ivory Coast   Education III             24.0    -           11.36
1827-IVC    1980   Ivory Coast   Rural Development          9.4    -            6.75
1896-IVC    1981   EECI            Power                   33.0    -           28.78
1914-IVC    1981   Ivory Coast   Highway Sector           100.0    -           42.37
2048-IVC    1982   Ivory Coast   Urban Development II  51.0    -               33.12
2059-IVC    1982   Ivory Coast   Technical Assistance  16.0    -               12.00
2130-IVC    1982   Ivory Coast   2nd Water Supply          43.0    -           28.84
2167-IVC    1982   Ivory Coast   Center West               13.0    -           10.78
2189-IVC    1982   Petroci         Petroleum              101.5    -           62.96
2323-IVC    1983   Ivory Coast   Rubber IV                 32.2    -           25.54
2332-IVC    1983   Ivory Coast   SAL II                   250.7    -            7.63
Total                               1,285.8  7.50         312.9
Of which has been repaid              103.4   .11
Total now outstanding                      1,182.4  7.39
Amount sold                 5.1
Of which has been repaid  5.1                   -      -
Total now held by Bank and IDA             1,182.4  7.39
Total Undisbursed                            312.9    -           312.9



- 34 -                              Annex 2
Page 2 of 3
B. Statement of Regional Bank Loans and Credits to Ivory Coast
and Other West African Countries
US$ million
Loan or      Fiscal                                        Amount (less cancellations)
Credit: No.  Year   Borrower       Purpose                 Bank   IDA        Undisbursed
1295-WAF    1976   CIMAO           Regional Climber        49.5    -            0.00
1490-ICUV   1978   RAN             Regional Railway        23.0    -            0.00
969-W4AF    1980   BOAD           Project Preparation       -    3.0           1.94
2242-WJAF    1983   BOAD           Regional Development   6.1    -              6.05
1331-WAF    1983   BOAD            Regional Development    -   14.0            14.00 1/
1/ This Credit is denominated in Special Drawing Rights. The figures in this table
have been converted to U.S. dollars at exchange rate prevailing at time of Credit
negotiations.



- 35 -
Annex 2
Page 3 of 3
C. Statement of IFC Investments (as of September 30, 1984)
Type of                      U.S.'000
Year   Obligator                      Business              Loan    Equity    Total
1965   Banque Ivoirienne de           Industrial             -       204.0      204.0
Developpement Industriel       Development Bank
1978   Banque Ivoirienne de           Industrial             -       219.5      219.5
Developpement Industriel       Development Bank
1977   Ets R. Gonfreville, S.A.       Textiles               -       884.7      884.7
1980   Societe Ivorienne d'Engrais  Fertilizers         4,480.0   1,272.0   5,752.0
1980   MSO                            Flour Mill        2,900.0      406.7   3,306.7
Total Gross Commitments                          7,380.0   2,986.9  10,366.9
Less cancellation, sold or repaid                    -          -          -
Total commitments now held by IFC                       7,380.0   2,986.9  10,366.9



- 3b -
Annex 3
Page 1 of 2
IVORY COAST
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I        Timetable of Key Events
(a)   Identification                    1976 by IBRD/FAO
Cooperative Program
(b)   Preparation:                      Completed March 1982,
updated July 1983
(c)   Appraisal Mission:                September/October 1983
(d)   Negotiations:                     November 1984
(e)   Planned Effectiveness Date:       May 1985
Section II       Special Implementation Actions
None
Section III      Special Loan Conditions
At negotiations Government agreed:
That SODEFOR would not undertake any expansion or
diversification of its currently planned activities
without prior consultation with the Bank and CDC to
arrive! at a concensus that would account for the
concerns of all parties (para 31);
That MINAGREF would furnish to the Bank for comment, by
April 1985, its provisional National Forestry Plan and
Action Program, and, by December 1985, the final
Forestry Plan and Action Program (para 36); and
To provide financing in the post-project period to meet
SODEFOR's needs (para 6:2).
Conditions of loan effectiveness would be:
(a)   The fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the CDC loan (para 54); and



- 37 -
Annex 3
Page 2 of 2
(b)   Opening of a Project Account at CAA in the name of
SODEFOR to which SODEFOR would have access on demand,
and initial deposit therein of CFAF 225 million
(US$520,000 equivalent), and opening a Special Account
in the project's name to receive the Bank advance (para
56).
(c)   Government approval of SODEFOR's statute (para 30).
As a condition of disbursement for applied research:
SODEFOR would obtain prior approval from
the Bank on draft contracts for research in areas of
vegetative propagation and small diameter wood quality
testing (para 51).






IBRD 18136R
IVORY COAST                     tPOETRA
SECOND  FORESTRY  PROJECT   \ .^,                                                                                                        MOE AR EEAINA  OE   EEA
t Mt A A LaX TmEb la ft | g 9 A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NNLAL RAINFALL N                          m      mMOPRI
N fb                                                                                         _ 4 \7'  -lfERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
_1Ep   /.  \                   \       Mb ns eto  (              \   LDD~~~~~~~~~~~ U R K I N A   S
(         ~~~~ODIENNE           G oO\,8FRESEOG t                                                       X \  . 
|  <   '       2 f9               ~~~~~~~~~~~BOUND ALIL Ki3 ~  YROGO3.(\X
8  L'   tA   \)                   )       bg7    CB dliahd /          \\                            O~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~Bou-   r
X,              ooCl                     I    o                        Tfr    
-E sbo t 93 SFGIIFL % (' 8 NbP/ E>,11-                                                                                30NDOUKOUg , 
- I > 0 V V * *,/ R 3 , I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BOA~
09 p J$   \0 \t        Stu  _Ko\+Dam                                        <);1 ///                       i~~~~~~~
fiL9t/g/   03angolo   g\    <                 <                          \f)         OD>O(>rF           /                  1~~~~- D.- 
-     <bX                                  _6_    b                                                                / GUZG 
(   t t                  \    EA9BANERA                                                                       = 
+5   AFRICA /   I   t   \    >    ,   NGo/f de e5e-vs/OGAG OA
h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E~  (   MttF                             , su3_n
'  i      j                      i                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FEBRUARY 19BS






