Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24347
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-43330)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$1 15.0 MILLION
TO THE
MEXICO
FOR PHASE I OF A
BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
05/31/2002
Human Development Sector Management Group
Country Management Unit for Colombia, Mexico and Venezuela
Latin American and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authonzation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 28, 2001))
Currency Unit = New Peso (MS)
MS I0 = USS 0.10
USS 1.0 = MS 9.69
FISCAL YEAI,
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGE      School Management Support (Apoyo a la Gestidn Escolar)
APL     Adjustable Program Loan
ATP     Technical Pedagogic Assistants (Asistentes Tecnico Pedag6gicos)
COMPRANET        Internet Procurement Mechanism (Sistema Electronico de Contrataciones
Gubernamentales)
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CONAFE      National Council for Educational Development (Consejo Nacional de Fomento
Educatrvo) of SEP
DGE     General Directorate for Evaluation (Direcct6n General de Evaluaci6n) at SEP
DGEI     General Directorate for Indigenous Education (Direccidn General de Educacrin
Indigena) at SEP
DGPPP     General Directorate for Planning, Programming, and Budgeting (Direccl6n
General de Planeacitn, Programacion. y Presupuesto) at SEP
FDI    CONAFE's Institutional Development Fund (Fondo de Desarrollo Instirucional)
FMR     Financial Monitonng Report (Informe de Monitoreo Frnanciero)
IADB     InterAmencan Development Bank (Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo)
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (Banco lIternacional
para Reconstrucci6n y Desarrollo)
ICB    Intemational Competitive Bidding (Licitaci6n lnternacional)
INEA     National Instituto for Adult Education (Instituto Nacionalpara la Educacidn de
Adiltos) of SEP
INEGI    Nationa Institute of Statistics, Geography and Information (Instituro ,Vacional de
Estadistica Geografla e Informatica)
MIS     Management Information System (Sistema de lnformaci6n de Gesn6n)
MXN     Mtexican Peso (Peso Wericano)
NAFIN     National Financing Agency (Nacional Ftnanciera. S N.C.)
NCB     National Competitive Bidding (Licitac6on Prtibca Nacional)
OECD     Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PAD     Project Appraisal Document (Documento de Evaluacrin de Proyecto)
PARE     Pnmary Education Project (Programa para Abanr el Re-ago Educattio) (Ln
3407-ME, 1991)
PAREB      Second Primary Education Project (Programa para lbatir el Rezago en
Educact6n Bdsnca) (Ln 3722-ME. 1994)
PAREIB-I     Basic Education Development Project, APL I (Programa para Abatir el
Re-ago en Educaci6n lnicialy Basica) (Ln. 4333-ME, 1998)
PAREIB-II     Basic Education Development Project, APL2 (Programa para Abatnr el
Re-zago en Educact6n Inicial y 8asica)
PI ARE    Integral Program of Education (Programa Integral para Reducir el Rezago
Educativo) IDB-financed
PNE     National Education Program (Programa Nacional de Educacidn)
Posprimaria   CONAFE's Rural Community-Based Lower Secondary Education Program
PRODEi     Initial Education Project (Proyecto para el Desarrollo de la Educaci6n Inicial)
(Ln. 3518-NME, 1992)
PROGRESA      Education, Health, and Nutrition Program (Programa de Educaci6n. Salud. y
Ahimentacikn) at SEDESOL
SECODAM       Secretanat for Control and Administrative Development (Secretaria de
Contralorta y Desarrollo Administratnvo)
SEByN     Undersecretariat of Basic and Normal Education (Subsecretaria de Educacidn
Beisica y Normal) at SEP
SEP    Secretanat of Public Education (Secretaria de Educaci6n Piiblica)
SEPEs    State Level Secretanats of Public Education (Secretar/as Estatales de Educaci6n
Ptiblica)
SHCP     Secretanat of Finance and Public Credit (Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito
Piibl1io)
Telesecundaria   TV-Based Lower Secondary Education Program
Vice President.   David De Ferranti
Country Manager/Director      Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager/Director:    Xavier Coll
Task Team Leader/Task Nlanager      Eduardo Velez Bustillo



MEXICO
BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT: PHASE I
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                      1
3 Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               11
6. Sustainability                                                                   12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    12
8. Lessons Leamed                                                                   14
9. Partner Comments                                                                 16
10. Additional Information                                                          17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                18
Annex 2 Project Costs and Financing                                                 22
Annex 3 Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               29






Project ID P040199                                        Project Name MX: BASIC
EDUC.DEVELOPMENT PHASE I
Team Leader: Eduardo Velez Bustillo                       TL Unit: LCCIC
ICR Tvpe: Core ICR                                        Report Date- June 20, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: MX: BASIC EDUC.DEVELOPMENT PHASE I             L/C1/T Number. SCL-43330
Country/Department: MEXICO                                               Region  Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector. EP - Primary Education
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD    04/30/1997                             Effective  01/04/1999         06/29/1999
Appraisal  03/25/1998                                 MTR:
Approval   06/04/1998                              Closing  06/30/2001          12/31/2001
Borrower/Implenientzig Agency.  MEXICAN GOVERNMENT/SECRETARIAT OF EDUCATION (SEP)
Other Partners  National Council for Education Development (Consejo Nacional de Fomento
Educativo (CONAFE)); State-level Secretariats of Education (SEPEs)
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President.      David De Ferranti                         Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager.     Olivier Lafourcade                        Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager.      Marito Garcia                             Jamil Salmi
Team Leader at ICR.  Eduardo Velez Bustillo                    Maria Madalena R. Dos Santos
ICR Primarv Author.  Anna Sant'Anna and Nydia
Maraviglia
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: HL
Institutional Development Impact SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time. No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3 1 Original Objective
The project is the first phase of a three-phase program supported by an Adaptable Program Loan (APL)



approved by the Board on June 4, 1998. The purpose of the APL is to support implementation of the
Government's compensatory education program, as outlined in National Education Program (PNE) of the
current and fonner Administrations (Education Development Program 1995-2000 -- "Programa de
Desarrollo Educativo - 1995-2000" and National Education Program 2001-2006 -- "Programa Nacional
de Educacion 2001-2006"). The PNE intends to raise the level and quality of schooling in Mexico,
bringing the country's education indicators substantially closer to other OECD countries. The
compensatory programs are implemented through CONAFE (Consejo Nacional de Fomento Educativo),
which targets under-served communities. These communities tend to be rural, poor, indigenous, and
marginalized urban areas.
The basic education strategy of the PNE focuses on the classroom and on the school. The program is
structured along six main lines: (a) promote equity, ensuring that all children have equal opportunity to
attend and stay in school and to complete basic education; (b) compensate for social and regional
inequalities by channeling incremental resources to the most disadvantaged students at risk of failing at
school; (c) use flexible, nontraditional modalities to reach all groups through diversified attention to
cultural and linguistic groups; (c) improve the quality of the educational process and student learning
achievements, ensunng that all students gain basic knowledge and develop the intellectual abilities, values,
and attitudes necessary to pursue full personal and family lives, act as competent and committed citizens,
participate in productive work, and have the basic conditions to continue to learn throughout their lives; (d)
improve pre-service and in-service training of teachers; and (e) reformn the organization of basic education,
ensuring better articulation between levels, and more efficient use of resources. A more complete
discussion of the Government basic education sector program appear in Annex 4 of the Project Appraisal
Document (PAD) for the Basic Education Development (PAREIB) Project (Report No: 17535-ME, dated
May 7, 1998).
Phase I of the APL was supported by a US$115.0 million loan (Ln. 4333-ME), which closed on December
31, 2001, after one six month extension. Key performance indicators for Phase I would function as
"triggers" for Phase II. These triggers are listed in Annex 1. The specific objectives of Phase I were to:
o   Expand and improve efficiency and quality of rural lower secondary education by supporting distance
education (telesecundaria) and by developing a new model of community-based rural education (
posprimaria);
o   Develop and implement improved school-based management strategies and improve the supervision
system at the primary school level;
o   Design and pilot new education modalities to better meet the needs of migrant children, children aged
9-14 in urban marginal areas who are out of school, and indigenous children in general primary
schools; and,
o   Strengthen institutional capacity for system management and for planning, programming, and
evaluation at the federal and state levels.
Although the overall PAREIB program covers all levels of initial and basic education nationwide,
PAREIB-1 interventions at the primary education level were only complementary to those supported by
Second Primary Education Project (Programa para Abatir el Rezago en Educaci6n Basica - PAREB, Ln.
3722-ME) and the Integral Program of Education (Programa Integral para Redtucir el Rezago Educativo -
PIARE) financed by the Inter-American Development Bank (IADB), both of which supported
compensatory interventions at the primary school level.
- 2 -



3 2 Revised Objective.
The project objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Components
The project had two main components:
Component A: Quality Improvements in Initial and Basic Education (US$126.5 million equivalent or
84 percent of total project cost with contingencies). Project activities were directed to schools and
communities ranked at the bottom of CONAFE's targeting index that were not receiving assistance from
other programs. Specific interventions included: (a) expanding compensatory education activities and
providing quality inputs to increase internal efficiency and improve student achievement primarily at
lower-secondary level but also at initial and preschool levels; and (b) improving primary school
management and efficiency through developing school projects (Proyectos Escolares), enhancing
community and parent participation, and modernizing the organization and implementation of the
supervision system.
This component would finance: (i) educational matenals and equipment for students, teachers, and schools;
(ii) training for teachers, supervisors and principals; (iii) support to parent's associations and school
councils in school-based management activities; (iv) improvement of the school supervision function; and
(v) construction or rehabilitation of school infrastructure.
Component B: Strengthening Institutional Capacity at Federal and State Levels. (US$23.5 million or
16 percent of total project cost with contingencies). This component aimed to strengthen the management
capacity of key sector entities at both federal and state levels. Activities planned included (a) at Federal
level, (i) strengthening the national evaluation system and (ii) designing and piloting appropriate basic
education models for migrant children, out-of school children aged 9-14 in urban marginal areas, and
indigenous children attending regular schools; and (b) at state level, strengthening the role of the State
Secretariats of Education (SEPEs) in the provision of education services by reinforcing their capability for
management including planning, programming, budgeting, and monitoring and evaluation, through the
development and implementation of state specific Strategic Development Plans (Planes Estrategicos
Rectores) and the delivery of basic education services through support for state-generated institutional
development proposals.
This component would finance: (i) technical assistance to develop the national assessment and evaluation
system; (ii) studies and pilot tests for innovative programs; (iii) a fund to support the states in implementing
their institutional development proposals and other state-generated initiative (Institutional Development
Fund - Fondo de Desarrollo Institucional (IDF); and (iv) incremental operational costs to support project
administration.
3 4 Revised Components:
There is enough flexibility in the APL to adapt program implementation to changing circumstances and in
ways that would improve the achievement of objectives and optimize outcomes. The two basic components
were not changed, but a greater emphasis was placed in supporting rural lower-secondary education than
originally envisaged. This change responded to a significant increase in demand generated by the
Govemment-financed PROGRESA program (Education, Health, and Nutrition Program -Programa de
Educaci6n, Salud, y Alimentaci6, recently renamed Opportunities - "Oportunidades") which provides, among
other benefits, financial incentives to families to send their children to school, combined with the improved
-3 -



performance of rural primary schools supported by PAREB and PIARE. As a result, the coverage of
preschool education was substantially reduced. In 2001, the coverage of initial education was expanded
more than three-fold by the inclusion of an additional 15 states. No formal amendment to the legal
documents of Loan 4333-ME was necessary to allow for these changes.
3.5 Quality at Entry.
ICR Rating: Satisfactory
The APL objectives and the specific objectives for Phase I were consistent with the Govenmuent's PNE and
the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS, of 1996 and the CAS Progress Report of March 26, 1998).
The CAS education priorities were to improve the quality and efficiency of basic education, particularly in
the poorest states with high dropout and repetition rates, and to raise the quality of school entrants through
improvement of preschool education. The project also addressed the CAS concern for modernizing public
administration, by supporting initiatives to strengthen the ability of states to deliver educational services.
As indicated in section 3.1 above, the APL design addressed all the main priorities of the government
education sector program.
The APL design appropnately built on eight years of Bank experience through three loans that supported
compensatory programs for initial and basic education. This assistance evolved from a state-by-sate
approach, into a better integrated program of national scope based on a broad policy framework. As part of
APL preparation, a large cross-section of stakeholders was consulted through a social assessment and their
inputs were incorporated in the design of the program.
The main risks identified included: (a) continuity of government support for school-based management, (b)
the effective utilization of newly acquired skills by the administrative staff trained under the project; and (c)
whether or not the states would receive adequate support during project implementation. Measures to
minimize these risks were appropriately taken, including (i) promotion of ownership and initiative by the
SEPEs and by individual schools through increased participation; (ii) assignment of responsibility for
improving management capacity at state level to the SEPEs; and (iii) establishment of a fluid process of
consultations and advice involving administrative and technical personnel at federal and state levels.
Design options were discussed in detail with the government during project preparation, including the pros
and cons of APL compared to a traditional investment loan and a national focus compared to a
concentration on the poorest states. The national approach was strongly favored as the most effective way
of addressing deficiencies in basic education. The APL option was considered best to ensure program
continuity over a sufficiently long period of time to irnpact on the system as a whole. The flexibility
provided by the APL would permit adjustments that might be required in response to changing needs and
political priorities. The emphasis on innovation at the state level was preferred over the alternative of
program unifornity, as it promotes ownership and improves the fit between investment and local needs.
The most salient limitation of the project design was the complexity of the rules applied to the IDF.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
ICR Rating: Satisfactory
Loan 4333-ME was approved June 4, 1998 and became effective a year later in June 29, 1999.
Nevertheless, implementation started in 1998 and project costs incurred during the first year were
retroactively financed. The loan closing date was extended by six-months, from June 30th to December 31,
-4 -



2001. To improve coverage, efficiency and quality of initial education, to strengthen the management
capacity of education agencies at federal and state levels, and to promote innovative forms of service
delivery were the main objectives of the project. The following paragraphs examine the extent to which the
project achieved these objectives.
Coverage. Phase I achieved most of its service coverage objectives, although not all original targets were
met due to the reallocation of funds to finance improvements in rural lower-secondary schools. As a result,
the objective of substantially expanding coverage of preschool education fell short of expected targets and
was postponed to Phase 11. Table I below provides the relevant figures.
Table 1: Achievement of Coverage Objective
Education Serices          Appraisal Target  ..   Actual.       Percentage of;.
-  .  .           .     -.           . ~~   ~~~~~~~r . Appraisal
Initial education (families)            87,334           304,440            348.6
Preschool education (students)         656,500            31,413             4.8
Rural lower-secondary education:
Telesecundaria                  231,000           147,508            63.9
Posprimaria                      8,025             9,575             119.3
Source CONAFE, "Informe del Termno de la Implementaci6n del Programa parm Abatir el Re7ago en Educaci6n Inicial y Basica" May 2002
In school year 1998-1999 the number of students enrolled in the project telesectndarias was 82,722, three
years later that enrollment had grown by 78.3 percent to 147,508. Meeting the appraisal target would have
meant almost tripling enrollment, which seems in retrospect over ambitious. Nevertheless, the actual
achievement of the project in increasing coverage of distance lower-secondary education is highly
significant and represents 46 percent of the growth in national enrollment in the same period, as indicated in
Annex 1.
Efficiency. Efficiency gains in lower-secondary education were successfully achieved, except in the case
of increased completion rates, possibly because it is too early to measure the impact of the project on the
completion of a 4-year program of study. Of the specific efficiency indicators measured, all but one show
a positive trend, as indicated in Table 2 below and in Annex 1.
Table 2: Achievement of Efficiency Objective
.Education Se'rices :      . i-:  Baseline: - -Prject Schools -   Percentage 5
I  -       .*~~~.   '..nn.~~~99,n.7. F., n n ,
i, - - B- i; '-i- ;- | i '; f1 99&       8   .-1 9)i (2000-O'lN (:riie-'10
Rural lower-secondary education:
Telesecundaria:
(a) increase enrollment                  82,722          147,508 \*         +78.3
(b) reduce repetition rates \**           1.5%             0.5%             -66.7
(c) reduce failure rates \**             21.1%             4.8%             -77.2
(d) reduce dropout rates \**              9.7%             9.0%             -7.2
(e) increase completion rates \**        76.1%             72.1%             -5.2
'/ Enrollment figures refer to school year 2001-2002
'*/ Project schools compared to national rates
Source CONAFE, "Informe del Term ino de la Implementaci6n del Programa para Abatir el Rezago en Educaci6n Inicial y Basica" May 2002
Quality. The analysis of student achievement test results in telesecundarias supported by the project is
considered premature. Although the implementation period of the project covered the full lower-secondary
cycle, its impact can only be measured in a longer term. Such an assessment will be made upon completion
of PAREIB-I1. Nevertheless, other quality improvements in service delivery were observed and are be
-5 -



discussed in the context of each component.
Innovative Models. The design and development of a community-based post-primary educational model
(posprimaria) proved very successfully in expanding educational opportunities for people living in very
small rural communities (population below 500). Also successful were new education models for migrant
children and indigenous children attending general schools. All these three pilot program are now
incorporated into the regular education program. Less successful were the attempts at serving
out-of-school youngsters between the ages of 9 and 14 living in marginal urban areas, and the novel
initiative of stimulating inter-state competition through the Institutional Development Fund. Details on
these various activities are given in section 4.2.
Management Capacity. Project implementation shows that the capacity of the states to deliver basic
education services has improved, particularly with respect to the administration of procurement, financial
management, the provision of technical support to teachers and school supervisory teams at the primary
education level, and the proper use of evaluation and regional planning instruments. Management
improvements can be in part attributed to the preparation of Strategic Institutional Development Plans (
Planes Rectores Estrategicos) used to guide training and to prioritize technical assistance at state level.
However, improvements are still needed in the areas of policy analysis, consolidation of supervision
systems, and education innovations such as new pedagogic models and science education, among others.
4 2 Ouitputs by components:
Component A: Quality Improvements in Initial and Basic Education. ICR Rating: Satisfactory
(US$ 189.0 million or 88 percent of total project costs and 50 percent above the appraisal estimate). The
main activities of this component were: (a) training; (b) school-based management; (c) school supervision;
(d) infrastructure works and the provision of school equipment and didactic materials. Cost increases were
largely due to an expanded construction program. The achievements under each of these sub-components
are listed in Annex I and summarized below.
A.1 Training of teachers, principals and community trainers. The main achievement of this
sub-component was the technical training of telesecundaria teachers and principals in the use of new
equipment and didactic materials. Some states took the initiative of contracting universities to deliver part
of that training, as for example in the case of computer training in Chiapas. Training was also provided to
community trainers and the entire operational structure responsible for the posprimaria program in each
state, including state coordinators and educational technical assistants. During school year 2000-2001
CONAFE and Federal Secretariat of Public Education (Secretaria de Educacion Publica - SEP) developed
a new strategy to complement in-service training for primary teachers based on lessons leamed from
PAREB. The strategy consists in providing technical assistance in the classroom to complement formal
training, establishing the base for in-service teacher training reform planned for PAREIB-Il. The new
training strategy eliminates the need for teachers to leave the school in order to receive training, does not
require financial assistance for teacher travel, fosters collaboration among the various members of the
technical group at the school level and, more importantly, helps ensure that newly acquired skills are
relevant to the conditions of the school and are effectively applied in the classrooms. All training targets
established at appraisal were surpassed, as indicated in Annex 1.
A.2 Strengthening school management at local and school levels. This sub-component aimed at
strengthening school-based management through the support of school projects (Proyectos Escolares) in
primary schools. The development of the normative guidelines for school projects was the responsibility of
SEP, through the General Directorate for Educational Research (Direcci6n General de Investigacion
-6 -



Educativa - DGIE). This activity was successfully completed with financing from the regular SEP budget.
School projects are now a regular activity in primary schools across the country, greatly surpassing the
appraisal target of developing 200 school projects. Other activities carried out under this sub-component
were not origmally planned and include teacher performance incentives and financial support for parent
associations and school councils (Apoyo a la Gesti6n Escolar - AGE) in primary schools not supported by
other compensatory programs, to complemented activities carried out under PAREB.
A.3 Strengthening school supervision. The purpose of this sub-component was to facilitate the full
participation of the school supervisory team in meeting the pedagogic needs of teachers and schools under
their jurisdiction. The strategy was part of the preparation of in-service teacher training reform and would
also help implement the school projects. One of the main problems of school supervision is the high
turnover of the supervisory staff and the resulting need to train new staff in multi-grade pedagogic
techniques that are the most appropriate for incomplete rural schools. This problem is compounded by
fewer than needed school visits by the supervisor, given the remote location of project schools. Project
support for school supervision improvements fell short of the appraisal targets and consisted mainly in
providing supervisors with perdiem to facilitate school visits and equipping supervisory offices with a
package of educational materials, again complementing actions carried out under PAREB.
A.4 Civil works, equipment and didactic materials. (a) Infrastructure. Infrastructure improvements
benefited telesecundaria schools, as planned. The implementation of this sub-component continued the
successful experience of PAREB by relying on the local community, municipal and state agencies for the
planning, managing and carrying out new construction and rehabilitation of school facilities. Community
construction creates local jobs and promotes effective involvement of parents in the education of their
children. Almost all targets for new construction were met and those for rehabilitation were largely
surpassed, as shown in Annex 1; (b) Equipment. Telesecundarias received considerable amount of new
equipment, namely: workshop and laboratory equipment, new or replacement furniture, TV and VCRs,
computers and software, printers, tape recorders, and ancillary facilities such as EDUSAT signal receivers,
solar power installations and power surge regulators. All equipment targets were surpassed. The increase
was needed in view of the cancellation of an IADB loan which aimed at equipping telesecundarias; (c)
Didactic materials. Telesecundarias and posprimarias received packages of didactic materials
appropriate for schools, albeit in reduced amounts. These school packages were a complex mix of high
technology and basic materials, a basic library of 80 titles, encyclopedia, dictionaries, computer manuals
and teaching aids such as world atlas, biology, chemistry, physics, geometry and mathematic kits. The
provision of educational materials for posprimaria trainers surpassed the appraisal target as did those for
initial education parents and instructors, commensurate to the expanded coverage of these two programs.
Educational materials for lower-secondary school teachers and for pedagogic assistants were not provided
due to procurement delays.
-7 -



Component B: Strengthening Institutional Capacity at Federal and State Levels, 11CR Rating:
Satisfactory (US$25.5 million or 12 percent of total project costs). Planned management
improvements at the federal level were related to the evaluation and regional planning systems at
SEP, the consolidation of CONAFE's management information system, and the development of
pilot programs to test new educational models for migrant children, indigenous children attending
general schools, and out-of-school youngsters in marginalized urban areas. At state level, the
institutional strengthening strategy emphasized the preparation of strategic institutional
development plans (Planes Estrategicos Rectores) using part of a new Institutional Development
Fund (FDI) and the carrying out of the institutional development proposals presented by the states
for competitive selection among states and for financing by the second tier of the FDI. The
objectives of this component were met except for one pilot program and the use of the second tier
of the FDI, as explained below.
B. 1 Institutional strengthening at the federal level:
(a) Evaluation system. SEP's General Directorate for Education Evaluation (Direcci6n General de
Evaluacion Educativa - DGE) has developed over the years technically sophisticated student achievement
tests for primary and secondary education. The task at hand was to provide states with the necessary
equipment and trained staff to operate state-level evaluation units able to apply and analyze student
achievement tests. This was accomplished in all 31 states, although the advances still need to be
consolidated, particularly in the following areas: (i) further staff development at state level; (ih) expansion
of the database to include both initial and basic education (which now covers mandatory preschool
education); (iii) identification of the characteristics of the supply and the demand for education at the
different levels; and (iv) analysis and dissemination of information on the learning achievement of students
and their determinants, making results available at the local and school levels. These further enhancements
are planned for PAREIB-II.
(b) Regional planning system. School mapping is a key instrument in educational planning which has
advanced in Mexico to high levels of excellence. PAREIB-I, through SEP's Directorate General of
Planning, Programming and Budget (Direcci6n General de Planeaci6n, Progra?naci6n y Presupuesto -
DGPPP) made significant advances towards the goal of providing accurate cartographic information for
state-level planning purposes by: (i) updating cartographic and geo-educational information for all 31
states; (ii) using INTERGRAPH platform to process the information for educational planning purposes;
(iii) developing procedures to update geo-educational information; (iv) organizing workshops in each of the
31 states on the INTERGRAPH applications; (v) developing a territorial catalogue which makes SEP's and
INEGI's (National Institute of Statistics, Geography and Informatics - Instituto Nacional de Estadistica,
Geografla e Inform6tica) databases compatible; (vi) expanding the geo-educational database with data on
related sectors, including health, nutrition and urban development; and (vii) improving the analytical
capacity of five pilot states to produce topographic and micro-planning models. Phase II will continue
supporting this process to further enhance the regional planning system (see Annex 2, Basic Education
Development Phase II, Report No. 23295-ME).
(c) Consolidafion of CONAFE's management information system (MUS). CONAFE has made
significant progress in adapting its MIS for the production of Project Management Reports (PMRs). All
31 states have linkages with the central system and state staff received appropriate training to operate the
system. Independent consultants conducted a financial management assessment of CONAFE and
confirmed that the agency has the tools and the necessary skills for satisfactory project financial
management. The system will be further enhanced during PAREIB-II, to improve the integration of
technical, procurement and financial data, among other measures.
- 8 -



(d) Pilot programs. Three pilot programs were planned and two were successfully completed, namely (i)
education of migrant children, and (ii) inter-cultural program for indigenous children attending general
schools. In the case of education of migrant children, the pilot was carried out by SEP's Under Secretariat
for Basic and Normal Education (Subsecretaria de Educaci6n Basica y Normal - SEByN). The problem
addressed by this pilot is the temporary and multi-destination nature of agricultural migration by rural
families and their children. The pilot led SEP to adjust the national normative framework to facilitate the
access of migrant children to public schools services at the locality of origin and at the various migration
destinations, specifically ensunng that the school work done by the child in one locality is given credit in
the other, thus reducing significantly the grade repetition rate for these children. The inter-cultural program
for indigenous children attending general schools was piloted in four states by SEP's Directorate General
for Indigenous Education (Direcci6n General de Educaci6n Indigena - DGEI). This pilot concluded that
the best strategy to institutionalize a multi-cultural teaching approach in general primary schools is to allow
each state to expenment with the modality that best responds to the ethnic composition of their school
population. DGEI prepared national guidelines for this purpose and states are now successfully developing
their own specific models. The third pilot program aimed to develop solutions for providing educational
services to out-of-school youngsters (ages 9-14) living in marginalized urban areas. The onginal idea was
to rely on the National Institute for Adult Education (Instituto Nacional para la Educaci6n de Adultos-
INEA) to carry out this pilot. However, policy changes at MNEA mandated the Institute to restrict its
attention to adults, thus blocking the possibility of it working with adolescents. A suitable replacement
executing agency was not found and the pilot was cancelled. The problem however, remains a central
concern at SEP and possible solutions will be examined during PAREIB-II through metropolitan area
studies m Mexico City and possibly elsewhere.
Posprimaria. Perhaps the most successful pilot program developed through the project was the one aimed
at finding innovative ways of providing post primary education in small, isolated, rural areas. The pilot
resulted in the creation of the posprimaria program, which started with 32 learning centers in 8 states and
expanded to 321 centers in 25 states by the end of project implementation. The unique feature of the
posprimaria is that it allows young people who are out of school but who want to learn, to pursue their
goal without having to leave the communities where they live and work. Some 46 percent of the
participants in this program were over 15 years old and not all of them had completed primary education.
In fact, the learning centers are used by all who want to learn, independently of age or pnor formal
education. In other words, it functions as a rural community version of a life-long learning center. This
unforeseen development made the training of instructors particularly difficult, and also complicated the
selection of the appropriate equipment and educational materials to be provided for each center. The
pedagogic approach of the posprimaria emphasizes the following key points: (i) teaching must ensure the
acquisition of basic reading, writing, language and math competences; (ii) the leaming process had to be
centered in the area of interest of each student, rather than follow a standard curriculum, thus strengthening
motivation and developing individual learning initiative; (iii) all participants who wish to obtain formal
credit for their learning achievements are encouraged to be certified by taking the appropnate INEA
standardized national test. The certification option was taken by approximately 10 percent of the
participants, who successfully met the requirements of primary (46 percent) and secondary (54 percent)
education. The program will continue to expand and be perfected with government and IADB financing. A
number of Latin American countnes, including Brazil, expressed interest in replicating this model.
(c) Studies. Several studies were financed by the project that were not originally planned but that
responded to demands from SEP and the states. The most important of these studies are: (i) "Evaluation
of the participation of parents in the management of primary schools," carried out by the Regional Center
for Adult Education in Latin America and the Caribbean (Centro de Cooperaci6n Regional para la
-9-



Educacion de Adultos en America Latina y el Caribe - CREFAL). This evaluation confinned the positive
impact produced by the involvement of parents in the education of their children; (ii) "Design of the sample
for the evaluation of the initial education program." This study, carried out by the DGE at SEP, effectively
prepared the survey that will generate historical series for the analysis of the impact of the initial education
program, to be carried out dunng Phase II; and (iii) "Extemal evaluation of the Posprimaria Program"
carried out by an international consultant, concluded that the approach adopted by CONAFE to bring post
primary education to the most remote small rural settlements is both highly innovative and successful in
developing basic competences among the people and in teaching them to continue learning on their own.
The posprimaria is now part of the regular CONAFE community education program and will continue
expanding with financing from IADB, effectively complementing the formal national education network.
B.2 Institutional strengthening at the state Level. The actions planned for this sub-component were
successfully carried out, except for the use of FDI resources to finance state proposals on a competitive
basis. Specific achievements of the technical assistance and training provided to the states include: (i)
Preparation of strategy plans for institutional development in 20 states using resources from the first tier of
the FDI. These plans included a diagnostic of administrative strengths and weaknesses and proved
instrumental in focusing and prioritizing institutional development activities that were subsequently carried
out by the states. In the 20 states that had strategic plans, the project supported management training at
state level based on the plan's recommendations. In the other 11 states, management training responded to
the demand of the respective SEPEs and incorporated the recommendations provided by the Secretariat for
Control and Administrative Development (Secretaria de Contraloria y Desarrollo Administrativo -
SECODAM) for the reform of public administration nationwide. The resulting training model has been
institutionalized by CONAFE under the title "Training for Education Management" (Capacitaci6n para la
Gerencia Educativa); (ii) The academic development of telesecundarias was supported, in all states, by a
Technical State Group (Grupo Tecnico Estatal - GTS) established with project assistance. The GTS
greatly facilitated the coordination of actions at state level with SEP's General Directorate of
Telesecundarias (Direcci6n General de Telesecundaria, DGT). During implementation, it was evident
that the demand for administrative training permeates all levels of the SEPEs organization, and training
should not have been limited to management staff. With respect to the competitive part of the FDI fund,
implementation experience indicated that the formula for selection of proposals was excessively
complicated; also deficient were the arrangements for the technical analysis of the proposals. These faulty
design aspects made the implementation of the program not viable; the fund has been re-designed for
implementation during Phase II.
4.3 Net Present Value/Econonmic rate of retuirn.
An economic analysis of the outcomes of the project was not done, particularly because of the short period
of project implementation that does not allow enough time for the project benefits to be properly measured.
Nevertheless, the marked increment in the number of students who now have access to lower-secondary
education and the improved efficiency of the telesecundarias will have an important positive impact in the
earnings of the students when they enter the labor force. The earning differential between individuals with
complete primary education and those with complete secondary education is estimated now in Mexico at 17
percent.
4.4 Financial rate of return
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project had clearly improved the institutional capacity to deliver educational services at federal and
state levels. Not to repeat the institutional analysis presented in section 4.2, it suffices to say that the
- 1 0 -



education decentralization process has been significantly advanced, to the benefit of school children. Also
noteworthy is the increased ability of the system to devise new methods to eliminate exclusion of
disadvantaged children and to adapt national norms and models to the specific needs of the client
population. It bodes well for the sector the effective collaboration that took place between federal and state
authorities, between public and private stakeholders, and among federal agencies throughout project
implementation. As in the case of PAREB, several initiatives of PAREIB-I have been institutionalized as
part of the national education program, as for example the posprimaria, the school projects, the migrant
children education, and the inter-cultural approach in general primary schools. Much needs still to be done
but future improvements will have a solid basis upon which to build.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5 I Factors outside the control ofgovernment or inmplementing agency:
Project implementation was not especially affected by factors outside the control of the government.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Notwithstanding the strong support given by the government to the project objectives and activities, and the
satisfactory provision of budgetary resources for project implementation, the pace of project execution was
affected by the delays in liberating the approved budgets on the part of the Secretariat of Finance (
Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Piublico- SHCP). This has been a recurrent problem, year after year,
leading to an effective reduction of investment (estimated at 30 percent) notwithstanding the institutional
capacity for executing the project at one-hundred percent level. One particularly problematic aspect of the
untimely liberation of resources is that it causes the delays in starting the procurement process. In the
future, it would be desirable that such delays be minimized. It would also be desirable to avoid extensive
delays in complying with the project effectiveness conditions, especially ensuring timely signing of the loan
agreement immediately after Board approval.
5.3 Factors generally subject to imnplementing agency control.
SEP, CONAFE and the SEPEs, as project executing agencies, and NAFIN in its capacity as the Borrower,
demonstrated consistent diligence and efficiency in carrying out the project. The Bank has been provided
with regular implementation reports, legal covenants were fully complied with, and adjustments to the
project design were systematically discussed with the project team before a formal proposal was presented
to the Bank. Also noteworthy is the fact that, at the initiative of CONAFE, project objectives and
activities were amply publicized and disseminated at the state and local levels, strengthening ownership and
improving the project implementation process. The staff of SEP and CONAFE staff, although subject to
periodic changes, was technically competent and committed to the project, and the policy framework was
consistently maintained. While the overall performance of the project implementing agencies is considered
good, there are areas that need improvement. In particular: (i) more intensive collaboration between SEP
and CONAFE; (ii) further improvements in procurement planning to permit the Bank prior-review process
to occur in timely fashion; and (iii) more attention to incorporating the results of evaluation studies and
stakeholder assessments into program design and implementation.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Project costs ascended to US$214.5 million equivalent, or 43 percent above appraisal estimates. As a
result, the share of Bank financing was reduced from a planned 77 percent to 54 percent. The additional
cost, fully financed with government funds, was mostly associated with increases in program coverage and
expansion of works and goods procured under the project. These additional expenditures, however, were
fully justified in view of the higher demand for lower-secondary and initial education in the project states.
All external project audits were presented on time and were unqualified. The project disbursement schedule
was initially slow on account of the loan effectiveness delay. This however, was fully compensated for
- 1 1 -



once the loan was declared effective in June 1999. The initial disbursement delays did not substantially
affect the start of project implementation in 1998.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating
ICR Rating: Highly Likely
The strategy and programs introduced by the project are highly likely to be sustained not only because
many of them have been adopted as national policy and/or regular program, and are being implemented
using funds from the education budget, but also because the project was capable to build a solid
institutional base for the management of education. Also notable is the level of coordination achieved
between the main external donors active in Mexico in the education sector. Lessons learned through IADB
and Bank-financed projects have been shared and put to good use. No duplication of efforts has occurred
and increasingly more cost-effective solutions have been found for the education problems addressed by the
compensatory programs. Ultimately, the best sustainability indicator is when Mexico no longer needs
compensatory education programs because the levels of equity, efficiency and quality of basic education
has been sufficiently improved to generate standards of excellence sustained by each of the states. The
phasing out of the program in schools that have already substantially improved their performance will start
with PAREIB-II.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations.
The project activities undertaken under the project are being refined and expanded by the government with
and without assistance from external donors. Phases II and III of PAREIB will provide the necessary
continuity and support to consolidate program activities on a national scale, reaching higher levels of
integration of targeting mechanisms, operational efficiency, and measurable quality improvements.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
I[CR Rating: Satisfactory
PAREIB was first APL in the education sector at the Bank. The preparation process was experimental but
highly effective in mobilizing the participation of all stakeholders, in devising measures to hedge risks, and
in ensuring the necessary flexibility to implement a complex and large program without undue difficulties.
The Bank team involved in project preparation has highly competent as were the external consultants who
contributed specific technical analyses. The team was clearly centered in Mexico and counted with the
participation of a national technical advisory group which played the role of quality control and of
facilitator of inter-institutional collaboration. In a large country such as Mexico, this particular project
preparation format proved an essential element for the subsequent success in project implementation. More
attention could have been paid to engaging state educational authorities in the early stages of project
preparation, but time constraints were impediments. Bank analysis of financial management, procurement
capacity, implementation readiness and technical design was thorough. Monitoring and evaluation
indicators were designed to allow for the partial evaluation of outcomes in each phase, with an in-depth
evaluation at the completion of Phase III. This option was chosen instead of a phase by phase in depth
evaluation, because the changes in education quality indicators take a rather long time to mature and the
duration of each program phase is comparatively short to permit capturing the full benefits of the program.
7.2 Supervision:
- 12 -



ICR Rating: Satisfactory
There were seven supervision missions dunng the 30-month period of project implementation. All
supervision missions rated implementation as satisfactory. The missions were well staff and planned, and
were able to deal with programmatic changes proposed by the government in competent and timely fashion,
obviating the need for unnecessary legal amendments. Compliance with Bank safeguard policies, and with
legal, financial and procurement norms, was systematically verified by project supervision missions, and
concrete recommendations were made when deficiencies were observed. The Mexican resident mission
staff significantly contributed to the improvement in the quality of supervision observed in the case of this
project. Moreover, several field visits were conducted to ascertain project advancements at the local level
and to listen to suggestions from civil society and state authorities. Although Bank supervision missions
also systematically consulted with the higher authorities at SEP, more attention could have been paid to
optimize the collaboration by organizing periodic workshops with the technical staff of the Undersecretariat
of Basic and Normal Education, whose inputs are vital for the achievement of the long term project
objectives.
7.3 Overall Bank peiformance
ICR Rating: Satisfactory
Overall, Bank performance was satisfactory. Possibly more concerted efforts to understand the restrictions
faced by the states and by CONAFE in complying with the requirements of the FDI could have resulted in
its redesign and application before project closing, better preparing for the expanded application of such
fund during Phase II.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation.
ICR Rating: Satisfactory
The performance of the government in preparing the project was satisfactory. Special efforts were made to
analyze all lessons learned from previous operations and to apply these lessons in the design of the new
national program. The states were given a role in micro-planning selected aspects of the project, in line
with the process of education decentralization. The technical staff from SEP and CONAFE who
participated in project design were highly competent and mutually reinforcing, in their effort to strengthen
the project design and to reach inter-agency consensus in support of project interventions. Their
collaboration with the Bank team was highly effective.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
ICR Rating: Satisfactory
The Government satisfactorily carried out project implementation. Budgetary authorities were responsive
to the increased project costs and provided sufficient budget to reach its expanded goals. Nevertheless, as
already mentioned in section 5, delays in liberating the budget resulted in project implementation delays
that could have been avoided.
7 6 Implementing Agency:
ICR Rating: Satisfactory
CONAFE and the SEPEs were able to manage well a large construction program and an also large and
complex procurement process. In both cases, performance was very satisfactory. In the case of
procurement, for example, CONAFE's procedures to acquire computers for telesecundarias was rated best
- 13 -



practice in the Latin American and Caribbean Region. CONAFE and SEPEs also took the lead, with Bank
assistance, in introducing intemet procurement during project implementation (COMPRANET). Given the
very large databases that characterize the education sector in Mexico, CONAFE demonstrated good
capacity to timely process information necessary to monitor project activities. As in the case of PAREB,
project planning, budgeting and operations were professionally carried out by CONAFE. Perhaps the most
outstanding example of satisfactory implementation performance was the ability of CONAFE to embark
into innovative initiatives and to mobilize state and federal support for carrying them out.
7 7 Overall Borrower performance:
I1CR Rating: Satisfactory
The government demonstrated its strong commitment toward education equity by financing the expansion
of compensatory programs and by fully supporting the project objectives. The government staff at federal
and state levels have shown general administrative efficiency in carrying out the necessary actions to
implement the project. There was less political will to move decisively in disseminating the results of
student achievement evaluations. However, the new Administration is committed to this goal and measures
are being taken to make the best use of the results of evaluations.
8. Lessons Learned
The lessons learned from the implementation of the PAREB pertaining to targeting mechanisms, the need
for well designed outcome indicators, in-service teacher training reform, community and especially parents
participation, apply to this project as well but will not be repeated here (see ICR for Ln. 3722-ME; see also
the Project Appraisal Document for the Basic Education Phase II, Report No. 23295-ME). The additional
lessons drawn from the experience of this project are:
The APL instrument is especially well suited for achieving program objectives that require long term
investments, such as improvements in the quality of basic education. This is so, because the APL
favors consistency in the overall policy framework, which in turn helps sustain program activities over
time. The APL also promotes periodic evaluations of partial achievements during the implementation
of the program, facilitating timely corrections. The experience of the first phase of PAREIB shows
that working within an overall policy framework is crucial for the success of the project, particularly
when changes in Administration take place. The Mexican govemment is very supportive of the use of
this lending instrument for selected sectors, as it recognizes the value of the flexibility it affords and the
benefits of incorporating in subsequent program phases the lessons learned from earlier phases. The
use of the APL in this case, proved that triggers should be fewer in number, should focus the most
important aspects of the project, and should be designed in ways that lead to reliable measures. This
type of trigger should replace the long array of output indicators that characterized the early APLs,
such as this one.
Overall success requires flexibility to adapt program interventions to local needs and evolving
experience. Successful approaches tend to include allowances for adaptation to improve the fit
between design and the particular needs of local contexts. PAREIB-I demonstrated the value of such
flexibility. Diversity in the approaches taken by different states contributes to enriching the learning
experience of the program itself, allowing for cross-fertilization from state to state and for the
development of an improved overall strategy. Within the basic framework provided by the Govermment
National Education Program 2000-2006, PAREIB-II will retain the flexibility to adjust to local needs
and will directly stimulate innovative policies at state level, through the Basic Education Innovation
Fund.
- 14 -



Education Federalism. Mexico has decentralized to the states the function of providing universal
basic education since 1992. PARE, PAREB and PAREIB-I supported this decentralization policy with
technical assistance to strengthen the capacity of the states to deliver both regular and compensatory
education programs. The experience of PAREIB-I in this respect, taught two important lessons. First,
technical assistance should be directed at certain key policy reformns, such as integration of the
administration of basic education, and rationalization of operations through the elimination of
functional duplication at state level. Second, allowing the states to seek assistance from the federal
level to address their specific problems is useful, but very often is side-tracked into simply providing
additional funding for routine administrative functions. In other words, instituting a demand driven
mechanism is not enough to efficiently foster education federalism. Instead, it is important to provide
incentives at the state level to generate innovation, thereby national program can be appropnately
adjusted to the state context, reinforcing the fact that the states are indeed responsible for the education
outcomes within their borders. The revised design of the Basic Education Innovation Fund will seek to
meet this goal in PAREIB-II.
Pilot Programs. The basis of successful pilot programs seems to be the availability of pertinent
research findings to orient the selection of appropriate intervention which the pilot will test, as well as
the necessary institutional base to carry out the pilot. It is not enough to identify a pressing problem.
For example, while the problem of street children who are not working or attending school in marginal
urban areas is an acute one, particularly taking into account the highly urbanized Mexican context; a
pilot program to address their needs (planned for PAREIB-I) did not succeed without the necessary
research and institutional bases. Clearly, it is not advisable to "jump into action" without a defined
program design and implementation mechanisms. At a minimum, the failed experience in PAREIB-I in
this area served to highlight the importance of the problem. Street children now command a key place
within SEP's program, not only through the creation of a special comnmittee to address the problem, but
also as part of the National Education Program for the current Administration. PAREIB-II will build
upon this experience by supporting a study of basic education in marginalized areas of Mexico City,
with the goal of identifying specific interventions that will help retain poor urban children in school and
improve the quality of the education they receive.
Poverty and Monitoring and Evaluation. The relationship between education and income in Mexico,
as elsewhere, is positive. Economic rates of returns are positive for all levels, even after a significant
expansion of the education system. Given the strong emphasis on poverty alleviation in Mexico, the
Bank regularly monitors the relationship between education and the incidence of poverty.
Systematically, education attainment exerts a very powerful negative effect on the probability of being
poor. Every year of additional education decreases by 5 percent the chance of an individual to be
classified as poor. Now that Mexico has reached a good coverage at the primary education level, the
focus of priority investment in the sector is, at the margin, to increase quality of pnmary education but
also coverage and quality of preschool and lower secondary education. This is a central objective of
PAREIB-II.
Achievement and sustainability of organizational and operational changes require continuous
reinforcement of ownership and participation throughout project design and implementation.
Experience of PAREIB-I shows the importance of incorporating all key players (SEP, CONAFE,
SEPEs, parents, among others), involved in the program. SEP and CONAFE took leading roles in the
preparation of the program and both have remained actively involved in monitoring, assessing progress
and adjusting its design. Support for parents' participation in key aspects of school management during
PAREIB-I was highly successful both in empowering parents and in improving the accountability of
teachers to the communities in which they work.
- 15 -



Identification of the factors that contribute most to student learning is key. Appropriate policies
and relevant sector interventions require a capacity not only to assess student learning outcomes, but
also to identify which factors produce the best results, and which interventions are most effective in
ensuring the presence of those factors. While the diagnostic capabilities of states and central units have
improved, they require continued attention, particularly in the poorest states.  PAREIB-II will
strengthen the capacity to evaluate learning outcomes at the federal and state levels, and most
importantly, will provide for the systematic dissemination of learning achievement test results at the
school level.
The design of schemes involving inter-state competition needs careful planning and probing for
political feasibility prior to implementation. The Institutional Development Fund included in this
project is a case in point of less than satisfactory preparation leading to failure, in spite of what seemed
basically a good idea. Several important aspects were not addressed when designing this particular
innovation, namely: (i) political considerations make inter-state competition in Mexico highly risky;
(ii) the operational rules of any new activity must be sufficiently clear to be readily absorbed by all
parties involved; highly complex rules that combined competition with equity considerations proved to
have no legitimacy at state level; (iii) procedures need to be streamlined to encourage potential
participants to embark in non-traditional endeavors; the likelihood of spending too much time and
resources in trying out a new federal initiative possibly discourages the participation of the states; (iv)
sufficiently well know and competent technical staff should be made responsible for judging proposals
originated from the states, especially when the winning proposals are to be competitively funded;
preferably these staff should be placed at the highest levels of authority within the national education
sector; and (v) federal authorities need to be prepared to provide technical assistance to the states
during the introductory phase of a new program, otherwise undue difficulties may lower the quality of
the proposals. This sub-component was revised for implementation during Phase II taking into account
these aspects.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/iniplementing agency
GENERAL COMMENTS ON
THE IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR) OF
LOAN 4333-ME IPAREIIB]
The report presents - in a clear and succinct manner, the actions of greater relevance
developed by PAREIB, highlighting more the achievements and advances than the weaknesses
in the implementation of these programs.
o This compensatory education program advanced substantially, by providing distance
education (telesecundaria) reaching and surpassing, in almost all the cases, the objectives and
the agreed targets, especially with respect to educational infrastructure and school equipment.
In general terms, the results of the objectives and commitrnents with the World Bank were
qualified as satisfactory; however, the following aspects require continued strengthening:
o Among the weaknesses of the project the following are highlighted. The high rotation of
- 16 -



agents in school supervision, causes a decrease in the school visits, affecting the operation of
the school projects. With respect to institutional development, the area of evaluation of the
quality of education needs to be strengthened, both in the methodology of teaching and in the
assessment of student achievement. There is a lack of indicators to measure the impact of the
project and the learning achievement of the students. The financial and normative authorities
of the Mexican Government (SHCP and SEP) should make their best effort to comply with
future budgetary commitments agreed to, and to provide the funds in an opportune way,
through good planning mechanisms.
* Among the aspects that can still be improved, the following are cited. A normative and
consistent framework supporting the achievement of the program objectives, needs to be
sustained. Greater involvement of participant agents. Better achievement indicators. The
modernization of the competences of teachers can be more effectively achieved when a
strategy or plan of technical support in the classroom is combined with training.
(b) Cofinanciers:
NA
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector).
NA
10. Additional Information
- 17 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome/Impact Indicators:
Baseline -  Actual
Indicator      -                1998-1999 2000-2001   - - Change
.!--. t'',---.;, .' '  L .: . -  ,, -  ' ' ',   (A)        (B)    (A)-(B) _O_
Increase enrollment rates in lower secondary schools
Project telesecundarias                                82,722     147,508  64,786 +78.3
National telesecundarias                               913,609   1,053,462  139,853 +15.3
Increase completion rates in lower secondary schools
Project telesecundarias                                 76.7%     72.1%      4.6   -6.0
National lower secondary schools                        76.1%     76.3%      0.2   +0.3
Reduce repetition rates in lower secondary schools
Project telesecundarias                                 1.0%       0.5%      0.5   -50.0
National lower secondary schools                        1.5%       1.3%      0.2   -13.3
Reduce dropout rates in lower secondary schools
Project telesecundarias                                 8.1%       9.0%      0.9   +11.1
National lower secondary schools                        9.7%       8.5%      1.2   -12.4
Reduce failure rates in lower secondary schools
Project telesecundarias                                 11.9%      4.8%     7.1%   -60.0
National lower secondary schools                        21.1%     20.0%     0.1%    -0.5
Triggers for API1II
. i'' lhdicator   .      Appraisal Target  .   .. . . Acrual/Latest Estimate
Sun.imary:)OF 16 triggers, 14 iere fullUycor'plied withi or surpassed; 2 triggers were only pariially'met.
o 60% of civil works   o 7,968 buildings       o 6,667 building (83.8% of target)
o 80% of goods         o 3,532 procurement     o 7,598 actions (I 15% of target)
implemented            actions
o 60% training plan    o 59,000 teachers and   o 96,648 teachers and supervisors trained
implemented                supervisors trained    (164% of target)
o 80% of target schools  o Initiatives by teachers  o Completed. The model has been expanded to
started school projects  supported by training  all national primary schools
(Proyectos Escolares)  and supervisors
o Evaluation system:   0 Report                0 SEP report completed
baseline study, action  o Baseline           0 Baseline completed
plan, including      o Action plan           0 Action plan completed
dissemination strategy                      ___
o Regional Planning    o Action plan to be     0 Regional Planning system satisfactorily
system: basic system   prepared by SEP         completed
installed at central
level and action plan
-18 -



* Pilot Programs       * Progress report and  Three pilot programs were implemented and have
action plans on four (4) been incorporated into the regular program:
pilot programs        * Education for migrant children
* Inter-cultural program for indigenous children
attending general schools
* Rural secondary education (Posprimaria)
* The pilot program for out-of-school 9 to 14
year old children in marginal urban areas was
not implemented because the agency originally
designated to carry it out (INEA) legally
changed its mandate, restricting services to
adults.
* Institutional        * 60% of funds         The FDI implementation consisted of two parts:
Development Fund       disbursed, participation (a) Basic Fund to prepared State Strategic Plans;
(FDI)                  of at least 15 states,  and (b) Competitive Fund to support institutional
progress report and  development initiatives identified in the strategy
action plan         plans and proposed by the states.
* Part (a) of the FDI was completed
* Part (b) was postponed to APL-2 with a
revised design because the original design
proved inadequate.
* Policy framework for  * Policy continuity    * The new Administration has confirmed its
compensatory                                   policy commitment.
education programs
maintained
* Targeting mechanism  * Assessment of         * Targeting mechanisms proved effective and
effectiveness and use of  were systematically used.
targeting mechanism
* Beneficiary          * Carry out beneficiary  * CONAFE carried out yearly beneficiary
Assessment             assessment              assessments, the results of which are
incorporated in the annual investment
program.
* CONAFE financial     * Progress under        * An in-depth financial management assessment
management             CONAFE's financial      of CONAFE was carried out during the
management              preparation of APL-2. Results show that
improvement action      CONAFE has a satisfactory financial
plan                    management systems and procedures.
* State level financial  * Action plans for the 17  * All participating states received technical
management capacity    participating state     assistance in procurement and financial
management, successfully carrying out their
action plans.
* Evaluation system at  * Evidence of utilization  * All states participate in the national learning
state level            of improved evaluation  achievement evaluation system for primary
systems in at least 15  and lower secondary education.
states
* Strategic State Plans  * Evidence of preparation * 20 states have successfully completed strategic
of strategic plans for at  plans for institutional development.
least 15 states
- 19 -



o Counterpart funds   o Evidence of adequate  o The availability of counterpart funds has not
project counterpart    been a problem during implementation.
funds                  Moreover, Government financing exceeded
appraisal estimates by 184%.
Output Indicators:
Indicator                          Appraisal   Actual   % of
Target             Target
A: Quality Improvements in Initial and Basic Education
Coverage of initial education (families)                   87,334    304,440  348.6
Coverage of initial education (children)                    NA       365,328   NA
Coverage of preschool (students)                           656,000   31,413    4.8
Coverage of rural secondary education:
o Posprimaria (students)                                  8,025      9,575   119.3
o Posprimaria (schools)                                    321       383     119.3
o Telesecundaria (students)                              231,000    147,508   63.9
o Telesecundaria (schools)                                6,200      6,061    97.8
A. 1 Trainine - All trainees                                  59A448     97.297   163.7
o Teachers                                                49,000    86,150   175.8
o Principals                                              10,000    10,498   105.0
o Community trainers                                       448       649     144.9
A. 2 School-based management
o School projects (Proyectos Escolares)                    200       200     100.0
o Teacher Incentives                                       NA       13,454    NA
o School management support (AGEs)                         NA       37,819    NA
A. 3 Strengthening school sunervision
o Perdiem for supervisors                                 4,853      4,002    82.5
o Perdiem for sector chiefs                                NA        634      NA
o Package of materials for supervision offices             7,285      0        0
A.4 School Infrastructure: Civil works, equipment, didactic materials
Didactic Materias - All packages                           324,250   311.667   96.1
o Initial Edu Parents                                     87,334    304,440  348.6
o Pedagogic Assistants                                     1,426      0        0
o Teachers                                                93,135      0        0
o Classrooms                                              123,942     0        0
o Schools                                                 18,413     6,469    35.1
o Instructors and Trainers                                 576       7587    131.6
New construction and furniture: All units                   7.968     6.677    83.8
o Classrooms                                               3,984     4,532   113.8
o Latrines                                                 2,390      593     24.8
o Bathrooms                                                1,594     1,516    95.1
o Offices                                                  NA         16      NA
o Storage rooms                                            NA         15      NA
o Libraries                                                NA          5      NA
Rehabilitation: All units                                   5$898     18.631   315.9
o Classrooms                                               3,984    14,398   361.4
o Bathrooms                                                1,754     4,209   240.0
o Libraries                                                 160       24      15.0
- 20 -



Equipment: All equipment                                     4,919     7,598    154.5
o Workshops                                                  80        158     197.5
o Laboratories                                               160        60      37.5
o Vehicles                                                   50         50     100.0
o Replacement school furmiture                              3,795     4,802    126.5
o Bookshelves                                                381       544     142.8
o TV and VCRs                                                216       318     147.2
o Tape recorders                                             237       341     143.9
o EDUSAT signal receivers                                    NA        110      NA
o Power surge regulators                                     NA        135      NA
o Computers                                                  NA        598      NA
o Printers                                                   NA        336      NA
o Solar power installations                                  NA        110      NA
o Expansion of solar power installations                     NA         36      NA
B. Institutional Strengthening
B. I At Federal Level
Evaluation system
o Number of participating states                             31         31     100.0
o Comparative study of rural schools                          I         I      100.0
Reaional Planning
o Number of participating states                             31         31     100.0
o States using geo-reference planning tools                  20         20     100.0
Pilot Programs
o Migrant children                                            I         I      100.0
o Children age 9-14 in urban marginal areas                   I         0        0
o Inter-cultural program for indigenous children in general schools  1  I      100.0
Studies
o Comparative Study of Rural Schools                          I          I     100.0
B.2 Institutional Strengthening at State Level
o No. states receiving training, technical assistance and advice to
technical staff and middle and higher management in SEPEs  17         17     100.0
o Design and implementation of state-specific strategic plans (
Planes Estrategicos Rectores) (FDI-a)                      20         20     100.0
o Institutional Development Fund (FDI-b)                      15        0        0
B.3 Proiect Management
o Regional project launch seminars                            4         4      100.0
o National project launch seminar                             I          I     100.0
- 21 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Costs by Componet (in US$ million equivalent) \i
-                            .         .          -       E stimae              - ~Pere           ntage
---. '  .  ', Componento N  .  .  , - Appraisal Estimate  Acrual.Latesi-Estimate of Appraisal
A. Quality Improvements in Initial and Basic
Education
A. 1 Training                                                27.2                  32.1               118.0
A.2 School Management                                         1.4                  24.6              1757.1
A 3 School Supervision                                       8.6                    1.0              11.63
A.4 Infrastructure, equipment & didactic materials           89.3                  131.3             147.0
B. Strengthening Institutional Capacity at Federal and
State Levels                                               14.7                  9.0               61.2
C. Project Management                                        8.8                   16.5               187.5
Total Project Costs                        150.0                  214.5              143.0
I/ The latest estimate of Project costs by componeLnt was based on annual cost in current Mexican Pesos transformed in US dollars usmg the following average exchange
rates  1998 = 9 1357, 1999 = 9 5605, 2000 = 94556. 2001 = 93425
Project Costs b Procurement Arrangements (in US$ million equivalent) \i
-_ - -  : S  - *  Appraisal Estimate. .:. -  -              ActualLalest Estimate . _- _   -
Categones       ICB     NCB . . Other 2     NBF-     Total  : ICB      NCB      Otner 2   NBF.      Total
Works               0 0      0 0       524      0 0      52 4      0.0      0.0      80 5      0 0      80 5
(0.0)    (0 0)    (36 7)    (0 0)   (36.7)    (0 0)    (0 0)     (62.3)   (0 0)    (62 3)
Goods               1 9      17.1      14.8     0 0      33.8      0 0     34 5      16 3      0 0      50 8
(1.3)   (12 0)     (9 8)    (0 0)   (23.1)    (0 0)    (11.6)    (5 5)     (0 0)    (17 1)
Training            0 0      0 0       27.2     0 0      27.2      0.0      0 0      32.1      0 0      32.1
(0 0)    (0 0)    (24.5)    (0 0)   (24 5)    (0.0)    (0 0)     (20 8)   (0 0)    (20 8)
Other               00       00        18 0     0 0      18 0      0 0      0.0      34.6      0 0      34 6
ServtCeS           (0 0)     (0 0)    (17 7)   (0 0)    (17 7)    (0 0)    (0 0)     (1 8)    (0 0)     (1.8)
Operabonal          0 0      0 0       18 6     0 0      18 6      0 0      0 0      16 5      0 0      16 5
Costs              (0 0)    (0.0)     (13 0)   (0 0)    (13 0)    (0 0)    (0.0)     (13.0)   (0.0)    (13 0)
Total         1 9     17 1      131 0     0 0     150 0     0.0      34.5     180 0      0.0     214 5
(1 3)   (12.0)    (101 7)   (0 0)   (115 0)   ( 00)    (11.6)   (1034)     (0.0)   (115.0)
I/ Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan
2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management offices, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related
to managing the project.
- 22 -



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal     Actual/Latest    Percentage of
Components                      Estimate        Estimate        Appraisal
Bank   Gov.    Bank     Gov     Bank     Gov.
A. Quality Improvements in Initial and Basic
Education                                    95.0   315     101.4   87.6    106 7    278.1
B. Strengthening Institutional Capacity at Federal  13.8  0.9  8.5      0.5     61.6    55.6
and    State Levels
6.2    2.6     5.1     I1 4    82.3     438.5
C. Project Management
TOTAL                       115.0  35 0    115.0    99.5    100.0   284.3
- 23 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
An economic analysis of PAREIB-I was not carried out due to the short duration of project
implementation. The analysis will be done upon completion of Phase-III of the program when benefits can
be reliably measured.
-24 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions.
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation  Development
Month/Year     Count          Specialty                      Progress      Objective
(dentification/Preparation
January 1996                 5   1 Sociologist, 2 Education
Specialists, 2 Economists.
May 1997                    2    2 Education Specialists
August 1997                      3 Educ. Specs., I Economist, I
Assistant, I lawyer
November 1997               10   2 Educ Specs., I Soc. Sector
Spec., 2 Assistants, 2
Economists, I Operations Spec.,
I FM Spec., I lawyer
Appraisal/Negotiation
March 1998                  8    2 Education Spec., I Soc.
Sector Specialist, I
Sociologist, I Assistant, I
Proc. Spec., I Operations
Spec., I Economist.
April 1998                   1   1 Architect                                       S
Supervision
Jan.-Feb. 1999               7   2 Educ. Spec., I Sociologist,       S             S
2 Proc. Spec., I Economist, I
FM Spec.
July 1999                    6   2 Educ. Spec., I Economist, 2       S             S
Assistants, I Lawyer
June 2000                    8   2 Educ. Specs., I Soc. Sector       S             S
Spec., 5 Architects
July-August 2000             3   1 Sociologist, I Soc. Sector        S             S
Spec., I Accountant
December 2000                4   1 Sociologist, 1 Soc. Sector        S             S
Spec., I Proc. Spec., I FMSpec.
February 2001                6   1 Sociologist, I Soc. Sector        S             S
Spec., I Proc. Spec., I
Economist, I FMSpec., I
Assistant.
Sept.-Oct. 2001              2   1 Sociologist, I IT Spec.           S             S
ICR
March 2002                  3     1 Sociologist, I Soc. Sector
Spec., I Educ. Spec., I
Economist.
- 25 -



(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks            US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation              NA                         3.6
Appraisal/Negotiation                   NA                          1.2
Supcrvision                             NA                          1.4
ICR                                     NA                         0.5
Total                                   NA                         6.7
(*) The budget system does not record the number of staff weeks.
(**) Dollar figures by stages of project cycle are estimated because the budget system distinguishes only
between lending and supervision phases.
-26 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=Hlgh, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Ncgligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                           O H   OSUOM       O N   * NA
O Sector Policies                          O H   * SU O M   ON     O NA
L Physical                                 * H   OSUOM       O N   O NA
El Financial                               O H   OSUOM       O N   * NA
OI Institutional Development               0 H   0 SU 0 M    0 N   0 NA
O Environmental                            0 H   0 SU 0 M    0 N   * NA
Social
OI Poverty Reduction                * H   OSUOM       O N   O NA
O Gender                            O H   OSUOM       O N   * NA
I Other (Please specify)            O H   OSU O M     O N   * NA
L Private sector development               0 H   O SU O M    0 N   * NA
I Public sector management                 0 H   * SU 0 M    0 N   0 NA
OIOther (Please specify)                   O H   O SU OM     O N   * NA
- 27 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Hilghly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
O Lending                                            OHS OS OU OHU
El Supervision                                       OHS OS       OU     OHU
OI Overall                                           OHS OS       OU     O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                             Rating
LII Preparation                                      OHS OS       O  U   O HU
OI Government implementation performance             O HS O S     0 U    0 HU
El Implementation agency performance                 O HS O S     0 U    0 HU
I Overall                                            OHS OS       OU     OHU
- 28 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
A. Project Completion Report
CONAFE (Consejo Nacional de Fomento Educativo). 2000. "Informe del Termino de la Implementaci6n -
Mexico Programa para Abatir el Rezago en Educaci6n Inicial y Bcisica (Pr6stamo 4333-ME) " May..
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Junho-Pena, Nahmad, Albano, Aranda & Nielsen. June 1997. Draft. Evaluaci6n Rapida de la Educaci6n
Indigena en los Estados de Oaxaca y Chiapas para el Proyecto de Educaci6n Basica III en
Mexico.
World Bank. Mexico CAS. 1996, updated March 6, 1998. Report No. R-99-49. November 25.
1997. ICR Mexico: Initial Education Project-Ln-3518-ME. Report No. 17192. October 30.
--------- 1998. ICR Mexico: Primary Education Project - Ln-3407-ME. Report No. 17303. January 20.
--------- 1998a. Project Appraisal Document for a Basic Education Development (PAREIB) Project. Report
No. 17535-ME.
--------- 1999. Poverty Assessment for Mexico.
2001. Indigenous Peoples, Ethnic Identity and Poverty in Mexico Urban Profile: An Exploratory
Study. Green Cover. Report No. 22054-ME. June 12.
--------- 2001 a. Mexico: Basic Education Development Phase 11, Summary Risk Assessment Report on
Financial Management. December 3.
C. Other
CONAFE. (1996-2000). Database. Indigenous Schools Receiving CONAFE Support.
--------- 1997a. "Esquema Metodol6gico de Focalizaci6n e Integralidad desarrollado en el Programa para
Abatir el Rezago en Educaci6n Inicial y Basica PAREIB."
--------- 1998. "Subcomponente 1.2.1. Proyecto Escolar: Una Estrategia para Transformar Las Escuelas"
March.
--------- 1998a. "Subcomponente 11.1 Consohdaci6n de los Sistemas Estatales de Evaluaci6n Educativa".
March.
--------- 1998b. "Subcomponente 11.1.3. Estudios. Proyecto: Modelo de Educaci6n Primaria para Nifios
Jomaleros Agricolas Migrantes". March.
--------- 1998c. "Subcomponente 11.1.3. Estudios. Proyecto: Modelo de Educaci6n Primaria para
Poblaci6n de Grupo de Edad 9-14 de Zonas Urbanas." March.
--------- 1999. Direcci6n General De Educaci6n Indigena, Didactica Bilingiie, Oralidad en Lengua Materna,
Manual Del Maestro, Primaria Indigena. August.
--------- 2000a. Acciones Bajo los Subcomponentes de Capacitaci6n Gerencial y Asistencia T6cnica.
Docencia Rural, Proyecto Escolar para Mejorar las competencias basicas, El trabajo en el aula,
Manual del Maestro, Primaria General. 1998,1999 y 2000 (Resumen Ejecutivo). August 19.
--------- 2000b. Acciones y metas 98-2000 del Subcomponente I.1.- Mejoramiento de la Calidad De Los
Servicios De Educaci6n Inicial Y Basica. Compromisos del PAD y Avance De Acciones Y Metas.
August.
--------- 2000c. Analisis Comparativo De Indicadores Educativos Entre Escuelas Primarias Atendidas Por
Acciones Compensatorias Versus Escuelas Primarias No Atendidas, Contrastaci6n con La Media
Estatal Y Media Nacional, PARE/PAREB. June.
--------- 2000d. Avance de la Ejecuci6n Fisica, Metas Acumuladas desde el inicio del proyecto hasta el 31
de Octubre 2000, PAREIB. Programas Compensatorios. November.
--------- 2000e. Avances del Modelo De Proyectos. Coordinaci6n de Programas Compensatorios,
Subdirecci6n De Contenidos, Metodos y Materiales. November.
- 29 -



----- 2000f. Colegiado Nacional del Proyecto Posprimaria, Relatoria de la Mesa: El Futuro de la
Posprimaria. November.
------- 2000g. Direcci6n General De Educaci6n Indigena, Didactica Bilingiue, Alfabetizaci6n en Lengua
Materna, Manual del Maestro, Primaria Indigena. March.
--------- 2000h. Didactica Bilingiue, Manual del Maestro, Primaria Indigena, Lectoescritura en Lengua
Materna. Direcci6n General De Educaci6n Indigena. October.
--------- 2000i. Docencia Rural, Proyecto Escolar para Mejorar las Competencias Basicas, El Trabajo en el
Aula, Bitacora de Clases. August.
---------- 2000j. Docencia Rural, Proyecto Escolar para Mejorar las competencias Basicas, El trabajo en el
aula, Manual del Maestro, Primaria Indigena. September.
--------- 2000k. Docencia Rural, Proyecto Escolar para Mejorar las competencias Basicas, El trabajo en el
aula, Manual del Supervisor, Primaria General. September.
--------- 20001. Docencia Rural, Proyecto Escolar para Mejorar las competencias BAsicas, El trabajo en el
aula, Manual del Supervisor, Primaria Indigena. September.
--------- 2000m. Equidad y Calidad en la Educaci6n Basica, la experiencia del CONAFE y la
Telesecundaria en Mexico. November.
--------- 2000n. Focalizaci6n del Universo de Atenci6n Compensatoria. Documento preparado para la
UCE's Direcci6n de planeaci6n CONAFE. Validaci6n de los Datos Contenidos En El Universo De
Atenci6n Focalizado De Cada Entidad Federativa. October 27.
--------- 2000o. "indices de Permanencia y Rotaci6n de Docentes Incentivados en el Estado de Hidalgo,
Chiapas, Guerrero, Oaxaca, Campeche, Durango, Guanajuato, Jalisco, Michoacan, Puebla, San Luis
Potosi, Tabasco, Veracruz, Yucatan". February.
--------- 2000p. Informe de Avances del Modelo de Posprimaria. August.
--------- 2000q. Informe de Avances del Subcomponente 11.2 Planes Estrategicos Rectores. August.
--------- 2000r. Informe del Estudio: Disefio de una modalidad de atenci6n para poblaci6n infantil agricola
migrante. Direccion General de Investigaci6n Educativa (DGIE) de la Subsecretaria de Educaci6n
Basica y Normal (SEByN). August.
--------- 2000t. Informe de los Avances del Proyecto Escolar: Una estrategia para transformar las escuelas
DGIE de la SEByN. August.
------ - 2000u. Inicio de cursos 2000-2001, Localidades con 2,500 habitantes o menos, datos obtenidos del
catalogo de centros de trabajo de inicio de cursos 2000-2001. Educaci6n primaria, educaci6n primaria
rural /urbana.   Republica Mexicana, ciclo escolar 2001-2002.
--------- 2000v. Intervenci6n educativa con nihias y nifios indigenas que asisten a escuelas primarias
generales. Experiencias de los estados de Nuevo Le6n y Guanajuato. August.
---------- 2000w. La Acci6n Compensatoria, Resultados desagregados de indicadores educativos, serie
hist6rica, Total PARE, Chiapas, Guerrero e Hidalgo. November.
---------- 2000x. La Acci6n Compensatoria, Resultados desagregados de indicadores educativos, serie
hist6rica, Total PAREB, Campeche, Durango, Guanajuato, Jalisco, Michoacan, Oaxaca, Puebla, SLP,
Tabasco, Veracruz y YucatAn. November.
--------- 2000y. La Educaci6n Inicial dentro de los Programas Compensatorios.
---------- 2000z. La Posprimana al Lado De Otros Servicios En Las Comunidades. November.
--------- 2000aa. Lineamientos Generales Para La Operaci6n Del Proyecto Posprimaria, Comunitaria
Rural. April.
--------- 2000ab. Lineamientos Para El Otorgamiento De Recursos Financieros, Gastos A Comprobar En
Oficinas Centrales. Sistema de Gesti6n Financiera del CONAFE y a nivel estatal. June.
--------- 2000ac. Memoria de la Gesti6n 1995-2000. October.
--------- 2000ad. Metas POA 2001. Programas Compensatorios. November.
2001. Programas Compensatorios, Subdirecci6n de Informaci6n y Seguimiento. June.
--------- 2000ag. PAREIB / Lineamientos para el componente 11.2, Fortalecimiento de la Capacidad De
- 30 -



Gesti6n lnstitucional De CarActer Estatal. November.
--------- 2000ah. PAREIB Necesidades de Infraestructura, Educaci6n General. Direcci6n De Planeaci6n.
Documento Intemo de Trabajo. November 11.
--------- 2000ai. Plan Estrategico Rector, Yucatan, Durango, Nayarit, Queretaro, Quintana Roo, San Luis
Potosi, Sinaloa. Direcci6n De la Unidad de los Programas Compensatorios, Subdirecci6n de
Fortalecimiento Institucional. October.
--------- 2000aj. Posprimaria Colegiado Nacional Relatoria de la Mesa: La Posprimaria y la Educaci6n
Comunitaria. November 23.
---------- 2000ak. Posprimaria Comunitaria Rural, Reporte de Evaluaci6n. November.
---------- 2000al. Posprimaria, Delegaci6n San Luis Potosi, Mesa 4, El Futuro de la Posprimaria.
November.
---------- 2000am. Posprimaria Delegaci6n San Luis Potosi, Mesa 4, La Posprimaria dentro del CONAFE.
November.
--------- 2000an. Reuni6n Regional de Evaluaci6n, SEDE: Tijuana Baja California. Sistema Educativo
Estatal en Baja California, Coordinaci6n de Programas Compensatorios / PIARE. September 20.
--------- 2000ao. Universo de atenci6n PAREIB (4333-ME ) para el 2001. August.
--------- 2000ap. Tres Ai'os de Posprimaria, Comunitaria Rural, Mkxzco. October.
--------- 2001a. Avance de la Ejecuci6n Fisica, Metas Acumuladas desde el inicio del proyecto hasta el 31
de diciembre del 2000, PAREIB. Programas Compensatorios. February.
--------- 2001b. Ciclo escolar 2001-2002. PAREIB  Componente: Recursos Didacticos, Auxiliares
Didacticos Para Escuelas Tele-Secundana. Coordinaci6n De Programas Compensatorios, Area De
Recursos DidActicos, Biblioteca Basica Para Tele-Secundarias, Ciclo Escolar 2001-2002. Unidad de
Programas Compensatorios.
--------- 2001c. Descripci6n De Acciones Compensatorias A Realizar En Los Pr6ximos Tres Aiios Por
Subcomponente. Niveles Para La Difusi6n Y Uso De Resultados De Evaluaci6n En Las Entidades.
DEI/174/01. July.
--------- 2001 d. PAREIB,. Cedula de Registro Escolar, Diagn6stico de Necesidades De Atenci6n
Compensatoria, Red de Asesoria para la Calidad Educativa, Control de Universo de Atenci6n. Unidad
de Programas Compensatorios.
--------- 2001e. PAREIB Metas Acumuladas 1998-2001 y Metas Programas 2001. May.
--------- 2001f. PAREIB. Proyecto de Modemizaci6n De La Supervisi6n Escolar En Primaria Rural:
"Modelo de Gestion por Proyectos Escolares". Unidad de Programas Compensatorios. June.
--------- 2001g. PAREIB, Red De Asesoria Para La Calidad Educativa / Reestructuraci6n Del Programa
Compensatorio De Capacitaci6n A Docentes Y Directivos Del Medio Rural. Direcci6n de Programas
Compensatorios. June.
--------- 2001h. PAREIB Universo de Atenci6n 1998-2000. 2001 (Fase 1). May.
--------- 2001 i. "Perfil profesional de los grupos tecnicos estatales, actualizado en cuarta reuni6n". June.
--------- 200 lj. Propuesta de Capacitaci6n con Banco Mundial. February.
--------- 2001k. "Reconocimiento al Desempefno Docente, Ejercicio Fiscal 2001 y Ciclo Escolar
2000-2001". May.
--------- 20011. Red de Asesoria para la Calidad Educativa. Unidad de Programas Compensatorios. June.
-------- n.d. APL Coverage Targets - Component 1. 1998-2007.
--------- n.d. CREFAL, Programa de Apoyo a la Gesti6n Escolar (AGE), Resultados de la Investigaci6n
sobre el lmpacto en el Involucramiento de los Padres de Familia hacia la Educaci6n de sus Hijos.
David A. Turner. 2000. Posprimaria Comunitaria Rural, Reporte de la Evaluaci6n, Versi6n provisional
para las discusiones en el Colegiado de los dias en oficinas centrales del CONAFE. November 22-24.
Despacho Prieto, Ruiz de Velasco y Cia., S.C. n.d. "Prestamo 4333-ME, Informe de Auditoria al 31 de
diciembre de 1999".
--------- n.d. "Prestamo 4333-ME, Informe de Auditoria al 31 de diciembre de 2000".
- 31 -



Educaci6n y Prospectiva, S.C. 1998. "Informe Final del Estudio sobre la Atenci6n a la Demanda Social de
Educaci6n Basica en las Entidades Federativas". March 6.
Instituto Nacional de Estadistica, Geografia, y Informatica (2001). XA7 Censo General de Poblaci6n y
Vivienda. Mexico.
Instituto Nacional Indigenista (1997). "Perfil Indigena de Mexico." <<http://www.ini.gob.mx.>>
----- 2000. Estado del desarrollo econ6mico y social de los pueblos indigenas de Mexico. Mexico.
Gobiemo Constitucional del Estado de Oaxaca. n.d. Evaluaci6n y Seguimiento del Aprendizaje de
Alumnos de Tele-secundarias. Instituto Estatal de Educaci6n Publica de Oaxaca. Coordinaci6n
General de Planeaci6n Educativa, Subdirecci6n de Evaluaci6n, Departamento de Evaluaci6n.
Quintanilla, Amelia Rebeca de los Santos (2001).  Doctoral Thesis.  "Factores que Indicen en el
Rendimiento Escolar en Educaci6n Primaria Indigena en la Republica Mexicana." Universidad
Complutense de Madrid.
Schmelkes, Sylvia (2001). "Education and Indian Peoples in Mexico: An Example of Policy Failure." In
Reimers, Fernando (Ed.). Unequal Schools, Unequal Chances: The Challenges to Equal Opportunity
in the Americas, Harvard.
--------- 2000a. Distribuci6n De Los Planteles Puiblicos De Educaci6n Primaria Y Secundaria, Segun El
Nivel De Aciertos De Sus Alumnos En Los Examenes De Carrera Magisterial. Subsecretaria de
Planeaci6n y Coordinaci6n, Direcci6n General de Evaluaci6n. August.
--------- 2000b. Estudio Cualitativo, Las Escuelas Primarias Rurales Y Los Apoyos De Los Programas
Compensatorios: Reporte Final Del Primer Estudio/Diplomado Sobre Bases Metodol6gicas De
Investigaci6n Cualitativa. Sistema Nacional de Evaluaci6n Educativa, Evaluaci6n de la Educaci6n
Primaria, Vertiente de Seguimiento.
---------- 2000c. Informe Proyecto De Intervenci6n Educativa Con Nifias Y Nifios Indigenas Que Asisten A
Escuelas Generales Y Proyecto De Intervenci6n Educativa Con Nifias Y Nifios Indigenas Que Asisten
A Escuelas Primarias Generales En El Estado De Nuevo Le6n. Subsecretaria de Educaci6n Basica y
Normal, Direcci6n General de Educaci6n Indigena. October.
--------- 2000e. PAREIB, Universo De Atenci6n De La Primera Fase. Direcci6n de Planeaci6n, Secretaria
Tenica. May 17.
--------- 2000f. PAREIB Subcomponente III.I Fortalecimiento De La Capacidad De Gesti6n Institucional
De Caracter Federal, Consolidaci6n De Los Sistemas Estatales De Evaluaci6n Educativa.
Subsecretaria de Planeaci6n y Coordmnaci6n, Direcci6n General de Evaluaci6n. October.
--------- 2000g. Resultados de Estudios Etnograficos en Educaci6n Primaria, Estrategia de Difusi6n.
Secretaria de Educaci6n y Cultura, Gobiemo del Estado Veracruz-Llave. November.
--------- 2001. "Evaluaci6n De La Educaci6n Preescolar Inicial No Escolarizada, Primaria Y Secundaria".
Sistema Nacional de Evaluaci6n Educativa, Direcci6n General De Evaluaci6n, Direcci6n De
Evaluaci6n Del Proceso Educativo. July.
D. General Studies and Reports
Secretaria De Educaci6n, Cultura y Bienestar Social, Estado de Mexico. 2000. Plan Estrategico Rector.
November.
Secretaria de Educaci6n y Cultura, Gobierno del Estado de Veracruz-Llave. n.d. SICORE Manual de
Instalaci6n y Operaci6n, Versi6n 1.0, Aprovechamiento Escolar.
-------- 2000. CD/SICORE/Sistema de Consulta de Resultados de Evaluaci6n, Aprovechamiento Escolar,
Versi6n 1.0.
--------- 2000. CD/SISAR - Sistema de Administraci6n de Reactivos, Versi6n para Primarias, Versi6n 1.0.
--------- n.d. SISAR, Manual de Instalaci6n y Operaci6n, versi6n 1.0, Coordinaci6n Estatal de Evaluaci6n.
Secretaria de Educaci6n Publica (SEP). n.d. Contribuci6n De La Direcci6n General De Evaluaci6n De La
SEP A La Mejoria De La Calidad De La Educaci6n BAsica Mexicana.
--------- n.d. Debilidades Y Fortalezas En Habilidad Verbal, Matematica Y Para El Razonamiento
- 32 -



Abstracto Que Presentan Los Alumnos Egresados De Educaci6n Primaria En El Estado De Tlaxcala.
----- n.d. Evaluaci6n de la Educaci6n, Visi6n Estrategica y Objetivos Deseables de los Organismos
Responsables.
--------- n.d. Memoria del quehacer educativo 1 1995-2000, "Hacia una cultura de la evaluaci6n
1994-2000".
--------- n.d. Taller Nacional de Analisis de Resultados, Compilaci6n de los Infornes Finales, Ciudad de
Mexico. Subsecretaria de Planeaci6n y Coordinaci6n, Direcci6n General de Evaluaci6n, Direcci6n de
Evaluaci6n del Proceso Educativo, Sistema Nacional de Evaluaci6n Educativa.
--------- 1996-2000. Database. Test Scores on EVEP from a National Sample of Indigenous Sixth Grade
Students.
--------- 1999. Informe de Labores 1998-1999. November.
--------- 2000a. Aspectos De Las Escuelas Publicas Mexicanas Exitosas, Encontrados A Partir De
Evaluaciones Cualitativas. Sistema Nacional de Evaluaci6n Educativa, Subsecretaria de Planeaci6n y
Coordinaci6n, Direcci6n General de Evaluaci6n. December.
--------- 2000b. C6mo transformar las escuelas?: Lecciones desde la gesti6n escolar y la practica
pedag6gica, Segundo estudio/diplomado de la vertiente de seguimiento del programa de evaluaci6n de
la calidad de la educaci6n pnmaria, Reporte Final, Aguascalientes, Baja California, Campeche,
Coahuila, Hidalgo, Jalisco, Mexico, Michoacan, Nayarit, Puebla, Queretaro, Tlaxcala, Tamaulipas,
Yucatan, Zacatecas. Subsecretaria de Planeaci6n y Coordinaci6n, Direcci6n General de Evaluaci6n.
October.
--------- 2000c. Evaluaci6n de la Educaci6n Primaria, Vertiente de Seguimiento, Estudio Cualitativo,
Informe Final, Estado I-Colima, Estado 2-Chihuahua, Estado 3-Durango, Estado 4-Guanajuato,
Estado 5-Quintana Roo, Estado 6-San Luis Potosi, Estado 7-Sinaloa, Estado 8-Sonora, Estado
9-Tabasco, Estado I 0-Veracruz. Sistema Nacional de Evaluaci6n Educativa.
--------- 2000d. Informe de Labores 1999-2000. November.
--------- 2000e. Informe de los avances de: Planeaci6n Territorial. Djrecci6n General de Planeaci6n
Programaci6n y Presupuesto (DGPPP). August.
--------- 2000f. Programa para la Instalaci6n y Fortalecimiento de las Areas Estatales de Evaluaci6n,
Balance General del Establecimiento y Operaci6n. Direcci6n General de Evaluaci6n, Direcci6n de
Evaluaci6n del Proceso Educativo, Sistema Nacional de Evaluaci6n Educativa. October.
--------- 2001. Perfil de la Educaci6n en Mexico. February.
--------- 2001 a. Programa Nacional de Educaci6n 2001 - 2006.
Rodolfo Ramirez Raymundo. n.d. Por Una Nueva Escuela Publica.
Victor Manuel Velasquez Castaneda. n.d. "La Transformaci6n de la gesti6n escolar: factor clave para
mejorar la calidad de la educaci6n".
* Including electronic files
- 33 -



