Document of
The World Bank
ReportNo: 17535-ME
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$115 MILLION
TO
NACIONAL FINANCIERA (NAFIN)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A
BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT (PAREIB) PROJECT
MAY 7, 1998



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 1998)
Currency Unit  Nuevo Pesos ($)
US$1 = NP$8.40
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL   Adaptable Program Loan
CAS   Country Assistance Strategy
CONAFE   Consejo Nacional de Fomento Educativo
CPU    Compensatory Programs Unit
DGE   General Directorate of Evaluation of SEP
DGEI   General Directorate of Indigenous Education of SEP
DGPPP   General Directorate of Program and Planning of SEP
FDI   Fondo de Desarollo Institucional
GIS   Geographic Informnation System
GTC   Grupo Tecnico Central
IDB   Inter-American Development Bank
INEGI   National Statistics and Geographic Information Institute
NAFIN   Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
PARE   Basic Education I Project
PAREB   Basic Education II Project
PAREIB   Basic Education Development Project
PDE   Education Development Program
PIARE   Basic Education Project (IDB-financed)
PRODEI   Initial Education Project
PDE   Education Development Program
RA   Rapid Appraisal
SEP   Ministry of Education
SEPEs   State-level Secretariats of Education
SHCP   Ministry of Finance
SNEE   National System of Education Evaluation
SNTE   National Union of Workers in Education
Vice President: Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager/Director: Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager/Director: Xavier Coll
Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Madalena Dos Santos



Mexico
BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
3. Benefits and target population
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
5. Value added of Bank support in this project
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic
2. Financial
3. Technical
4. Institutional
5. Social
6. Environmental assessment
7. Participatory approach
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability
2. Critical risks
3. Possible controversial aspects
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions
2. Other
H. Readiness for Implementation
L. Compliance with Bank Policies
Annexes
Annex 1.     Project Design Summary
Annex 2.     Letter of Sector Development Strategy
Annex 3.     Project Description
Annex 4.     Education Development Program
Annex 5.     Social Assessment Summary - Indigenous Peoples Development Assessment
Annex 6.     Economic and Fiscal Analysis



Annex 7.     Estimated Project Costs
Annex 8.     Financial Summary
Annex 9.     Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.     Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B.     Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.     Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 10.    Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 11.    Documents in Project File
Annex 12.    Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 13.    Country at a Glance



Mexico
BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Mexico Country Department
Date: May 7, 1998                                  Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Madalena Dos Santos
Country Manager/Director: Olivier Lafourcade        Sector Manager/Director: Xavier Coll
Project ID: 40199      Sector: Education            Program Objective Category: Poverty Reduction
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan         Program of Targeted Intervention:  [X] Yes  [ ] No
Program Financing Data
APL                 Indicative Financing Plan         Estimated Implementation Period  Borrower
(Bank FY)
IBRD        Government    Total       Commitment      Closing Date
Date
US$ million   %   US$ million  US$ million
Phase I Loan         115.0             35.0        150.0       June 1998     December 2000    NAFIN
Phase II Loan        300.0             70.0       370.0      January 2001    December 2003    NAFIN
Phase III Loan      210.0              50.0       260.0       January 2004    December 2006    NAFIN
Total                625.0             155.0      780.0
Project Financing Data              [X] Loan        [  Credit      [  Guarantee      [] Other [Specify]
Amount: US$115 million (Phase 1)
Proposed termns:                       []  Multicurrency      [X] Single currency, US dollars
Grace period (years): 3          []   Standard Variable  [X] Fixed          []    LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 15
Commitrnent fee: standard
Service charge: standard
Financing plan, Phase I (US$m):
Source                             Local             Foreign           Total
Government                                                  35.0                0.0            35.0
IBRD                                                       112.2                2.8            115.0
Total         147.2                2.8           150.0
Borrower: Nacional Financiera (NAFIN)
Guarantor: United Mexican States
Responsible agencies: Ministry of Education (SEP), Consejo Nacional de Fomento Educativo (CONAFE), and state-level
Secretariats of Education (SEPEs)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):   FY99    FY00    FY01
Annual    20.0       42.0     53.0
Cumulative     20.0     62.0    115.0
Project implementation period: 3 years Expected effectiveness date: September 1998 Expected closing date: June 2001
OSD PAD Form: July 30, 1997



Page 2
A: Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program phasing:
Phase I of the proposed Adaptable Program Loan (APL) of US$115 million supports the Government's
compensatory education programs, as outlined in its Education Development Program (Programa de
Desarrollo Educativo, PDE), through CONAFE (Consejo Nacional Fomento Educativo), working
exclusively with under-served (i.e., rural, poor, indigenous, and marginalized urban areas) communities.
The APL may have three phases of three years each, starting in 1998, with the end of Phase I
corresponding to the end of the current Administration. The Phase I loan will be for US$115 million,
and the predicted Phase II and Phase III loans, if approved, for US$300 million and US$210 million,
respectively. At the end of Phase I1l, the education sector program  will have the effect of bringing
Mexico susbstantially closer to OECD education indicators.
The PDE is organized along five broad strategic areas: (a) the organization of basic education'; (b) the
methods, contents and resources of the teaching and learning process; (c) the formation, retraining and
improvement of teachers; (d) the promotion of equity; and (e) the use of alternative mechanisms to reach
the population.
The PDE stresses the importance of decentralization and the need to foster communication between
federal and state education authorities to implement normative practices according to national priorities
and which reflect the country's diverse communities. It also calls for a higher degree of integration
among communities, teachers and principals, in favor of actions that suit the local environment. The
PDE reemphasizes the Government's commitment to provide important educational inputs such as free
textbooks (including special versions for indigenous children) and other didactic materials, as well as
continuous evaluation and reformulation of curricula and other pedagogical strategies to improve the
teaching-learning process, such as the development not only of formal knowledge in the classrooms but
also to the generation of self-esteem, respect, and citizenship values. The PDE also recognizes the
importance of teacher training through reformulation of teacher training programs (both pre- and in-
service), creation of incentives to update teacher skills, increased professionalization of the teaching
career, and growing recognition for teachers' social role. The strategy to promote equity rests on a large
part with CONAFE, which is in charge of the Government's compensatory educational programs.
CONAFE supplements the regular educational programs with activities targeted to the most underserved
populations, i.e., the rural, poor, and indigenous populations, using complementary mechanisms to meet
their special needs. A more complete discussion of the sector and of the PDE can be found in Annex 4,
while the box on the next page provides an overview of the PDE' s coverage and efficiency goals.
For the period 1998-2006, the Government has requested a three-phase APL with the following program
objectives: (a) to expand educational opportunities in initial and basic education for students in the
poorest communities, including indigenous and migrant children; (b) to improve the quality of basic
education for students to achieve better learning outcomes; (c) to support school and community
participation in decision-making processes at the school level; and (d) to support the decentralization
process by developing management and delivery capacity at the federal, state and municipal levels. The
Government strategy is spelled out in a Letter of Sector Development Strategy, a draft of which was
presented at negotiations (Annex 2).
The Bank has supported the Government's compensatory educational programs through three loans, one
of which is still ongoing (also see section B on the CAS). The Bank's eight-year involvement in the
sector is relatively short compared to its experiences in other large client countries, and has afforded only
limited opportunities to engage in a broad dialogue of the sector. Its education portfolio comprises
projects supporting the compensatory education program, labor market projects, and an upcoming project
i Basic education covers grades 1-9 (6 years of primary and 3 of lower secondary), which are mandatory. The
program supports both basic education and initial education (ages 0-3) and preschool (ages 4-6).



Page 3
on higher education financing. Economic and sector work on education finance and decentralization, to
be delivered in 1998, will provide additional input into the evolving policy dialogue. The Bank's current
involvement in basic education rests on the sound principle, agreed with the Government, of supporting
compensatory programs to aid the neediest population sections (many of whom are indigenous) in a
country where primary enrollment, at the aggregate level, is close to universal. The PDE, which contains
both intermediate and long-term goals, provides a good basis for continued growth in the relationship
and dialogue between the Bank and the Government. It articulates well thought out principles on which
to design policies and instruments, and its compensatory activities (including indigenous education)
component is particularly well-developed. The existence of a federal program managed by CONAFE
has helped in this regard and has provided the Bank with a convenient single entry point into the
compensatory education program.
The APL would provide the Government with the opportunity to seek support for the further
improvement in quality of its compensatory programs, the continuation of its policies to redress
inequities in the sector, the ongoing process of decentralization, and for a smooth transition across
presidential Administrations. The APL would help the Bank better respond to client needs, provide more
continuity and better focus on long-term development goals, enhance its ability to engage in more
extensive policy dialogue, and preserve flexibility in program design, implementation, and financing.
Many elements of the program are particularly well-suited to the more flexible APL approach, such as
increased decentralization of authority to the states within a fast-evolving Mexican context, the
introduction of innovative self-management programs at the school level and of pilot programs to attend
to the needs of special population groups, and the strengthening of the evaluation system within the
Ministry of Education (SEP) and its state-level partners (SEPEs) to become more action- and results-
oriented. The APL, in particular during Phases II and III, would, if approved, also make use of economic
and sector work on education finance, public expenditure, and decentralization currently underway and
scheduled for delivery in 1998. Another benefit has been to open up the dialogue to consider a more
integrated approach to financing and organization in the sector.
(a)  Phase 1 (1998-2000) covers implementation of the program in schools and communities ranked in
the bottom half of the marginality index adopted by CONAFE and not currently covered under
other projects.  It also covers pilots of new models for rural secondary education (e.g.,
posprimaria), migrant children education, children in urban marginal areas, and inter-cultural
school interventions; a fund will be made available to states to request support for education
development initiatives.
(b) Phase 11 (2001-2003) would, if approved, continue and expand on activities under Phase I,
covering additional targeted schools and communities and expanding the innovative programs
successfully piloted in the first phase. Phase II would also pick up where the existing loan
("PAREB", Ln. 3722-ME) leaves off, continuing support for initial, pre-school, and primary
education in addition to the activities covered under Phase I. More importantly, Phase II would
provide the opportunity to rationalize and integrate the various compensatory programs both in
terms of organization (i.e., within a presumably more decentralized environment) and financing.2
(c) Phase III (2004-2006) if approved, would support the continued implementation of the
Government's compensatory program, based on (i) a fuill review of the targeting mechanism to
2At present, both the Bank and IDB are supporting various levels of education in separate states. For example, the
Bank is supporting highly targeted initial, preschool, and primary education in up to 14 states. IDB fnances a
similar programs in the balance of the states, plus most of the telesecundaria secondary education program.
This complicated structure, mainly the result of changes in policy and targeting criteria, has created
unnecessary implementation and coordination obstacles for CONAFE, the executing agency (see Annex 3,
Appendix A).



Page 4
ensure that program activities continue reaching the neediest populations and (ii) an adaptation of
executing mechanisms to reflect the decentralization experience and increased institutional
capacity of the states developed under the previous phases.
2. Program development objectives and key performance indicators:
The Phase I objectives reflect the program goals and aim at: (a) providing quality improvements in initial
and basic education and non-traditional modalities of post-primary education; (b) improving the school
supervision system; (c) establishing and implementing school-based school management improvement
strategies; (d) designing and piloting new education modalities to better meet the needs of migrant
children, children aged 9-14 in urban marginal areas, and indigenous children in general primary schools;
and (e) strengthening institutional capacity for planning, evaluation and program and system management
and execution at the federal and state levels.
Compliance with key performance indicators under the Phase I loan would function as "triggers" for
consideration of second-phase Bank support (see section G, Main Loan Conditions). They include (a)
physical implementation indicators, to demonstrate tangible progress in project-related outputs, and (b)
satisfactory progress under a set of policy-oriented activities aimed at improving efficiency and equity in
the delivery of education services and at strengthening the decentralization process.
Phase II objectives would include the expansion of pilots and of state-based institutional development
activities under Phase I and the consolidation and continued financing of compensatory programs in a
more integrated context. Phase III objectives would focus on the finetuning of delivery mechanisms
based on a more fully developed decentralization model.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the program (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 16135-ME   Date of latest CAS discussion: December 17, 1996
Progress Report: March 26, 1998.
The project meets three major criteria in the CAS. First, it addresses the following CAS education
priorities: (a) raising the quality and efficiency of basic education particularly in the poorest states with
high drop-out and repetition rates; (b) raising the quality of school entrants through improvement of pre-
school education, mainly targeting poor communities; (c) upgrading primary education through
investments in cost-effective inputs including teacher training and didactic materials; and (d) increasing
the quality of lower secondary education in under-served rural areas. Second, the project's emphasis on
promoting access for marginalized groups (i.e., low-income and/or indigenous people living in remote
rural areas) to the current education system coincides with the goal of focusing on quality and targeting
basic human resource development. Third, this project addresses the strategy of modernizing public
administration by supporting ongoing government initiatives to strengthen the ability of states to deliver
educational services.
The Bank has recently supported several projects in the sector, targeting underserved areas in the poorest
states-Lns. 3407-ME ("PARE", 1991); 3518-ME ("PRODEI", 1992); and 3722-ME ("PAREB",
1994)-which have been instrumental in supporting the Government's compensatory strategy. The state-
by-state targeting mechanism under these projects has now evolved into a better-integrated program of
national scope and coverage, which the proposed APL will support.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
In the last decades, Mexico has made important progress in providing primary education access to most
children. Today, practically all primary school-aged children enroll in school and 80 percent of them
complete this level (1996). In secondary education, approximately 75 percent of students enrolled
complete this level. Despite the recent progress, and the efforts to increase access to basic education,
universal coverage remains a challenge and the quality of education needs to be improved to support the



Page 5
country's economic and social development efforts.
In 1992, the Federal Government, the state Governors, and the Teachers' Union signed an agreement
proclaiming bold policy reforms, the "Acuerdo Nacional para la Modernizaci6n de la Educaci6n
Bdsica", which subsequently ratified by a new general education law in 1993. These reforms extended
basic compulsory education from six to nine years and integrated pre-school into basic education
(making it free but not compulsory). Furthermore, the Government transferred basic education
managerial responsibilities to each of the 31 federal states, approved a new curriculum, allocated more
resources to education, and put greater emphasis on compensatory programs which go beyond traditional
interventions in basic education and focus on providing extraordinary support to specific disadvantaged
groups.
Today, the Government's main priorities are to provide basic education to all citizens and to improve
basic skills of all graduates. The Government hopes to achieve this goal by improving quality to achieve
better learning outcomes, developing innovative approaches to reach marginalized groups, and providing
better educational opportunities to those students not progressing at the expected rate under the current
system. The Government's PDE emphasizes the need to attend to students living in rural and marginal
urban areas, handicapped children, migrant children and indigenous children.
The main issues facing the Government's compensatory education programs are as follows:
(a)  Children's low learning readiness, especially the poor.  The vicious cycle of poverty
perpetuates itself in the lack of cognitive and social stimulation for many poor children in the
early years. Although research shows that investments in early childhood and the skills built upon
during the years of primary schooling have substantial impact on learning outcomes in the later
years, formal pre-school participation for the poor remains very low. In addition, in 1990-91,
-repetition rates were estimated at close to 32 percent for the first grade, partly as a result of low
school readiness. Despite the results of several evaluations that show the beneficial impact of
initial and preschool programs in increasing school readiness, only 5 percent of children below the
age of 4 benefit from formal or informal early childhood education. One-third of children age 4 to
5 years do not participate in preschool programs.
(b) Inadequate training for teachers working with at-risk students. Teacher pre-service and in-
service training programs to deal with at-risk children barely exist. The majority of teachers
graduating from pre-service training institutions are not willing to accept teaching positions in
remote rural or indigenous schools. Therefore, the Government has to rely on untrained teachers
to provide educational services in remote rural areas. To minimize the lack of adequate teacher
preparation, SEP/CONAFE has had to permanently offer in-service training programs.
(c) Poor fit between education programs and the needs of students and of the community. As
part of the reform of school management, SEP is encouraging schools and communities to develop
pedagogical strategies that are better adapted to local conditions. Previously, only limited
opportunities have existed for this to happen, particularly for more remote areas, due to lack of
capacity. Under the program, training and supervision will be provided to principals, teachers and
parents to develop adaptive school-based initiatives to meet the specific needs of their children.
(d) Deficient supervisory practices. Supervisory practices have been fragmented and centered on
monitoring administrative compliance to norms and regulations and not on learning/ teaching
activities and pedagogical support to teachers and to schools. There is a need to place supervision
at the core of the pedagogical support to teachers, mainly due to the low preparation of school
personnel to deal with children from disadvantaged or different backgrounds.
(e) Low secondary education coverage. Approximately 38 percent of students who complete
primary education do not progress in their studies either because there are no places available or
because the programs offered do not to fit their need to work. This is especially critical for



Page 6
migrant students who represent a significant percentage of the out-of-school children population
(at both primary and lower secondary levels).
(f)  Weak managerial and administrative capacity at the state level.  States have uneven
institutional capacity to provide basic education services and to monitor, evaluate and consolidate
ongoing compensatory programs. These weaknesses hamper the states' basic ability to translate
national education policies and strategies into concrete programmatic actions, to target resources
to areas of greatest need, and to monitor student achievements.
These issues have been and continue to be addressed under Bank-supported projects. For the period
1998-2006, the Government will continue with the Education Development Program, in line with its
overall development and decentralization plan. More specifically, the SEP/CONAFE strategy will focus
on improving the quality of education for students in the poorest areas. This will be accomplished, in
part, by offering minimum operational standards for all the targeted schools, developing innovative
programs to address the needs of students, involving schools and communities in the decision-making
process at the school level, and by developing the institutional capacity of states to design and implement
education policies and compensatory programs.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the program and strategic choices:
Through this program the Government aims at addressing, at the national level, the long-term
development goal of reducing education inequities, improving the human capital formation in the
country, and alleviating poverty. In shaping the program, the Government has carefully taken into
consideration the following strategic choices:
(a)  it recognizes that a targeted approach is more likely to address the specific needs of the poorest
children and of minority groups and communities, thus addressing the problem of equity of
education in quality of services;
(b) it recognizes that investrnent in early childhood and the skills to be acquired during the first years
of schooling have substantial impact on learning outcomes in later years by emphasizing these
programs;
(c)  it emphasizes positive discrimination to overcome inequities in the education system;
(d) it places emphasis on increasing years of schooling-as an important determinant of individual
achievement and economic growth-among low-income populations by providing various
secondary education alternatives to meet different needs;
(e)  it recognizes the need to provide a package of minimum operation inputs for both students and
teachers (i.e., textbooks and teaching/learning materials), appropriately targeted to the population
(e.g., by providing bilingual materials to indigenous schools);
(f)  it recognizes the need to design, test, and implement different approaches to solve problems of
low school readiness, work problems, and special needs of students from different cultural
backgrounds and low-income areas;
(g) it recognizes the need to provide better training programs for teachers dealing with children with
special pedagogical needs and problems, as well as to provide adequate supervision to raise school
performance;
(h) it promotes participation of schools and communities through the establishment of mechanisms to
strengthen the decision-making process at the school level, thereby laying the groundwork for the
development of partnership and local ownership in the provision of the education services;
(i)  it strengthens the federalization process in the sector by adopting mechanisms to improve the
states' capacity to implement national basic education policies and compensatory programs; and



Page 7
(j) it recognizes and strengthens the role of the central level in establishing general direction, setting
goals and priorities, establishing quality standards and pedagogical/administrative legal norms and
regulations, working in conjunction with states to design and implement regular and compensatory
programs in accordance with national norms and reflecting local needs.
C: Program Description Summary
1. Phase I Program components (see Annex 3 for a detailed description and Annex 7for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component 1- Quality Improvements in Initial and Basic Education
The objective of this component is to improve quality in the delivery of initial and basic education for
children in the more disadvantaged rural and marginal urban communities, indigenous communities, and
migrant worker populations. This would be accomplished by: (a) expanding compensatory activities
and providing quality inputs to (i) increase internal efficiency and (ii) improve student achievement; and
(b) improving school management and efficiency through (i) developing school projects (Proyectos
Escolares), (ii) enhancing community and parent participation, and (ii) modernizing the organization and
implementation of the supervision system.
This component will finance, inter alia, the following: (a) educational materials and equipment for
students, teachers, and schools; (b) training for teachers, supervisors and principals; (c) support to
community or school associations for school-based management activities; (d) improvement of the
school supervision function; and (e) construction or rehabilitation of school infrastructure.
Component 2- Strengthening Institutional Capacity at Federal and State Levels
This component aims to strengthen the management capacity of key sector entities at both federal and
state levels. The activities supported include: (a) at the federal level, (i) strengthening the national
evaluation system and (ii) designing and piloting appropriate basic education models for migrant
children, children aged 9-14 in urban marginal areas, and indigenous children in regular schools; and (b)
at the state level, strengthening the role of the state-level Secretariats of Education (SEPEs) in the
provision of education services by reinforcing their capability for management (i.e., planning,
programming, budgeting, monitoring and evaluation) through the development and implementation of
state-specific Strategic Development Plans (Planes Estrategicos Rectores) and delivery of basic
education services through support for state-generated institutional development proposals.
This component will finance: (a) technical assistance to develop the national assessment and evaluation
system; (b) studies and pilots for innovative programs; (c) a fund to support the states in implementing
their institutional development proposals and other state-generated initiatives (Fondo de Desarollo
Institucional, FDI); and (d) incremental operational costs.



Page 8
Component/                               Cost Incl.               Bank-       yLQ
Subcomponent                 Category      Contin-    % of Total  financing    BaLnk
Phase I                                 gencies                (US$M)    financing
___$M )_
1. Quality Improvements in Initial and Basic             126.5       84.3%        95.0       82.6%
Education
1. I Carry out in-service training of teachers,   Institution
principals, supervisors, and other        building      27.2        18.1%       24.5       21.3%
administrative staff
1.2 Strengthen school management at local    Institution  1.4       0.9%         1.0        0.9%
and school levels (proyectos escolares)   building
1.3 Strengthen supervision               Institution     8.6        5.8%         6.3        5.4%
building
1.4 Build/rehabilitate infrastructure, provide    Physical  89.3    59.5        62.3       55.0%
equipment, didactic materials
2. Strengthening Institutional Capacity at                23.5       15.7%        20.0       17.4%
Federal and State Levels
2.1 Activities at the Federal Level
2.1.1 Strengthen national evaluation system   Institution  1.4    0.9%         1.4        1.2%
2.1.2 Implementregional planning exercise   building    1.6        1.1%        1.6        1.4%
2.1.3 Pilot program for migrant children   ...          1.3       0.7%         1.3        1.1%
2.1.4 Pilot program for children 9-14 in   ...         0.4        0.3%         0.4        0.3%
urban marginal areas
2.1.5 Pilot inter-cultural program for     ...          1.0       0.7%         1.0        0.9%
indigenous children in regular schools
2.2 Activities at the State Level - FDI     ...          9.0        6.0%         8.1        7.0%
2.3 Project administration                 Project       8.8        5.9%         6.2        5.4%
management
Total                 150.0      100%         115.0      100%
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the program:
The program will support consolidation of the following key policies:
(a) Gradual decentralization in the operation of the compensatory programs through (i) strengthening the
states' institutional capability to plan and operate the education system and (ii) increasing the
participation of communities and school associations in school management.
(b) Improving the quality of education for low-income students in the most remote rural areas.
(c) Better quality of education through improvements in teacher training, provision of minimum
operational standards for targeted schools, and national evaluation as a tool to increase accountability
at all levels.
3. Benefits and target population:
The direct beneficiaries of the 1998-2006 program include all children who will be reached by inputs and
through training of their teachers and principals under the program. More broadly, all children in
preschool and basic education will benefit indirectly from more efficient education services as the result
of institutional strengthening and decentralization activities supported under component 2. Currently,
about 3.2 million students are enrolled in preschool education (gross enrollment of 71 percent), 14.6
million in primary education, and 4.7 million in secondary education.
The program will target children in rural and marginalized urban areas with the highest incidence of
poverty, seeking to ensure successful completion of basic education schooling for these children. In



Page 9
broad terms, out of the potential beneficiaries of the compensatory programs, the program seeks to reach
100 percent of all initial education and preschool indigenous children, the poorest 50 percent of rural
preschool and lower secondary students, and the poorest 25 percent of children in urban marginal areas.
Target populations under Component 1 by level and type of program and by school year across the two
phases are as follows:
APL Coverage Targets -Component 1, 1998-2006
Baseline     End        End         End
Phase I    Phase II*   Phase III*
Program       Level          Group            1997-98    1999-00    2001-03    2004-06
Non-indigenous Preschool     Students           342,000    349,500     251,000    255,000
Schools            12,750      13,500      10,000     10,500
General       Students            50,000     51,500      37,000      37,500
Secondary     Schools               471         500         510        515
Technical     Students            58,500     60,500      44,000      44,500
Secondary     Schools               470         500         520        530
Telesecundaria  Students         217,000    231,000     171,000     173,500
Schools             5,600       6,200      4,700       4,900
Indigenous    Initial        Families            32,500     41,000      38,500     39,000
Bilingual Instr.      214        680         970         990
Communities         1,350       1,800       1,800      1,820
Preschool     Students           285,000    307,000     240,000     243,000
Bilingual Educ.       494       1,500      2,100       2,100
Schools             8,000       8,600      6,700       6,800
Priinary (both non-indigenous &   Students    3,400,000     N/A**   3,400,000   3,400,000
Indigenous)***              Schools             25,700     N/A**_     25,700      25,700
* Phases II and III of the APL are projected to provide support to some, but not all, of the states.
** Not part of the Phase I project.
*** According to demographic projections, primary population is projected not to change.
During Phase I, the short-term benefits of the program include quality improvements in education for
approximately (a) 52,000 children at the initial education level (through 41,000 indigenous parents), (b)
349,500 preschool children, and (c) 343,000 children in rural areas at the lower secondary level, under
various modalities (i.e., general lower secondary, technical lower secondary, telesecundaria,
posprimaria).
Indirect, medium-term benefits of the program will accrue from improved efficiency and equity in the
management and delivery of educational services at both federal and state levels. Through technical
assistance provided under the program, the capacity for policy analysis and strategic planning will be
strengthened at the federal level, while at the state level, the capacity of the SEPEs to plan, implement,
monitor and evaluate regular and compensatory programs will similarly improve.
Long-term benefits of the program are derived from the projected increase in schooling years as a result
of a better program of basic education. This will imply a reduction in the absolute level of poverty for
those who can participate more productively in the economy (see Annex 6 for an economic analysis of
the program).
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
CONAFE will be the main executing agency and will coordinate all implementation activities on behalf
of SEP. CONAFE has extensive experience implementing Bank- and IDB-financed projects. CONAFE
will exercise its project coordination responsibilities through a Compensatory Programs Unit (CPU),
with participation of SEP's normative units. The CPU will be adequately organized and staffed to



Page 10
perform the required administrative, supervisory and financial management functions; in particular, its
financial management unit has been recently strengthened with skilled staff. Its responsibilities include:
*  project execution activities;
*  yearly work plan review consolidation and program execution;
*  procurement;
*  annual implementation review information preparation;
*  liaison with state-level offices; and
*  monitoring of project objectives, goals, processes, and deadlines in coordination with SEP and
SEPEs
The states, through their SEPEs, will have greater autonomy in planning and executing compensatory
education activities according to a set of national guidelines which specify the targeted schools and
communities, menu of supported activities, educational norms to be met, and procedures for obtaining
program  approval and financial support.  The SEPEs will prepare annual work plans for the
compensatory programs, including procurement plans for the coming year. Procurement will be carried
out by CONAFE either at the central level (e.g., under ICB or NCB) or by state-level CONAFE
delegations in SEPES or at the municipal or school level in the case of smaller contracts. These
delegations would be the same units currently implementing the PAREB and PIARE projects,
supplemented by 4-5 new staff; for the eight "new" states not currently supported under either project,
new units will be organized. The institutional capacity of CONAFE was deemed satisfactory as part of
the financial management review (see section E on institutional financial analysis below).
Construction and/or rehabilitation of infrastructure by municipalities will follow the same planning and
financial transfer mechanisms used under the ongoing PAREB project: investment planning is carried
out at the state level and aggregated by CONAFE for submittal to the Ministry of Finance. Authorized
funds are channeled through the Borrower, NAFIN, which will subsequently transfer allocations to each
state on a quarterly basis through commercial banks. Communities will receive 60 percent as an advance
to purchase all materials, and the balance will be disbursed as civil works progress.
Proyectos Escolares. School Projects will be submitted by the school council of each school to the state
project office for financing. School councils will need to have been formally established and to have
acquired legal status (personeriajuridica) in order to be eligible to receive project funds for their school
projects. In addition to this, the SEPE will provide training to school council officers in management
and accounting skills, and each council will open a bank or other account to deposit the funds received
from the state. The account may also hold other resources of the school council. Once the school project
is approved, the state will deposit the authorized amount in the account of the council. The council will
then authorize the necessary expenditures to implement the project, and will submit a report of
expenditures to the state using the existing official forms for this purpose.
State-generated proposals for institutional development under the FDI will be collected and screened by
the SEPEs and sent to SEP/CONAFE for review by a joint CONAFE/SEP committee composed of
technical specialists in basic education, institutional development, sector planning and budgeting, and
evaluation. This committee will evaluate proposals based on general criteria established for both funds
and on specific criteria applicable only to the Competitive Fund. Once approved, these initiatives will be
funded through the same mechanisms used by NAFIN for the other project components. More details on
the operation of the FDI can be found in Annex 3.
Nacional Financiera (NAFIN) will be the Borrower, with the guarantee of the United Mexican States.
NAFIN will be responsible for submitting withdrawal applications and would (along with CONAFE)
maintain separate records and accounts for all transactions under the loan and will have the deposit
accounts audited in accordance with standard Bank requirements.



Page 1 1
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
In discussing options to address the objective of providing quality basic education to all in Mexico, a
number of alternatives were considered. The following section summarizes the reasons why certain
alternatives were rejected in favor of the approach adopted in the project:
(a) APL vs. traditional investment loan. The team discussed with the Government the pros and cons
of a series of traditional investment loans as opposed to an APL. The Government strongly favored
an APL for the following reasons: (a) the APL folds all relevant basic education issues and activities
into one program; (b) the program is long enough to fulfill a vision of major accomplishments, while
still allowing enough flexibility to adjust to political cycles which is crucial as the program straddles
two Presidential Administrations.
(b) National project vs. focus on the poorer states. Prior Bank-financed projects elected to focus on
the states with higher levels of poverty. Experience with these projects showed that while giving
priority attention to the poorer states was justified as a matter of relative priority, there were
disadvantaged schools and students in every state. Relying on an integrated database which
combines school efficiency indicators with indicators of poverty at the community level, the
proposed program will reach the schools and communities most in need of assistance in all 31 states.
(c) Emphasis on improving preschool education. An evaluation done in 1987 indicated that the non-
formal initial education programs were equally effective-and in some case more effective-than
formal programs in improving child school readiness and eventual primary school performance. The
evaluation further indicated that these programs would require additional quality improvements to
have a significant impact.
(d) Improving quality of secondary education in rural areas. The emphasis on improving quality in
lower secondary-rather than primary-education in rural areas is due to the fact that primary
education improvement is being supported by a Bank-financed project (Ln. 3722-ME, PAREB) in 14
states as well as an IDB-financed project in nine other states. With 99 percent of the 6-12 population
enrolled in school, Mexico has practically reached the objective of universal primary education. The
success of primary-level activities has generated significant demand to increase the quality of, and
expand opportunities for, lower secondary education, mainly for students in rural areas. With the
launch of a Government program of direct subsidies to families linked to school attendance
(PROGRESSA), the demand for better-quality education will only increase.
(e) Strengthening basic education for indigenous children. While basic education for non-indigenous
students has reached significant levels of expansion, basic education for indigenous students requires
special emphasis to diminish the still existing inequities affecting this student population. Bilingual
education, the use of appropriate learning/teaching materials and programs, and adequate
pedagogical supervision are needed to improve the performance of indigenous teachers and students.
(f) Supply vs. demand side financing. While it is unquestionable that demand side factors influence
educational opportunity, there are also sound reasons to improve the quality of the education which
most children already receive. Since almost all children begin primary education and most of them
complete it; the challenge is to ensure that they learn meaningful skills and abilities in the process.
This will be a function of enriching the educational environment, training teachers, providing
adequate materials, developing supportive supervisors, and establishing incentives for school based
initiatives to find local solutions to local educational problems.
(g) Emphasis on innovation at the decentralized level vs. a traditional approach. Prior Bank-
financed interventions relied on the provision of a basic package of inputs to improve the quality of
basic education in the targeted states. While this is a fruitful strategy to establish minimum



Page 12
operational standards, it is insufficient to ensure equitable and lasting educational outcomes. Equity
in outcomes requires differentiated strategies, suited to the particular conditions of the children in
each specific context. Local teachers, principals and parents are better equipped to identify these
types of contextual factors than administrators at the federal level. This program relies on a mixed
strategy. It retains some elements of the traditional approach through activities associated with the
minimum standard operational inputs (e.g., infrastructure, textbooks, didactic materials, training,
etc.), but also seeks to (a) strengthen the capacity of SEPEs to take more active ownership of
compensatory programs (without a central Project Coordinating Unit as in prior projects) and (b)
foster innovation (i) in SEPEs, through the funding of state-generated institutional development
initiatives using the FDI, and (ii) within each school, through the Proyectos Escolares, which
combine training opportunities with assistance to schools in formulating local action plans.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
andplanned):
Sector issue                            Project                       Latest Supervision Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Bank-financed                                                                    IP            DO
Equity in basic education  "PARE", Ln. 3407-ME, to improve the quality and
efficiency of primary education in the four states with
the highest incidence of poverty. A recent restructuring  HS        HS
of all ongoing education sector projects led to a
cancellation of the undisbursed portion of this loan.
Equity in initial and basic  "PRODEI" and "PAREB", Lns. 3518-ME & 3722-ME.
education                  Both were recently restructured into one project.
Objectives include preparing children of low-income
families for school, educating parents in child-rearing  S           S
practices, and strengthening institutional capacity to
formulate and evaluate policies in initial education
while improving the quality of primary education in the
14 states with the highest incidence of poverty.
Protection of social services    "PROSSE", Ln. 3912-ME, seeks to protect essential
directed to the poor as a result  social services to the poor, strengthen existing social
of 1995 peso crisis        safety nets, and lay the foundation for measuring &   S              S
implementing efficiency gains in the social sector.
Other development agencies
Equity in basic education  "PIARE", IDB-funded parallel project to PAREB, with  NA             NA
similar objectives, covering 17 other states
Low quality in secondary   Distance Education project, IDB-funded, to increase
education                  access for students at the lower-secondary level using  NA          NA
various modalities
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
This proposal incorporates previous experiences gained from the implementation of other Bank projects
with similar objectives in Mexico and Latin America:
(a) The need to establish a broad policy framework. Those projects that successfully amalgamate
their intervention goals with government policy frameworks have the best implementation records.
Program preparation activities were aimed at mutually reinforcing bonds between program
objectives and policies, and thus ensure systematic changes in selected program areas (e.g., teacher
training, community participation, pedagogical and administrative innovations, etc.), while
benefiting from new policy framework opportunities. This approach provides the proposed APL
with potential to support systemic changes beyond programmed goals.
(b) Develop ownership and participation during project design and implementation. Lessons
learned from previous projects stress the importance of incorporating all key players (in this case,



Poe 13
SEP, CONAFE, SEPEs, and other stakeholders) involved in the program. Several units of SEP and
CONAFE took leading roles in the preparation of the program, making ample of sector-wide
experience and lessons learned from prior Bank-financed projects.
(c) Better targeting mechanisms. Lessons leamed from PARE reveal the importance of using more
specific criteria to target than state-level poverty, since excessive aggregation may hide important
areas of poverty within states or inadvertently average conditions of wealthier communities with
those of poorer ones. This program is making use of more precise targeting mechanisms.
(d) Maintaining effective incentives and inputs. An evaluation of PARE singled out the positive
contribution of: (i) teacher incentives in reducing teacher absenteeism; (ii) adequate supervision;
(iii) training programs; and (iv) textbook and material provision. Intemational literature on
education also highlights the cost-effectiveness of: (i) learning materials (in the Mexican context,
the national policy of providing free textbooks); (ii) teacher training in classroom methodologies;
(iii) initial education; and (iv) effective supervision.  Available evidence also supports the
development of bilingual education programs with adequate teacher training and learning materials
in indigenous languages, based on previous leaming in the matemal tongue. This approach allows
indigenous children to both leam their own language and to make a smooth transition to the official
language?
(e) Importance of assessing factors which contribute to student learning. While prior projects
established student assessment systems, this information provided limited insights in defining
policies and relevant sector interventions. Moreover, the education authorities seldom utilized this
information for broad policy reform dialogue. Consequently, a need exists to expand efforts to
develop the policy design capacity at central and state levels. This program intends to advance the
diagnostic capabilities of states and central units in determining, inter alia, causes for educational
disparity.
(f) The need to allow flexibility and adaptability. Experience from previous education projects
identified as significant shortcomings a rigid approach applied to diverse contexts, i.e., the
inflexibility of a project to adjust approaches to fit the particular needs of local contexts. The
proposed program introduces flexibility at both the macro level-by adopting the APL approach-
and the implementation level-by, inter alia, encouraging states to utilize diverse intervention
approaches in improving the quality of basic education and accommodating decentralized efforts
with adaptable standard procedures.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Very early on, the Government established the GTC to prepare this program. The GTC includes
representatives from key sector agencies at several levels, including various SEP technical departments.
Presently, the strategic level includes advisors to the Secretary of Education, the Under-Secretaries of
Basic Education and of Planning and Coordination, and the Director of CONAFE. The GTC has
contacted state governments at various stages of program preparation and has promoted the
establishment of state-level working groups to help prepare the program. From the beginning, the GTC
and SEP/CONAFE senior management have been keen to learn from Bank and international experience,
e.g., through training in developing the program's logical framework and study tours to Brazil, El
Salvador, Australia and New Zealand to exchange experiences with education officials in those
countries.
3 See Lockheed, M. and A. Verspoor. 1991. Improving Primary Education in Developing Countries. New York.
Oxford University Press.)



Page 14
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
*  The Bank has eight years of education lending experience in Mexico, with a focus on correcting
basic education inequities. This new program incorporates many lessons learned from the two
previous projects with similar objectives.
* Several of the innovations proposed under this program draw on lessons learned through Bank
projects elsewhere in Latin America and throughout the world. For example, the Education
Development Fund was designed using experience from similar funds in other Bank-financed
projects. Similarly, the involvement of communities and parent associations in school-generated
improvements (the Proyectos Escolares) will benefit from the Bank's experience in Argentina,
Brazil, Chile, El Salvador and Uruguay.
* The Bank's collaborative approach to the design of the program with SEP/CONAFE and SEPEs has
resulted in increased dialogue and cooperation at many institutional levels.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 6):
[X] Cost-Benefit Analysis: ERR= >17.5%
A cost-benefit analysis was carried out following the goals and targets set out by the Government in the
PDE in its base-case scenario and extrapolated to later years. Data for opportunity cost and potential
earnings were obtained from the 1994 household survey. In addition to Government-determined targets,
in the base case scenario, maintenance costs were set at 2 percent per year, labor force participation rate
of secondary school students at 50 percent, and unemployment rate at 10 percent. A model comprising
costs and benefits of the program was built under these assumptions, and the resulting economic rate of
return (ERR) to the PDE was estimated at 18.2 percent (private) and 17.5 percent (social, or rather, "net-
private"). These are lower bound results, as we have not taken into consideration the usual externalities
expected from basic education.
We have tested the sensitivity of the ERR with respect to two key variables:
* terminal efficiency, and
*  labor force participation of secondary students
The switching value for terminal efficiency for primary (lower secondary) education is 0.84 (0.79).
Based on the trend in terminal efficiency to-date, it is fair to assume that this minimal level could be
achieved. In fact, the probability that terminal efficiency for primary (lower secondary) will be lower
than 0.84 (0.79)-and that the ERR will be lower than 10 percent-is 4.8 percent and 9.2 percent,
respectively. The participation rate utilized in the base-case scenario was based on available data from
other Latin American countries. Even a 50 percent increase in the participation rate would still yield an
ERR above 10 percent.
2. Financial: NPV = Not applicable; FRR = Not applicable
Previous Bank experience with CONAFE indicates that generally acceptable systems are in place. An
assessment of the financial management capacity of CONAFE was completed, and the recommendations
of the assessment have been incorporated into the design of the program.
Fiscal impact:
Based on the projections of GDP growth and federal total expenditures, the table below depicts the
evolution of the share of spending in basic education (they were evaluated considering the beginning of
the school year relative to the corresponding fiscal year).



Page 15
Expenditures in Education as a Share of GDP and Federal Expenditures
(billions of pesos and %)
/998          47.5           460           .103           2040            233
1999      ~~~48.2         480            100            2150:          2.24.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                             ... .   . . . . . --.:... . . . .:---:--- .
:2000::        48.8:           500.          .9.8:          2260:          2.16
200i           48.5           520:           9.3            2380  :.04
--2002   -     48.5            540     -      9.0           2500           1. 94
The burden that expenditure in basic education poses on federal spending declines with time. This is so
for two reasons. First, particularly for the primary level, the coverage is already large. Second, the
demographic pressure is decreasing, and the population in the reference age group for basic schooling is
virtually stagnated and will start shrinking in the very beginning of the next century.
3. Technical:
The technical issues that may affect the success of the program concern the application of the criteria for
the selection of FDI proposals at the central level, given their complexity. While the Bank has
significant experience with demand-driven investment funds in the social sector, this will be a new
program for the SEPEs. During program preparation, care has been taken to draw in the participation of
the states in shaping the FDI and consultants were brought in to help CONAFE design appropriate
screening and approval criteria as well as set up the administrative arrangements for the management of
the FDI. During 1998, CONAFE will undertake a dissemination campaign to alert SEPEs of the
availability of funds and to help them prepare proposals and meet qualification requirements, and
disbursements will start in 1999.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: SEP/CONAFE/SEPEs
b. Project management: CONAFE
CONAFE has extensive experience with Bank- and IDB-financed projects and, through its delegations in
all 31 states, will assist SEPEs with the preparation of annual work plans and with procurement.
Keeping in mind that one of the program's objectives is the support of decentralization, the program will
provide through the FDI the opportunity for states to improve their ability to plan, implement, monitor
and evaluate educational activities. During program preparation, several states were consulted and
preliminary state-submitted proposals for funding by the FDI were presented. Rather than adopting a
traditional, centrally-driven institutional strengthening, the APL will use a demand-side approach to
institutional development initiatives to build the proper incentives program (see section on program
alternatives above). Under the program, states will develop yearly Strategic Plans which will be
discussed with SEP/CONAFE, thus providing an opportunity to review and strengthen their capacity to
manage and implement compensatory programs.
A recent management assessment of CONAFE was carried out by independent consultants. The
assessment found CONAFE's current management system satisfactory and that CONAFE financial
management unit possessed adequate skills and functional organization. CONAFE's performance under
the ongoing PAREB project has been satisfactory. Nevertheless, improvements in financial management
are recommended in order to modernize the system and integrate CONAFE and NAFIN project
management functions in a single automated system. Specifically, agreement was reached whereby: (a)
CONAFE would present, as a condition of effectiveness, an Action Plan to strengthen CONAFE's
financial management; (b) Bank technical assistance will be provided for system development; and (c) a
financial management review will be carried out at the end of Phase I of the Program and the satisfactory



Page 16
evaluation of this review on the part of the Bank will be one of the triggers for Phase II.
5. Social:
With support from both the Bank and the Govemment, a social assessment was carried out by a team of
five social scientists (Annex 5). The social assessment relied heavily on interviews with communities
and other stakeholders in states having a high proportion of indigenous peoples. The Government's plan
for strengthening indigenous education, Fortalecimiento de la Educacion Inicial Y Basica Intercultural
Bilingue Para Ninas y Ninos Indigenas, was reviewed, along with the program's proposed
implementation of the policies therein. The conclusion of the social assessment is that there is
congruence between activities proposed under the program, the Government's policy for compensatory
programs for the indigenous, and the identified needs of these populations.
6. Environmental assessment: Environmental Category   [ ] A   [ I B   [XI C
The program will fund expansion and rehabilitation of classrooms (but not new schools) and auxiliary
facilities such as latrines and meeting rooms, using mainly community participation as the source of
labor. Civil works under this program will be conducted according to the same operational procedures
used under the ongoing PAREB project, which were reviewed and approved by the Bank and will take
into consideration issues such as clear title to land, proper location and construction of latrines, disposal
of waste, etc. The program is proposed to receive an environmental rating of "C".
7. Participatory approach:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
During program preparation, surveys were conducted to assess in specific terms the needs of program
beneficiaries. This led directly to the design of the pilot programs for migrant children, children aged 9-
14 in urban marginal areas, and indigenous children in general schools. The Proyectos Escolares
subcomponent represents the expansion (and experiences garnered) of a pilot program conducted in 100
schools. The community participation model for school infrastructure is a continuation of the approach
used in the ongoing project, PAREB, and should ensure greater involvement and ownership in the quality
of education at the local level. A Beneficiary Assessment will be conducted and its results reviewed at
the end of Phase I.
At the institutional level, the GTC is an excellent example of the degree of participation and
collaboration among SEP's various departments and CONAFE with the common objective of improving
the compensatory programs. Inter alia, this dialogue has allowed SEP/CONAFE to develop a more
comprehensive program addressing compensatory education needs at all levels of initial and basic
education, helped improve the targeting mechanism, involved the states in the design of the Strategic
Plans, and elevated the role of the evaluation subcomponent. To help guide the implementation of Phase
II based on lessons gathered under Phase I, a beneficiary assessment will be conducted, and its results
reviewed as part of the triggers for Phase II.
b. Other key stakeholders:
A large cross-section of stakeholders were also consulted under the social assessment, and their inputs
were considered in the design of the program. They include, inter alia, (a) CONAFE staff, supervisors
and teachers, (b) staff of SEPEs, (c) principals, teachers and supervisors of the system of Indigenous
education of SEP, (d) parents and students under both CONAFE and SEP systems, (e) representatives of
the teacher union, (f) specialists and experts on indigenous and bilingual education, (g) members
(teachers, linguists, medical doctors, anthropologists, etc.) of community-based-organizations of various
indigenous groups, (h) representatives of local education NGOs, and (i) the only elected indigenous
Senator in Mexico.



Page 17
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The program seeks to enhance sustainability of investments through the involvement of stakeholders, to
the extent possible, in all activities. At the school level, communities will be asked to contribute labor
and local materials to the construction and rehabilitation of classrooms; parents associations will have a
greater say in the management of schools through the Proyectos Escolares, thus increasing ownership
and enhancing sustainability. The same demand-side approach will be applied to the FDI, whereby
SEPEs will have greater incentive to design and sustain institutional strengthening and investment
activities with longer-lasting effects. At the federal level, SEP/CONAFE have been very active in the
design and preparation of the program  and, thanks to the long-term  dialogue under the APL, have
articulated a medium-term compensatory education strategy which all parties hope would still prevail
under the next Administration.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                       Risk Rating        Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
Policy framework for compensatory programs          N       Close supervision; APL affords
maintained                                                  flexibility and leverage for Phases II/III
Continuity in govermment policies and priorities            Early discussions with incoming
N       Government; prior agreement on budget
for Year 1 of Phase II
Government policies continue to support local               SEPEs are encouraged to take on more
empowerrnent                                        M       ownership & initiative through more
active participation
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
Close coordination between federal and state        N       Implementation left mostly to the states,
agencies involved                                           with CONAFE playing facilitation role
Personnel receiving technical assistance or training        As incentive, FDI linked to
are encouraged to apply newly acquired knowledge   M        improvements in managerial competence
and skills in the organization                              and execution efficiency in SEPEs
States receive adequate support during subproject  M        Dissemination campaign to be carried out
design and implementation                                   in 1998
Key stakeholders support project activities                 Extensive involvement of stakeholders at
N       the school level through the Proyectos
Escolares; active participation of state-
level implementing agencies in design of
activities
Overall Risk Rating    N
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The program will provide compensatory educational services to indigenous and other underserved
populations. A social assessment (Annex 5) was carried out to ensure that the overall strategies and the
program activities would adequately attend to the needs of these populations.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
Loan proceeds transfer contractual arrangements between the Borrower and the Grantor (with supporting



Page 18
legal opinions).
Presentation of an action plan for improvement of CONAFE's project financial management system.
2. Disbursement Conditions:
Disbursement for each participating state is conditioned on having a prior signed agreement with said
state.
3. Board presentation condition
Presentation of signed letter of sector development strategy.
4. Other:
The triggers for possible approval of subsequent APL phases include:4
Phase HI. Shortly before completion of Phase I (October 2000), the Government and the Bank will
jointly review the progress achieved, and may enter into an agreement on a subsequent loan of US$300
million covering the period 2001-2003. The triggers which would allow the Bank to consider the Phase
II loan include satisfactory progress under: (a) physical indicators under both components (e.g., the
meeting of targets under civil works, goods, training, Proyectos Escolares, the FDI, etc.) and (b) actions
evidencing, inter alia, (i) continuation of compensatory programs, (ii) strengthening of executing bodies
at both federal and state levels, and (iii) continuing support of the decentralization process.
Phase m. If Phase II is entered into, the Government and the Bank will again jointly review, in October
2003, the progress achieved, and may enter into an agreement on a subsequent loan of US$210 million
covering the period 2004-2006. The triggers which would allow the Bank to consider the Phase III loan
include satisfactory progress under: (a) educational outcome indicators and (b) actions evidencing, inter
alia, (i) continuation of compensatory programs, including a review of the effectiveness of the targeting
mechanism, and (ii) further progress under decentralization.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [X] Not applicable.
[X] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[X] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
A more detailed listing of the triggers is provided in Annex 3.



Page 19
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
N1adale:l)a  o n0
Olivier Lafourcade
Tti5skT'am) I ader                                 Country Director
Xavic  oI
Scetor D)irector



Page 20
Annex 1
BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT
Project Design Summary
CAS Goal
(CAS Objectives to Bank
1.  Social Services improved                                                                             mission)
Program Purpose                             Overallprogram indicators to be                               (Programn Purpose to CAS
achieved by the year 2006                                    Objectives)
.  Expand educational opportunities in initial   *   Preschool and primary dropout
and basic education for students in the     rates decreased by 0.79% and                             Other projects in
poorest communities, including indigenous   0.4%, respectively                                       education, health and
and migrant children and improve the    *   Failure, repetition and dropout                          nutrition are successfully
quality of basic education for students to  rates at lower secondary level in                        implemented
achieve better learning outcomes            targeted communities decreased
by 2.2%, 0.6% and 2.5%,
respectively
*   Completion rate at primary
secondary level in the target
population increased by 3%
*   Completion rate at lower
secondary level in the target
population increased by 3.9%
*   School autonomy increases
through improved mechanisms
for administration, planning and
participation of directors, teachers
and parent associations
Project Objective                           Indicators for Phase I - to be      Project monitoring reports  (Development Objectives
achieved by the year 2000          SEP's statistics         to Program Objectives)
I?? Increase equity and quality of initial and  Physical Indicators
basic education performance in schools  *   60% of civil works & 80% of     Progress reports         Policy framework for
ranked in the bottom half of the marginality  goods implemented                                      compensatory programs
indexes not currently covered under the  *   80% of training plan implemented  Assessment of         maintained
other projects                          *   80% of targeted schools have    effectiveness and usage of
started or are implementing    targeting mechanisms
Proyectos Escolares
*   Evaluation system: baseline study
and action plan, including
dissemination strategy
*   Regional planning: Basic system
installed at the central level and
action plan
*   Action plans for pilot programs
developed
FDI:
*   60% of funds disbursed
*   Participation of at least 15 states
*   Action plan for
improving/accelerating activities
Other Indicators
*   Upgraded financial management
system installed and action plan
to (i) disseminate system at state
level and (ii) expand system to



Page 21
include physical/fnancial
monitoring and unit cost reports
*   Evidence of utilization of
improved evaluation system in at
least 15 states
*   Evidence of preparation of
Strategic Plans by at least 15
states
*   Evidence of adequate counterpart
funds
Project Outputs                              Indicators to be achieved by Year                               (Outputs to Development
2000                                                           Objectives)
Component 1.1 : TRAINING
1. Teachers, principals, supervisors, others  *   100% of training targets met     SEP and CONAFE            Continuity in govemment
trained                                       *   49,000 teachers trained          supervision visits        policies and priorities
*   10,000 school managerial staff  Progress reports
trained                         Supervision missions      Government policies
continue to support local
empowerment
Component 1.2: SCHOOL MANAGEMENT
2. School plans developed                     *   200 school projects designed by
June 1999
*   At least 100 school projects
have started implementation by
June 2000
Component 1.3: SUPERVISION                    0
3. Organization and implementation of school    *   7,200 office supplies packages
supervision modernized                            distributed by 2000
*   4,800 supervision allowances
distributed by 2000
Component 1.4: INFRASTRUCTURE/ !
EQUIPMENT/DIDACTIC MATERIALS
4. Quality of initial and basic education     *   3,900 classrooms constructed and   DGPPyP statistics
improved in the targeted population               3,900 rehabilitated by 2000      SEP and CONAFE
*   80 workshops equipped by 2000    supervision visits
*   160 labs equipped by 2000       Progress reports
*   Packages containing textbooks   Supervision missions
and didactic materials distributed
as follows by 2000:
= 123,900 packages for
classrooms
>  93,000 packages for
teachers
>  18,000 packages for
schools
Component 11.1: INSTITUTIONAL
STRENGTHENING - Federal Level
4. National Educational Evaluation System     *   31 states participate in the
strengthened                                      National Evaluation System
*   Baseline study to evaluate
compensatory programs finalized
.        by Dec. 1999
5. Regional Planning established and used by  a   Central system installed by June
the states                                        2000



Page 22
6. Educational model for migrant education  *   Pilot program completed and
developed                                        evaluation report by June 2000
7. Educational model for students ages 9-14  *   Pilot program completed and
developed                                        evaluation report by June 2000
8. Educational model for indigenous boys and  *   Pilot program completed and
girls attending regular basic education programs  evaluation report by June 2000
implemented in 5 states                     *   1,200 packages containing
textbooks and didactic materials
distributed by 2000
Component 11.2: INSTITUTIONAL
STRENGTHENING - State Level
9. State Strategic Plans developed          *   At least 15 states have initiated
the implementation of Strategic
Plans by September 2000
10. FDI under implementation                *   Workshops and seminars to
disseminate Fund held in the 31
states by Dec. 1998
Component 11.3: Program Administration
11. Project management capacity improved    *   Program execution and fund
disbursements are on schedule
*   600 managerial and
administrative staff trained
Project Activities                          Inputs: (budget for each component                           (Activities to Outputs)
for period 1998-2000)
TRAINING                                    Component 1: US$ 126.5 million                               Assumptions for all
project activities:
*   Implement training programs for teachers    US$ 27.2 million                Project Monitoring        Close coordination
and school managers; and supervisors and                                    reports, SEP's statistics,    between federal and state
heads of sector of telesecundaria (school                                   Progress reports,        agencies involved
years 1999-00/2000)                                                         Supervision missions
SCHOOL MANAGEMENT
2. Develop schoolplans in 200 schools       US$ 1.4 million                                               Personnel receiving
*   Assign fund to each school for the                                                                   technical assistance or
development and evaluation of their school                                                           training are encouraged to
project                                                                                              apply newly acquired
*   Train teachers and school managers                                                                   knowledge and skills in
*   Offer technical assistance (TA) to develop                                                           the organization
and implement projects
*   Evaluate proposals through National and                                                               States receive adequate
State Committees                                                                                     support during subproject
design and
implementation
SUPERVISION
3. Modernize organization and implementation    US$ 8.6 million                                           Key stakeholders support
of school supervision in basic education                                                                  project activities
* Distribution of office supplies packages
* Transport and subsistence allowance



Page 23
INFRASTRUCTUREIEQUIPMENTI
DIDACTIC MATERIALS
4. Improve quality of indigenous initial,   US$ 89.3 million                    Supervision missions
preschool and secondary education (regular,
technical and posprimaria)
* Construct, rehabilitate and equip sites
* Construct, rehabilitate and equip sites for
telesecundaria
* Distribute didactic materials (school years
1999-00/ 2000-01)
* Equip workshops in general and technical
secondary schools; equip labs in rural
secondary and posprimaria schools
* Implement training programs for teachers
and school managers; and supervisors and
heads of sector of telesecundaria (school
years 1999-00/2000)
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING                 Component 11: US$ 23.5 million
FEDERAL LEVEL
4. Strengthen the National Educational      US$ 1.4 million
Evaluation System
* Develop evaluation instruments
* Distribute computers and equipment to
SEPE Evaluation Units
* Collect and analyze data
* Carry out evaluation of community and
indigenous initial, preschool and third
grade of secondary education programs
5. Establish regional planning to improve the    US$ 1.6 million
states capacity to manage compensatory
programs
* Carry out school mapping of initial and
basic education services in rural and urban
marginal communities
6. Implementpilotprogramfor migrant         US$ 1.3 million
education
*   Implement and evaluate new curricula for
first grade of primary education
*   Design and implement curricula for the
second and third grade of primary education
* Design and implement MIS system
* Evaluate operational model
7. Implement pilot programfor students ages 9-   US$ 0.4 million
14 in urban marginal areas
* Complete needs assessment by 2000
*. Evaluate current educational models
* Design educational model
8. Implement pilot program for indigenous boys   US$ 1.0 million
and girls attending regular basic education
programs in 5 states
*   Evaluate program implementation since
1996
*   Expand pilot program to 18 schools
*   Definition of specific strategies



Page 24
.m ........   . .................
*Didactic materials revised and deliver-ed
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
STATE LEVEL
9. Develop State Strategic Plans
*   Presentation of State Plans
10. Implement FDI                              US$ 9.0 million
* Dissemination of operational guidelines
*   Technical Assistance (TA) for preparation
of subprojects
e   Subproject approval and implementation
under the basic and competitive funds
PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION
11. Improve project management                 US$ 8.8 million
* Assist SEPEs to implement compensatory
programs, carry out procurement, monitor
activities, flow of funds, produce annual
progress reports and action plans



Page 25
Annex 2
BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT
Letter of Sector Development Strategy
(translated from Spanish original)



Page 26
UNDER-SECRETARY FOR PLANNING
AND COORDINATION
Ref. No. SPC/033/98
Mexico City, April 28, 1998
MR. OLIVER LAFOURCADE
DIRECTOR
MEXICO DEPARTMENT
WORLD BANK
Dear Mr. Lafourcade:
I am pleased to send you my regards and to describe in this document the educational policies
of the Government of Mexico in the context of the Adjustable Program Lending (the
"Program") to be financed with national resources and a World Bank loan. The purpose of the
loan is to support the educational reform process being promoted by the Government of
Mexico, through the Department of Public Education (SEP) and the National Educational
Development Council (CONAFE).
A.   GENERAL POLICY
1.    The Mexican Government considers the country's first priority to be investment in its
people. Education has assumed its fundamental role in the general preparation of plans
to achieve comprehensive development in Mexico. Only with more and better education
can we expand the horizons of people, families and the entire society. The globalization
and competition imposed by an open economy such as that of Mexico forces us to
redouble our efforts.
2.    The Political Constitution of the United States of Mexico establishes that any individual
has the right to receive free and secular public education at the basic level. The General
Education Law is explicit in giving education authorities (federal and state)
responsibility for generating conditions favoring the full exercise of the right that every
individual has to receive a basic education. For this, it requires that specific actions be
taken in favor of educational equity. These must preferably be directed to the groups
and regions that are more educationally backward or face difficult economic and social
conditions. For this purpose it adds to the usual educational activities other actions
carried out in support of compensatory programs, "whereby (the Executive Branch)
supports with additional resources the governments of more backward entities."



Page 27
3.    The 1995-2000 Educational Development Program deals extensively with educational
equity. It recognizes the existence of disparities in meeting demand, due both to lack of
coverage in isolated areas and to deficiencies in the quality of operations in
disadvantaged schools. Further, it indicates that the purpose of educational equity
makes most sense and is most important in rural and indigenous communities where
marginalization and poverty tend to predominate.
4.    Educational Federalism. In the context of the National Agreement on Modernization of
Basic Education and as a substantial part of reorganization of the educational system, in
1992 the Federal Government transferred to the state governments the educational
institutions through which the Department of Public Education had been providing
preschool, primary, secondary, and special educational services and teacher training
services. Educational federalism gave considerable momentum to the national
redistribution of authority, strengthening state and municipal decision-making levels,
and promoting better linkage between local authorities and communities. As a result,
state educational systems are taking on great importance and responsibility in delivering
basic and normal educational services.
5.    Quality of Education. The goal of achieving quality education with sufficient coverage
has been a constant of educational policy that was reinforced by the signing of the
National Agreement for Modernization of Basic Education. This Agreement established
three basic lines of strategy: reorganization of the educational system; reformulation of
educational content and materials; and social reassessment of the teaching function. The
role of the Federal Government, through the SEP, now focuses on maintaining essential
educational unity throughout the country, promoting quality across the board and
securing more equitable conditions for access to and continuation in schools.
6.    Compensatory Function. As a result of the state governments' having assumed
responsibility for operating the educational services that had been provided by the
Department of Public Education, the Federal Government has been able to exercise its
compensatory function better: it can now dedicate more energy to defining and
applying in conjunction with the states programs to move ahead in resolving the
problems and deficiencies of some more disadvantaged social groups and regions.
7.   In the last six years, four compensatory programs have been designed and put into
effect with the support of the World Bank and the IDB. These programs, which have
been directed to reversing the effects of the educational lag in marginalized rural areas,
are as follows: the Program for Development of Early Education, the Program to
Eliminate the Lag in Education, the Program to Eliminate the Lag in Basic Education,
and the Comprehensive Program to Eliminate the Lag in Education.
8.   In absolute terms, during 1997 these four compensatory programs served almost
4,450,000 children and 35,861 schools; 13,600 incentives were granted for teachers,



Page 28
directors and supervisors with the support of 10,000 parents' associations, and 5,778
educational premises were constructed. In addition, training was provided to 79,234
instructors.
9.    The compensatory programs have made it possible to implement measures promoting
children's continued attendance and progress in terms of passing grades, but more
particularly quality in education for better, more solid and continuous learning. It is the
policy of the Federal Government to continue supporting the poorest regions--according
to its financial capacity--until their educational indicators improve considerably.
10.   Educational Resources. Both the National Agreement for Modernization of Basic
Education and the General Education Law of 1993 stipulate the need to allocate
increasing budgetary resources to public education. In recent years, total spending
(public and private) for the sector has amounted to 5.6% of the Gross Domestic
Product (GDP). Projected spending by the Federal Government in 1998 represents 4%
of GDP and 24% of total public spending programmed by the Federal Government.
In those cases where external financing for programs has been exhausted, payments
have been made with regular budget resources in order to ensure the permanence and
continuity of the actions. The high priority that the Federal Government grants to
education is reflected in the growing share of the educational budget within the total
federal budget.
11.  In addition to the compensatory programs supported by the Federal Government, the
states, consistent with educational federalism, have increased budgetary allocations to
promote education. Federalization has meant the responsible and committed
participation of state governments, contributing to greater efficiency in the system and
improved teaching quality. The Fiscal Coordination Law, published in the Official
Gazette of the Federation on December 20, 1997, establishes that each state
government will receive directly most of the federal resources allocated to basic
education. The proper use and distribution of these resources among basic education
expenditures is under the sole jurisdiction of the state governments.
B.   SPECIFIC ASPECTS
12.   Program Objectives. The overall objective of the Program is to improve the quality of
the educational supply, helping to give the population between the ages of 0 and 14
years residing in socially and educationally backward areas access to services, to keep
them in school and ensure successful completion of basic education. To this end, the
Program will seek to improve preschool education services (non-academic), reduce
drop-out rates in preschool education; reduce failure rates, repetition of grades, and
drop-outs in secondary education; raise the rate of completion of basic education; and
reduce the lag in educational utilization results between populations in different sectors.



Page 29
13.   To achieve these objectives, the program  will support various innovations, in
particular: encouraging local management of schools supported by funding from
education projects created by educational communities with the participation of parents'
associations; extension of the community education model to rural secondary education;
design of special educational modalities for children in the migrant agricultural
population and strengthening institutional management capacity at the state level based
on strategic management plans. The consolidation of these activities requires flexibility
in financing methods in order to achieve simple adaptation of the use of resources to
the results of experience. For these reasons, we feel that the most appropriate form for
the Program would be that of an adjustable loan (Adjustable Program Lending),
scheduled in three phases.
14.   During Phase I (1998-2000), support will be given to improving the quality of
indigenous early and preschool education, regular rural preschool education (3rd and
4th quartiles), as well as secondary education in general secondary, technical, tele-
secondary and post-primary educational modalities offered in more disadvantaged rural
locations and schools (the 3rd and 4th quartiles in rural areas).
15.  In addition to the above, three studies will be conducted to support design of primary
education modalities for the age group between 9 and 14, migrant children, and
indigenous children attending general primary schools
16.   Progress will also be made during this first phase in developing experience with the
schools project as a strategy for transforming the education profession and work will
start on modernizing the supervision of basic education, through territorial
microplanning studies of early and basic education services.
17.  In addition, as actions to strengthen institutional management capacity, the SEP will
consolidate the National Educational Evaluation System and will strengthen the
territorial microplanning of early and basic education, through geographic referencing
of educational services.
18.   As for strengthening the state education departments, the SEP will determine which
actions in the respective strategic management plans are eligible for federal support.
For this purpose, it will consider those actions that make it possible to improve the
operation and administration of basic education schools at the state level and that foster
autonomous school management with participation from the educational community.
19.   During Phase I (2001-2003), work will continue with the services in the first phase
and support will be provided for non-academic early education, for general primary
education (3rd and 4th quartiles in rural areas and 4th quartile in urban areas), for
indigenous primary education, for community preschool and primary education, and
for primary education for both the group aged 9 to 14 and children in the migrant
population. This will strengthen early and basic education in the areas with the most
disadvantaged conditions (rural and marginal urban).



Page 30
20.   During Phase II (2004-2006), work will continue with the non-academic, preschool,
primary and secondary levels in the 4th quartile.
21.   With respect to modernizing the supervision of basic education, support will be given
to training basic education supervisory staff in automated school administration and
oversight processes, educational statistics and indicators, personnel rosters and
inventories, among others.
22.   The actions in Phases II and HI will be determined by the results obtained in
implementing the Program and other projects associated with implementation of
educational reform.
Indicators for approval of Phase II of the Program.
23.   Monitoring and Evaluation. The indicators of the program and each of its phases will
be monitored taking into account various program follow-up reports, SEP statistics and
the action plans. Primary responsibility for monitoring program activities will lie with
CONAFE and the education departments in the participating states. The preparation of
reports will include visits to the schools and non-academic activities of the program, as
well as interviews.
24.   Role of the National Educational Development Council. CONAFE is a decentralized
public service agency, with legal status and its own assets. It was created in 1971 to
collect both domestic and foreign supplementary economic and technical resources to
be applied to better development of the country's education. It is subject to the Federal
Law on Quasi-Governmental Agencies (which governs this type of body).
25.   Conceived to offer alternative solutions for the educational problems of disadvantaged
populations, CONAFE faces the challenge of generating ideas and actions to bring
education to the more marginalized rural areas and to capture and administer resources
for educational programs in an efficient, effective and imaginative way. Its most
important achievements include the CONAFE model for primary education (rural
community education) which has provided this educational benefit to scattered localities
where children could not have obtained this opportunity in any other way.
26.   Rural Community Education encourages alternative, flexible and relevant programs in
preschool and primary education in rural indigenous communities with fewer than 500
inhabitants and in migrant agricultural worker camps. The CONAFE educational model
seeks to have children build knowledge and develop a critical and thoughtful attitude as
well as to establish connections between community knowledge and academic content.
27.   CONAFE will be the executor of the Program to Eliminate the Lag in Early and Basic
Education (PAREIB). To provide effective coordination with SEP actions, the Central
Technical Group will continue to operate. This group must sanction all those decisions
that the Law stipulates as the province of SEP and which CONAFE must execute in the
context of the programn.



Page 31
It is felt that the framework described above covers the objectives, actions and goals of the
Program to Eliminate the Lag in Early and Basic Education (PAREIB).
I am available for any further information you may need on this matter and again take this
opportunity to send my regards.
[stamp)
EFFECTIVE SUFFRAGE. NO REELECTION
THE UNDER-SECRETARY
CARLOS MANCERA CORCUERA
cc: [illeg.]



Page 32
Annex 3
BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT
Project Description
Background
Phase I of the Basic Education Development APL is intended to provide complementary inputs to
ongoing projects currently financed by the Bank (PAREB, Loan 3722-ME) and IDB (PIARE). While
PAREB and PIARE focus on improving the quality of education at the primary level, this operation will
extend compensatory activities to the less-emphasized areas of initial, preschool, and lower secondary
education (grades 7-9) in targeted communities through the provision of basic inputs. In addition, the
program also includes pilot activities to attend to the specialized needs of specific population groups
(i.e., migrant children, children age 9-14 in urban marginal areas, and indigenous children attending
general schools) and institutional strengthening measures at both the federal and state levels. Phase II
would, if approved, expand on these pilots, if proven successful, and would provide additional funding to
pick up where PAREB and PIARE leave off as these operations are expected to close in 1999-2000.
Phase III, if approved, would continue supporting the program with additional emphasis on
decentralization. Appendix A provides a discussion of the phasing of the program.
As part of the Government's decentralization strategy, each state through their SEPEs will now have
greater autonomy in planning and executing its compensatory education activities according to a set of
national guidelines which specify the targeted schools and communities, menu of supported activities,
educational norms to be met, and procedures for obtaining program approval and financial support.
Annual Strategic Plans which include work and institutional development plans (Planes Rectores) will be
developed by each participating state for review by SEP/CONAFE, and execution will be carried out by
the respective SEPEs with technical assistance from local CONAFE delegations as appropriate. Care
will be given to coordinate activities funded under the APL (and avoid duplication) with those currently
financed through the PAREB and PIARE projects.
Targeting
A combination of poverty and educational indicators has been used to identify areas of greatest need in
all 31 states.  This index combines factors such as marginality (poverty), student population,
student/teacher ratio, and repetition and dropout rates. For each state and educational level, schools
falling in the bottom 50 percent of the index will be ranked and will receive support under Component I
(basic inputs). Specific strategies have been developed to attend to the special needs of indigenous
populations (see box next page).
Program Component 1 -- Quality Improvements in Initial and Basic Education - US$126.5
million (total cost of component including contingencies)
Subcomponent 1.1 - Training, US$27.2 million. The training program would be administered to all
program teachers, principals and supervisors and to promoters for initial education. Following national
guidelines for the implementation of training activities, each state will define its annual training program as
well as training contents and strategies. The training annual program should be part of the state annual
work plan to be approved by SEP/CONAFE. Based on experience under previous Bank-financed projects,
the courses would be expanded in length and content and follow-up technical assistance in classroom
performance will also be provided to foster a more active role by supervisors and principals after the formal
training program. Teachers working in rural secondary programs (posprimaria) and unitary preschool
programs, and distance education (telesecundaria) teachers who are teaching multigrade classes will receive
additional training related to methodological approaches to be used in multigrade classes. The program
will also support an approach whereby new, provisional teachers who speak the local indigenous language
are selected first by the communities and, after a period of part-time studying and in-service training, can
qualify for a permanent appointment once they pass the Bachillerato exam.



Page 33
The. Challenges- of Indigenous Education
Children of indigenous' communities are usually.the most disadvantaged in terns of socio-economic and educational.
conditions. .Tey often live in geogrphical ,and cultural isolation in remote villages with inadequate social services.
Even where schols 'are available, a cuiriculum is taught that has little relevance to their perceived needs and traditions.
For the most par their ang     ofeveiyday commu'nication is one or another variant of several dozen major native
lianguages,so -when thildren*fst come to school to be taught-in-Spanish, theyare faced withlthe additional problem-of
having to undersiand new concepts in an'alien tongue. In additiofi teachers'.'often do not speak the language of the
students- and are minperiencedand' less traiied than their counterparts in urban settings. Schools in' idgenous
co'mmunities havethe highest rates of repetition and. dropout, and even children who remain in school over long periods
'oftime'fail to achieve minimum mastery of elementary lite d  meitrac skils. -
'--The programwill-supportthe developmentand.implementation of-an educational stitegy to facilitate learning for
indige'nous children wi.th' a mother tongue other than Spanish. The stategy w ould include provision'of priary school
facilities or' non.~forra education models in 'localities. ihabited by non-Spanish speaking populaions, special training of
bilings tears, and provisofappropriateeducational mnatedals (including textbooks in indigenous langu tes)It
f~cilitate acquisition of literacy and   noneropyasoni; sp
itof.+'...+.... ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s)t
.fi        -t'' ';io ot 0 XN 
Subcomponent 1.2 -Strengthening school management at local and school levels (proyectos
escolares) - US$1.4 million
Proyectos Escolares. The program will consolidate the progress achieved under the project currently
managed by the General Directorate for Educational Research under SEP, La Gestion Escolar en la
Escuela Primaria, involving 100 schools in the state of Colima with financing from the Government of
Spain. Initially, this program will support approximately 200 primary schools in the five states of Baja
California Sur, Colima, Guanajuato, Quintana Roo and San Luis Potosi by fostering responsibility at the
local level for the quality of the educational process and for educational outcomes through the financing of
innovative projects originated at the school level. School projects will be designed and implemented
based on (a) the assessment of the particular conditions and needs of students and (b) ample participation
by the school principal, teachers, parents and students. They would consist of activities or interventions
designed to resolve particular educational problems that are recognized by the school community as
obstacles to learning and limitations to school performance. They must include new ideas and solutions,
rather than increments of the traditional educational approach, and be strongly related to the needs and the
realities, the culture and the circumstances of the particular school and community; it is hoped that they will
involve significant change in the way learning is pursued in the school and have the potential to transform
educational practice for better results. The school projects will also develop appropriate strategies,
planning and materials for in-service training of school directors and supervisors, and support the SEPEs
in the development of an overall educational strategy that can be extended to other schools in the nation.
Monitoring and evaluation mechanisms will also be an integral part of the school projects. The program
will finance: (a) technical assistance to school directors, supervisors, pedagogic advisors and teachers to
ensure appropriate school project design; (b) educational materials, training for school staff and parents,
travel expenses for out-of-school educational activities; (c) financial resources to the parent associations
for implementation; and (d) monitoring and evaluation.
School Projects will be submitted by the school council of each school to the state project office for
financing. School councils will need to have been formnally established and to have acquired legal status
(personeriajuridica) in order to be eligible to receive project funds for their school projects. In addition
to this, the SEPE will provide training to school council officers in management and accounting skills,
and each council will open a bank or other account to deposit the funds received from the state. The
account may also hold other resources of the school council. Once the school project is approved, the
state will deposit the authorized amount in the account of the council. The council will then authorize



Page 34
the necessary expenditures to implement the project, and will submit a report of expenditures to the state
using the existing official forms for this purpose.
Subcomponent 1.3 - Strengthening supervision - US$8.6 million
Strengthening Supervision. Because of the generally low degree of preparation of school personnel to
deal with children from disadvantaged or different backgrounds, there is a need to place supervision at
the core of the pedagogical support to teachers. In addition, the organization of the system should be
more efficient to achieve the quality improvements needed at the school level. During Phase I, the
program will focus on supporting the supervision system through equipping supervision offices to
consolidate education data by supervision districts/zones to provide information for supporting decision
making at school level, per diems to increase supervision visits to focus on learning/ teaching activities
and pedagogical support to teachers and to schools. At the end of Phase I, and using results from the
Regional Planning exercise, improvements under the evaluation system, and inputs from the states (see
below), a comprehensive strategy for strengthening supervision will be designed and implementation,
including training, would begin in Phase II if approved.
Subcomponent 1.4 - Civil Works, Equipment, Didactic Materials - US$89.3 million. This
subcomponent will operate on the basis of annual proposals submitted by each state following the policy
framework, guidelines and criteria established under the project with the objective of equalizing
educational opportunities in the state. Support will also be provided to an innovative rural lower
secondary program, posprimaria, which relies on self-teaching techniques (see Appendix B).
Civil Works. The program will support urgently needed rehabilitation or replacement of
inadequate school facilities and construction of new classrooms to meet expanding enrollment.
New and rehabilitated classrooms would be provided with appropriate classroom furniture,
including student desks and benches and teacher desks and chairs. All schools in the program
would be provided with bookcases and shelves as needed. Execution will be entrusted to
communities represented by municipalities and school councils, through direct administration of
funds, under umbrella agreements with SEPEs, using the same administrative and financial
transfer mechanisms currently used under PAREB. A standard contract agreement for the
community implementation of civil works has been reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory.
Didactic Materials. Textbooks and school and classroom teaching and learning materials will be
distributed to all targeted schools and initial education groups. The educational packages will be
defined at the state level following guidelines established by SEP/CONAFE and distributed to
schools, teachers and students. Each classroom would receive a package of grade-specific
materials. Each targeted lower secondary education school (general and vocational) will receive
equipment for its workshop, and rural secondary schools (posprimaria) will receive laboratory kits
for science education.
Program Component 2 -- Strengthening Institutional Capacity at Federal and State Levels -
US$23.5 million (total cost of component including contingencies)
Subcomponent 2.1. Institutional Strengthening at the Federal Level -  US$4.5 million.  The
program aims to strengthen (a) the National Evaluation System, (b) SEP/CONAFE's institutional
capacity for planning, monitoring, evaluation and quality control of development activities using
geographical and demographic variables ("Regional Planning"), and (c) design and pilot appropriate
basic education models for migrant children, children age 9-14 in urban marginal areas, and indigenous
children in general schools.
Strengthening the Evaluation System. The main objective is to strengthen the SEPEs'
evaluation systems to complement the national evaluation exercises done by SEP's General
Directorate for Evaluation, DGE. In the last years, DGE has been making an effort to develop a
National System of Education Evaluation (Sistema Nacional de Evaluaci6n Educativa, SNEE)



Page 35
whose main objective is to improve the evaluation capability at the federal and state levels and
systematically provide information to support sustainability of educational investment programs.
Despite progress made by the federal level on increasing sample coverage, periodicity, scope,
depth of analysis, and accessibility of the evaluations undertaken by the DGE, at the state level,
with few exceptions, practically no evaluation capacity exits. With CONAFE's support, the DGE
has initiated a program for strengthening the evaluation systems within the states (Programa de
Instalacion y Fortalecimiento de las Areas Estatales de Evaluacion). This program has been
providing evaluation training programs to state staffs to develop evaluation activities in primary
education. There is a need to consolidate these activities, expand the evaluation to other levels
of education, and increase the education system's ability to disseminate and use the evaluation
results to support policy decisions and sustainability of the education programs. The evaluation
to be developed under the program will include cognitive achievement by subject to be measured
across variables such as age, type of school and education modality, grade, gender, and
geographical area.  In addition, data relative to school inputs, family and community
characteristics, and social and economic environment would control for school and non-school
factors.
Specifically, the program will: (a) provide training and technical assistance to state evaluation
teams; (b) improve, at the state level, the process of data collection, systematization and analysis
of education indicators; (c) expand the scope of the evaluation by including preschool and all
grades of basic education(including lower secondary education); (d) develop comparative
measurements with students enrolled in all different modalities and education levels targeted by
the program; (e) provide test achievement results of students enrolled in the program; and (f)
establish strategies to disseminate evaluation results as a tool to improve education quality.
Regional Planning Project. The objective of this project is to support a systematic approach to
management, planning, and implementation of educational activities within each state based on
increased access to precise geographic and socio-demographic variables. The activities to be
implemented under this project will significantly increase the states' capability for organizing
the education services and levels of education in a better and more efficient way (e.g. the
supervision system), defining needed investments in the sector, establishing better coordination
among schools to enhance quality in the provision of services, and providing reliable information
for policy decisions.
The project will provide technical assistance to develop state strategies, provide materials,
software and training of SEPEs, SEP and CONAFE staff in both conceptual and practical aspects
of school mapping and activity planning. Project activities would comprise using digital
cartography from INEGI (the National Statistics and Geographic Information Institute) at the
appropriate scales as well as to secure other technological basis (i.e., GIS, statistics and
demographic database systems and associated software and technical assistance) for system
utilization by the states. INEGI will also play a quality control role with regard to the updating
of the cartography to be done by SEP and the states in the context of the regional micro-
planning. The cartographic location of urban and rural schools should be completed to match the
GEOSEP database already developed at SEP. It will also carry out specific field studies on rural
micro-regions and urban marginal communities, on the geographic and socio-demographic
conditions that support (or hinder) the delivery of services. In addition, it is expected that the
exchange of experiences among states would promote cross-fertilization of regional planning
strategies. At the end of Phase I, a basic system is expected to be installed at the central level as
well as a pilot experience to begin in some 4 states. Full implementation in all other states is
expected to follow under Phase II if approved.
Pilot Program for Migrant Children. The project will support the development of an
educational model that would meet the needs of the children of migrant agricultural workers who,



Page 36
because of their nomadic condition, are unable to attend regular schools or complete the primary
education cycle. Migrant workers comprise a population of approximately 4.6 million persons,
nearly 40 percent of the country's rural population;' the number of school-age children is estimated
to be between 410,000 and 750,000. CONAFE studies in 1995 showed that on average the migrant
population over 15 years of age has had 2.2 years of schooling, compared with a national average of
7 years. Approximately 400,000 children of migrant workers will be targeted.
The project will provide technical assistance for a study of the magnitude, locations and
socioeconomic conditions of the migrant population and for the design and testing of an appropriate
educational model, including definition of essential curricular contents, strategies for educational
delivery, design of specific educational materials, and techniques and criteria for evaluation and
accreditation of educational achievement for migrant children. The project will also define a
specific professional profile for teachers or other educational agents working with migrant children,
and design a staff training program. It will seek agreements for cooperation among the various
agencies operating educational services for the migrant population, including SEPIDGPPP,
CONAFE, and SEDESOL, as well as with INEGI to conduct a diagnostic survey of the migrant
population. The project will have an experimental design for the purpose of monitoring progress in
the construction and validation of the desired educational model, which if successful will be
expanded during Phase II if approved.
Pilot Program for Children Age 9-14 in Urban Marginal Areas. Children at risk in Mexico
constitute a vulnerable group due to the high marginality and poverty indexes. The program will
support the development of an educational program targeted to at-risk students age 9-14 in urban
marginal areas which have dropped out school or do not presently attend a primary education
program. Specifically, this program will include a study during Phase I to evaluate the variety of
educational models presently under implementation, assess the potential demand, define an
overall strategy to address the particular needs of the target population, to be followed by a pilot
program of interventions and monitoring and evaluation, starting in Phase II if approved.
Pilot Inter-Cultural Program for Indigenous Children In General Schools. The pilot will
finance (a) the evaluation of results of a pilot project started in 1996 by the General Directorate
of Indigenous Education (DGEI) with indigenous children in general primary schools in the state
of Guanajuato and (b) the design and testing of inter-cultural educational strategies for
indigenous children in regular primary schools following the recommended strategies. The
expanded pilot will be conducted in 18 other general primary schools in Guanajuato and in
another eight schools located in the Federal District, Monterrey (Nuevo Leon), Tuxtla Guti6rrez
(Chiapas), and Oaxaca.
A DGEI technical team will be responsible for carrying out the pilot program. The pilot will
have the following phases: (a) construction of evaluation instruments for evaluating the pilot
schools in the state of Guanajuato; (b) application of the evaluation instruments in the pilot
schools; (c) analysis of results; (d) review of the strategies; (e) selection of schools that will
participate in the expansion of the project in the above-mentioned states; (f) development of
Migrant workers usually leave their homes in poor, disperse rural communities in the Southem states (mainly Guerrero and
Oaxaca) to travel north (largely to the states of Sinaloa, Jalisco, Baja California and Baja California Sur, among others) in
search of work in plantations requiring seasonal workers for the harvest of cane, coffee, fruits or vegetables. They often bring
their families along, causing their children to drop out of school (assuming they had access to education in their communities
of origin). They settle in temporary labor camps in the property of the plantation that offers them work, where they form a
diverse community of men, women and children, all of them salaried workers from the age of eight or nine. Typical housing
and sanitary conditions are poor, and the group is made up of persons of different cultural, ethnic and linguistic origins. Many
of them speak only their native indigenous language. A majority of them will return to their communities of origin when the
harvest is finished, and some, especially single men, will move on to other labor camps in other states.



Page 37
appropriate teacher training programs; (g) testing the strategy in selected schools; (h) adjustment
of proposals; and (i) final report. During the different phases of the project, the technical team
will establish a systematic consultation process with external specialists in indigenous education
to assure the quality and relevancy of the program.
Subcomponent 2.2 - Institutional Strengthening at the State Level - The Institutional
Development Fund (FDI) - US$9.0 million. A basic element of the institutional strengthening of
SEPEs is the preparation of their Planes Rectores (see Background section above). Through these annual
work and development plans, and with the help of SEP/CONAFE at the central level, the states will be
able to identify and seek support for the educational and institutional challenges they face in formulating
and implementing basic education programs and strategies for compensatory education. The preparation
of these Strategic Plans is a prerequisite for the states to participate in the Institutional Development
Fund, (Fondo de Desarrollo Institucional, FDI).
The FDI comprises two funds, a Basic Fund and a Competitive Fund. Each of these funds will receive
one half of the resources allocated to the FDI. Disbursement of FDI resources to each state will be
conditional on the approval of specific subproject proposals presented by the states. This mechanism
will apply to both funds, although the eligibility criteria is different in each case: universal in the case of
the Basic Fund and conditional on efficiency criteria, in the case of the Competitive Fund.
During Phase I of the Program, the resources to be allocated to the FDI are estimated at US$4 million in
1999 and US$5 million in the year 2000. During 1998, CONAFE will disseminate the Operational
Guidelines of the FDI and will assist the states in preparing subproject proposals.
The Basic Fund will support the implementation of the Strategic Plans by the SEPEs, using the
distribution of the student population by state as criteria for the allocation of resources to each state. The
student population comprises initial and basic education students. Within the amount assigned to each
state, specific allocations will be made based on the merit of each subproject proposal.
The Competitive Fund is conceived as an incentive to promote management efficiency in the SEPEs.
The resources of this fund will be allocated to each state taking into account eligibility criteria comprised
of efficiency indicators as well as the merit of specific subproject proposals. The eligibility criteria for
this fund consists of an index combining targeting, state financial participation, and share of state
expenditures in education that directly reach schools.
The subprojects that are eligible for financing under the FDI can be grouped in four basic categories: (a)
integrated strategic planning systems; (b) strategic micro-planning; (c) integrated operational planning
systems; and (d) operational micro-planning studies and activities.
The type of expenditures eligible for financing under the FDI include: (a) consultant services and
technical assistance for studies, workshops, training, and dissemination campaigns; (b) procurement of
goods, such as audio-visual equipment, communications equipment, training materials, computers,
among others; a cap on the amount of expenditures for the procurement of goods to be financed under
the FDI will be agreed upon during negotiations. Recurrent operational costs will not be eligible for
financing through the FDI. The implementation period of subprojects to be financed in each states can
be one or more years.
Subproject proposals will be collected as part of the annual programming exercise for budgeting
purposes in August of each year for the following year. They will be evaluated by a joint CONAFE/SEP
committee composed of technical specialists in basic education, institutional development, sector
planning and budgeting, and evaluation. This committee will evaluate proposals based on general
criteria established for both funds and on specific criteria applicable only to the Competitive Fund.
Subcomponent 2.3 - Program Management - US$8.2 million. The program makes provision for
technical assistance and for the financing of small CONAFE delegations (one coordinator plus 2-3



Page 38
assistants) in each of the participating states ("participating" defined as those who agree to prepare and
implement Strategic Plans) to assist SEPEs in coordination, procurement, monitoring and reporting. It is
CONAFE's intention thalt SEPEs will gradually increase their responsibilities for managing and
implementing their respective compensatory programs to the point of complete autonomy, within the
federal norms set by SEP/CONAFE. Incremental operating cost financing is also provided to support
project administration activities of SEPES.



Page 39
Appendix A - Phasing of Activities Under APL
The APL will provide the Government with the opportunity to rationalize and integrate its compensatory
education program which is currently funded by both the Bank and IDB. At present, the program is the
result of a mix of policy objectives, differing targeting criteria, and division of labor between the Bank
and IDB according to education levels and geographic coverage (see table below).
Ongoing Support for Compensatory Education Program - World Bank and IDB
_  Supported by World Bank    Supported by IDB
Basic Educational Inputs By Level
Initial                     PAREB, 10 states, lowest decile   PIARE, 21 states
Preschool                   PAREB, 14 states, lowest decile   PIARE, 17 states
Primary                     PAREB, 14 states, lowest decile   PIARE, 17 states
Lower Secondary             N/A                          Distance Education
Institutional Strengthening    PAREB, 14 states             PIARE, 17 states
Phase I will (a) complete the gaps in support from the two development institutions by (i) expanding the
target population with a broader targeting formula (going from the lowest decile to the bottom 50% of
the potential beneficiary population) and (ii) assisting heretofore unsupported programs such as
posprimaria and (b) provide institutional strengthening assistance at federal, state, and local levels to
achieve better outcomes. Over the period 1998-2000, experience will be gathered under the pilot
programs and the state-funded development initiatives (the FDI), which will provide the basis for
discussion during late 2000 between the Bank and the incoming Government about policies and
implementation strategies.
Successful meeting of the triggers under Phases I & II would prompt the Bank to consider funding for
Phases II & III, respectively, which would extend support for the compensatory education program as
agreed with the new administration, building on experience gathered. Estimates of the target population
by state and detailed physical implementation targets have already been defined and will be reviewed as
part of supervision and prior to subsequent phases. Financing of the compensatory education program
over the three-phase APL is estimated as per the graph below:
Compensatory Education Program, 1998-2006
(U S $ m illio n)
300
250                     -    _r 
200               '~~~~~~~~~~ 0W~ 0            
100                                      "I 
50
1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    2006
|cI3DB (PIARE)-   oWorld Bank (PAREB)   EWorld Bank (PAREIB)   ijFederal Gov't |
* PIARE is scheduled to close in 2000; a follow-up project is assumed.



Page 40
APL Triggers
PhaseI
The triggers which would permit the Bank to consider approval of the Phase II loan include standard
project appraisal criteria and:
Physical Indicators
Component 1
60% of civil works & 80% of goods implemented
60% of training plan implemented
80% of targeted schools are implementing Proyectos Escolares
Component 2
Evaluation system: Progress report, baseline study, and action plan, including dissemination
strategy
Regional planning: Basic system installed at central level, action plan
Progress reports and action plans for pilot programs
FDI:
=> 60% of funds disbursed
= Participation by at least 15 states
=> Progress report, action plan for improving/accelerating activities
Other Actions
Framework for compensatory programs maintained according to terms of Government letter
Assessment of effectiveness and use of targeting mechanisms
Beneficiary assessment being carried out
Progress under CONAFE financial management improvement action plan
Financial management capacity in, and action plans completed for, all participating states with respect to
the compensatory programs
Evidence of utilization of improved evaluation system in at least 15 states
Evidence of preparation of Strategic Plans by at least 15 states
Evidence of adequate counterpart funds
Phase III
If Phase II is entered into, the triggers which would permit the Bank to consider approval of the Phase III
loan include standard project appraisal criteria and:
Educational Outcomtie Indicators
Dropout at the preschool and primary levels in targeted populations reduced by 0.79% and 0.4%,
respectively
Completion rate at the primary and lower secondary levels in targeted populations level increased by 3%
and 3.9%, respectively
Failure, repetition, and dropout at the lower secondary level in targeted populations reduced by 2.2%,
0.6% and 2.5%, respectively
Other Actions
Framework for compensatory programs maintained according to terms of Government letter in Annex 2
Assessment of effectiveness and use of targeting mechaniisms
Satisfactory progress under state-level financial management improvement action plans
Evidence of preparation of Strategic Plans by at least 25 states
At least 10 states are fully and directly executing compensatory programs, under norms set by
SEP/CONAFE
Evidence of adequate counterpart funds



Page 41
Appendix B - Rural Lower Secondary (Posprimaria) Program
To increase the quality of lower secondary (grades 7-9) education in rural areas, the program will support
quality improvements in the different modalities offered to rural students. Support under the program will
be directly mainly at developing the posprimaria model for small rural areas which effectively receive no
secondary education coverage due to their geographical isolation. The posprimaria program is open to
students who have recently completed primary school and to any person in the community who is interested
in learning. Emphasis is placed on independent study, with each participant progressing at his or her own
pace and concentrating on the subjects or topics of his or her particular interest. Participants are guided
through the program by members of the community who will have received some pedagogical training,
using especially designed educational materials. Intensive technical supervision is also provided. PAREB
has supported the start-up of the program since 1997 with four posprimaria centers in each of eight states
for a total of 32 centers, with each center serving an average of 30 students. During Phase I, the
posprimaria model will be expanded to approximately 224 new centers in all 31 states. There will be two
community instructors in each center and one local advisor for every eight instructors. At least one state
coordinator will be responsible for implementation of the program in each state, and a second coordinator
will be added if the number of centers exceeds 15 in the state. Itinerant advisors will visit each center at
least 40 times per year to provide technical support and educational guidance to the instructors. Instructors
are expected to serve for two years and are allowed to pursue upper secondary education or teacher training
studies while they are serving in the program.
The program will also support activities under the distance education (telesecundaria) program not
currently covered under the IDB-funded PIARE project, i.e., the training of supervisors and improvements
in physical facilities and equipment.



Page 42
Annex 4
BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Education Development Program
I. Education Sector Background
General Context
The United States of Mexico is a federal republic with almost 95 million inhabitants (mid-1997) spread
over some 2 million square kilometers, with over 70% of them living in urban areas. Even though most
Mexicans are young (24-year-old or less), demographic growth has come down markedly in recent times.
As a result, the population under 6 years old has decreased 0.5% per year, while the group aged 6 and 14
years expanded by no more than 0.1% a year. By the end of the century, the size of this age cohort will
have virtually stabilized (see the demographic projections in Appendix 1).
Institutional Setting
The Mexican educational system is regulated by two legal instruments: Article 3 of the Constitution and
the General Law of Education (Ley General de la Educaci6n). According to the Constitution, the
government -- at federal, state and municipal levels -- is responsible for providing free basic education to
all citizens. Moreover, the Constitution establishes that basic education is mandatory. The Ley General
de la Educaci6n, enacted :in 1993, expanded and strengthened some aspects already in the Constitution.
It defines the role of the Federal Government in the conception and implementation of educational
policies, via the Secretaria de Educaci6n Pz'blica (SEP - Secretary of Public Education), in order to
enhance equity through policies targeted to the regions and areas, besides ethnic and handicapped
groups, that lag behind in terms of educational services.
In May 1992, federal authorities, state governments and the National Union of Workers in Education
(SNTE) subscribed to the Acuerdo Nacional para la Modernizacion de la Educaci6n Bdsica (National
Agreement for the Modernization of Basic Education). This agreement aimed at reorganizing the
educational system through decentralization, as well as the revision of the basic curriculum and the
elaboration of adequate textbooks. In this context, decentralization meant transferring the control and
management of the schools to state governments (at the pre-school, primary, and secondary levels). The
Federal Government remained responsible for providing general guidelines (normative and policy-
making functions), teacher training and allocation, textbooks, and the financial resources needed to
ensure the proper coverage and quality of the education system.
In January 1995, SEP presented the Programa de Desarrollo Educativo (PDE - Education Development
Program), which contains a series of targets and general guidelines to improve the coverage, efficiency
and equity of the Mexican education system.
Structure of the Education System
Basic education comprises primary (grades 1-6) and lower secondary (grades 7-9) schooling, and
constitutes the main government priority in the sector (the Government supplies 93% of the educational
services at this level). Initial education, also supported under the proposed program, is for children ages
0-3, and consists of training programs for parents (mostly mothers) to teach better child-rearing
techniques and provide better school preparation.
*  Early childhood education (or pre-school) is optional for 3- to 5-year-old children, though it is
strongly recommended;
*  Primary education is mandatory. The official age of entry in primary school is 6 years old and
ideally this level should be completed in 6 years. Due to late comers and repetition, however, the
target population goes from 6 to 14 years of age;
*  The lower secondary cycle has also been mandatory since 1983. Ideally, it lasts 3 years and is



Page 43
intended for the 12- to 16-year-old age cohort. It comprises two lines -- the general track and the
vocational and technical track. There is also the telesecundaria, an education format intended for
remote areas, that are reached through recorded lessons transmitted by television and that count with
the assistance of a tutor.
Following basic education, comes mid-level education, where students choose between technical studies
and upper secondary school (with general or technological formation), both of which last around 3 years.
The latter, the bachillerato, allows students to pursue higher education afterwards. Although most
students prefer the bachillerato, in recent times the demand for technical studies has increased steadily.
Higher education encompass three lines of formation: a system of federal technology institutes, state and
autonomous universities, and teacher-training institutes. There is at least one university in each state,
and the large universities have campuses in different cities. Graduate courses include specialization,
master and doctoral courses.
II. The Education Development Program
Main Components
The PDE constitutes a well-conceived conceptual plan to reform the Mexican educational system in
order to render it more efficient and equitable. Although it does not provide specifics of measurable
actions to be undertaken, it touches upon the crucial set of education issues that include improving the
syllabuses; forming new teachers and retraining the existing ones; developing more conscious and
engaged communities; decentralizing the decisions related to the expansion of the system, the priority to
geographic regions, ethnic and handicapped groups that lag behind in educational attainment;
reformulating and making textbooks more adequate, and so forth. A brief and concise description of the
ideas therein follows, grouped along five broad lines:
* the organization of basic education;
* the methods, contents and resources of the teaching and learning processes;
* the formation, retraining and improvement of teachers;
* the promotion of equity;
* the use of alternative ways to reach the population (mainly through the telesecundaria).
The PDE stresses the role of decentralization, which will allow dealing more efficiently with aspects that
the central administration could not handle adequately due to lack of management capacity. The need to
foster communication among the federal and state governments, in order to develop normative practices
that reflect the country's reality and fit the regional peculiarities, is an important element of this strategy.
Increasing autonomy to the states, not only for deciding where to build new schools, but also through the
transfer of actual control of the services of building, maintenance and supply of equipment, under the
supervision and with the support of federal institutions like CAPFCE and CONAFE, would be one of the
steps in this direction.
A nationwide information system, besides providing more transparency to the decision-making process,
would help detect common problems and allow the exchange of experiences. The strengthening of the
evaluation system, along with the creation of a culture of evaluation among the agents involved in the
educational process, would also help deliver better basic education services.
The program calls for a higher degree of integration among communities, teachers and principals of the
schools, in favor of actions and planning that suit better the local environment, which could help to
improve the coverage, efficiency and quality of education. The feasibility of this more flexible
normative setting demands more independence for the principals and supervisors to make decisions,
therefore requiring that they be more qualified. Hence, a scheme of support, incentives, training,
guidance and fine-tuning by the educational authorities would be implemented.



Page 44
The ability to read and write, as well as the capacity to understand and solve mathematical problems, will
be bolstered through the conception of new school materials, together with the incentive to use libraries,
the number of which will be increased. Emphasis will be given not only to the accumulation of formal
knowledge, but also to the generation of self-esteem, respect and citizenship.
Other actions to be implemented include the revision of the textbooks and the expansion of their free
distribution nationwide, including special versions for the indigenous population. The number of days of
the school per year will be increased and more efficiently used, trying to reduce the time devoted to
activities that are not productive in the learning process and eliminating those that are associated with
mechanical and repetitious teaching practices. Extra time set aside for the arts and sports, for instance,
will be encouraged. In addition, the calendar will be adapted to the local circumstances according to
weather conditions and the workings of the labor market (coordinating with the harvest period in rural
areas, for instance).
The formation and retraining of teachers is another priority stated in the PDE. It proposes a series of
actions towards this goal, including the reformulation of syllabi in the teacher training institutions,
incentives to recycle and update existing teachers with new teaching methods as well as further
specialization, the introduction of modifications in the carrera magisterial, and increasing recognition of
the importance of teachers' social role.
Regarding the enhancement of equity and the reduction in disparities in educational attainment, the PDE
anticipates the use of compensatory programs in several lines, such as:
*  the conception of an efficient information system and the adoption of close monitoring to assure that
actions will be focused on the schools and regions that need them the most;
*  in rural areas where working conditions are more demanding, incentives will be given to teachers in
addition to stimulating them to upgrade their teaching capability;
*  in the more remote areas with difficult access, mechanisms will be instituted to help reduce
absenteeism and keep the teachers in the same school during the whole school year;
*  strategies will be devised to help low-performing children through more intensive interaction with
their parents;
*  particular attention will be devoted to the female population over 12 years old, who present low rates
of school attendance;
*  summer courses will be offered to reduce repetition rates;
*  the poorest areas will be targeted, and the children therein will receive all required textbooks and
other school material from the Government;
*  in small localities, where there are basically no educational services, community instructors will be
introduced, under standards instituted by CONAFE; in the case of extreme dispersion, school lodging
may be an option;
*  children of the migrant population will have access to easier registration procedures, in order to
allow them to change from one school to another during migration; and
*  an effort will be made to attract street children to schools, and to get them part-time jobs.
Concerning the indigenous population, two strategies will be followed: (i) the adaptation of the
educational services to their needs, according to cultural traits and social organization, and (ii) the
sensitization of the non-indigenous population in order to reduce prejudice.
Finally, the PDE suggests the intensive use of radio and television networks to widen the access to
educational services.
Goals
The broad goal of the PDE is to increase the average number of years of schooling of the population up



Page 45
to 15 years old to 7.5 years by the turn of the millennium, reaching the mark of 9 years in 2010.1 To
achieve such improvement, the program established a series of targets for the 2000/01 school year for all
levels of basic education, both in terms of coverage (the idea is to increase enrollment by more than the
demographic expansion in the correspondent age group) and efficiency (understood as the ability to
retain children in school and shorten the average period to complete a given level).
In the case of pre-school, the program intends to have 90% percent of the 5-year-olds and 65% of the 4-
year-olds enrolled by 2000. There are no figures for the 3-year-old children. The main priority,
however, is that all children spend at least one year in pre-school before entering the primary level.
For the primary cycle of basic education, the indicators envisioned by the PDE for the 2000/01 school
year are:
*  a 50% reduction in the number of 6- to 14-year-old children out of school;
*  a 10% expansion in the promotion from primary education to the first grade of the secondary;
*  a continuous decline in repetition and dropout rates, which will contribute to lower enrollment;
*  this factor above, together with the lessening of the demographic expansion in the reference age
group, will outweigh the broadening in coverage, in such way that the PDE forecasts an overall
decrease of 0.3% in enrollment (reaching an absolute level of 14.53 million); and
*  to arrive at a terminal efficiency of 87.4%, which represents a rise of 10 percentage points vis-a-vis
the 1994/95 school year.
The increase in the promotion rate from the sixth grade of the primary to the first of the secondary (from
0.977 to 0.92), coupled with an expansion of schools in the latter, will result in a substantial increment in
the coverage of the lower secondary education (up to 5.5 million students) in 2000/01. Also, the program
anticipates an upgrade in the terminal efficiency in this level from the observed 75.7% in 1994/95 to
8.1.1% in the turn of the decade. The targets for enrollment by level are summarized in the table below.
Coverage of Basic Education in 2000/01: Enrollments by Cycle (PDE)
(million students)
*oal                            22.15        ..: ..
. Q. ..e   -a                    4-49.                     0.-.;:
Source: DGPPP, SEP.
For a more complete discussion of the progress made under the PDE, see Annex 6, Economic and Fiscal
Analysis.
1 As a reference point, in 1990 the average schooling of this age group was 6.5 years



Page 46
Annex 5
BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT
Social Assessment
Indigenous Peoples Development Summary Assessment
Summary
Because a large number of children targeted in the Government's program are of indigenous
communities, the Indigenous Peoples' Development Assessment was prepared as the centerpiece of the
operation's social assessment. This assessment confirmed that program design, through its various
complementary activities (including existing activities supported under Bank- and IDB-funded)
adequately address the needs of this special population group. Observations and recommendations of the
assessment team, together with SEP's own detailed reports, are reflected in the design of the program.
To monitor progress under the program, a Beneficiary Assessment covering all affected communities
will be carried out, providing further information on the program's impact on indigenous populations.
Background
A team composed of Bank staff and Government officials visited Chiapas and Oaxaca and conducted
interviews with a large number of stakeholders. These states were chosen for being among the poorest
in Mexico and by their high proportion of indigenous population. While many of the issues identified
during this consultation are highly relevant to the design and delivery of indigenous education services in
Mexico, care should be given to generalize the findings due to the limited geographical coverage.
Because Government statistics do not adequately differentiate between CONAFE and other modalities of
education and between indigenous and non-indigenous children in each of the various educational
programs (regular, indigenous, CONAFE, etc.), the analysis relies more heavily on interviews and
anecdotal evidence - with the attendant caveats. The analysis, and the design of the program, also
benefited from on a detailed report and action plan prepared by SEP's General Directorate of Indigenous
Education, DGEI.1
Legal Framework. The 1992 Constitution recognizes that Mexico has a multicultural composition
sustained in its indigenous origins. Moreover, it affirms as one of the duties of the Law to protect and
promote the development of indigenous languages, culture, customs, resources and social organization,
guaranteeing to the indigenous peoples their full access to the states' jurisdiction.
Indigenous Population. According to the 1995 census, the total indigenous population in Mexico is
about 7 million, organized in 56 different ethnicities. The states of Veracruz, Chiapas, Puebla, Yucatan,
Hidalgo, Mdxico, Guerrero and San Luis Potosi account for about 85 percent of this population. About
three-thirds of the entire indigenous population live in localities less than 2,500 inhabitants. About one
million children aged between 5 and 14 are monolingual in their indigenous language.
Education Services. In the cases of initial education, preschool and primary school, education services
for indigenous children are organized in three different modalities: general education, indigenous
education, and community education. In the case of the secondary level, five modalities may provide
education services for indigenous students: general, technical, distance (telesecundaria), for workers
(para trabajadores) and community. Education may be provided either by states or by the federal
government. In many indigenous localities, it is possible to find different modalities of services,
operating under different norns and requirements. Bilingual education is delivered only in twenty
Mexican states, and eleven indigenous groups do not have access to bilingual education.
Fortalecimiento de la Educacion Inicialy Basica Intercultural Bilingue para Ninas y Ninios Indigenas, SEP,
DGEI, Marzo 1998.



Page 47
Enrollment. In 1995, about 3 percent of indigenous children aged zero to 3 were covered by the
indigenous initial education program, in contrast with 5 percent of all Mexican population aged the same.
About 62 percent of indigenous children aged 4-5 were enrolled in indigenous preschools. This
proportion is about the same for the Mexican population aged the same (64.3 percent.). However,
children aged 3 (who should be covered by the initial education program) and 6 (who should be enrolled
in the primary level) accounted for 9 percent and 11 percent of preschool total enrollment, respectively.
About 68 percent of indigenous children from 6 to 11 years old were attending indigenous primary
schools in 1995, in sharp contrast with the 99.9 percent for the entire country. As only the Chihuaha
state offers indigenous secondary education, no information is available for this level. It is not known
how many indigenous children whose mother tongue is an indigenous language attend general
monolingual (Spanish) schools. Because of inadequate differentiation between indigenous and non-
indigenous children at each level and modality of education in SEP's statistics, the above figures likely
paint an incomplete picture of true enrollment rates.
Completion Rate. Out of 100 students identified as indigenous enrolled in the first grade of primary
school, 48 percent complete their studies in six years. This compares with a completion rate of 80
percent for all students at the national level.
Main Issues. The major challenges facing indigenous education are: (a) access, principally for those
children living in very small communities of less than 500 inhabitants, where the delivery of education
services is still more difficult given the lack of access roads; (b) the need to expand bilingual education
(bilingual teachers, bilingual teaching materials, and bilingual textbooks), which is an exigency among
those who do not speak Spanish; and (c) gender imbalance, given that girls' dropout rates are still greater
than boys'. All these challenges are being faced by the Mexican government, through either programs of
indigenous bilingual education, or through the CONAFE modality of instructores comunitarios.
Rapid Appraisal
A rapid appraisal (RA) was undertaken during project preparation in the states of Oaxaca and Chiapas.
The novelty of the RA was to spell out the views on indigenous education of those who are beneficiaries
or potential beneficiaries of these programs, and of some other key stakeholders. About 500 people were
consulted during the RA. Specifically, the following stakeholders were consulted: (a) CONAFE staff;
(b) staff of the Divisi6n de Proyectos Especiales del Instituto de Educaci6n Putblica de Oaxaca; (c)
supervisors and teachers (instructores) of CONAFE; (d) principals, teachers and supervisors of the
system of Indigenous education of SEP; (e) education authorities and members of the education
committees of Mixteca, Mixes, and Zapoteca communities; (f) parents and students of both CONAFE
and SEP systems; (g) specialists and experts on indigenous and bilingual education; (h) members of the
Sindicato de Maestros de Oaxaca; (i) members (teachers, linguists, medical doctors, anthropologists,
etc.) of community-based-organizations of the following groups: (i) Mixes; (ii) Mixtecos; (iii)
Zapotecos; (iv) Chocholtecos; and (v) Chinantecos; (j) the director of the Universidad Pedag6gica
Nacional-Unidad de Oaxaca; (k) the director of the Centro de Investigaciones y Estudios Superiores de
Antropologia Social; and (1) the only elected Indigenous Senator in Mexico.
In Chiapas, interviews were held with: (a) staff of CONAFE and of the state SEPE; (b) supervisors of the
Escuelas Bilingues Federales tzeltales y tzotiles; (c) directors, teachers and support staff of a boarding
school in the municipality of Chamula; (d) supervisors and teachers (instuctores) of CONAFE; (e)
teachers and directors of bilingual schools: (f) parents and teachers; and (g) representatives of local
education NGOs of the several visited systems of education.
Access and Dropout. According to parents, education is a need. As stressed by a Chiapas parent,
"education makes possible to read, write, count, speak, know. It helps one to defend oneself and to
communicate with others. Without education, one suffers too much". Dropout is explained as resulting
from: (a) economic reasons - transport, necessity of children's work, uniforms, etc.; (b) migration; (c)



Page 48
low education level of parents who do not understand the value of education; (d) health problems among
children; (e) assignment of Spanish monolingual teachers to indigenous monolingual children who, not
understanding what is being taught, eventually drop out; and (f) bureaucratic exigencies related to
children's enrollment.
Bilingual Education. Regarding language, many different situations co-exist: monolingual children in
indigenous language; monolingual children but with some knowledge of Spanish; bilingual children in
Spanish and an indigenous language; bilingual children in two different indigenous languages;
monolingual children in an Spanish. However, even among parents whose children are monolingual in
indigenous language the view that prevails is that indigenous education should be bilingual, but Spanish
is essential. Accordingly, bilingual teachers are considered better teachers than monolingual teachers not
only because they understand the children better, but also because they teach Spanish better.
Gender. Although statistical information shows that education attainment is marginally lower for
indigenous females than for indigenous males, those consulted manifested clearly that education is as
important for girls as for boys. For instance, according to parents in a Zapoteca community in Oaxaca
visited by the RA team, girls need to study and not be exclusively prepared to matrimony. On the other
hand, participants in education community committees were almost always exclusively males.
Participation. Parents are willing to participate and give their time to school administrative and
financial issues. For instance, the positive evaluation they have of the CONAFE modality is very often
based on its openness to accept and validate community participation.
The Government Proposal
The above mentioned issues were dealt by the Mexican government as part of the preparation of the APL
program. Specifically, the Government presented a detailed plan (Fortalecimiento de la Educaci6n
Inicial Y Basica Intercutlural Bilingue Para Ninas y Ninos Indigenas) whose recommendations,
incorporated under the program, are consonant with those produced during a consultation process carried
out with indigenous communities in the states of Chiapas and Oaxaca.
According to the Government's report, the program's objectives regarding indigenous education are to:
(a) promote education equity based on the linguistic and cultural identity of the Mexican children; (b)
guarantee the congruency between education and community values and between national identity and
indigenous values, knowledge and behavioral patterns; (c) strengthen both national and indigenous
identities; and (d) create the chances for equal opportunities of participation in Mexican development
processes.
Activities to implement these objectives include: (a) development of indigenous languages, to support a
smooth transition to Spanish and facilitate acquisition of literacy and numeracy skills; (b) definition and
development of basic learning instruments for indigenous children in both Spanish and their own
language; (c) development of adequate learning methodologies for indigenous children; (d) development
evaluation methodologies; (e) develop and diversify teaching materials; (e) definition of specific actions
to fully incorporate indigenous female children and teens into the education system; (f) definition of
specific actions to address the needs of those in need of special attention; and (g) creation of
beneficiaries' ownership through the promotion of community participation and particularly of the
participation of children's families in schools and in education activities.
Conclusions
The program's long-term objectives regarding indigenous education are to promote education equity
based on the linguistic and cultural identity of the Mexican children by: (a) guaranteeing the congruency
between education and community values and between national identity and indigenous values,
knowledge and behavioral patterns; (b) strengthening indigenous identities; and (c) creating
opportunities for indigenous children to participate equally in the Mexican development processes.



Page 49
Specific objectives under the program regarding indigenous education are to: (a) improve the quality of
indigenous education by (i) developing adequate teaching material and learning instruments in both
Spanish and indigenous languages, mainly in the first years of schooling, (ii) training indigenous teachers
to teach in both Spanish and indigenous languages and to work in culturally diverse environments, (iii)
training directors and supervisors of indigenous schools, (iv) developing alternative and flexible teaching
strategies which are able to work in culturally diverse environments, (v) developing evaluation
methodologies suited to indigenous education, (vi) strengthening the institutional capacity of the
education system to plan, organize, administrate, and supervise indigenous education, and (vii)
rehabilitating the infrastructure of indigenous schools; (b) fully incorporate indigenous female children
and teens in the education system; and (c) promote beneficiaries' ownership through community
participation and particularly through the participation of children's families in schools and in education
activities.



Page 50
Annex 6
BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT
Economic and Fiscal Analysis
I. Education Sector Overview
Coverage and Efficiency
The extent to which the educational system can help foster the social and economic development of a
country depends on its efficiency and accessibility. Therefore, the allocation of public resources should
be handled so as to increase the number of children reached, especially in the lower income strata, as
well as the quality and efficiency of schools. This will ultimately maximize the social returns to the
investment in education.
Several indicators reveal that the coverage and efficiency of Mexico's educational system have improved
substantially in recent years. Enrollment in early childhood school, which is not mandatory, has
increased continually, particularly among 5-year-olds, even though the population in this age cohort
shrank: from 1994/95 to 1996/97. As a result, the coverage in this group went up from 80.7% to 89.3%
(9.7% of them already in primary schools).
Table 1 shows the proportion of children aged 6 to 14 years enrolled in school (though this is the age
group officially associated to primary schooling, it is worth noticing that part of the 13-14-year-old
contingent may already be in the secondary level). School attendance increased substantially from 1990
to 1995, particularly for the 6-year-old group, which means that the system has enhanced its ability to
attract children to primary school in the proper age. The higher attendance rates from children 7- to 11-
year-old, however, indicate that there still exist problems related to late comers and repetition rates.
Regarding the indigenous population, total enrollment has expanded along the nineties, both in pre-
school (by almost 80,000, or 35%) and primary education (170,000, or 30%) levels.
Table 1[. Population of 6-14 Years of Age: School Enrollment Status
_W g -I
0 t60-yes t -l -79.5 O         190%   15       ::92 2O7                   02 9
~~ ~ ~~   ~~  6 1 ~~,'o  ~~~         9 4/W       2. %0 
lOycars    92.2%  7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 M.2% 06  69  .%00
llyears  91.8%    ~~~7.5:%     06         967 3I9                   00%
l2:0years~~~~:,::229 76.%  2.9%       0.5%     ..9 911%      309%         00%
-3yes      79.4%          0           0.       82%5%                      00 
l4years    6~9.4%     29.08%      .067       770   2       3.0%5       0.0%
Source INEGI, Conteo de Poblaci6n 1995.
The achievements associated to efficiency in the primary level can be seen in Table 2. Terminal
efficiency -  defined as the ratio of the number of children that completed the sixth grade to new
enrollments in first grade six years before - increased more than 1 1 percentage points in 5 years. The
number of children that completed this level of schooling increased by more than 200,000. There is,
nevertheless, much ground still to be covered here, as the ratio is barely over 0.8. Table 2 also reveals
that over the nineties, the number of schools (16.5%) and teachers (11.3%) increased more than
enrollment (1.7%) in primary school, which may have contributed to improve quality.



Page 51
Table 2. Indicators for Primary School Performance (1992-1997)
1994-1991   ___________                      8228~~~~~~. 10.  :47,625
1.991-1 992:   A4,396 993     1,861,9.39       716           466           479,61'6
1992 1 993    14;425,669     1.,880,769       72,9          85.249 ~    486,686,
:1993-1994.    14,469~450.    1,917,374        742.         87,271         496,472
1:99.44995    14722           1,989,247        777          91587          507,669
1995-1996  14 62343       2,024,174        80,0           444516,051
1:j996-.1997:'   14,650,521:   2,062,729:      82.9*         95,855         524,927
*crease.      253,528        200,891         11.3          16.5%          11.3%.
Estimated. Source: DGPPP, SEP.
The reduction in the regional disparities in terminal efficiency also deserves to be stressed. That is, the
states that experienced the largest improvements were precisely those that were lagging most behind (the
ratio of the highest to the lowest efficiency rate among the states dropped from 2.1 to 1.6 between 1994-
95 and 1996-97).
Table 3. Terminal Efficiency in Low and High Performing States (Percent)
Tlaxc-ala.                     96.1                   96.5                   97.1
DitioFera                   95.6:                  95.9                   96 7
QuintanaRoo            8~~~~5.6              :890                    961
Verar                         64.6                   68 0                   71 0
Gtierrero              ~~~~~583:              61J                    644
Ciapoas -45.6                                         48.2                  :61 4
Source: DGPPP, SEP.
The growth in terminal efficiency shown in Table 3 above was due to improvements in both the dropout
and repetition rates, which decreased in the period for all grades. In average termns the former came
down from 4.6% in 199 1/92 to 3.0% in 1995/96, while the latter fell from 9.8% to 7.8% (Table 4).
Table 4. Dropout and Repetition in Primary School by Grade (%), National Totals (1991-1996)
..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-2g2                       - -----.--....
1991-1992 Drp     7.6        2.4        47474.8                         .2.3        4.6
Rep.    1:67        11.2       10085661798
1:992-19      r        4234.4                          4.4        4.2:       0.3        4.1
__________Rep.    129         10.3       9.0        7.6        5.8: ~   I 5          8.3
19934994   Drp..    5.7       1.7        4.0        3.9        3.~6       2.0       :3.6
__________Rep      1:3.0:     11.2       9.0        7.4        5.5148.
1994 1995   Drp      5.7        1:,8       3.83529                           .          .
Rep-    13.2       10.8        8.9:       6.9        5.1        1.3       :8.1::
19954994   Drtp.      6.2        1.7:       3.6       3.0        221.6                 3.0.
___________Rep;.:   12.8      10.3       8.7        6.7:       4.9        1.6        7.8
Source: DGPPP, SEP.
Table 5 shows the improvements in several indicators related to secondary schooling throughout the
nineties:



Page 52
e  Enrollment in secondary schools rose by 14.8%, which means over 600,000 more students;
  The number of schools went up by 26.9%, with the average number of students per school declining
from 217 to just under 200;
e  There was an addition of over 40,000 teachers, which translates into a 17.5% increase;
o  Even though still low, the index of attendance (defined as enrollment over the population in the 13-
to 15-year-old age cohort) increased by almost 7 percentage points, reaching 0.754 in the 1996/97
school year (SEP estimates it has gone up to 0.778 in the 1997/98 school year).
Table 5. Indicators for Secondary School Performance
. I    -    ...................A. . 7tS :TT:.......... ...   ........................................ .. .T==        -.i.  R   .................. ...ft ..77.  
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ....  ..... . ... .
1'990-1991.         4,90A 90             6  119,422                                 234,293
19 -992           ,10,692~      ~      6 182,323            67 3        19672      3,3
1992-1993        4,203.,98              6 236,437            674         20 ,032  2.37,'729
1993-1994        4,,9204                6                                 _9623,2,87  69.120,795    224,981
1994T-99         4,49:    . :.-:3,173   6,322829             71.1       22,25      26
1995 1996,::::687,335                   6,335,333            78 2:::::3,4373   264578
1996-1997        4,809,266              63,380,29            75          24       - -,402    2,331
Source: DGPPP, SEEP.
Teacher Training
Basic-school teachers attend a 4-year course (which is one branch of the higher education level).
Teacher training syllabuses were recently revised for the three cycles of basic education. A shortage of
early childhood teachers and a surplus of primary education teachers led to a retraining program for the
latter to become pre-school teachers.
Expenditures and Financing
Total expenditures in education amounted to 5.6% of GDP in 1995 (Table 6), the government being
responsible for close to 95% of it. Around 87% of public funds come from the federal government,
which was equivalent to 22.6% of its own budget. Over 68% of all educational expenditures went to
basic education.
Table 6. Structure of Education Financing (% of GDP)
1990-    2.68         0.58::       0V71         001        0)35:        43            5
1992      3           0 64         09i::EE i02ii        0i0E33          52 i20
993      4.10         0.74   '     .60 0602';   0.34                        X ;   : - i 0.22.3
19940     4,52     :  01.67        0.64        0.01       0632         6.          2.7-
1995   4.1106                   0.60         .1030562.
Source: PDE.
Per capita expenditures on education increased for all levels of schooling between 1990 and 1997, as
shown in Table 7. Besides, as far as unit expenditures are considered, there was a gradual concentration
on primary schooling. The ratio of unit expenditures between primary education and any other level
went down: from 2.1 to 1.5 in the case of the secondary, from 4.3 to 2.7 for intermediate schooling, and
8.0 to 7.0 for university education.



Page 53
Table 7. Federal Education Spending per Student by Level
1990:-   80: :g.8.4.:   : 1685.8-  3502.8    6473.5      .1        2.1      4.3       8.0:
1991   v1011A       1942.6       3772.9      68983         1       1 9      3.7       6.:
1992    1285.9      2318.7       3384.3       9313.2      :        1 8      2. 6      7.2
-- :.- -. : - .... ... .3384. ,                       .7_
1993 :.1584.6       25S68.4::    4304.6      11637.2       1 -     1.6      2.        7.3
1-994.    1731.3    3139.4       5215.1       l32530:.   I        1.8      3.1       7.7
1995:   679Q0       2511.0      4508.1       11202.3       1       1.5      2.7       6.7
1996 :- -1647.7-.  2464.2        4442.9      11328.-5              1.5      2.7       6.9
:1i997: 1811.9       2709.7       4882.1      12692.2       1       1.5      2.7       7.0
Source: Presidencia de la Repuiblica, Primer Informe de Gobierno, 1989; Tercer Informe de Gobierno, T 997
On the other hand, overall unit expenditures, after increasing in the beginning of the decade, have come
down after 1994. This decline seems to be due primarily to federal expenditures. Regarding the overall
expenditure in education according to the strata of income distribution, Figure 1 reveals that in 1994, the
most recent year for which this evaluation can be carried out, it was progressive for primary schooling,
basically neutral, or uniform, for the lower secondary level (included in basic education) and intensively
regressive for the higher levels. The overall distribution of expenditures was regressive. In spite of
reaching a peak in 1994 and experiencing a narrowing in the gap amnong unit expenditures according to
the different levels of schooling, the overall spending in education in Mexico still benefits more the rich
than the poor.
Figure 1
Lorerm Distribution of Education Public Expenditures, 1994
Sham o dexpendtue
100
90
80
70
60                           /          .00
50                                                             Pin-wy
40                    /----A -W --        ' .-                      I
30            /                        /                        p ,
20 e                                 ". _. uSV
0 1  / ~      ~~~ - -'-  '-' .d
12
0    1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9   10
Sham ofpoxabon
II. The Education Development Program
Main Components
The document published by SEP describing the PDE constitutes a well-conceived conceptual plan to
reform the Mexican educational system, in order to render it more efficient and equitable. Although it
does not provide specifics of measurable actions to be undertaken, it touches upon the crucial set of



Page 54
education issues that include improving the syllabuses; forming new teachers and retraining the existing
ones; developing more conscious and engaged communities; decentralizing the decisions related to the
expansion of the system, the priority to geographic regions, ethnic and handicapped groups that lag
behind in educational attainment; reformulating and making textbooks more adequate, and so forth. The
document does not lay out tangible actions required to fulfill the strategy nor does it translate targets into
costs. The PDE is organized along five broad lines:
* the organization of basic education;
* the methods, contents and resources of the teaching and learning processes;
* the formation, retraining and improvement of teachers;
* the promotion of equity;
* the use of alternative ways to reach the population (mainly through telesecundaria).
Goals
The broad goal of the PDE is to increase the average number of years of schooling of the population up
to 15 years old to 7.5 years in the turn of the millennium, reaching the mark of 9 years in 2010.' To
achieve such improvement, the program established a series of targets for the 2000/01 school year for all
levels of basic education, both in terms of coverage (the idea is to increase enrollment by more than the
demographic expansion in the correspondent age group) and efficiency (understood as the ability to
retain children in school and shorten the average period to complete a given level).
In the case of pre-school, the program intends to have 90% percent of the 5-year-olds and 65% of the 4-
year-olds enrolled by 2000. There are no figures for the 3-year-old children. The main priority,
however, is that all children spend at least one year in pre-school before entering the primary level.
For the primary cycle of basic education, the indicators envisioned by the PDE for the 2000/01 school
year are:
* a 50% reduction in the number of 6- to 14-year-old children out of school;
3 a 10% expansion in the promotion from primary education to the first grade of the secondary;
* a continuous decline in repetition and dropout rates, which will contribute to lower enrollment;
* this factor above, together with the lessening of the demographic expansion in the reference age
group, will outweigh the broadening in coverage, in such way that the PDE forecasts an overall
decrease of 0.3% in enrollment (reaching an absolute level of 14.53 million); and
* to arrive at a terminal efficiency of 87.4%, which represents a rise of 10 percentage points vis-a-vis
the 1994/95 school year.
The increase in the promotion rate from the sixth grade of the primary to the first of the secondary (from
0.977 to 0.92), coupled with an expansion of schools in the latter, will result in a substantial increment in
the coverage of the lower secondary education (up to 5.5 million students) in 2000/01. Also, the program
anticipates an upgrade in the terminal efficiency in this level from the observed 75.7% in 1994/95 to
81. 1% in the turn of the decade. The targets for enrollment by level are summarized in Table 8.
Table 8 - Coverage of Basic Education in 2000/01: Enrollments by Cycle (PDE)
(million students)
Pre-SChool f                     3.09
y     ___                                           3.7
SBeondary        ---  :--    -4.49                      5-50--
Source: DGPPP, SEP.
As a reference point, in 1990 the average schooling of this age group was 6.5 years.



Page 55
Evaluation of the Pace
The available information does not allow for a check of the progress accomplished so far in all goals set
up in the PDE. It is possible, however, to delve into a few ones. The terminal efficiency in the primary
level, for instance, improved to 80.0% in 1995/96 and SEP estimates it has reached 82.9% in 1996/97,
which means that the system is past half the way to fulfill the established mark.
Enrollment in the primary level in 1996/97 was 14.65 million, 80 thousand more than two years before.
Given that a reduction is expected until 2000/01, it is meaningless at this point to evaluate the pace.
Nevertheless, it is worth noticing that since the population in the 6- to 14-year-old age cohort went up by
around 70 thousand children, the coverage has expanded slightly.
The available figures for enrollment in pre-school (3.24 million) and secondary (4.81 million) for
1996/97 indicate that, if one extrapolates the rate of growth, the system is behind the schedule in pre-
school, but ahead in secondary. Regarding the latter, if one takes the 13- to 15-year-old age group as a
reference, the coverage went up by 4 percentage points in two years. The promotion from primary to
secondary, however, has not shown any progress so far. As a matter of fact, preliminary estimates by
SEP point to a reduction of one percentage point in this indicator in the two first years of the program (it
dropped from 87.7% in 1994/95 to 86.7% in 1998/97).
Extension of the goals to 2002/2003
In order to analyze the program over a period of five years it is necessary to extrapolate its initial goals
for two extra years. The procedures adopted for each level are briefly explained in what follows.
For the level of enrollment in pre-school, the coverage of the four-year-olds was increased to 75%, at the
same time that a rate of 15% was introduced for three-year-old children (slightly above what is implicit
in the goals of the PDE). The coverage of 90% was kept unchanged for the five-year-old group because
it has already been observed that about 10% of them are early comers to the primary cycle. Putting these
figures together one gets a level of enrollment of 3.82 million children in 2002/03.
For the primary level, the procedure was based on the estimation of new enrollments, taking into account
the demographic expansion in the number of children with the age to enter the primary cycle, and on the
ratio of total to new enrollments implicit in the goals set for 2000/01 in the PDE (5.95). The resulting
value for enrollments in primary education for 2002/03 was 14.28 million students.
A similar calculation was carried out for the secondary cycle. The number of new enrollments was
obtained from adjusted targets relative to terminal efficiency in the primary (0.88) and to absorption in
secondary (0.92). We used the ratio total/new enrollments implicit in the program (2.75), and the
number of enrollments derived was 5.56 million (Table 9).
Table 9 - Extended goals for Enrollment in 2002/03 (in millions)
Estimation of the necessary resources
In order to estimate the resources needed for financing the basic education in the next five school years,
both in terms of enlarged coverage and increased quality entailed by the program, we made use of the
observed unit expenditures by student and by educational level in 1997, as well as of project-based
assumptions about the amount of investment needed to support those targets.
Regarding unit expenditures (they are, in fact, distinct from unit costs, due to accountability problems),
the figures obtained from the Tercer Inform de Gobierno (1997), in 1994 pesos, are: 1,993.27 for pre-



Page 56
school, 1,811.19 for the primary level, and 2,709.97 for the secondary cycle. Two caveats should be kept
in mind, though. First, despite being the most recent information available, the structure of expenditures
by level of basic education has been changing substantially in the recent years, and there is no indication
that it will stop doing so. Second, these figures include a small share classified as "investment" (less
than 4%). It is not clear, however, what is exactly understood as investment in this context. We will
assume, for simplicity, that this spending can be classified as recurrent cost without major hazard for the
analysis.
The estimation of the investment needed for accomplishing greater coverage and quality is much more
cumbersome and less precise, as there is not a single bit of information concerning this item in the PDE's
official document. We basically based our estimates on the number of new schools that should be
necessay fior the expansion of enrollment. The unit costs for building schools were obtained from the
initial project submitted by CONAFE to the World Bank. The investment on the actions aimed at
improving quality were then estimated considering the relation between this amount and that devote to
the construction of new schools in the "new" project (i.e., 1.5).
Table 10 summarizes the recurrent costs, taking into account the estimates of enrollment by level in the
Appendix.
Table 10. Enrollment by Level (million) and Recurrent Costs (billion of 1994 pesos)
19098/ 9-                3 46           ....14 61            5 14              4
2000/01      3 70              ~~~~~~~~~14 53     5 5              4 .3 ...
2001/02            ~~~~76    ~      1440               5 53...4....4
:2002/03                382               1428              :556              4     ..... ..
To arrive at the number of new schools to be built we evaluated the average number of students by
schools by level in 1997 reduced to account for the fact the many of them will be located in more remote
and less populated areas. 'he average number of students in a pre-school building and the secondary
level are 40 and 100, respectively. As the enrollment in primary should go down due to the demographic
dynam.ics, we just considered the construction of a few more schools to take into account the goal of
reaching those areas. The unit costs considered were US$ 9,000 for pre-school, US$ 10,000 for primary,
and US$ 12,000 for secondary. The results are shown in Table 11.
Table l1 - Total Investment Associated to the PDE (US$ million)
2;0102/03  100 0 2750:0::         200            314            1926 700 
02a A0 000 04 000 0-0;0 000{:t;0 3000 00  $  t000-0-00  ..7 ..t0: .. .. 0 ..0000  ..0  .....0  . ..00  ..03i  ..70 :   .............
The exchange rate for 1994 implicit in the national accounts was equal to 3.4 NP$/US$.
2Fiscal Impact
Based on the projections of GDP growth and federal total expenditures Table 12 depicts the evolution of
the share of spending in basic education (they were evaluated considering the beginning of the school
year relative to the corresponding fiscal year).



Page 57
Table 12 - Expenditures in Education as a Share of GDP and Federal Expenditures
(billions of NP$ and %)
---  /  8        . :.47.5  -460:                     10.3  - -       2040    :::      2.33::-
19       :.482                     480 :-            100              2150             2.24
2000             48.8              500                98              220              2.16:
- 2-----         4.5               520  --93                          2380 . -:-          4
20-202             48                540                 0        ''250 ,94
The burden that expenditure in basic education poses on federal spending declines with time. This is so
for two reasons. First, particularly for the primary level, the coverage is already large. Second, the
demographic pressure is decreasing, and the population in the reference age group for basic schooling is
virtually stagnated and will start shrinking in the very beginning of the next century.
III. Returns to Education
The estimation of the earnings accruing to the students is essential for the appraisal of the economic
feasibility of the program. Therefore, one needs to have an estimate of the increase in the potential
earnings of the individuals caused by additional years of schooling, so as to assess the stream of potential
benefits arising from the program. This is usually done via the estimation of the rates of return to
education, either for the educational ladder as a whole or by specific level.
The estimation of returns to schooling' was based on a standard specification for an earnings equation,
including a set of control variables chosen according to the availability in the 1994 household surveys:
log w = c + a1X +a2X2 +b,DPI + b2DP + b3DS + b3DI + d4DH + cH + dE + e1DR1 + e2DR2 + e3DR3 +
e4DR4 + ftR + u
where:
log w: logarithm of hourly earnings;
X: experience;
DPI: dummy variable associated to incomplete primary schooling;
DP: dummy variable associated to at least complete primary schooling;
DS: dummy variable associated to at least complete secondary schooling;
DI: dummy variable associated to at least complete intermediate schooling;
DH: dummy variable associated to at least complete higher schooling;
H: dummy variable associated to being a household head;
E: dummy variable associated to being an employee;
DRI-4: regional dummy variables, where the states where grouped according to their economic status
and the incidence of poverty;
R: dummy variable associated to living in a rural area;
u: residual term.
2 Unfortunately the latest household survey available (1994) does not contain information on single years of education, but just
under the form of schooling categories. Needless to say, this jeopardizes the accuracy and reliability of the estimation.
Of course the usual caveats and qualifications on the interpretation and quality of the results apply. Other than that, the
estimates shown here proved robust to alternative nearby specifications (some variables, like gender, were dropped from
the specification as they turned out not to be significant).



Page 58
The results of the estimation are shown in Table 13:
Table 13 - Results of the Estimation
CttAdrit'':1            -121               0.0542            -24
X         0.0488             0.0016            ~~~~~~29 s:
X-2-   E7E;EEEigX.  7i:igg\EX   00 0-:0.108007:-  .0.0000  .2i.   .4.. ...... .. ..
DPI .,2                                      0.0280              .8
DP                  0~~~~~~~~..5145    02.292            17.64i: 
0882              003.52.0
DL                        :1.5076          0..0347              43....4
DII       2.1125            0.0386              5~~~~4.70
.Hed                      0200               0.0163             12.29;
DRLI                      0.2133:::::    0.0224                954
'DR2.1     ..2613                            0,29               8.90 
DR3                   :0.37::003760         0.0199             18 I
DR4                ~~~~~~~0.5376      0.021              23.25-.-
Rural              -0.~~~~~:_'l3792:   0.0162         .. ......
The evaluation of the income gains associated to the completion of secondary level (AS) can be obtained
in the following wa:
AS(%) = exp(log w('X, DP=0,DS=l) - log w(X+3,DP=1,DS=O)) = exp(0,228 + 0,004X)
Similarly, for the completion of the primary one finds':
AP(%) = exp(log w(X, DP=1) - log w(X+4, DP=O))= exp(0. 13 8+ 0.006X)
IV. Program Economic Analysis
Methodology, assumptions and results
A cost-benefit analysis was carried out following the goals and targets set out by the Government in the
PDE in its base-case scenario and extrapolated to later years. Data for opportunity cost and potential
earnings were obtained fromic the 1994 household survey. In addition to Government-determnined targets,
in the base case scenario, maintenance costs were set at 2 percent per year, labor force participation rate
of secondary school studenits at 50 percent, and unemployment rate at 10 percent. A model comprising
costs and benefits of the program was built under these assumptions, and the resulting economic rate of
return (ERR) to the PDE was estimated at 18.2 percent (private) and 17.5 percent (social, or rather, "net-
private"). These are lower bound results, as we have not taken into consideration the usual extemnalities
expected from basic educatiion.
Sensitivity Analysis
We have tested the sensitivlity of the ERR with respect to two key variables:
* terminal efficiency, and
*  labor force participationi of secondary students
4Notice that the other variables were dropped because they are swept away in the subtraction.
5Due to the lack of information on single years of schooling, the data on enrollment by grade in primnary schooling
was combined with that on dropout rates by levels to generate an estimnation of average schooling for those
with incomplete primary education. The resulting estimate was 2.



Page 59
The switching value for terminal efficiency for primary (lower secondary) education is 0.84 (0.79).
Based on the trend in terminal efficiency to-date, it is fair to assume that this minimal level could be
achieved. In fact, the probability that terminal efficiency for primary (lower secondary) will be lower
than 0.84 (0.79)--and that the ERR will be lower than 10 percent--is 4.8 percent and 9.2 percent,
respectively. The participation rate utilized in the base-case scenario was based on available data from
other Latin American countries. Even a 50 percent increase in the participation rate would still yield an
ERR above 10 percent.
V. Impact and Cost-Effectiveness of the PARE Program
Introduction. The PARE program begun in 1991. From its inception its performance was monitored
through statistical comparisons between the target, or experimental, population (schools in the states of
Chiapas, Guerrero, Hidalgo and Oaxaca) and a control group formed by students in comparable schools
in the state of Michoacan which falls outside the scope of the program. Special surveys were conducted
yearly between 1992 and 1995. The data obtained included detailed information on students, parents,
school personnel and school characteristics.  In addition, all students were given standardized
achievement tests in Spanish and mathematics.
As measured by these comparisons, the results of the program have been mixed.6 Partly this was due to
incomplete and faulty implementation. By design, the program intended to provide a number of
simultaneous actions which together would impact on educational outcomes. For pedagogical reasons
the total was to be greater than the sum of the parts. The actions were to affect the behavior of students,
parents, teachers, principals and supervisors; they were to provide the target schools with supplies,
didactic materials and physical infrastructure. In fact, however, only a sub-set of schools benefited
systematically from all actions.
The new program now proposed will address these faults while it extends its reach to more states. To
assess its probable impact we consider a number of experiments based on the following question: What
would have been the program's historical performance if it had been implemented as envisaged,
simultaneously, without faults or delays. We construct counterfactual experiments based only on those
schools which received all of the main components of the program.
The PARE program has generated a voluminous literature produced mainly by the Direcccion General de Evaluacion of the
Secretaria de Educacion Publica and by the Centro de Estudios Educativos A. C (CEE). The CEE was chosen by the
executing agency of the PARE program (the Consejo Nacional de Fomento Educativo, CONAFE) to monitor and evaluate
the program. Its conclusions were summarised in the document "Determinacion del Impacto del PARE en el
Aprovechamiento y la Retencion Escolares," Tercer Informe, Tomo IV, Mexico, D.F., March 1996. After an extensive
analysis of the data the report concludes on page 21: "... the variable PARE [a dichotomous variable identifying schools
which had access to the program] had a significant impact in only two of the estimated equations. They are, first, the
equation referring to performance in mathematics in urban schools of the states' capitals; second, the equation for
performance in Spanish in rural schools closer to the states' capitals. ... only for schools in these two sub-samples did
students achieve performance levels greater than those in comparable schools which remained outside the PARE program."



Page 60
Table 14
Distribution of students by school type
Chiapas  Guerrero  Hidalgo Oaxaca   Sub-total:   Michoacan:    Total
Experimental    Control
Urban            398       107    257    357           1119         361      1480
Rural            200       202     175    239           816         208      1024
Indian           197       114    122    259            692         205       897
Community         19        11      29     59           118          27       145
Total            814       434     583    914          2745         801      3546
Table 14 shows the distribution of students by school type in the sample. Our analysis will focus on
schools located in rural and indigenous communities, the two most disadvantaged groups in the
population with the lowest educational attainment, poorest test performance and highest incidence of
school desertion. At the margin, the supplemental actions provided by the program should have the
greatest impact amongst this population. They are its focal point. Table 15 shows the resulting samples
for analysis considering that, for the reasons already noted, we concentrate our attention on a sub-set of
these schools -- those which benefited integrally from the program.
Table 15
Students included in the analysis
Indian & Rural Indian & Rural   Sub- n oh    Indian & Rural    Urban &  Sub-total
A-1358    A13i8&othn r R cluded-In tle    A-Partial  Community   excluded from   TOTAL
analysis                   Schools     fhe analysis
Experimental          585         624           1209         299           1237         1536   2745
Control                0            0            413           0            388          388    801
TOTAL                 585         624           1622         299           1625          1924   3546
Of which: Indian                               769
Rural                                  8S3
We measure performance by the student's score obtained in the tests applied at the beginning of the 4th
grade -- before the program began -- and at the conclusion of the 6th grade, when the program was
already in its third year of implementation. The tests were designed and applied by the Direccion
General de Evaluacion (DGE) of the Secretaria de Educacion. In the opinion of both the DGE and of
the CEE, which conducted the impact evaluation of the program, the Spanish test provides a superior
metric. Students' performance in mathematics was generally low, too low to be a good indicator of
student achievement.
Results - Performance in standardized tests. Measured by their scores in Spanish, the performance of
students in the experimental group of schools is significantly better in both the rural and indigenous sub-
samples. As shown in Table 16, before the program, students in indigenous schools in the experimental
group were markedly disadvantaged with respect to their peers in the control group. The program
eliminated this difference. Students in rural schools were undifferentiated before the program; with the
program, those in the experimental group showed significantly higher scores. The gain in performance
is, on average, three times as large for students in the experimental group.



Page 61
Table 16
Summary results of performance
Indian
Before                  After                 Difference
Students  Average test  Students  Average test   Total    Percentage
score                  score
Experimental             564         14.6        356        29.1        13.9         95%
Control                  205        23.2         125        26.8         4.1         18%
Total - tVtest           769        9,46a        481       2           6.92a         73%
Rural
Before                  After                 Difference
Students  Average test  Students  Average test
score                  score
Experimental             645        20.1         421        32.9        11.6         58%
Control                  208        20.7         128        29.7         8.2         39%
Total - tUtest           853        20.6         549       32.4a       2.56a         12%
The gain in performance is robust. It remains even after we take into account the contributions due to
variations in student and parental background, in the support of parents to the school, and in the quality
of teachers, principals and supervisors. These results are shown in Tables 17 to 19.
Table 17
Student's change in performance - I
Difference in normalized test scores between 6th and 4th grade
Indian                 Rural
Beta                  Beta
coefficent   t-score    coefficient   t-score
Control                                          0.245      4.698a      0.115     2.695'
Performance of 6th grade teacher                -0.003     -0.060       0.075      1.691c
Performance of 5th grade teacher                -0.005     -0.102       0.107     2.485'
Academic performance of school prncipal          0.171      3.7098      0.138      3.0408
Performance of supervisor                        0.122      2.302b      0.013      0.283
Parents & PTA participation in school            0.073      1 .565c    -0.134     -3.048a
Students educational background & performance
prior to 4th grade                               0.044      0.984       0.062      1.441d
R2-adjusted                                                 0.121                  0.062
F                                                          10.437a                6.2058
N                                                  480                   548
Student's self-esteem at 5th grade              -0.088     -2.032b     -0.044     -1.039
Availability & quality of urban infrstructure   -0.167     -3.120a      0.007      0.153
Memorandum item:
Maximum total contribution of PARE program     0.531                  0.448
a Significant at the 1% level or more
b _ Significant at the 5% level or more
- Significant at the 10% level or more
d - Significant at the 20% level or more



Page 62
In all cases, the models designed to capture the variation in achievement have low explanatory power.
For example, the model in Table 17 captures only about 6% of the variance in the difference of scores
(between 4th and 6th grades) amongst students in rural schools and 12%, amongst students in indigenous
schools. No doubt this reflects an inadequate specification of the model be it in its functional formn or
inclusion of relevant explanatory factors. It also reflects the low discriminatory power of the testing
instrument; i.e.: there is a problem in the measurement of the dependent variable. To the extent that the
measured test scores fail to capture the true level of performance in the sample, much of the influence of
variables such as parental background, the quality of teaching, etc., is lost to the model. The outcome is
not biased; it is simply inefficient. The point to note, however, is that, even so, the explanatory variables
behave as expected.' More importantly, the coefficient of the experimental variable is large and
significant.   The PARE  program  has a large positive impact on student achievement in this
counterfactual experiment.
Table 18
Student's change in performance - 2
Difference in normalized test scores between 6th and 4th grade
Indian               Rural
Beta     I-score     Beta      tscr
coefficient          coefficient   t-score
Control                                       0.274     6.210a     0.127     3.000a
Factor - Characteristics of community & family  -0.009  -0.205    -0.161    -3.815a
Factor - Characteristics of school & system   0.202     4.664a     0.074     1 754C
R2-adjusted                                             0.124                 0.035
F                                                      23.599a               7.713a
N                                              480                   548
Memorandum item:
Maximum total contribution of PARE program  0.475                0.202
a - Significant at the 1% level or more
b _ Significant at the 5% level or more
c - Significant at the 10% level or more
d _ Significant at the 20% level or more
The impact is larger for the indigenous schools, a result that is consistent with the orientation of the
program. As reported in Table 17, the marginal contribution of each explanatory variable is measured in
terms of standard deviations of the dependent variable; i.e., of the gain in performance between 4th and
6th grades. For the average student at indigenous schools, attendance at a school fully served by the
program would, on average, increase the gain by 25%. The comparable gain for students attending rural
schools is half as large. TIhe variables of school "supply" (the performance of teachers, principals and
supervisors) are partly an outcome of the program. Thus, the program, at its maximum effect estimated
Three observations may be pertinent. First, for students attending indigenous schools it seems that self-esteem,
measured at 5th grade, and residence in a community with greater access to public services is negatively
correlated with performance. This puzzling result may be due to the conflictual character of indigenous
education: Students that are positively self-selected may have a greater resentment in attending special schools.
Second, and for the sarne group, while the performance of teachers does not seem to alter significantly the
performance of students, the performance of principals and supervisors does. This result may be due to the
generally poor quality of teaching in indigenous schools. Finally, it is puzzling to note that, in the rural sub-
sample, parental involvement diminishes students' performance. One possible reason for this is the possibility
that parental involvement increases as the quality of the school diminishes. Parents act only when the
problems are large and apparent.



Page 63
with the results of Table 17, could increase the performance of the average student by one-half of the
standard-deviation of the gain in test scores for the respective subsample.
Table 19
Student's change in performance - 3
Probability of testing above the median in 6th grade
Coefficient Std. Error  t-Statistic    Prob.
Indigenous schools
Constant                                       -0.991      0.217      -4.572      0.0%
Control                                         1.272      0.246       5.162      0.0%
Factor - Characteristics of community & family  0.054      0.103       0.528     59.8%
Factor - Characteristics of school & system     0.630      0.104       6.056      0.0%
N                                                 481
Log likelihood                               -295.562
F-statistic                                    15.024                             0.0%
Chi-square                                     60.095                             0.0%
Obs with Dep=1                                    237
Obs with Dep=0                                    244
Ex-ante probability                              49%
Estimated probability (at means)                 49%
Estimated probability without PARE (control)     27%
PARE contribution - percentage gain probability             45%
Rural schools
Constant                                       -0.396      0.183      -2.161      3.1%
Control                                         0.495      0.209       2.372      1.8%
Factor - Characteristics of community & family  -0.233     0.086      -2.713      0.7%
Factor - Characteristics of school & system     0.107      0.083       1.279     20.1%
N                                                 549
Log likelihood                               -374.073
F-statistic                                     3.112                             1.5%
Chi-square                                     12.448                             1.4%
Obs with Dep=1                                    271
Obs with Dep=0                                    278
Ex-ante probability                              49%
Estimated probability (at means)                 49%
Estimated probability without PARE (control)     40%
PARE contribution - percentage gain probability             19%
It should be noted that the variables measuring the characteristics of students, parents, school personnel
and facilities are all numerical indices constructed by CEE analysts. Some indices aggregate answers to
as many as a dozen questions in the original survey. Nevertheless, several indices are needed to capture
the complex set of interactions influencing student performance. The model in Table 17 is a simple,
parsimonious representation. In particular, it could be argued that if the characteristics of the demand
(family and community background, parental attitude towards and involvement in schooling, academic
history, self-esteem, etc.) were adequately measured, the additional effect of the PARE program would
be smaller, even insignificant. Alternatively, if the characteristics of the supply (teachers, principals and



Page 64
supervisors background, performance, attitudes, assiduity, pay, etc., as well characteristics of the school
infrastructure and availability of textbooks, supplies, etc.) were captured more precisely, the impact of
the program could be larger. The data allows us to do better than the simple model of Table 17; and to
make use of this wealth of information without introducing damaging multicolinearity in the results we
constructed two sets of principal (orthogonal) components measuring respectively the characteristics of
the demand and supply of schooling.
Table 20
Student's change in performance - 4
Probability of being in school in the 6th grade
(having been in school in the 4th grade)
Variable                 Coefficient Std. Eror  t-Statistic    Prob.
Indigenous schools
Constant                                        0.499       0.148      3.379       0.1%
Control                                         0.115       0.174      0.660      51.0%
Factor - Characteristics of community & family  0.125       0.078      1.599      11.0%
Factor - Characteristics of school & system     -0.067      0.076     -0.876      38.1%
N                                                 769
Log likelihood                                -500.106
F-statistic                                    15.597                              0.0%
Chi-square                                     62.386                              0.0%
Obs with Dep=1                                    493
Obs with Dep=0                                    276
Ex-ante probability                              64%
Estimated probability (at means)                 64%
Estimated probability without PARE (control)     62%
PARE contribution - percentage gain probability              3%
Rural schools
Constant                                        0.496       0.144      3.441       0.1%
Control                                         0.271       0.168      1.613      10.7%
Factor - Characteristics of community & family  0.184       0.076      2.419       1.6%
Factor - Characteristics of school & system     0.121       0.075      1.617      10.6%
N                                                 825
Log likelihood                                -519.618
F-statistic                                    23.752                              0.0%
Chi-square                                     95.010                              0.0%
Obs with Dep=1                                    549
Obs with Dep=0                                    276
Ex-ante probability                              67%
Estimated probability (at means)                 67%
Estimated probability without PARE (control)     62%
PARE contribution - percentage gain probability              7%
Table 18 shows the results of the model built on this more complex structure, captured through the two
principal components. Encouragingly, the results are very similar to those of Table 17. In fact, the
impact of the program is greater and more significant. The factor capturing the conditions of supply is
also significant and large, especially in the case of schools serving indigenous communities.
An objection may be raised, nonetheless, about the measure of performance. What if small differences
in test score are very imperfect measures of relative capabilities and/or achievements? To try to get
around this issue, we perform a final experiment on the test scores. We stratify the samples in two sub-
samples each: those of students with performance above and below their respective medians. These
results are shown in Table 19. Once again the estimates are consistent. The program has a positive and



Page 65
significant impact, and especially so for the indigenous population.
Table 20 summarizes the results on test scores.  The PARE program  - when adequate and fully
implemented - could cause an increase in performance for the average student in the range of 19 to 38%
amongst rural students. For indigenous students, the gain could be much larger, anywhere from 45 to
90%. If consideration is taken of the factors affecting supply, such as the performance of teachers,
principals and supervisors, on the plausible assumption that this performance is in part a product of the
program, the total impact could be even larger.
Table 21
Student's change in performance - Summary
Marginal contribution of belonging to the experimental group
Mean of                   Estimated     Marginal
Group     dependent        Unit      coefficient:   contribution:
variable                Experimental  Experimental'
Table 4    Rural               10.78 Gain in scores        3.644         33.8%
Indigenous          11.36 Gain in scores       10.259         90.3%
Table 5    Rural               10.78 Gain in scores        4.043         37.5%
Indigenous          11.36 Gain in scores       9.998          88.0%
Table 6    Rural                49% Probability            0.495         19.0%
Indigenous           49% Probability            1.272         45.0%
Table 6a   Rural                67% Probability            0.271          7.0%
Indigenous           64% Probability            0.115          3.0%
For Tables 4 and 5, the percentage gain to the mean.
For Table 6, the percentage gain to the initial probability of success, estimated at the means of
the independent variables.
Results - Desertion. Aside from increasing the student's cognitive achievements while at school the
PARE program also increases the probability that the student will continue in school. The two outcomes
are probably linked: Children who perform better are more motivated to continue and their parents may
be more inclined to allow them to continue in school. This is clearly the case for rural students, as shown
in Table 8. The probability of school desertion is 20% lower amongst students supported by the
program, and the effect is just as large for the broader group of students who benefited from only a
partial application of the program. Surprisingly, however, the result does not seem to hold for the
indigenous population. One-third of the indigenous students who received the full program  from  4th
grade onward abandoned the school before completing the 6th grade. Their probability of desertion was
12% greater than that of the comparable control group.
Table 22
Student's change in performance - Desertion
Percentage of students who quit school by the end of the 6-th grade
Complete program'         Partial program
Indigenous    Rural    Indigenous      Rural
Experimental         32.9%      28.4%        36.2%       31.1%
Control              29.4%      35.7%        36.0%       38.5%
Difference           11.7%     -20.5%         0.7%      -19.2%
N                      698        809           841       1006
1 Students in schools that received all PARE components simultanously.
This result deserves more analysis. An intriguing possibility is that high-achieving students in



Page 66
indigenous communities move to rural schools where they are immersed in a Spanish-speaking
environment. On the other hand, a multivariate analysis of the probability that the student was in school
in the 6th grade (given that she had been at school in the 4th grade) indicates that the program had a
positive impact on both rural and indigenous schools, see Table 20. The gain in probability is small,
however, and specially so for the indigenous population (a mere 3 percent increase).
Costs. It is very difficult to estimate the true costs of the PARE program. The program, financed by
CONAFE, is not independent of actions taken by SEP in its usual activities of funding and supervising
basic education. It could be, for example, that teachers in a school benefiting from the PARE program
become more motivated and assiduous simply because they perceive the threat (or reward) of closer
supervision by the educational authorities. The costs of the PARE program, as reported by the CEE, are
shown in Table 25. Expenditure on indigenous schools was nearly 60 percent higher than in rural
schools. The largest cost items were infrastructure and materials. Expenditure on teacher training and
wage incentives accounted for less than 14 percent of total spending.
The program's cost effectiveness. As shown in Table 23, the PARE program increased the average per
pupil cost of education by 38 percent in indigenous schools, and by 24 percent in rural schools. A simple
comparison between the gain in average test scores and the cost of the supplementary pedagogical
actions under the PARE program - for the subset of schools that received all of the actions and
implemented them accordingly - suggests that the program was cost effective for the indigenous
population. Here we observe a 42 percent gain in average scores versus the 38 percent increase in cost, a
benefit/cost ratio of 11 percent (Table 24). However, the ratio is negative for the rural population.
Instead of using the observed outcomes as reported in Table 24 we could use the simulated outcomes as
reported in Table 21. Considering the maximum estimated impact for the indigenous population (a
maximum gain in performance of 90% estimated in Table 17) the benefit/cost ratio is 137:100. The
equivalent ratio for the rural population (with a maximum gain in perfornance of 38% estimated in
Table 5) is 58:100.
Table 23
Per pupil expenditure - 1994
All schools      2PARE              Cost increase
Indigenous   Rural  Indigenous   Rural
Chiapas       1983        606       338      30.5%     17.0%
Guerrero     2253         749       764      33.2%     33.9%
Hidalgo      2143         1127      637      52.6%     29.7%
Oaxaca        1770        624       230      35.3%     13.0%
Average      2037         776       492      38.1%     24.2%
1 Unit cost for primary schools in indigenous communities, SEP.
2 See annex table.



Page 67
Table 24
PARE Program: BenefiVCost Ratio
Average gain in test score                Increase in cost2   Ratio
Experimental     Control     Difference    Percntge
gain'
Indigenous schools
13.9           4.1          9.8          42.3%           38.1%          11.02%
Rural schools
11.6           8.2          3.4          16.5%           24.2%          -31.70%
1 With respect to base year - control group; see Table 3.
2See Table 10.



Page 68
Table 25
Per pupil costs PARE Program - 1994
Per pupil expeniture - Indigenous schools
Bilingual          Stores  Training  Infrastructure   Supplementary   Audiovisual    School    Didactic
textsua    Library  Stores  Training  Infrastructure  compensation for equipment &  supervision  materials    TOTAL
texts                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~teachers  materiais
Chiapas             21.49      3.49   2.03     45.64         215.23             0.00        111.27       47.04     159.54       605.74
Guerrero            20.21      3.19   4.07     50.08         282.11            45.83        101.08      103.17     139.37       749.12
Hidalgo             25.16      7.43    3.29    61.95         635.18           123.38         78.25       82.27     109.76      1126.66
Oaxaca                9.19     4.55    3.47    50.28         279.70            52.81        139.29       29.23     55.57        624.09
Average cost        19.01     4.66   3.22      51.99        353.06            55.51        107.47       65.43    116.06        776.40
Per pupil expenditure - Rural schools
Chiapas                        7.31    3.22    32.70          32.58            21.18        136.36       39.35      65.35       338.06
Guerrero                       4.78   6.37     40.80         333.01             3.98         97.92      139.89     137.45       764.19
Hidalgo                       10.57   4.10     58.70         302.41            16.84         93.55       62.43     88.21        636.80
Oaxaca                         6.05   4.40     42.90           0.00             0.00         94.18       46.52      35.66       229.71
Average cost                  7.18   4.52      43.77        167.00             10.50       105.50        72.05     81.67       492.19



Page 69
Annex 7
BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                              Local        Foreign        Total
------------------US $ million---------------
1. Quality Improvements in Initial and Basic Education
1.1 Training                                                   25.0                        25.0
1.2 Proyectos escolares                                          1.2                        1.2
1.3 School supervision                                          7.8           --            7.8
1.4 Infrastructure, equipment, didactic materials               82.0          2.3          84.3
2. Strengthening Institutional Capacity at Federal & State Levels
2.1 Activities at the Federal level
2.1.1 Strengthen evaluation system                            0.9           0.4          1.3
2.1.2 Regional planning                                       1.4          --            1.4
2.1.3 Pilot program for migrant children                      1.1                        1.1
2.1.4 Pilot program for children 9-14 in urban marginal areas  0.4                       0.4
2.1.5 Pilot program for indigenous children in regular schools  0.9                      0.9
2.2 Activities at the State level - FDI                          9.0                        9.0
2.3 Project administration                                       7.9          --            7.9
Total Baseline Cost                                               137.6          2.7         140.3
Physical Contingencies                                           5.5          --            5.5
Price Contingencies                                              4.0           0.2          4.2
Total Project Cost                                                147.1          2.9         150.0



Page 70
Annex 8
BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT
Financial Summary
Years Ending FY01
(US$ million)
Phase I              Totals
FY99      FY00       FY01    FY99-01
Project Costs
Investment Costs            12.0      56.0       64.6      132.6
Recurrent Costs              1.4        8.0       8.0       17.4
Total                    13.4       64.0      72.6      150.0
Financing Sources (% of total
project costs)
IBRD                        89%       75%        76%        77%
Government                  11%       25%        13%        23%



Page 71
Annex 9
BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement methods (Table A)
Procurement for the proposed project will be carried out in accordance with Bank's guidelines on
procurement of goods, works and services, Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
(January 1995, as revised Jan./Aug. 1996, and Sept. 1997) and Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World BankBorrowers (January 1997 and revised in September 1997). Due to the nature
of the project, under an Adaptable Program Loan, procurement procedures have been identified only for
Phase 1 of the project.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Prior review arrangement outlined in Table B will result in the review of the program of civil
works and goods but not of individual contracts. A substantial amount of Project costs for Phase 1
includes small works contracting and supervision services, and small contracts for goods procured
independently by 31 SEPEs through CONAFE delegations. All annual programs of execution would be
agreed with Bank during annual evaluation.
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds
See Table C
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs):
The funds of the loan are expected to be disbursed on the basis of Statements of Expenditures
(SOEs) for all expenses, except those requiring prior review by the Bank (Table B).
Special account:
NAFIN will maintain a Special Account in US dollars at the Central Bank. The Bank will make
an initial deposit of $10 million to the Special Account. The full authorized amount of the Special
Account is $10 million. NAFIN will request the Bank to replenish the Special Account on the basis of
standard disbursement procedures. Withdrawals from the account will be supported by detailed
documentation or SOEs in accordance with Bank disbursement procedures.



Page 72
Annex 9, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements'
Phase I Program Costs
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                       Procurement Method                    Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB        NCB          Other      N.B.F
1. Civil works                                            52.4a'                      52.4
(36.7)                     (36.7)
2. Equipment & furniture           1.9b/                    6.0d                       7.9
(1.3)                   (4.2)                       (5.5)
3. Didactic materials                         17.2d'        8.8et                     25.2
(12.0)       (5.6)                     (17.6)
4. Training                                               27.2 f                      27.2
(24.5)                     (24.5)
5. Consulting services                                      8.29'                      8.2
(8.2)                      (8.2)
6. FDI Subprojects and                                     10.5h"                     10.5
School projects                                         (9.5)                      (9.5)
7. Incremental operational                                 18.6"                      18.6
costs                                                  (13.0)                     (13.0)
Total                           1.9        17.2        130.9        --            150.0
(1.3)      (12.0)     (101.6)                    (115.0)
Note:  N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel cofinancing procedures,
consultancies under trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any other miscellaneous items). Figures
in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA credit.
Footnotes to table:
a) No ICB or NCB for civil works is expected in any phase of the Program due to the nature  of the
decentralized design of the project. Amount includes small works in 31 states for new construction,
substitution and rehabilitation of classrooms to be done through community participation (para. 3.15 of
Guidelines) using procedures agreed with the Bank in the ongoing Second Basic Education Project. These
procedures may include competitive selection through price comparison of quotations obtained from three
qualified local contractors in response to a written invitation or direct contracting (in rural distant
communities).   Contract or bid/packages are not expected to have contract values of more than
US$350,000. These procedures seek promote and encourage community participation in works execution
For details on presentation of Procurement Methods refer to OD 11.02, "Procurement Arrangements for Investment Operations."
Details on Consultant Services can be shown more easily in Table Al.



Page 73
through direct administration of funds by school councils and municipalities. In contracts awarded by
school councils or civil associations or municipalities, no financing will be made of labor costs.
Communities may receive about 60% as an advance for purchase of all construction materials, and balance
is through strict controls of funds transfers based on physical advance reports until full completion.
b) Includes essentially computing and communication (antennas) equipment which, for purposes of
economies of scale, will procured centrally by CONAFE. CONAFE, with the assistance of NAFIN, will
ensure quality in ICB procedures. In the case of computing equipment, procurement may be made in one
or two large multi-year contracts valued at more than US$350,000 equivalent. For contracts below
US$100,000, national shopping procedures may be used, as described in para. 3.5 of Guidelines, up to an
aggregate of US$ 100,000 equivalent.
c) Amounts shown include lab equipment (US$0.7 million) with procurement conducted by each
SEPE/CONAFE delegation under national shopping procedures (each contract value will not exceed
US$100, 000 equivalent). Amounts also include an aggregate of US$5.3 million for Proyectos Escolares
goods procured according to community participation procedures.
d) Includes US$14.5 million of didactic materials and US$2.6 million of printing services for SEP/CONAFE.
e) National shopping procedures will apply since individual purchases in 31 states are not expected to exceed
US$100,000 equivalent each. Procurement includes US$3.4 million of library books for schools and
classrooms, US$0.7 million of printing services, and US$3.2 million of didactic materials packages to be
distributed to project schools and groups. A limited amount of books may be purchased directly by
SEPEs through the CONAFE delegation from editorial houses holding copyrights, from lists of books
selected through competitive technical procedures satisfactory to the Bank, in contract value not exceeding
US$35,000 equivalent each, up to an aggregate amount of US$750,000 equivalent.
f) Includes technical assistance of individual consultants to design/deliver training, contracted up to an
aggregate of US$1.6 million, under procedures described in the Guidelines, Chapter V, paras. 5.1-5.3.
Other procurement corresponds to printing services of training materials, with individual contract values
not exceeding US$100,000 each, up to an aggregate of US$4.4 m., to be contracted by national shopping
procedures by each SEPE/CONAFE delegation, as described in paras. 3.5-3.6 of Guidelines. Includes an
aggregate of US$20.9 million equivalent of other training expenditures for logistic services to support
training activities to be contracted competitively, and study tours.
g) Includes aggregate amounts of: (1) US$2.5 million of contracts with individual consultants providing
technical assistance to SEP/CONAFE; (2) US$3.9 million for least-cost contracts for noncomplex
engineering and supervision services for works supervision; and US$0.6 million to purchase digital maps
through direct contracting.
h) Annual grants provided to carry out strategic planning subprojects (US$9.0 million), under criteria
satisfactory to the Bank, and school projects (US$1.5 million). These amounts includ an aggregate of
US$250,000 in goods purchased for FDI subprojects through national shopping. Ceiling amounts for
individual subprojects will be established during the annual review of the state program.
i)  Costs include compensation paid to temporary staff providing support to project activities in CONAFE
state-level delegations (UCEs), and supporting school supervision, communication services, subsistence
and other miscellaneous operational costs.



Page 74
Annex 9, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review (US$000s)
Construction/                 <350          Community
rehabilitation of                           participation procedures
classrooms                                  by school councils and
municipalities
_____ _____ _____ ____ _  _____(para.3.15).
All goods                                           ICB                     All
Except:                _
(a) Proyectos Escolares                     Community
goods (other than                           participation
computing equipment)
(b) Non-copyright             <=350         NCB                    First two contracts for
didactic materials and                                            materials; first two
printing services             <100          National shopping      contracts for printing
services
(c) School lab equipment      <100          National shopping
(d) Computing and             <100          National shopping
audiovisual equipment
(e) Part A.3 training         <100          National shopping
materials, printing and
logistical items       _
(f) FDI subproject goods      <100          National shopping
(g) Digital mapping;          <100          Direct contracting
copyright didactic
materials
:3. C.onsultans Serice. - S         cns dtan. G... .. a     97)
T.A. for engineering          <200          Least cost
and supervision                             Aggregate: US$3.9 m
services for works.    _________ (or QCBS)                        __________
Consultant firms              <100          Consultants'           TORs, contracts over
(activities TBD)                            Qualifications, para. 3.7  US$100,000
________________   (or QCBS)
Individual consultants                      Qualif. Individual     Annual program of
(Chap. V, paras. 5.1-    contracting; TORs for
5.3).                 annual audits or
Aggregate: US$2.5 m.   specific tasks; contracts
over US$50,000
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:      40%
(Low level of prior review due to the decentralized nature of project
and size of individual contracts in each of the 31 states)



Page 75
Annex 9, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category              Amount in US$         Financing
million           Percentage
1. Civil works                                       36.8              70%
2. Furniture & Equipment                               5.5              70%
3. Didactic materials                                 17.7              70%
4. Training                                           22.2              90%
5. Consultant services                                 7.0             100%
6. FDI Subprojects & School Projects                   9.0              90%
7. Incremental operational costs                      11.8              70%
Unallocated                                         5.0
Total           115.0



Page 76
Annex 10
BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                       Planned                Actual
(At final PCD stage)
$449,000             $513,800
B. Project Schedule                              Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)               1/21/96              1/21/96
Appraisal mission departure                      11/18/97               3/9/98
Negotiations                                      3/15/98               5/6/98
Planned Date of Effectiveness                 September 1998            / /19
Prepared by: SEP/CONAFE
Preparation assistance: PHRD Grant
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Specialty
Madalena dos Santos, LCSHD              Sr. General Educator, Team Leader
Carmen Hamann, LCSHD                  Human Development Sector Leader
Paulo Vieira da Cunha, LCC 1C                   Sr. Lead Economist
Anna Sant'anna, LCC 1C                       Sector Coordinator
Fernando Reimers, LCSHD                     Sr. Education Specialist
Ricardo Silveira, LCSHD                       Sr. HD Economist
Ferenc Molnar, LEGLA                             Lawyer
Vinh Nguyen, LCSHD                         Operations Specialist
Valeria Junho Pefna, LCSES                    Sr. Social Scientist
Rosita Estrada, LCC2C                     Procurement Specialist
Victor Manuel Ordonez, LCC 1C             Financial Management Specialist
Claudia Macias, LCC 1C                          Economist
Gladys Lopez, LCC1C                         Economic Analysis
Lauro Ramos, Consultant                          Economist
Roberto Carneiro, Consultant             Institutional Analysis, Education
Manuel Vera, Consultant                     Education Specialist
Christian Hurtado, Consultant                   Investment Funds
Livio Pifio, LCOAA                         Financial Analyst
Alberto Zuniga, Consultant                      Architect, GIS
Sergio Jelinck, Consultant                   Logical Framework
Maria Colchao, LCSHD                         Project Assistant
Liliana Wiesner, LCSHD                         Task Assistant
Patricia Romero-Casco, LCSHD                      Task Assistant



Page 77
Annex 1 1
BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
CONAFE, 1998. "Plan de Implementaci6n - Fase I"
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Junho-Pena, Nahmad, Albano, Aranda & Nielsen, Draft June 1997. Evaluaci6n Rapida de la Educaci6n
Indigena en los Estados de Oaxaca y Chiapas para el Proyecto de Educaci6n Basica III en Mexico
World Bank, October 30, 1997. ICR. Mexico: Initial Education Project - Ln-3518-ME. Report No.
17192.
World Bank, January 20, 1998. ICR. Mexico: Primary Education Project - Ln-3407-ME. Report No.
17303
World Bank, November 25, 1996, updated March 6, 1998. Mexico CAS - Report No. R-99-49
C. Other
Educaci6n y Prospectiva, S.C., Marzo 6, 1998.
Informe Final del Estudio sobre la Atenci6n a la Demanda Social de Educaci6n Basica en las Entidades
Federativas".
Centro de Estudios Educativos, 1994. "Evaluaci6n del Impacto y Efectividad de Costos del Programa
para Abatir el Rezago Educativo (PARE)". Informe Ejecutivo.
Centro de Estudios Educativos, Febrero 2, 1996. "Principales Resultados y Recomendaciones de la
Evaluacion del PARE"
Centro de Investigaci6n y de Estudios Avanzados (Cinvestav), 1996
"Las Practicas Escolares y Docentes en las Escuelas Multigrado de la Educaci6n Primaria", Consejo
Nacional de Fomento Educativo, 1997.
"Esquema Metodol6gico de Focalizaci6n e Integralidad desarrollado en el Programa para Abatir el
Rezago en Educaci6n Inicial y Basica PAREIB." Consejo Nacional de Fomento Educativo, 1997.
"Programa para Abatir el Rezago en Educacion Inicial y Basica - PAREIB". Sumario Propuestas
Estatales." Consejo Nacional de Fomento Educativo, 1997.
Coordinaci6n de Programas Compensatorios. Misi6n del Banco Mundial 6 al 16 Mayo de 1997.
Documentos de GTC
Poder Ejecutivo Federal, "Programa de Desarrollo Educativo 1995-2000" Secretaria de Educaci6n
Puiblica (SEP) Subsecretaria de Planeaci6n y Coordinaci6n, Direcci6n General de Evaluaci6n,
Direcci6n de Evaluacion del Proceso Educativo, 1997.
"Evaluaci6n del Aprendizaje en la Educaci6n Basica - Antecedentes y Resultados." Secretaria de
Educaci6n Publica (SEP)/Consejo Nacional de Fomento Educativo (CONAFE), Enero 23,1998.
"Propuesta para la Reestructuraci6n del Programa para Abatir el Rezago en Educaci6n Inicial y Basica
(PAREIB)." Secretaria de Educaci6n Publica (SEP)/Consejo Nacional de Fomento Educativo
(CONAFE), Marzo, 1998.
"Programa para Abatir el Rezago en Educaci6n Inicial y Basica." Secretaria de Educaci6n Puiblica
(SEP)/Consejo Nacional de Fomento Educativo (CONAFE), Marzo, 1998.
"Subcomponente 1.2.1. Proyecto Escolar: Una Estrategia para transformar las escuelas." Secretaria de
Educaci6n P1`blica (SEP)/Consejo Nacional de Fomento Educativo (CONAFE), Marzo,1998.
"Subcomponente 11.1 Consolidaci6n de los Sistemas Estatales de Evaluaci6n Educativa." Secretaria de
Educaci6n Puiblica (SEP)/Consejo Nacional de Fomento Educativo (CONAFE), Marzo, 1998.
"Subcomponente 11.1.3. Estudios. Proyecto: Modelo de Educaci6n Primaria para Nifios Jornaleros
Agricolas Migrantes". Secretaria de Educaci6n P6blica (SEP)/Consejo Nacional de Fomento



Page 78
Educativo (CONAFE), Marzo, 1998.
"Subcomponente 11.1.3. Estudios. Proyecto: Modelo de Educaci6n Primaria para Poblaci6n del Grupo
de Edad 9-14 de Zonas Urbanas."'
*Including electronic files.



Page 79
Annex 12
Mexico
Statement of Loans and Credits
Schedule D (MOP) as of March 31, 1998
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                  and actual
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                        disbursements a/
Project ID    Credit       Year               Borrower                       Purpose
No.                                                                              IBRD       IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed        Orig   Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 203
Active Loans
MX-PE-7711    IBRD42760   1998   NAFIN                               RURAL DEV. MARG.AREA             47.00       0.00            0.00         47.00        3.51       0.00
MX-PE-43163   IBRD42060   1997   BANOBRAS                            FEDERAL ROADS MODZTN            475.00       0.00            0.00        475.00        0.00       0.00
MX-PE-7700    IBRD41370    1997   GOVT OF MEXICO                     COMMUNITY FORESTRY               15.00       0.00            0.00         14.50        1.75       0.00
MX-PE-7726    IBRD41520   1997   GOVERNMENT                          AQUACULTURE                      40.00       0.00            0.00         40.00        2.33       0.00
MX-PE-7732    IBRD41010   1997   GOVERNMENT                          RURAL FIN. MKTS T.A.             30.00       0.00            0.00         29.50       14.96       0.00
MX-PE-40685   IBRD39370    1996   NACIONAL FINANCIERA (NAFI          INFRA. PRIVATZTN TA              30.00       0.00            0.00         20.53       18.53       0.00
MX-PE-7689    IBRD39430   1996   NAFIN                               BASIC HLTH II                   310.00       0.00            0.00        245.03       28.02      21.83
MX-PE-7713    IBRD40500    1996   GOM                                WATER RESOURCES MANA            186.50       0.00            0.00        178.38        7.60       0.00
MX-PE-34161   IBRD3838A   1995   NAFINSA                             FINANCIAL SEC T.A.                5.32       0.00            0.00          2.97        1.58      12.38
MX-PE-34161   IBRD3838B   1995   NAFINSA                             FINANCIAL SEC T.A.               13.80       0.00            0.00         13.80        1.58      12.38
MX-PE-34490   IBRD3805A   1995   NAFIN                               TECH EDU/TRAING                 187.49       0.00            0.00        179.95      121.47      60.27
MX-PE-40462   IBRD39120    1995   NAFIN                              ESSENTIAL SOCIAL SER            500.00       0.00            0.00         18.29       18.30      18.30
MX-PE-7607    IBRD3778A   1995   GOVERNMENT                          RAINFED AREAS DEVELO             41.96       0.00            0.00         21.85        3.82      -9.45
MX-PE-7702    IBRD3790A   1995   SEDESOL                             SECOND DECENTRALZTN             303.39       0.00            0.00        233.49      129.54      46.11
MX-PE-7612    IBRD37520   1994   BANOBRAS                            SOLID WASTE II                  200.00       0.00          193.06          1.71       -4.23       0.00
MX-PE-7701    IBRD3704A   1994   NAFIN                               ON-FARM & MINOR IRRI            119.36       0.00            0.00        111.10       86.08       1.09
MX-PE-7707    IBRD37510   1994   BANOBRAS                            WATER/SANIT II                  350.00       0.00            0.00        181.56      166.54       0.00
MX-PE-7710    IBRD37500   1994   BANOBRAS                            N. BORDER I ENVIRONM            368.00       0.00          273.40         65.36      259.06      22.38
MX-PE-7725    IBRD3722A   1994   NAFIN                               PRIM.EDUC.II                    254.36       0.00            0.00        214.81      184.83       6.15
MX-PE-7648    IBRD35590   1993   BANOBRAS                            MEDIUM CITIES TRANSP            200.00       0.00           23.00        137.78      122.71       0.00
MX-PE-7694    IBRD3543A   1993   NAFIN                               TRNSPRT AIR POLL CON             79.96       0.00            0.00         79.96      123.08      35.00
MX-PE-7723    IBRD36280    1993   BANOBRAS                           HWY RHB & SAFETY                480.00       0.00            0.00        200.67        8.67       0.00
MX-PE-7724    IBRD3542A   1993   NAFIN                               LABOR MARKET & PROD.             11.25       0.00            0.00          3.93        3.94       0.00
MX-pE-7667    IBRD3419A   1992   NAFINSA                             IRRIG SCTR                      100.63       0.00            0.00        100.63      150.60        .60
MX-PE-7676    IBRD3475A   1992   NAFIN                               SCIENCE/TECH                      6.50       0.00            0.00          3.36        2.36       2.36
MX-PE-7672    IBRD3359A   1991   NAFIN                               MINING SCTR                      41.51       0.00            0.00         41.05       41.06       0.00
MX-PE-7704    IBRD33S8A   1991   NAFIN                               VOC TRNG SCTR                    18.99       0.00            0.00         17.01       32.03      17.03
MX-pE-7615    IBRD28240    1987   BANOBRAS                           URBN TRNSPRT I                  125.00       0.00           34.02          2.04       41.01       1.99
Total                                                                                              4,541.02       0.00          523.48      2,681.26   1,570.73    248.42
Active Loans         Closed Loans           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):              1,336.33           21,008.59           22,344.92
of which has been repaid:                 60.24          10,847.64           10,907.88
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:              3,957.47           10,185.05           14,142.52
Amount sold                     :                0.00               92.34               92.34
of which repaid              ,                0.00               92.34               92.34
Total Undisbursed               :            2,681.26               27.26            2,708.52



Page 80
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter
based system will be used (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U - unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory) r see proposed Improvements in Project and
Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.



Page 81
Mexico
STATEMENT OF IFC's
COMMITTED AND DISBURSED PORTFOLIO
As of 31-Mar-98 (In US$ million)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval             Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1984/87/94/96         Metalsa                  0.00    0.00    6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.00    0.00
1987                  VULICA                   7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1987/91               CALICA                   4.79    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.79    0.00    0.00    0.00
1988/91/92/93/95      Apasco                  22.20    0.00    0.00  102.80   22.20    0.00    0.00  102.80
1988/94/95             Sigma                   0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00
1989                  Cemex                    1.86    0.00    0.00    1.00    1.86    0.00    0.00    1.00
1989                  Grupo FEMSA              0.00    9.43    0.00    0.00    0.00    9.43    0.00    0.00
1989/90               Banca Serfin            16.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   16.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1990                  Petrocel                 6.50    0.00    3.00    3.50    6.50    0.00    3.00    3.50
1990/91               Condumex                 7.76    0.00    0.00    3.18    7.76    0.00    0.00    3.18
1990/92/96            BANAMEX                 62.61    0.00    0.00   98.07   60.21    0.00    0.00   98.07
1991                  CEDETEL                  3.13     .77    0.00    6.09      .63     .77    0.00    6.09
1991                  Vitro Flotado           13.22    0.00    0.00    5.53   13.22    0.00    0.00    5.53
1991/96               GIBSA                   27.05    0.00   10.00   90.95   27.05    0.00   10.00   90.95
1992                   Banorte-Arancia         4.17    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.17    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992                   Banorte-SABROZA         3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992                  Toluca Toll Road         8.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992/91               Vitro                    0.00   10.17    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.17    0.00    0.00
1992/93/95/96          Grupo Posadas          25.66    5.00    5.00   46.57   25.66    5.00    5.00   46.57
1992/96/97/98          Grupo Probursa          0.00   10.16     .21    0.00    0.00   10.11      .21    0.00
1993                   Derivados               7.70    0.00    0.00   15.05    7.70    0.00    0.00   15.05
1993                   GIDESA                 12.50    8.00    0.00   25.50   12.50    8.00    0.00   25.50
1993                   GOTM                    1.40    0.00    0.00    1.32    1.40    0.00    0.00    1.32
1993                   Masterpak               8.40    0.00    0.00   16.20    8.40    0.00    0.00   16.20
1994                   CTAPV                   4.67    0.00    2.53    0.00    4.67    0.00    2.53    0.00
1994                  Interceramic            13.00    0.00    6.00   12.25   13.00    0.00    6.00   12.25
1994/96/98            Aurum-Heller             0.00    2.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.80    0.00    0.00
1995                  Baring Venture           0.00    9.09    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00
1995                   Mexplus Puertos         0.00    3.04    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.04    0.00    0.00
1995/96               Baring Mex. FMC          0.00     .18    0.00    0.00    0.00      .17    0.00    0.00
1996                  GIRSA                   30.00    0.00   10.00  115.00    7.50    0.00    2.50   85.00
1996                  NEMAK                    0.00    0.00    6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.00    0.00
1997                  Banco Bilbao MXC        80.00    0.00   30.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   30.00    0.00
1997                  Comercializadora         6.00    0.00    0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  Gen. Hipotecaria         0.00    1.43    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.43    0.00    0.00
1997                   Grupo Minsa            20.00   10.00    0.00   30.00   20.00   10.00    0.00   30.00
1997                   TMA                     5.10    0.00    0.00   10.40    5.10    0.00    0.00   10.40
1998                  Grupo Calidra           12.00    6.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    6.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                  414.22   81.07   78.74  600.91  288.82   76.92   71.24  553.41
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1997                  ALTAMIRA                17.80    0.00    1.00   38.00
1997                  CHIAPAS FMC              0.00     .02    0.00    0.00



Page 82
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                               IFC
FY Approval              Company           Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
1997                    FONDO CHIAPAS             0.00    5.00     0.00    0.00
1998                    FORJA QUIMMCO            13.00    3.00     0.00    13.00
1998                    HIPOTECARIA EQ            0.00    1.20    0.00    0.00
1998                    MERIDA III               30.00    0.00    0.00   90.00
1998                    ZN MEX FMC                0.00     .05    0.00    0.00
1998                    ZN MXC EQTY FUND          0.00   20.00     0.00    0.00
Total Pending Commitment:            60.80   29.27     1.00  141.00



Page 83
Annex 13
Country at a Glance
Mexico at a glance                                                               8/18/97
Latin   Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           America  middle-       -                      -
Mexico   & Carib.  income      Development diamond*
Population mid-1996 (millions)                        93.4       485      479
GNP per capita 1996 (US$)                            3,640      3,710    4,540               Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions US$)                              340.0      1,799    2,173
Average annual growth, 1990-
Population (%)                                          1.9       1.7      1.5     GNP                               Gross
Labor force I%)                                        2.8        2.3      1.8     per   ,                         primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available since                                  capita                        enrollment
Poverty: headcount    (% of populaton)                  .. 
Urban population (% of totalpopulation)                 75        74       73
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        72        69        69
Infant mortality (per 1,G00 live births)                33        37       35               Access to safe water
Child malnutriion (% of children under 5)                -
Access to safe water (% of populabion)                  67        80        86
Illiteracy (% of population age                         10        13        13
Gross priirAcy enrollment (% of school-age             111       110       107           -   Mexico
Male                                                                                       Upper-middle-income
Female                                                                                     group
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1986      1995     1996
Economic ratios'
GDP (billions US$)                           94.4    183.6      287.0    334.7
Gross domestic                               22.3     20.8       19.7     20.9             Opennessof
Exports of goods and                          5.7      15.5      21.7     22.4
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   19.0     25.9       22.7     23.4
Gross national savingslGDP                   17.2    22.1        19.4     20.7
Current account                               4.4       0.4      -0.6     -0.6
Interest                                      1.2      5.1        3.9      3.3     Savings                      Investment
Total debt/GDP                               19.3     52.8       57.8     47.0
Total debt                                   41.1     50.7       33.8     42.8
Present value of                               ..       ..       55.5
Present value of                               ..       ..    216.3                            Indebtedness
1975-85  1986-96     1995      1996  1997-05
(average annual growth)                                                                       Mexico
GDP                                  4.6      2.4     -6.2        5.1      4.9                U rd4c
GNP per capita                       1,7      0.3     -9.3        3.7      6.7                Upper-middle-income
Exportsof goods and                 11.7      6.1     33.3       16.6      7.7               group
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(% of GDP)                                   1975     1985      1995     1996      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
Agriculture                                  10.8      8.7        5.7      5.9     40-
Industry                                     29.9     33.5       27.9     28.8     20
Manufacturing                               21.9     23.5      20.8     21.5
Services                                     59.4     57.8       66.4     65.3    -20      91   92   93   94             9S8
Private consumption                          71.6     64.8       66.9     66.5    4s0
General govemment                             9.3       9.3      10.4     10.1                     GDI         DP
Imports of goods and                          9.0     10.4       18.8     19.9
1975-85  1986-96      1995     1996
(average annual growth)                                                            Growth rates of esports and imports {%)
Agricufture                                   3.1      0.6        1.0      1.2      40
Industry                                      4.7      2.9       -7.8     10.4     30
Manufacturing      .                         4.1      3.2      -4.8     10.9      20-
Services                                      4.8      2.3       -6.2      3.4     in /
Private consumption                           3.7      3.1       -9.5      2.3     -o-    91   92   93   94    95   95
General government                            6.3      1.6       -1.3      3.7    -20
Gross domestic                                1.7      4.9      -34.8     27.5     -0 
Imports of goods and                          2.0    14.4       -26.e     27.8
Gross national product                        4.2      2.6       -7.7      5.7                    Exports  Imports
Note: Sectoral shares in the National Accounts are expressed are percentages of GDP at factor
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the
be incomplete.



Page 84
Mexico
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985      1995      1996      Inflaion%
Domestic prices                                                                    Inlfo  %
(% change)                                                                          40
Consumer prices (ave.)                        15.2      57.7      34.9      39.0    30
Implidit GDP deflator                         15.5      56.5      37.9      31.5    20
Government finance                                                                   10
(% of GDP)
Current revenue                                  ..    31.4       22.8     22.8             91   92   93   94    95   96
Current budget balance                          ..    -1.6         2.7       01                     GDPdef.        C
Overall surplusideficit                         ..    -6.2        -0.1      -0.3
TRADE
1975    1985      1995      1996 
(millions US$)                                                                       Export and import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                                   22,931    53,363   65,495      30,00
Fuel                                           ..  14,767      8,423   11,654
n.a.                                           ..        .          .        .     6,000
Manufactures                                         6,245    40,379   49,800
Total imports (cit)                              ..  14,533    46,274   58,964       40.000
Food                                            ..   1,082      5,335    6,657
Fuel and energy                                      36         8                  20,000
Capital goods                                  ..    3.165      8,697   10,922         D
Export price index (1987=100)                    ..     125        103      105             so  91  92  93  94  95  90
Importprceindex(1987=100)                        ..      99         81       79                   L rExports    n Impots
Tefms of trade (1987=100)                       ..      127        128      133
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985       1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                       Current account balance to GDP radto (%)
Exports of goods and services                6,066   27,726    63,028   76,274       0
Imports of goods and services                8,466   19,915    55,275   69,195           90  19  92   93   9   1-93- L"- 
Resource balance                            -2,400    7,811      7,754    7,079
Net income                                  -1,783   -8,998   -13,290  -13,532
Net current transfers                           59    1,986      3,960    4,531      4
Current account balance,
before official capital transfers          -4,124      800     -1,576.  -1,922     6
Financing items (net)                        4,327   -3,223     11,167    3,696
Changes in net reserves                       -204    2,423      -9,591   -1,774     . -
Memo:                                                                               ___
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)          1,893    4,997     16,847   19,433
Conversion rate (localk/S$)                1 .3E-02      0.3       6.4       7.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985      1995      1996
(millions US$)                                                                       Composidon of total debt, 1996 (mill. US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        18,231   96,867    165,743  157,384
IBRD                                       1,123    4.034    13,823   12,568                           A 12588    8
IDA                                            0        0          0        0             30068              5380
Total debt service                           2,613   15,293    23,556   35,860                                      C
IBRD                                         116      597      2,372    2,372                                   13278
IDA                                            0        0          0        0
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                    D
Official grants                                8       78         31        *-                                   20341
Official creditors                           381      809    10,343   -8,192
Private creditors                          3,365     -831      5,586   11,639
Foreign direct investment                    609      491      9,526    7,619              F                    14F88
Portfolio equity                               0        0        519    2,995            61082
World Bank program
Commitments                                  310      928      2,142      187      A-IBRD                      E- Blataral
Disbursements                                188      840      1,732    1,051    |B-IDA    D- Other multilateral  F - Privae
Principal repayments                          39      335      1,411    1,409      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                    150      505        321     -359    1                                          t
Interest payments                             78      262        961      962
Net transfers                                 72      243       -641   -1,321
Development Economics                                                                                                  8/18/97



MAP SECTION



K                                       A         
v o  i a :=X .                  i7 0 W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
j 1 f: . :; X  ;d'~~~~~~N 
,,--- S O    r    C: .  <~~~~~~~~~~~~\ 
4   .    -508   ................. X 5~~~~~~\  
g. t  & E  <   E /<             8 8  't w '7~~~~~~~~~~~~
4 . _ =@ =' ~ s : B MS Ii
ESE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ X    -                 Ii'



