Report No. PID6106
Project Name                     Mexico-Basic Education Development Project (@)
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Education
Project ID                       MXPE40199
Implementing Agency              Consejo Nacional de Fomento Educativo (CONAFE)
Mr. Edmundo Salas Garza
Director General, CONAFE
Secretaria de Educacion Publica
Environment Category             C
Date Prepared                    May 1998
Board Approval Date              June 1998
Country and Sector Background
1.      In the last decades, Mexico has made important progress in providing
primary education access to most children. Today, practically all primary
school-aged children enroll in school and 80 percent of them complete this
level (1996). In secondary education, approximately 75 percent of students
enrolled complete this level. Despite the recent progress, and the efforts to
increase access to basic education, universal coverage remains a challenge and
the quality of education needs to be improved to support the country's
economic and social development efforts.
2.      In 1992, the Federal Government, the state Governors, and the Teachers'
Union signed an agreement proclaiming bold policy reforms, the "Acuerdo
Nacional para la Modernizaci6n de la Educaci6n Basica", which subsequently
ratified by a new general education law in 1993. These reforms extended basic
compulsory education from six to nine years and integrated pre-school into
basic education (making it free but not compulsory). Furthermore, the
Government transferred basic education managerial responsibilities to each of
the 31 federal states, approved a new curriculum, allocated more resources to
education, and put greater emphasis on compensatory programs which go beyond
traditional interventions in basic education and focus on providing
extraordinary support to specific disadvantaged groups.
3.      Today, the Government's main priorities are to provide basic education to
all citizens and to improve basic skills of all graduates. The Government
hopes to achieve this goal by improving quality to achieve better learning
outcomes, developing innovative approaches to reach marginalized groups, and
providing better educational opportunities to those students not progressing
at the expected rate under the current system. The Government's Education
Development Program (Programa de Desarrollo Educativo, PDE) emphasizes the
need to attend to students living in rural and marginal urban areas,
handicapped children, migrant children and indigenous children.
Program Objectives
4.      For the period 1998-2006, the Government has requested a three-phase
Adaptable Program Loan (APL) with the following program objectives: (a) to
expand educational opportunities in initial and basic education for students



in the poorest communities, including indigenous and migrant children; (b) to
improve the quality of basic education for students to achieve better learning
outcomes; (c) to support school and community participation in decision-making
processes at the school level; and (d) to support the decentralization process
by developing management and delivery capacity at the federal, state and
municipal levels.
5.      The Phase I objectives reflect the program goals and aim at:    (a)
providing quality improvements in initial and basic education and non-
traditional modalities of post-primary education; (b) improving the school
supervision system; (c) establishing and implementing school-based school
management improvement strategies; (d) designing and piloting new education
modalities to better meet the needs of migrant children, children aged 9-14 in
urban marginal areas, and indigenous children in general primary schools; and
(e) strengthening institutional capacity for planning, evaluation and program
and system management and execution at the federal and state levels.
6.      The objectives of Phase II, if approved, would include the expansion of
pilots and of state-based institutional development activities under Phase I
and the consolidation and continued financing of compensatory programs in a
more integrated context. The objectives of Phase III, if approved, would
focus on the finetuning of delivery mechanisms based on a more fully developed
decentralization model.
Project Description (Phase I of APL)
Component 1 - Quality Improvements in Initial and Basic Education
7.      The objective of this component is to improve quality in the delivery of
initial and basic education for children in the more disadvantaged rural and
marginal urban communities, indigenous communities, and migrant worker
populations. This would be accomplished by: (a) expanding compensatory
activities and providing quality inputs to (i) increase internal efficiency
and (ii) improve student achievement; and (b) improving school management and
efficiency through (i) developing school projects (Proyectos Escolares), (ii)
enhancing community and parent participation, and (ii) modernizing the
organization and implementation of the supervision system.
8.      This component will finance, inter alia, the following:    (a) educational
materials and equipment for students, teachers, and schools; (b) training for
teachers, supervisors and principals; (c) support to community or school
associations for school-based management activities; (d) improvement of the
school supervision function; and (e) construction or rehabilitation of school
infrastructure.
Component 2 - Strengthening Institutional Capacity at Federal and State
Levels
9.      This component aims to strengthen the management capacity of key sector
entities at both federal and state levels. The activities supported include:
(a) at the federal level, (i) strengthening the national evaluation system and
(ii) designing and piloting appropriate basic education models for migrant
children, children aged 9-14 in urban marginal areas, and indigenous children
in regular schools; and (b) at the state level, strengthening the role of the
state-level Secretariats of Education (SEPEs) in the provision of education
services by reinforcing their capability for management (i.e., planning,
programming, budgeting, monitoring and evaluation) through the development and
- 2-



implementation of state-specific Strategic Development Plans (Planes
Estrategicos Rectores) and delivery of basic education services through
support for state-generated institutional development proposals.
10.     This component will finance:   (a) technical assistance to develop the
national assessment and evaluation system; (b) studies and pilots for
innovative programs; (c) a fund to support the states in implementing their
institutional development proposals and other state-generated initiatives
(Fondo de Desarollo Institucional, FDI); and (d) incremental operational
costs.
Project Financing
11.     The APL would have a total program cost of US$780 million.    Phase I would
have a project cost of US$150 million, Phase II a total amount of US$370
million and Phase III, US$260 million. The current proposed Bank loan for
Phase I is for US$115 million.
Project Implementation
12.     CONAFE will be the main executing agency and will coordinate all
implementation activities on behalf of the Secretariat of Education (SEP).
CONAFE has extensive experience implementing Bank- and IDB-financed projects.
CONAFE will exercise its project coordination responsibilities through a
Compensatory Programs Unit (CPU), with participation of SEP's normative units.
The states, through their SEPEs, will have greater autonomy in planning and
executing compensatory education activities according to a set of national
guidelines which specify the targeted schools and communities, menu of
supported activities, educational norms to be met, and procedures for
obtaining program approval and financial support. CONAFE will also monitor
project objectives, goals, processes, and deadlines in coordination with SEP
and SEPEs.
Project Sustainability
13.     The program seeks to enhance sustainability of investments through the
involvement of stakeholders, to the extent possible, in all activities. At
the school level, communities will be asked to contribute labor and local
materials to the construction and rehabilitation of classrooms; parents
associations will have a greater say in the management of schools through the
school projects, thus increasing ownership and enhancing sustainability. The
same demand-side approach will be applied to the FDI, whereby SEPEs will have
greater incentive to design and sustain institutional strengthening and
investment activities with longer-lasting effects. At the federal level,
SEP/CONAFE have been very active in the design and preparation of the program
and, thanks to the long-term dialogue under the APL, have articulated a
medium-term compensatory education strategy which all parties hope would still
prevail under the next Administration.
Lessons Learned
14.     This proposal incorporates previous experiences gained from the
implementation of other Bank projects with similar objectives in Mexico and
Latin America: (a) The need to establish a broad policy framework which
provides the proposed APL with potential to support systemic changes beyond
programmed goals; (b) develop ownership and participation during project
-3 -



design and implementation; (c) better targeting mechanisms, since excessive
aggregation may hide important areas of poverty within states or inadvertently
average conditions of wealthier communities with those of poorer ones; (d)
maintaining effective incentives and inputs; (e) the importance of assessing
factors which contribute to student learning; and (f) the need to allow
flexibility and adaptability.
Project Benefits
15.     During Phase I, the short-term benefits of the program include quality
improvements in education for approximately (a) 52,000 children at the initial
education level (through 41,000 indigenous parents), (b) 349,500 preschool
children, and (c) 343,000 children in rural areas at the lower secondary
level, under various modalities (i.e., general lower secondary, technical
lower secondary, telesecundaria, posprimaria).
16.     Indirect, medium-term benefits of the program will accrue from improved
efficiency and equity in the management and delivery of educational services
at both federal and state levels. Through technical assistance provided under
the program, the capacity for policy analysis and strategic planning will be
strengthened at the federal level, while at the state level, the capacity of
the SEPEs to plan, implement, monitor and evaluate regular and compensatory
programs will similarly improve.
17.     Long-term benefits of the program are derived from the projected increase
in schooling years as a result of a better program of basic education. This
will imply a reduction in the absolute level of poverty for those who can
participate more productively in the economy (see Annex 6 for an economic
analysis of the program).
Project Risks
18.     The main project risks are associated with:    (a) continuity in government
policies and priorities; (b) close coordination between federal and state
agencies involved; (c) the states receive adequate technical assistance during
subproject design and implementation, and (d) stakeholders support project
activities.
Environmental Aspects
19.     The project has no adverse environmental effects and has an environmental
rating of "C". An indigenous peoples assessment was prepared during project
preparation, which confirmed the soundness of Government policies.
Program Objective Categories
20.     The project will have long-term effects in Poverty Reduction, since it
will imply a reduction in the absolute level of poverty for those who can
participate more productively in the economy.
Contact Point:           The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
- 4 -



Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending May 29, 1998.
- 5 -



