Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4333-ME
Loan Agreement
(Basic Education Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
Dated October 4, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4333-ME
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 4, 1998, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C. (the Borrower).
WHEREAS: (A) the Bank has received from the United Mexican States (the 
Guarantor) a letter dated April 28, 1998, which letter describes the Guarantor’s 
policies and strategies (the Program) with respect to the basic education sector in 
Mexico;
(B)
the Guarantor has requested that the Bank support the Program through a 
series of loans to the Borrower over a period of approximately nine years;
(C) 
the Guarantor and the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the 
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
which Project forms part of the first phase of the Program, have requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project;
(D) 
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of 
the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set 
forth in the Guarantee Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower, in support of the first phase of the Program, upon 
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, as amended 
through December 2, 1997 (the General Conditions) and with the further modification 
set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section, constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.  For purposes of the application of the General Conditions, CONAFE (as 
hereinafter defined) is considered to be a "Project implementing agency" as such term 
is used in, inter alia, Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.
(b)
Section 9.07 (c) of the General Conditions shall read as follows in its 
entirety:  "Not later than six months prior to the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Bank and the Guarantor, the Guarantor shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank, or cause to be prepared and furnished to the Bank, a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the 
execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and 
to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower, the Guarantor and the Bank of 
their respective obligations under the Loan or Guarantee Agreements, as the case may 
be, and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.".
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a) 
"CONAFE" means the Guarantor’s National Council for Educational 
Development (Consejo Nacional de Fomento Educativo);
(b)
"CONAFE Delegation" means the CONAFE office in a Project State;
(c)
"CPU" means CONAFE’s Compensatory Programs Unit (Unidad de Programas 
Compensatorios);
(d)
"FDI" means the CONAFE-administered Institutional Development Fund (Fondo 
de Desarrollo Institucional);
(e)
"FDI Subproject" means a set of institutional development activities 
carried out by a Project State for its public education sector (initial, pre-school 
and grades 1 through 9) with funding from the FDI; 
(f) 
"Implementation Letter" means the letter of even date herewith from the 
Guarantor to the Bank, containing the indicators to be used in monitoring and 
evaluating implementation of the Project;
(g)
"Participation Agreement" means an agreement (Convenio de Coordinación) 
entered into between CONAFE and a Project State pursuant to Section 3.06 of the 
Guarantee Agreement;
(h) 
"Project Public School" means a Project State-administered school in 
which all or some pre-school or basic education (grades 1 through 9) level classes are 
held;
(i) 
"Project State" means any of the States constituting the United Mexican 
States, and also includes the Federal District (Distrito Federal);
(j)
"Proyectos Escolares" means innovative educational process improvement 
activities, proposed by a School Council, approved by the relevant SEPE and to be 
implemented by said School Council for the benefit of the Project Public School with 
which such School Council is associated;
(k) 
"School Council" means any one of the Social Participation School 
Councils (Consejos Escolares de Participación Social) or Parents’ Associations 
(Asociaciones de Padres de Familia), referred to in the Guarantor’s 1993 General 
Education Law (Ley General de Educación, published in the Guarantor’s Diario Oficial 
de la Federación (Official Gazette) on July 13, 1993), associated with a particular 
Project Public School;
(l) 
"SEP" means the Guarantor’s Public Education Secretariat (Secretaría de 
Educación Pública);
Page  3
(m)
"SEPE" means a Project State’s Public Education Secretariat (Secretaría 
de Educación Pública Estatal) or equivalent;
(n) 
"SPCU" means an SEPE’s State Project Coordination Unit (Unidad 
Coordinadora Estatal);
(o) 
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(p)
"Strategic Plan" means each of the annual plans for implementation of 
initial, pre-school or basic public education initiatives in a Project State, which 
plans are prepared by the Project State and include, inter alia, the indicators and 
schedules for implementation of Part A of the Project within such Project State as 
well as the associated procurement plan. 
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to one 
hundred fifteen million Dollars ($115,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in Banco de México on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor 
of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three\1efourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable in arrears on February 
15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Transfer of Loan Proceeds; Other Covenants
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall enter into, and comply with the terms of, 
contractual arrangements with the Guarantor, satisfactory to the Bank, providing, 
inter alia, for: (a) the transfer to the Guarantor of the proceeds of the Loan for use 
by CONAFE; and (b) the transfer by the Guarantor to the Borrower of such funds as the 
Borrower shall be required to pay to the Bank on account of principal, interest and 
other charges on the Loan.  Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
not amend or fail to enforce any provision of such contractual arrangements. The 
Borrower shall exercise its rights under such contractual arrangements in such a 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.02. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating respectively to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, 
Page  4
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition) shall be carried out, or caused 
to be carried out, by the Guarantor pursuant to Section 3.04 of the Guarantee 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall participate in the annual reviews referred to 
in Section 3.13 of the Guarantee Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, the resources and expenditures in connection with the execution of the 
Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, and the records and accounts for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with generally accepted 
auditing standards and procedures consistently applied, by 
independent and qualified auditors;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
(iii)
furnish to the Bank each month certified statements of the Special 
Account; and
(iv)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts as well as the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall 
provide to the Guarantor any information that may be required by the Guarantor to 
comply with the Guarantor’s obligations under Section 3.05 of the Guarantee Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a) 
that the Guarantor’s General Education Law, referred to in Section 1.02 
(l) of this Agreement, as amended to the date of this Agreement, shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to, in the opinion of the 
Bank, affect materially and adversely the carrying out of the Project; and
(b) 
that any Project State shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under a Participation Agreement to which it is a party.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a) 
that any event specified in Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement shall 
occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have 
been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b) 
that any event specified in Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement shall 
occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
Page  5
General Conditions:
(a) 
that the contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement shall have been entered into; and
(b)
that CONAFE shall have prepared and furnished to the Bank an action plan, 
satisfactory to the Bank, for improving CONAFE’s financial management system.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that, on behalf of each of the 
parties to the contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement, 
such contractual arrangements have been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed 
and delivered by each such party and are legally binding upon each such party in 
accordance with their terms.
Section 6.03. The date January 4, 1999 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Director Internacional of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the Borrower:
Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
Dirección Internacional
Torre IV, piso 8
Plaza Inn, Insurgentes Sur 1971
01020 México, D.F.
México
Cable address: 
Telex:
NAFIN
NAFIME 383-1775765
Mexico City
Mexico City
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Page  6
Latin America and the Caribbean
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
By /s/ Carlos Sales
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in 
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works 
36,800,000 
70%
under Part A.1 of
the Project
(2)
Furniture and
 5,500,000 
70% 
equipment (except
as covered by
Category (6) below)
(3)
Didactic materials 
17,700,000 
70% 
(except as covered by
Categories (4) or (6)
below)
(4)
Training under Part 
22,200,000 
90%
A.3 of the Project
(5)
Consultants’ services
 7,000,000
100%
(except as covered by
Category (4) above)
(6)
FDI Subproject
 
 9,000,000
90%
and Proyectos
Escolares expenditures
(7)
Incremental operating
11,800,000
70%
costs
(8)
Unallocated
  
5,000,000
TOTAL                  115,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) 
the term "training" includes fees of consultants or institutions which 
design or deliver training, costs of printing of training materials, costs of study 
tours and costs of logistic services (provided by other than SEP, CONAFE or a Project 
State) in support of training delivery; and
(b) 
the term "incremental operating costs" means CONAFE Delegations’ and 
SEPEs’ operational, maintenance, travel and per diem costs (including salaries of 
temporary staff), that would not have been incurred absent the Project, as well as per 
diems referred to in Part A.6 of the Project.
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
Page  7
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $10,000,000, may be made 
on account of payments made for expenditures incurred within the twelve months prior 
to the date of this Agreement but after May 1, 1998; and
(b)
payments made for expenditures made by or for the benefit of a Project 
State or any municipality or School Council within any such Project State, unless:  
(i) such Project State has entered into a Participation Agreement satisfactory to the 
Bank; and (ii) the Bank has received legal opinions, one from CONAFE and another from 
such Project State, indicating that such Participation Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered by, CONAFE and such Project 
State and is legally binding upon CONAFE and such Project State in accordance with 
such Participation Agreement’s terms.
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent (in the case of consulting firms), for expenditures under 
contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent (in the case of individual consultants) 
and for expenditures for items not covered by the provisions of Schedule 4, Section I, 
Part D.2 of this Agreement, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) improve the quality of initial, 
pre-school and basic public education; (b) improve the supervision system for Project 
Public Schools; (c) establish school management improvement strategies and implement 
them at the level of individual Project Public Schools; (d) design and pilot new 
public education modalities to meet the needs of migrant children, children aged 9-14 
in urban marginal areas and indigenous children; and (e) strengthen institutional 
capacity in the public education sector for planning, evaluation and program and 
system management and execution at federal and State levels.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Guarantor and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A: 
Quality Improvements in Initial, Pre-School and Basic Education
1.
Construction and furnishing of new classrooms within existing Project Public 
Schools, and rehabilitation and furnishing of existing facilities within such schools, 
to meet expanding enrollment at the pre-school and basic education (i.e., grades 1 
through 9) levels.
2.
Provision to Project Public Schools and their teachers and students, as well as 
to families participating in initial education programs (i.e., programs whereby 
parents teach their own children of up to four years of age at home), of textbooks, 
library books and other didactic materials and equipment for the pre-school, basic 
education and initial education levels (including books and other materials in 
indigenous languages).
3.
Provision, to Project Public School teachers, principals and supervisors working 
at the pre-school and basic education levels, as well as to initial education program 
facilitators, of training and technical assistance in educational and school 
management techniques, including but not limited to: (a) training in support of 
teachers who have multi-grade classes at the pre-school level or at the lower 
secondary (i.e., grades 7 through 9) level in rural schools or in telesecundaria 
distance education classes, as well as; (b) training in support of community-selected, 
indigenous language-speaking provisional teachers serving indigenous students.
4.
Introduction and implementation of the posprimaria lower secondary education 
model in rural areas, thus allowing primary (i.e., grades 1 through 6) level graduates 
and other interested persons in said areas to undertake an independent course of study 
under the guidance of specially trained community instructors operating from a local 
teaching center and supported by relevant educational materials and by specially 
trained technical supervisors.
5.
Provision of technical assistance, training, incremental operating cost 
financing and didactic materials to principals, supervisors, students (and their 
Page  8
parents) and/or teachers of primary level Project Public Schools in support of the 
implementation of Proyectos Escolares, as well as provision of support for the 
establishment, and subsequent legal registration, of School Councils and civic 
associations, not previously so established or registered, so that they may 
participate in such implementation.
6.
Strengthening of supervision of teachers in Project Public Schools by equipping 
supervisor offices to facilitate the consolidation of data required for supervisory 
decision-making, as well as by providing supervisors with appropriate per diems to 
increase the number and depth of supervisory visits to individual Project Public 
Schools.
Part B:  Institutional Strengthening
1.
Strengthening of federal-level public school institutions through:
(a)
improvement of the national system for education evaluation by providing 
technical assistance and training in support of educational data gathering, 
systematization and analysis efforts undertaken at the Project State level, expanding 
the scope of such evaluation efforts to cover pre-school and basic education levels, 
developing comparative measurements of student progress, carrying out student 
achievement tests and establishing strategies for the dissemination of evaluation 
results;
(b)
establishment and use of a school mapping and activity planning system to 
manage, plan and implement educational activities in any given region based on precise 
geographic and socio-demographic variables;
(c)
design and testing of an experimental model to meet the educational needs 
of children of migrant agricultural workers;
(d)
design of a model to meet the educational needs of at-risk students, nine 
to fourteen years old, who live in marginal urban areas and have dropped out of or are 
otherwise not attending primary school; and
(e)
evaluation of the results of a pilot project undertaken by SEP in 1996 
for the education of indigenous children in public primary schools in the State of 
Guanajuato, followed by the design and testing of a broader pilot for the 
inter-cultural education of such children in other public primary schools in the 
Federal District and in the States of Guanajuato, Nuevo León, Chiapas and Oaxaca.
2.
Strengthening of Project State-level public school institutions through the 
carrying out of FDI Subprojects.
3.
Provision of technical assistance and incremental operating cost financing to 
support the Project administration activities of the CONAFE Delegations, as well as 
provision of incremental operating cost financing to support the Project 
administration activities of SEPEs.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions
A.
General Definitions
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Disbursed Amount" means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such 
Interest Period.
(b)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date.
Page  9
(c)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.
(d)
"Rate Fixing Date" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of the 
Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is 
withdrawn.
B.
Interest
1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts. 
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate 
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from 
its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.
(a)
From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount 
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
LIBOR Base Rate; plus
(ii)
LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 
thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
Fixed Base Rate; plus
(ii)
Fixed Total Spread.
3.
For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 
following meanings:
(a)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 
Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
Dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(b)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for the Interest Period in which each 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
(i)
one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
Period, below (or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the 
Bank’s outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the 
Bank to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it 
that include such Disbursed Amount for such Interest Period;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
"Fixed Base Rate" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value on the Rate 
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate based 
on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such 
Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.
(d)
"Fixed Total Spread" means, for each Disbursed Amount:
(i)
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate Fixing 
Date for such Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated to fund single currency loans or 
portions thereof made by it that include such Disbursed Amount; 
Page  10
plus
(iii)
the Bank’s risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
4.
The Bank shall notify the Guarantor and Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total 
Spread, Fixed Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount, 
promptly upon the determination thereof.
5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the 
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the 
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of 
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
and the Guarantor of the new basis.  The new basis shall become effective on the 
expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower or the Guarantor notifies the Bank 
during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not 
apply to the Loan.
C.
Repayment
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments payable on each 
February 15 and August 15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh 
(7th) Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount 
and the last such installment to be payable on the twenty-fourth (24th) Interest 
Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount.  Each 
installment shall be one-eighteenth (1/18th) of such Disbursed Amount.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment 
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said 
paragraph 1, be payable after February 15, 2014, the Borrower shall also pay on said 
date the aggregate amount of all such installments.
3.
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly 
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed 
Amount.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, furniture and equipment 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to furniture and equipment to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part 
B:
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for furniture and equipment shall be 
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost more than $350,000 equivalent each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
Page  11
thereto shall apply to furniture and equipment manufactured in the territory of the 
Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Textbooks, library books and other didactic materials for children and the 
printing thereof, estimated to cost $350,000 equivalent or less per contract or per 
bid package, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $17,200,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  In the procurement of textbooks, library books and other 
didactic materials for children and the printing thereof in accordance with this Part 
C.1, standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
National Shopping
The following may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines:
(a)
school laboratory equipment for Part A.1 of the Project, estimated to 
cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract or per bid package, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $700,000 equivalent;
(b)
computing and audiovisual equipment, estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract or per bid package, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$100,000 equivalent;
(c)
textbooks, library books and other didactic materials for children and 
the printing thereof, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract or 
per bid package, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $8,050,000 equivalent;
(d)
training logistic support and training materials and the printing thereof 
for Part A.3 of the Project, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract or per bid package, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $25,600,000 
equivalent; and
(e)
goods, wholly or partially financed by the FDI under Part B.2 of the 
Project, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract or per bid 
package, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $250,000 equivalent.
3.
Direct Contracting
(a)
Books which can only be purchased from their copyright owners or agents 
thereof, costing $750,000 equivalent or less in aggregate, may, with the Bank’s prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines.
(b)
Digital maps for Part B.1 (b) of the Project, costing $600,000 equivalent 
or less in aggregate, may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
4.
Community Participation
Goods (other than computing equipment) for Part A.5 of the Project, costing up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,300,000 equivalent, as well as civil works for 
Part A.1 of the Project, costing up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $52,400,000 
equivalent, shall be procured in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.  
Such procedures may in the case of civil works include, inter alia:
(a)
procurement under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of 
quotations obtained from at least three qualified domestic contractors in response to 
a written invitation.  The invitation shall include a detailed description of the 
works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award 
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required 
work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully; 
and
(b)
direct contracting if contract prices are consistent with the 
regionalized reference prices determined by the Guarantor pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) 
Page  12
of the Guarantee Agreement.  If the contractors hired through direct contracting are 
School Councils or civic associations or municipalities, the Bank shall not finance 
the labor costs of the works undertaken by such contractors.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan (as such plan shall have been annually updated as reflected in, 
e.g., Strategic Plans approved by the Bank) and with the provisions of said paragraph 
1.
2.
Prior Review
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply with respect to each contract or bid package procured under Part B of this 
Section, with respect to the first two contracts or bid packages for books or other 
didactic materials procured under Part C.1 of this Section, as well as with respect to 
the first two contracts or bid packages for printing procured under Part C.1 of this 
Section.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:  Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and 
cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
 Least-cost Selection
Services to carry out engineering and supervision of works as part of the 
technical assistance under Part B.3 of the Project, estimated to cost less than 
$200,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part E:
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services not covered by Parts C or D of this Section, estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part F: 
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Page  13
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan (as such plan shall have been 
annually updated as reflected in, e.g., Strategic Plans approved by the Bank) and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
(c)
To award contracts not governed by paragraphs 2 (a) or (b) of this Part, 
prior review and approval by the Bank of the terms of reference for the respective 
assignments shall be required.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraphs 2 (a) or (b) of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (7) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means the amount of $10,000,000, to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to para\1fgraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Page  14
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the  
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.  
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account:  (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:  (A) 
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the 
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special 
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
Page  15
