Page  1
August
26,
1998
Mr. Carlos Garc
ía Moreno
Director General de Crédito Público
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público
Insurgentes Sur No. 826, piso 4
Colonia del Valle
03100
México, D.F.
Re:
Japanese Grant for the Basic Education Development Project
Grant No
.
TF
025366
Dear Sir:
I
am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the 
Bank) to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan, to make a 
grant in an amount not exceeding four hundred forty-seven thousand, five hundred US Dollars 
(US$447,500) (the Grant) to the United Mexican States (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial assistance and for the 
purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement.  The 
Recipient hereby confirms its request that the Bank carry out the activities described in paragraph
1
of
the Annex to this Letter Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the 
said purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, 
dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt by the Bank of 
the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become effective 
as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By__________________________
Fernando Montes-
Negret
Acting Director
Country Management Unit
México
AGREED:
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By _________________
Mr. Carlos García Moreno
Director General de Crédito Público
Date: September 7, 1998
ANNEX
Page  2
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The purpose of the Grant is to provide financing to assist in post-appraisal supplemental 
preparation by the Recipient of the Basic Education Development Project (the Project) discussed 
between the Bank and the Recipient, approved by the Bank
’s Board for financing with Bank Loan No. 
4333-ME, the Loan and Guarantee Agreements for which have yet to be signed and declared 
effective.  The technical assistance activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as 
follows:
(a)
preparation of an operational manual for the Institutional Development Fund to be 
administered by the Recipient’s 
Consejo Nacional de Fomento Educativo
 
(CONAFE), such manual to include design selection criteria and minimum standards 
to be used in managing said Fund, all consistent with the terms of the Recipient’s 
April
30,
1998
letter to the Bank regarding said Fund;
(b)
analysis of public basic education administrative systems at State level, and design of 
management improvements for said systems through training of State staff, 
development of satisfactory State auditing capabilities and development of 
appropriate physical and financial performance indicators, all with the objective of 
enabling States to operate the Bank-promoted Loan Administration Change Initiative 
(LACI) project management system;
(c)
design of strategies for public basic education administration organizational change at 
State level;
(d)
determination of training needs for State public basic education sector managers and 
technical staff, as well as development of basic courses to enhance their managerial 
capabilities regarding information systems, personnel management, accounting and 
auditing systems; and
(e)
carrying out of three regional-level seminars focused on educational and management 
issues associated with the Project, with the aim of promoting participation by civil 
society and State- and federal-level decision makers in basic education and Project 
implementation efficiency initiatives. 
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services and associated travel and 
per diem
costs required for the Activities.
3.
The Bank shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient.  The Recipient shall cooperate 
with the Bank to the extent necessary to permit the Bank to carry out the Activities promptly and 
effectively, and to evaluate the results of the Activities.  The Recipient shall indemnify the Bank 
against any costs or liabilities incurred by the Bank as a result of claims against the Bank in 
connection with the Activities, except those resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct 
of its staff or external consultants.
4.
It is expected that the Activities will be completed by February 28, 1999.  After that date, the 
Bank may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to assist in the 
carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of the Bank (in consultation with the 
Recipient) and shall be done according to the Bank’s applicable procedures.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in the territory of, 
the United Mexican States on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ personnel (other than 
Page  3
nationals or permanent residents thereof) in connection with the Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request the Bank in writing to terminate the Activities. Whether 
or not the Recipient has made such a request, the Bank may at any time suspend or, after consultation 
with the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any 
of the following events has occurred and is continuing:  (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of 
its obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to 
which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make withdrawals under any 
loan agreement with the Bank or any development credit agreement with the International 
Development Association shall have been suspended.
8.
The Bank is not an agent of or trustee for the Recipient and shall not have any fiduciary 
relationship with the Recipient.  The Recipient shall have no right to any portion of the Grant that is 
not expended by the Bank pursuant to this Agreement.
