Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER  H1310 TP 
 
Development Grant Agreement 
 
(Third Transition Support Program Grant) 
 
between 
 
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF TIMOR-LESTE 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated November 25, 2004 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H1310 TP 
 
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated November 25, 2004, between the DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF 
TIMOR-LESTE   (the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Recipient has provided to the Association and to Australia, the 
Republic of Finland, Ireland, New Zealand, Kingdom of Norway, the United Kingdom of Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland, and the United States of America, a letter and attached Action 
Matrix, dated September 27, 2004, (
hereinafter called the “Letter of Development Policy” or 
“LDP”), describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve poverty 
reduction, good governance and development of the Recipient’s economy (hereinafter called the 
“Third Transition Support Program” or “TSP3”), declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the 
execution of the TSP3, and requesting the assistance from the Association in support of the 
components and subcomponents proposed and outlined in Section V of the LDP, paragraphs 51 to 
57 and 59 to 71, and sections A.1.1 to A.4.1 and A.6.1 to C.2.3 of the attached Action Matrix 
(which components and subcomponents  are hereinafter called the “Program”); and 
(B) the Recipient has carried out the measures and taken the actions described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association and has maintained a 
macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Association; and 
WHEREAS, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Recipient by making the Grant in one 
tranche as hereinafter provided; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through May 1, 2004) with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:  
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are modified as 
follows: 
1. 
Wherever used in the General Conditions, the following terms are modified to read as 
follows: 
Page  3
2
-
-
(a) 
the term “Borrower” is modified to read “Recipient”; 
 
(b) 
the term “Credit” is modified to read “Grant”; 
 
(c) 
the term “credit” is modified to read “grant”; except that where used in Sections 
6.02(a)(ii) and 6.02(c)(i), as modified below, the term “credit” shall continue to read “credit”; 
 
(d) 
the term “Credit Account” is modified to read “Grant Account”; and 
 
(e) 
the term “Development Credit Agreement” is modified to read “Development 
Grant Agreement”. 
2. 
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read: 
 ““Project” means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Development Grant 
Agreement, in support of which the Grant is made.” 
3. 
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04(a), 3.04(b), 3.05, 6.05, Article VII, are deleted in their entirety. 
4. 
Article IV is modified as follows: 
 
(a) 
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
“Except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, withdrawals 
from the Grant Account shall be made in the currency of the deposit account 
specified in Section 2.02 of the Development Grant Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The Heading of Section 4.02  and paragraph (a) of Section 4.02 are modified to 
read as follows: 
 
“
Section 4.02. Currencies in which Commitment Charges are Payable 
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall pay the commitment charge on the Grant in 
the currency specified in the Development Grant Agreement or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or 
selected pursuant to paragraph (c) or (e) of this Section.” 
 
(c) 
Wherever used in Section 4.02(c) and (e) of the General Conditions the words 
“principal and service charges” are modified to read “commitment charge”. 
 
Page  4
3
-
-
(d) 
Section 4.03 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
“
Section 4.03.  Amount of the Grant
 
The amount of the Grant withdrawn from time to time shall be the equivalent in 
terms of SDR (determined as of the date or respective dates of withdrawal from 
the Grant Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn.” 
5. 
Article V is modified as follows: 
 
(a) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
 
“The Recipient shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Grant from the 
Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of the Development Grant 
Agreement and of these General Conditions.” 
 
(b) 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted. 
6. 
Section 6.02 is modified as follows: 
 
(a) 
the phrase “any other development credit agreement” in Section 6.02(a)(ii) is 
modified to read: “any other development grant agreement or any development credit agreement 
or development financing agreement”; and 
 
(b) 
the phrase “any development credit agreement” in Section 6.02(c)(i) is modified 
to read: “any development grant agreement, development credit agreement or development 
financing agreement”. 
7. 
The words “The principal of, and any other charges on” in Section 8.01(a) are modified 
to read “The commitment charge on”. 
8. 
Article IX is modified as follows: 
 
(a) 
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: 
 
“(c) 
Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the 
Association, the Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, 
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on 
the execution of the program referred to in the Preamble to the Development 
Grant Agreement, the performance by the Recipient and the Association of their 
respective obligations under the Development Grant Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Grant.” 
Page  5
4
-
-
(b) 
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 and 
9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional term has the following meaning:   
(a) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement. 
(b) 
 “Fiscal Year” means the Recipient’s fiscal year starting July 1 and ending June 
30. 
(c) 
“FY2005 Annual Action Plan” means the Recipient’s plan for implementation of 
the activities financed under the Fiscal Year 2005 budget. 
ARTICLE II 
The Grant 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent 
to three million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,400,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section, the 
Recipient shall be entitled to withdraw, in a single or in several installments, the proceeds of the 
Grant from the Grant Account in support of the Program. 
(b) 
The Recipient shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request 
for withdrawal from the Grant Account, and thereafter maintain in its Banking and Payments 
Authority, a deposit account in US Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association. All withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be deposited by the Association into 
the Deposit Account. 
(c) 
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Grant shall not be used to 
finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. If the 
Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Grant shall have been used 
to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association, (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said 
payment, or (ii) if the Association shall so request, refund such amount to the Association. 
Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the Grant Account 
for cancellation. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be October 31, 2005, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date. 
Page  6
5
-
-
Section 2.04. (a) The Recipient shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, such rate not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent 
(1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the date of 
this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by 
the Recipient from the Grant Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 
immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time 
thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied 
from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.05 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall 
reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Recipient; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of 
the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time 
be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. Commitment charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 15 and 
October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.06. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program. 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be taken after the 
disbursement of the Grant which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of 
the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action specified in Schedule 2 
to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall: 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
Page  7
6
-
-
(b) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(c) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
Termination 
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Planning and Finance of the Recipient is designated as the 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions: 
For the Recipient: 
 
Ministry of Planning and Finance 
 
Palácio do Governo 
 
Edifício No. 5, 1
°
andar 
 
Dili 
 
Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste 
 
Facsimile: 
 
670-321339 
 
Page  8
7
-
-
For the Association: 
 
International Development
 
Association  
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145   (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Dili, 
Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF TIMOR-LESTE 
 
By: /s/ Maria Madalena Boavida  
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: /s/ Elizabeth Huybens 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  9
8
-
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Grant shall not be 
used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1.  
expenditures in the currency of the Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Recipient; provided, however, that for purposes of this paragraph, the United 
States Dollar shall be deemed the currency of a country other than that of the Democratic 
Republic of Timor-Leste; 
 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank shall have financed or agreed 
to finance under another grant or a credit or a loan; 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the United Nations in 
Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or 
subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Recipient: 
 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 
- 
  Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 
- 
  Tobacco, 
unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122 
- 
  Tobacco, 
manufactured 
 
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
  Radioactive 
and 
 
 
associated materials 
Page  10
9
-
-
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
667 
- 
  Pearls, 
precious 
and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
 
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery 
 
897 
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971 
- 
  Gold, 
non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph the 
term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import of which 
is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to which the Recipient is 
a
party);  
6. 
expenditures on account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if 
such payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that corrupt 
or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Recipient or of a beneficiary of 
the Grant during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the Recipient having 
taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation. 
Page  11
10
-
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Actions Referred to in Recital (B) of the Preamble to this Agreement 
 
1. 
The Recipient has promulgated the Statutes of Ombudsman (Lei 7/2004 que Aprova os 
Estatutos do Provedor de Direitos Humanos e Justiça), which establishes an independent 
oversight function of the Government. 
 
2. 
The Recipient has promulgated the Public Service Statute, including a framework for 
management systems and disciplinary procedures  (Lei 8/2004 que  Aprova o Estatuto da Função 
Pública). 
 
3. 
The Recipient has prepared the FY2005 Annual Action Plan and presented the FY2005 
Budget to Parliament (Lei 9/2004 Lei do Orçamento Geral do Estado para o Ano Fiscal 
2004/2005). 
 
4. 
The Superior Council of the Judiciary has been established under Law 8/2002 and has 
undertaken its functions. 
 
5. 
The Recipient’s Ministry of Health has established annual district health plans as a 
routine tool for decentralized management of health services. The Recipient’s Ministry of 
Education, Culture, Youth and Sport has developed a pilot program in decentralized financial 
management by schools and parent teachers associations.  
 
6.  
The Recipient has approved the policy framework for the agricultural sector.  
 
7. 
The Recipient has promulgated the law on commercial entities to promote private sector 
development (Lei 4/2004 sobre Sociedades Comerciais).  
 
