Page  1
  
Draft                 
29039
 
Initial Project Information Document 
 
Country Name:
 
 
The Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste 
Region:  
 
 
East Asia and Pacific 
Project Name: 
 
Third Transition Support Program (FY2005) 
Sector:   
Poverty Reduction 
Project ID Number: 
 
P083894 
Implementing Agency: 
Ministry of Planning and Finance 
 GPA 
Compound 
 
Dili, Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste 
 
Contact: Maria Madalena Brites Boavida, Minister 
 Phone: 
670-390-3339510 
 Email: 
minfinance@yahoo.com 
Environmental Category: 
C (Not Required) 
Date PID Prepared:  
 
April 20, 2004 
Appraisal Date:
  
April 19 to May 7, 2004 
Projected Board Date:
 September, 
2004 
 
Country and Program Background 
1.  Timor-Leste became independent on May 20, 2002, following 25 years of conflict, a 
violent transition from Indonesian rule in September 1999 and two and half years of United 
Nations administration. The country now faces the challenges of nation-building with very 
limited human resources, embryonic institutions, a stagnant economy, high levels of poverty 
and unemployment.   
2.  The gradual winding down of the international presence following independence and slow-
down in reconstruction programs has led to contraction in economic activity, particularly in 
urban areas. At the same time, agricultural production has been adversely affected by a 
drought. IMF estimates point to a decline in GDP of around 2 percent in 2003.  Non-oil exports 
increased to about US$7 million in 2003, of which US$6 million is coffee.  Imports continue to 
decline, to US$174 million in 2003, as the international presence winds down: in 2000 imports 
by humanitarian and UN agencies accounted for more than 50 percent of imports, today they 
account for less than ten percent. From late 2002 through to mid-2003 inflation hovered around 
8-10 percent due to a drought induced scarcity of agricultural goods. Inflationary pressures 
have since abated, with year-on-year inflation in January 2004 reported at 4 percent. There is 
some evidence that private sector wages have started to fall. Nevertheless, the overall wage 
level remains relatively high in comparison with neighboring countries, undermining 
competitiveness. At the same time, unemployment rates are high, particularly among the 
young. 
3.  The Government continues to actively promote overseas investment in Timor-Leste, 
particularly from the ASEAN region. Even though some interest has been shown in 
concessions for exploitation of natural resources, such as fisheries and forestry – which the 
Government has wisely deferred pending further review –  there has still been no significant 
foreign direct investment since Independence.  
4.  Production of liquids at the Bayu-Undan field in the Timor Sea Joint Petroleum 
Development Area began in February 2004. The project is expected to generate about US$3 
billion in revenues over a twenty-year period from 2004.  However, recent changes in the 
project tax regime and production profile have led to delays in the revenue stream. Projections 
Page  2
  
presented in the FY2004 Mid-Year Budget Update (MYBU) point to a financing gap of 
US$126 million for the period FY2005 to FY2007, on the basis of current savings and 
expenditure policies and taking into account programmed TSP III (FY2005) financing (see 
Table 1).  More recent estimates, yet to be finalized, point to slightly higher revenues over this 
period, with a reduction in the FY2005 to FY2007 financing gap to around US$70 million
1
.   
5.  The National Development Plan, prepared through a broad consultative process and 
approved by Parliament shortly after Independence, provides the overall framework for 
national development. The strategy for FY2003 to FY2007 has two overriding goals: to 
promote rapid, equitable and sustainable economic growth and to reduce poverty. These 
concerns are reflected in the Government’s prioritizing and sequencing exercise, which 
provides a “Road Map” for the implementation of the NDP and the basis for the FY2005 
government program and budget. 
Progress under TSP I (FY2003) and TSP II (FY2004) 
6.  The Government’s first and second Transition Support Programs were intentionally 
ambitious both in the range and number of actions and timing of milestones.  While this 
approach obviously entails the risk that many programmed actions will not be completed, the 
annual TSP has provided Government with a framework for coordinating and monitoring its 
overall program.  It has also served as a framework for harmonizing external partners support 
around the Government program.  Now that Government systems have been put in place, 
notably the preparation and routine monitoring of agency annual action plans and quarterly 
reporting matrices, and the Government has made progress in policy development and strategic 
planning at the sector level,  attention can turn from in-year scheduling to a medium-term 
perspective.  These changes in approach are reflected in the design of TSP III (FY2005). 
 
7. 
Broad progress has been made in the implementation of the programs identified under TSP 
I (FY2003) and TSP II (FY2004).  Progress has tended to be slowest in the area of governance, 
particularly as regards the establishment of oversight and internal control mechanisms.  There 
have also been significant delays in the preparation of legislation across the program, though 
these delays have often allowed time for consultations and led to more appropriate design.  Of 
particular concern are the slow pace of budget execution, particularly in priority sectors such as 
education, and the slow pace of capacity building and institutional development. These issues  
will be addressed directly in TSP III (FY2005) and successor operations. 
 
The Proposed Grant  
8.  The annual Transition Support Program (TSP) provides a framework for multi-donor 
budgetary support to the implementation of the NDP.  Initially, three annual TSP operations 
were foreseen,  covering the period FY2003 to FY2005.  The Government has now requested 
that the Bank schedule two further TSP operations in FY2006 and FY2007.  Financing for each 
TSP is agreed on the basis of annual program laid out in the Government’s Letter of 
Development Policy and Action Matrix. These actions constitute a sub-set of the activities 
presented in the Government’s internal Annual Action Plans, prepared by all agencies as part 
of the annual planning and budget process. The sub-set reflects both Government’s and 
development partners’ appreciation of policy and operational priorities for the year ahead. 
                                                          
 
1
 There remains considerable uncertainty as regards Timor Sea revenues over the medium-term arising from 
production and price factors.  Current estimates of Timor Sea revenues amounting to US$151.1 million over the 
next three years are based on an oil price of about US$25/barrel and the company’s baseline production volumes.  
However, a scenario with higher oil prices (US$28/barrel) and higher production could give revenues of 
US$271.4 million.  A scenario with lower oil prices (US$22/barrel) and lower production could give revenues of 
only US$43.3 million. 
Page  3
  
9.  The TSP III (FY2005) will focus on three thematic areas, reflecting NDP and Stability 
Program priorities: a) 
Good Governance
, including strengthening State institutions, public 
sector management and public expenditure management; strengthening administrative capacity 
in the justice sector; and, possibly, capacity building in the police; b) 
Service Delivery for 
Poverty Reduction
, particularly improvements in the efficiency and effectiveness in the health 
and education sectors; and c) 
Job Creation
, especially through private sector development and 
agriculture. Building on the experience of previous TSP exercises and the Government’s policy 
and planning initiatives, TSP III (FY2005) will seek to focus on systems performance by 
making greater use of quantitative performance indicators; introduce a medium-term 
perspective; place a greater focus on integrated capacity building efforts; mainstream gender 
issues throughout the program; and strengthen stakeholder dialogue on TSP design and 
process. 
10. Nine bilateral donors provide parallel budgetary support financing for the Transition 
Support Program through Bank administered Trust Funds for the three years through FY2005, 
amounting to approximately US$77 million:  the United Kingdom (US$20.2 million);  
Australia (US$16.1 million); the United States of America (US$12 million);  Norway 
(US$11.1 million); Finland (US$4.4 million); Ireland (US$2.8 million); Canada (US$1.7 
million);  Sweden (US$1.4 million);  and New Zealand (US$1.2 million). Portugal provides 
parallel budgetary support financing, amounting to US$9 million directly, rather than through 
Bank administered Trust Funds. Additional contributions for the period FY2005 through 
FY2007 are currently under review. All donors, including the UN system partners, have 
participated in TSP design and monitoring, regardless of whether they provide budget support 
or channel funds through Bank administered funds. 
11. The Bank financing for Transition Support Program III (FY2005) will be provided as an 
IDA grant of SDR 3.4 million.   
Contacts:  
12. The Bank contact point is:  
 
 
Adrian Fozzard (Task Team Leader) 
 
The World Bank 
 
1818 H Street NW 
 
Washington DC 20433 
 
13. For information on other project related documents:  
 
 Public 
Information 
Center 
 
The World Bank 
 
1818 H Street NW 
 
Washington DC 20433 
 
Fax: 202 522 1500  
 
