                                          Documentof
                                        The World Bank




                                  FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY


                                                                          Report No: 29077-TP




                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION

                                   PROGRAMDOCUMENT

                                  FORA PROPOSEDGRANT

                           INTHEAMOUNT OFSDR3.4 MILLION

                              (US$4.96 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                   TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF TIMOR-LESTE

                                            FOR THE

                         THIRD TRANSITION SUPPORT PROGRAM




                                      September29,2004


Poverty Reduction and Economic ManagementUnit
Timor-Leste Country Management Unit
EastAsia and Pacific Region



This document has a restricteddistribution and may be usedby recipients only inthe performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization

                                   CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS
                                       Currency Unit = US Dollar

                        WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: Metric System

                                  FISCALYEAR: July 1-June 30

                             ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS

AAP     AnnualAction Plans                                MoJ      Ministryof Justice
ACIAR   AustralianCenter for InternationalAgricultural    MoI      Ministryof the Interior
        Research                                          MoPF     Ministryof PlanningandFinance
ADB     Asian DevelopmentBank                             MSA      Ministryof State Administration
ARP     Agricultural RehabilitationProject                MTCPW    Ministryof Transport,CommunicationsandPublic
ASEAN   Association of SouthEastAsian Nations                      Works
BDC     Business DevelopmentCenter                        MTFF     MediumTermFiscalFramework
BO      Budget Office                                     MYBU     Mid-YearBudget Update
BPA     BankingandPaymentsAuthority                       NDNR     NationalDirectorateof NotaryandRegistration
BRU     Business RegistrationUnit                         NDP      NationalDevelopmentPlan
CBM     Community-BasedMaintenance                        NDPEAC   NationalDirectorateof Planningand
CF      ConsolidatedFund                                           ExternalAssistanceCoordination
CFET    ConsolidatedFundfor EastTimor                     NDPS     NationalDirectorateof Public Service
CoA      Court of Appeal                                  NDTA     NationalDirectorate for Territorial Administration
CoM      Councilof Ministers                              NGO      Non-GovernmentalOrganization
CPAR     Country ProcurementAssessment Review             OIG      Office of the InspectorGeneral
CPI      Consumer PriceIndex                              OPE      Office for the Promotionof Equality
CPV      CommitmentandPaymentVoucher                      PDO      PublicDefender's Office
DAF     Departmentof AdministrationandFinance             PDSC     PublicDefender's Superior Council
DG      DirectorGeneral                                   PER      Public ExpenditureReview
DPT      Diptheria,Tetanus, andPertussis                  PM       PrimeMinister
EAN      ExpenditureAuthorization Notice                  PMO      PrimeMinister's Office
EDTL     Electricidadede Timor-Leste                      PNTL     Timor-LesteNationalPolice
EKKN     ElangKakatuaKakatuaNorth                         PPO      PublicProsecutor'sOffice
EMIS     EducationManagementInformationSystem             PPSC     Public Prosecutor's Superior Council
EU       EuropeanUnion                                    PSU      ProfessionalStandardsUnit
FALINTIL Armed Forces of the NationalLiberationof Timor-  PTA      ParentTeacher Association
         Leste                                            SCJ      SuperiorCouncilfor the Judiciary
FA0      FoodAgricultureOrganization                      SIP      Sector InvestmentPrograms
FDI      ForeignDirect Investment                         SLSS     StateSecretariat for Labor and Solidarity
FSQP
m        FundamentalSchoolQuality Project                 SME      Small andMediumEnterprises
         FirstTranche Petroleum                           SSCOM    Secretariat of Statefor the Councilof Ministers
FY       Fiscal Year                                      STI      Secretariat of Trade andIndustry
GDP      Gross DomesticProduct                            TA       TechnicalAssistance
GFP      Gender FocalPoint                                TFET     Trust Fundfor EastTimor
G-RDTL   Governmentof the DemocraticRepublic of           TSO      Timor Sea Office
        Timor-Leste                                       TSP      TransitionSupportProgram
GTZ      GermanTechnicalCooperation                       UN       UnitedNations
IDA      InternationalDevelopmentAssociation              UNDP     UnitedNationsDevelopmentProgramme
IDF      InternationalDevelopmentFund                     UNFPA    UnitedNationsPopulationFund
IEPA     Investmentand ExportPromotionAgency              UNICEF   UnitedNationsChildren'sFund
IMF      InternationalMonetaryFund                        UNIDO    UnitedNationsIndustrialDevelopmentOrganization
LDP     Letter of DevelopmentPolicy                       UNMISET  UnitedNationsMissionof SupportinEastTimor
LPU     LandandPropertyUnit                               UNPOL    UnitedNationsPolice
MAFF    Ministryof Agriculture, ForestryandFisheries      UNTAET   UnitedNationsTransitional AdministrationinEast
MDE     Ministryof DevelopmentandEnvironment                       Timor
MDG     MillenniumDevelopmentGoals                        USAID    UnitedStates Agency for InternationalDevelopment
                                                                                   . .
MoECYS  Ministryof Education, Culture, Youth and          WB       WorldBank
         Sports                                           WHO      WorldHealthOrganization
MoH     Ministryof Health



         Vice President:                                 Mr.Jemal-ud-dinKassum, EAPVP
         Country Director:                               Mr.Xian Zhu, EACNQ
         Sector Director:                                Mr.HomiKharas, EASPR
         Task Team Leader:                               Mr.AdrianFozzard, EASPR

                                                                                 FOROFFICIAL USEONLY
                                               TIMOR-LESTE
             THIRD TRANSITIONSUPPORT PROGRAM(FY2005)
                                                Table of Contents
     IINTRODUCTION..........................................................................................................     1
     I1RECENT DEVELOPMENTS AND OUTLOOK.........................................................                                  2
                                                                                                                                 2
                Economic Developments and Outlook ...........................................................
                Poverty inTimor-Leste ...................................................................................
          B.
          A.
                                                                                                                                 3
                Fiscal Developments and Outlook..................................................................                4
          D.
          C.    Institutional and Political Developments ........................................................                7
     111THEGOVERNMENTPROGRAM............................................................................                         9
          A.    The NationalDevelopmentPlan.....................................................................                 9
          B.    Progress under the Second Transition Support Program (FY2004) .............10
     IV WORLD BANKGROUP'S STRATEGY AND OTHER DONORS.......................                                                       14
          A.    Transitional Support Strategy .......................................................................            14
          B.    Other Agencies and Donors..........................................................................              15
          C.    TSP and the IDA Financing Strategy............................................................                   15
     V TRANSITION SUPPORT PROGRAM111(FY2005)................................................                                     16
          A.    Rationale....................................................................................................... 16
          B.    Program Design ............................................................................................      16
                                                                                                                                 17
                Component Objectives and Outputs for TSP 111(FY2005) ..........................
                Prior Actions .................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                 18
          E.
          D.
          C.

                                                                                                                                 21
          F.                                                                                                                     22
                Fiduciary Assessments..................................................................................
                Grant Administration ....................................................................................
                Staff Assessment of TSP I11(FY2005) .........................................................

                                                                                                                                 24
          H. Technical Assistance Requirements .............................................................
          G.
                                                                                                                                 25
          I.                                                                                                                     25
          J.    Environmental Aspects .................................................................................
                Benefits and Risks.........................................................................................      25
     ANNEXES

     Annex 1: Letter of Development Policy andFY2005 Action Matrix
     Annex 2: Timor-Leste at a Glance
     TABLES

                                                                                                                                 4
     Table 2: Structure of ConsolidatedFundSpendingby Function....................................
     Table 1: Consolidated FundFinancing basedon FY2004 MYBU.................................
                                                                                                                                 5

     MAP: IBRD30626Rl


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
Itheperformance of their official duties I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
                                                          .
without W o r l d Bank authorization              .                                                                          ------I


                              TIMOR-LESTE
         THIRD TRANSITIONSUPPORT PROGRAM(FY2005)
                   GrantandProgramSummary
Beneficiary:    The Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste
Amount:         SDR 3.4 million
Terms:          IDA Grant
Co-Financing:   Co-financing for TSP I(FY2003), TSP I1 (FY2004) and TSP I11
                (FY2005) amounts to US$85.6 million from ten bilateral partners, of
                which US$76.6 million through Bank-administeredTrust Funds. TSP I11
                (FY2005) co-financing will be about US$26.2 million, of which US$23.2
                millionthrough Bank-administered Trust Funds.
Description:    The proposed IDA Grant is a Structural Adjustment Operation that will
                support the implementationof the Government's programfor FY2005, to
                achieve the development and poverty reduction objectives laid out in the
                Government's National Development Plan of May 2002.
Benefits:       The principal benefit of the proposedTSP I11(FY2005) is that it provides
                additional resources to support the Government's core governance and
                development programs in the lean years before substantial oil and gas
                revenues come on stream. The TSP I11provides these resources through
                a coordinated framework for external partners providing budgetary
                support to Timor-Leste. This reduces transaction costs, focuses attention
                on development priorities and allows Timor-Leste to mobilize external
                financing that would not otherwise be available. Implementation of TSP
                I11(FY2005) will bring the following benefits:

                a) Strengthened governance environment, particularly as regards the
                    establishment of oversight and consultative decision making
                    mechanisms, improvements in the administration of justice,
                    strengthened internal controls and oversight, transparent financial
                    management and the establishment of the governance framework for
                    Timor-Leste's oil and gas revenues.
                b) Improvementsin basicpublic services,particularly improvements in
                    the coverage, quality and service delivery focus of the education and
                    health services, maintenance of the core road network and
                    improvements in electricity services and electricity sector financial
                    performance.
                c) Job creation by putting in place a regulatory framework and
                    institutions that support the development of the private sector, while
                    at the same time promoting programs that will generate employment
                    in the short term, and developing a policy framework for the
                    agricultural sector that focuses on services to farmers.
Risks:          The mainrisksto the achievement of TSP I11(FY2005) objectives are:

                a) Limited Capacity. Capacity constraints are likely to come to the fore
                    duringFY2005 as the number of UN-fundedposts is further reduced
                    and a wider range of managerial functions are assumed by national
                    staff. The program does include specific measures for capacity
                    building in the critical area of public expenditure management and,



                                         111
                                         ...

                   following discussions with external partners, the Government's
                   Action Matrix identifies sources of technical assistance to support
                   implementation of specific outputs. However, as a balance of
                   payments and budget support operation, TSP I11 (FY2005) cannot
                   address broader institutional support and capacity building
                   requirements directly. As technical assistance personnel depart, the
                   pace of programimplementationi s expected to slow during FY2005.
                   The Government is undertaking capacity building programs in key
                    sectors, supported by development partners.
                   Expenditure program. The expenditure            program has been
                   characterized by low budget execution, the concentration of spending
                   in the capital and rapid growth of administrative overheads. TSP I11
                    (FY2005) will follow up on recent measures to realign expenditures
                   with service delivery priorities, strengthen expenditure management
                   and gradually deconcentrate spending, including the implementation
                   of pilot mechanisms for channeling resources to service delivery
                   units.
                    Consultation, oversight and transparency.To address concerns that
                    decision making has been excessively centralized to and within the
                    executive and that some stakeholders, particularly local civil society,
                   have been excluded, TSP 111(FY2005) seeks to build opportunities
                    for consultation    into the legislative, policy-making and sector
                    strategic planning process.
                    Corruption. There i s mounting concern on the part of Government
                    and civil society regarding corruption, poor compliance and lack of
                    discipline in the civil service. The Government has included specific
                    measures to strengthen civil service management, internal controls
                    and disciplinary procedures, as well as to improve transparency in
                    reporting on investigations as part of the program for TSP I11
                    (FY2005). However, swift implementation of disciplinary action,
                    without favor, will be equally important indeterring corruption.
                    Stability and security.There is some dissatisfaction with the limited
                    immediate benefits from Independence, particularly as regards lack
                    of employment opportunities. TSP I11(FY2005) includes activities
                    that will generate some employment, though the impact will be
                    limited. Continuing high levels of urban unemployment will have to
                    be addressed. These risks are of particular concern given the
                    withdrawal of UNPOL. The Government's program includes
                    measures supported by development partners to strengthen police
                    management and oversight, including mechanisms for community
                    consultation and independent investigationof complaints.
Disbursement:    The Grant will be disbursedupon declaration of effectiveness.

ProjectIDNumber: PO83894




                                        iv

I INTRODUCTION

1.    Timor-Leste became independent on May 20, 2002, following 25 years of conflict,
a violent transition from Indonesian rule in September 1999 and two and half years of
United Nations administration. The country now faces the challenges of nation-building
with very limited human resources, embryonic institutions, a stagnant economy, and high
levels of poverty and unemployment, all of which contribute to social and political
tensions.
2.    The National Development Plan, prepared shortly before Independence, outlines
Government's development and poverty reduction objectives. A Stability Program,
announced in January 2003, highlighted the areas of the NDP which the Government
considers its immediate priorities, notably improvements in governance arrangements and
law and order, service delivery in the social sectors andjob creation.
3.    The annual Transition Support Program (TSP) provides a framework for multi-
donor budgetary support to the implementation of the NDP. The TSP provides additional
resources for core poverty reduction and governance programs in the lean years before
substantial oil and gas revenues come on stream. Initially, three annual TSP operations
were foreseen, covering the period FY2003 to FY2005. The Government has now
requested that the International Development Association (IDA) schedule two further
TSP operations inFY2006 andFY2007. Financingfor each TSP is agreed on the basis of
an annual program laid out in the Government's Letter of Development Policy and
Action Matrix. These actions constitute a sub-set of the activities presented in the
Government's internal annual action plans, prepared by all agencies as part of the annual
planning and budget process. The sub-set reflects both Government's and partner donors'
appreciation of policy and operational priorities for the year ahead. IDA provides support
to and monitors those activities within the annual Transition Support Program as
consistent with its institutional mandate: activities related to the strengthening of the
national police force and related judicial functions are supported and monitored by
bilateral TSP partners.
4.    TSP I(FY2003) focused on the creation of the institutions, establishment of the
legislative and regulatory framework and strengthening of management systems for core
government functions. Both TSP I1 (FY2004) and TSP I11 (FY2005) focus on three
thematic areas, reflecting NDP and Stability Program priorities: a) Good Governance,
including the establishment of oversight institutions and arrangements, public sector and
public expenditure management, and improvements in administrative capacity to deliver
law and order (the IDA-financed and monitored program focuses on the justice sector,
with the program for police services supported by bilateral TSP partners); b) Service
Delivery for Poverty Reduction, particularly improvements in the efficiency and
effectiveness of the health and education sectors; and c) Job Creation, especially through
private sector development,       including agriculture,    and improvements in basic
infrastructure.




                                              1

I1     RECENTDEVELOPMENTSAND OUTLOOK

A.     PovertyinTimor-Leste

5.     The Poverty Assessment, based on Household and Suco (village) surveys and a
Participatory Poverty Assessment carried out in 2001, highlights the daunting economic
and human development challenges that Timor-Leste faces. Sixty percent of adults are
illiterate. Indicators of health status for children are bleak. Over 40 percent of children are
moderately or severely underweight. Infant mortality rates are estimated at 8.8 percent.
Fertility rates are among the highest in the world, with women having more than seven
children on average. Baseline data for 2001-02 suggest that maternal mortality i s around
800 per 100,000 births
6.     About 20 percent of the population live on less than a dollar a day, and 41 percent
of the population live below the national poverty line. Economic well-being varies across
the country. Urban areas, especially Dilimaucau are better off than rural areas: while one
in seven are poor in DiliBaucau, over two in five are poor in rural areas. Poverty is
associated with low levels of education: nearly half the poor are in households where the
household head has not completed primary education. The poor also have less access to
infrastructure, such as safe drinking water and sanitation. There i s a vast urban-rural
divide in access to these services: in urban areas, around 70 percent of the population
have access to electricity and safe drinking water, whereas in rural areas access rates are
43 percent for drinkingwater and 11percent for electrification.
7.     The poor rely primarily on agriculture for their livelihood. Almost of half of those
who live in households that work only on their farms are poor, as compared with less
than one in five people who live in households that earn income partly from non-farm
activities or wage employment. Reliance on farming increases food insecurity. Just under
a fifth of all plots were irrigated in 2001, and barely one-quarter of these plots had year-
round irrigation. Nearly ninety percent of the population experiences inadequate food
provision at some point during the year.
8.     For those that participated in the household surveys in 2001, the most significant
improvements since 1999 were in security and the degree of political participation. Focus
group surveys undertaken by an international NGO since Independence indicate that
security i s still high on the list of priorities for most Timorese. They also reveal
frustration at the lack of employment opportunities, the lack of and quality of services in
rural areas, as well as concerns that corruption, a characteristic of the public sector before
1999, may become entrenched. Nevertheless, progress has been made in the delivery of
key public services since Independence. While primary education enrolment increased
slightly from 183,806 in the school year ending in 2002 to 185,982 in 2004, net
enrollment rates increased from an estimated 67 percent to around 75 percent. There have
also been substantial increases in the number of junior secondary school students (from
32,862 to 40,368) and senior secondary students (from 17,768 to 21,221) over the same
period. Similarly, health service delivery indicators have shown improvement, with
outpatient visits rising from 0.5 visits per capita in 2000 to 2 visits per capita in 2003.
Administrative data also indicates that DPT3 vaccination coverage i s now around 60
percent and that 38 percent of births are attended by skilled health workers, as compared
with DPT3 coverage at 50 percent and attended births at 24 percent in 2001-02.


                                                 2

B.    EconomicDevelopmentsand Outlook

9.    A gradual winding down of the international presence following independence and
slow-down in reconstruction programs have led to contraction in economic activity,
particularly in urban areas. At the same time, agricultural production has been adversely
affected by a drought. IMF estimates point to a decline in GDP of around 2 percent in
2003. Non-oil exports increased to about US$7 million in 2003, of which US$6 million i s
coffee. Coffee exports are still only two thirds of the pre-1999 levels, largely due to
depressed international market prices. Imports continue to decline, to US$174 million in
2003, as the international presence winds down: in2000 imports by humanitarian and UN
agencies accounted for more than 50 percent of imports; today they account for less than
ten percent. As a result, the external current account deficit has narrowed to US$200
million in 2003, around 60 percent of GDP. The deficit continues to be fully financed by
official transfers.
10. From late 2002 through to mid-2003, inflation hovered around 8-10 percent due to
a drought induced scarcity of agricultural goods. Inflationary pressures have since abated,
with year-on-year inflation in March 2004 reported at 3 percent. There i s some evidence
that private sector wages have started to fall owing to slackening demand. Nevertheless,
the overall wage level remains relatively high in comparison with neighboring countries,
undermining competitiveness. In this context, the Government's decision to increase
wages for day labor on road maintenance projects by 17 percent in early FY2004 was
noted with concern. The Government has now established a board to review wages policy
and i s preparing legislation on arbitration mechanisms for resolving labor disputes.
Though one of the policy options under consideration i s the establishment of a minimum
wage, the Government has confirmed its commitment to a flexible pay policy.
11. The most recent employment data are from late 2001. This suggested that a fifth of
the working age population in Dili and Baucau were unemployed. Unemployment rates
are highest among the youth (15-24 year olds), at 43 percent, and decline with age, to 17
percent among 25-34 year-olds and nine percent for those over 35. It i s probable that
urban unemployment has increased since Independence, at least partly due to the reduced
international presence.
12.   The Government continues to actively promote overseas investment in Timor-
Leste, particularly from the ASEAN region. Even though some interest has been shown
inconcessions for exploitation of natural resources, such as fisheries and forestry-which
the Government has deferred pending further review-there       has still been no significant
foreign direct investment since Independence. Indeed, data from the revenue services
indicate that the number of tax payers with turnover in excess of US$1 million, all of
which are international companies, has declined since Independence. At the same time,
the number of smaller tax payers, mostly local commercial enterprises, has increased
rapidly. This points to a shift from an economy dependent on large international service
and construction enterprises to an economy with a stronger domestic trading and service
sector base.
13.   Developments inthe banking sector have facilitated modest increases inthe number
of smaller local enterprises. A third commercial bank began operations in August 2003,
with plans to expand beyond the capital. Deposits increased from US$55 million in



                                             3

                       Table 1: Consolidated FundFinancing based on FY2004 MYBU
                                        (Following Current Savings Policy)


               Component                  FYOl    FY02    FY03   FY04    FY05   FY06  FY07  FY08   Total
                                          Actual Actual Actual    Est.  Budget        MTEF        FY05-08
Revenue                                      27.2   31.3    48.8   57.4   67.1    86.4 110.7 103.9  368.1
    Domestic Revenues                        14.1   20.5    19.3    26.1  23.0    23.8  25.0  26.6   98.4
    Timor Sea Revenues                       13.1   10.8    29.5    31.3  44.1    62.6  85.7  77.3  269.7
ConsolidatedFundExpenditures                 51.3   52.6    70.8   74.6   75.1    78.9  81.9  84.2  320.1
OverallBalance (-deficit)                   -24.1  -21.3   -22.0   -17.2   -8.0    7.5  28.8  19.7   48.0
Net Financing:                               24.2   21.3    22.0    17.2    8.0  -27.4 -29.3 -29.6   -78.3
    External Financing (Grants)              31.6   22.7    33.8    35.7   30.8                       30.8
    Consolidated FundReserves (- increase)   -4.3    2.8    -8.7   -13.9    2.9                        2.9
    Timor-Sea Account (- increase)           -3.1   -4.3    -3.1    -4.6  -25.7  -27.4 -29.3 -29.6  -112.0
Financing "Gap"                               0.1    0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0  -19.9  -0.5  -9.9   -30.3
Memorandum: Balances end of period
    Consolidated Fundreserves                 8.9    6.1    14.8    28.7   25.8   25.8  25.8  25.8
    Timor Sea Account                         3.1    7.4    10.5    15.1   40.8   68.2  97.5 127.1
Source: Ministry of Planning and Finance and WorldBank estimates.

December 2002 to US$72 million in December 2003. Bank lending started to pick up
during the second half of 2003, rising to about US$22 million by the end of the year, as
compared with just US$5 million in December 2002. Micro-finance operations are also
g.aining momentum. Nevertheless, financial intermediation remains low by international
standards and the bulk of bank deposits continue to be invested abroad.
14.    Production of liquids at the Bayu-Undan field in the Timor Sea Joint Petroleum
Development Area began in February 2004. The liquidsproject i s now expected to reach
its design daily production rate of 115,000 barrels of condensate plus 950 million cubic
feet of dry gas, during the third quarter of 2004. The second phase, scheduled to begin in
2006, involves the piping of dry gas to Darwin, Australia, for recovery as liquefied
natural gas. Although the Government i s currently negotiating with the project operators
regarding on-shore investments in support services, the principal benefit to Timor-Leste
will come from the US$3 billion in revenues that the project i s expected to generate over
a twenty-year period from 2004.

C.      Fiscal Developments and Outlook

15.     At Independence, the National Development Plan's fiscal projections anticipated
that Timor Sea oil and gas revenues would be sufficient to cover programmed
expenditures by FY2006. Forward expenditure estimates included significant allocations
for capital and development spending, which were seen as essential to support growth
and create capacity for the use of Timor Sea revenues when these came on stream. The
Government planned to use Timor Sea tax revenues for budgetary purposes but invest
royalties (First Tranche Petroleum) and investment income, pending the implementation
of institutional arrangements and articulation of a longer-term savings policy that would
take into account the much larger volumes of tax revenues and royalties to be generated
over the medium to long term.

16.     Medium-term Timor Sea revenue estimates were subsequently revised downwards
in the FY2003 and FY2004 budget exercises, with corresponding reductions in



                                                           4

expenditure estimates for recurrent and capital spending, as well as increases in financing
requirements. During the FY2004 Mid-Year Budget Update the Government announced
a US$4 million cut in expenditures as an immediate response to programmed reductions
in revenues. Expenditure limits set at the launch of the FY2005 budget process kept
budgeted expenditures close to their FY2004 level and reduced forward estimates to
FY2008 by US$30 million, in order to bring the expenditure program in line with
forward revenue estimates and reduce financing requirements. At the same time, the
Government requested that IDA and bilateral partners extend TSP support for the period
FY2006 to FY2007.
17.     Mid-way through the FY2005 budget process, Timor Sea estimates were revised
again, to take account of an acceleration of the production schedule and increases in oil
prices resulting in an increase of US$50 million in revenues over the period FY2005 to
FY2008. Domestic revenue estimates for the same period also increased by US$10
million owing to improvements in tax and customs administration. Nevertheless, the
FY2005 budget and medium-term expenditure framework continue to provide for only
modest growth, pending the approval of Sector Investment Programs and further
revisions to revenue projections during FY2006, which should provide a more reliable
basis for setting medium-term expenditure policy. On the basis of revised Timor Sea
revenues, FY2005 budget and medium-term expenditure estimates and current Timor Sea
savings policy, the financing gap for the periodFY2005 to FY2008 i s estimated at US$60
million, of which US$30 million i s be covered by confirmed and programmed TSP
financing inFY2005.

                     Table 2: Structureof ConsolidatedFundSpendingby Function, %


Function                                          FYOl     FY02  FY03  FY04      FY05     FY06     FY07     FY08
                                                   Act       Act  Act  MYBU     Budget            MTEF
General Public Services                              38       21   16      16      17        17      17       17
Defence                                               1        8     7      8       8         8        8       8
Public Order and Safety, of which                    11       13   15      14      13        13      13       13
    Police Services                                  7       10    12     I 2      11       I1       I1       10
    Judicial Services                                3        2     2       1      I         I        I        1
Economic Affairs, of which                           21       22   22     22       21        20      19       20
    Agriculture, Forestry, Fisheries                 2         2    2      2       2         2        2        2
    Fuel and Energy                                 16       I 3   12       9      8         5        4        4
     Transport                                       2         6    5       8      9        10       10       10
Environmental Protection
Housingand Community Development                      3        4     3      3       3         4        4       4
Health                                                6       10   11      11      13        13      14       14
Recreation, Culture, Religion                                        1      1       1         1        1       1
Education                                            20       22   23      21      22        22      22       22
Social Protection                                                                   0         0        0       0
Unclassified                                                         2      2       1         1        1       1
TotalAppropriations                                 100      100   100     98     100       100     100      100
Source: FYOI, FY02 and FY03from Financial Statements;FY04 MYBU; FY2005 to FY2008from draft Budget Papers of May
2004. Functional based on one-to-one pairing at program level

18.     There remains considerable uncertainty as regards Timor Sea revenues over the
medium term arising from production and price risks. Revenues largely depend on the
output of one project, B a y Undan, since the existing Elang Kakatua Kakatua North
(EKKN)project will close inthe next few years. Further changes inproduction schedules



                                                               5

are anticipated. The Government has projected oil revenues on the basis of a two-year
moving average of market expectations, with central case scenarios at US$25.41 per bbl
in 2004 falling gradually to US$23.26 in 2008. Scenarios prepared by the Ministry of
Planning and Finance highlight the impact of possible revenue outcomes. Under the
Ministry's high case scenario (prices at US$28 per bbl, closure of the EKKN field in
2006 andreserves 18 percent higher than under the central scenario), revenues inFY2005
through FY2008 are estimated at US$120 million higher than the central case,
eliminating the financing gap from FY2006. Under a low case scenario (prices at US$22
per bbl, early closure of EKKNand production reserves 16 percent lower than the central
case), revenues in FY2005 through FY2008 are US$110 million lower than the central
case, creating a financing gap of around US$130 million for the period.
19.   Faced with continued uncertainty regarding Timor Sea revenues, the Government
has adopted a prudent fiscal policy, with continued efforts to mobilize additional
domestic revenues and a modest expenditure program. Even so, additional financing
measures may be needed. Following the cuts in forward estimates during the FY2005
budget process, there i s little scope for further reductions in Consolidated Fund
expenditures. Nor i s there scope for further increases in domestic revenues given the
narrow revenue base and continued down-turn in the economy. Some room for
adjustment has been factored into forward estimates by discounting Timor Sea revenues
by fifteen percent and retaining Consolidated Fund reserves equivalent to around one
third of programmed annual expenditures. However, beyond these reserves, any further
adjustment would need to be addressed through financing measures. There are three
options for mobilization of additional financing in the case of delays in Timor Sea
revenues: extending grant-financed budget support provided b y development partners;
allowing for concessional borrowing, perhaps to finance projects that have been
identified in the Sector Investment Programs but not yet reflected in the CFET
investment program; and amending the policy on savings from Timor Sea royalties to
allow a portion of the savings to be drawn down in the near term. The recent 2004 Public
Expenditure Review advocates caution in changing the savings policy, advising the
Government of Timor-Leste to first outline a savings strategy and establish appropriate
fundmanagement arrangements,
20.   Expenditures by function are broadly in line with poverty reduction and
development objectives. Allocations for health andeducation are programmed to increase
to 35 percent of Consolidated Fund expenditures in FY2005. Allocations for general
public services, including governance bodies and core administrative institutions, which
represent a significant fixed cost for a small public sector, are expected to stabilize at 17
percent of spending. Allocations for public order and safety are also expected to stabilize
at around 13 percent of expenditures, though with a disproportionate share of funding
allocated to police and minimal financing of the judiciary, despite efforts to expand
access to and improve the performance of these services. Allocations for economic
services, particularly infrastructure and agricultural development, are extremely low and
insufficient to meet the Government's development objectives. Of particular concern are
the low levels of programmed expenditures for road maintenance, particularly given the
departure of Peace Keeping Forces and the gradual winding down of TFET financing for
the sector. Further adjustments in the composition of expenditure are anticipated in the



                                              6

lead up to the FY2006 budget, once the Sector Investment Programs have been finalized
and revised revenue and external financing estimates are taken into account.
21. The most immediate risk to the expenditure program relates to budget execution.
Budget execution tends to be slow during the first half of the year, followed by an end-of-
year surge as agencies try to expend their budget balances. This undermines expenditure
control and has led to deviation between the structure of programmed and actual
expenditures, with some priority sectors, notably education, having particularly poor
performance. In April 2004, the Government established a cross-government
commission, chaired by the Prime Minister, to address expenditure execution and
oversight issues. FY2004 budget execution was 93 percent on a commitment basis and 74
percent on a cash basis, as compared with 97 percent and 77 percent in FY2003. Over the
medium term, expenditure risks are related to: continuing pressure to increase staffing
levels beyond the limit of 17,200 permanent public sector employees; implementation of
local administration reforms, potentially leading to an expansion of the number of
institutions and employees; further transfers of equipment and installations as UNMISET
winds down; and inadequate budgeting of expenditures, notably those related to the
operating expenditures of the police coveredby UNPOL. Recent improvements in power
sector cost recovery suggest that this risk-which   figured prominently in TSP I(FY2003)
and TSP 11(FY2004)-to       the expenditure framework i s gradually being brought under
control (see para 42). Consolidated Fund expenditures on power subsidies have dropped
from 13 percent of Consolidated Fund expenditures in FY2002 (more than spending on
the health sector), to 9 percent in FY2004, with further reductions to 7.5 percent
programmed inFY2005.
22.   Timor-Leste has benefited from substantial external assistance since 2000.
Combined Sources expenditures-including        bilateral and multilateral assistance as well
as appropriated expenditures executed by Treasury from the Consolidated Fund-peaked
at around US$280 million in FY2001, equivalent to about US$340 per capita and 77
percent of GDP. There has been a sharp decline inthe post-Independence period, to about
US$196 million in FY2004 (US$225 per capita, 52 percent of GDP), owing to: a gradual
winding down of TFET rehabilitation projects; reductions in the number of United
Nations technical assistance posts; and, most importantly, the closure of most
humanitarian assistance programs and gradual termination of many bilaterally financed
rehabilitation and technical assistance programs approved before Independence. Further
reductions in external assistance flows are expected inthe medium term. Accordingly, the
Government has turned its attention to improving the effectiveness and policy
consistency of external assistance b y programming external financing alongside
Consolidated Fund resources through Sector Investment Programs and a Combined
Sources framework for the budget.

D. InstitutionalandPolitical Developments

23.   The extension of the UN Mission of Support in East Timor (UNMISET) to
November 2004, with expectation of further extension to May 2005, has focused
attention on the need for continued technical assistance support to key functions and for
progress in capacity building. Following Independence, the UN and the UNDP put in
place one hundred UN-financed "Stability Posts" and two hundred bilaterally funded



                                              7

"Development Posts" (of which around one hundred were actually recruited). In their
place, the UN Security Council has approved 58 "Critical Posts". In programming the
downsized mission, the UN has given priority to core state institutions: the judiciary has
been allocated fourteen of the "Critical Posts"; the Ministry of Planning and Finance
fifteen; state institutions, the Council of Ministers, Prime Minister's Office and Office of
the Inspector General ten. Many of the "Critical Posts" are now for advisors rather than
for in-line personnel. Greater attention i s also being given to group training activities.
While most institutions are now preparing capacity development and succession plans,
there remains an acute shortage of trained and experienced personnel for senior
management posts and in financial management fields. At the end of 2003, twenty
percent of senior (level five to seven) civil service posts had still not been filled, largely
because appropriately qualified candidates could not be identified. Consequently there i s
concern that some state institutions are ill-prepared for the hand-over of functions from
expatriate personnel and that longer-term interventions to maintain and develop capacity
will still be needed. The Government i s currently developing capacity building strategies
inkey sectors.
24.   A Joint Assessment Mission in early 2003, highlighted the fragility of management
structures in the Timor-Leste National Police (PNTL), the lack of clear operational
procedures and inadequate training of personnel. Although some progress has been made
in addressing these concerns, PNTL remains a fledging organization. Nonetheless, the
UNPolice handedover day-to-day police functions to PNTLinall districts inDecember
2003 and national command of the police force in May 2004. Australia has indicated that
it will provide continued logistical support and technical assistance to PNTL following
the handover.
25. There is mounting concern that corruption is becoming a problem. Sixty-five
percent of respondents to a nation-wide survey conducted by an international NGO in
November 2003 stated that problems of corruption and nepotism had worsened since
Independence. Press coverage of corruption issues has increased recent months. A few
corruption cases have been identified in TFET projects, evidence from the rejection of
payments vouchers by Treasury suggests that some civil servants are testing the system,
and survey data indicate that civil service discipline i s lax, particularly as regards
attendance. Although Government has repeatedly expressed a zero-tolerance of
corruption and sought to promote improved discipline, there have been no well
publicized cases of disciplinary action or criminal prosecution, nor have the reports on
investigations of the Inspector General been published since Independence, contributing
to the sense that the Government i s not tackling the problems of corruption and discipline
actively enough. In this context it i s encouraging to note that the Inspector General's
Office has confirmed that it intends to resume publication of summary reports and the
Ministry of Planning and Finance has recently suspended one official following an
internal investigation and another case, considered criminal by the Inspector General, has
been forwarded to the Prosecutor General.




                                               8

I11 THE GOVERNMENT PROGRAM

A.    The NationalDevelopmentPlan

26.   The National Development Plan (NDP) of May 2002 was prepared through a broad
consultative process involving around 38,000 people in public meetings. The strategy for
FY2003 to FY2007 has two overriding goals: to promote rapid, equitable and sustainable
economic growth and to reduce poverty.
27.   The NDP affirms the importance of a market economy, with a strategic and
regulatory role for the Government in providing basic physical infrastructure and social
services, and ensuring an enabling policy, legal and institutional environment. It
underlines the Government's commitment to open trade and investment policies and the
maintenance of macro-economic stability, with low inflation and a prudent fiscal policy.
Recognizing that the use of substantial oil and gas revenues presents a particular
challenge, the Plan signals the Government's intention to save oil and gas royalties and a
large part of tax revenues, constituting a fund in perpetuity. The Plan stresses the
importance of a lean, disciplined and transparent public sector (current approved posts at
17,200 should be set against the more than 28,000 employed in Indonesian times). While
the public sector i s seen as having a central role in the maintenance of the road network,
the power and communications networks are recognized as presenting opportunities for
private sector investment. In other areas, the Plan indicates that the Government will
avoid the temptation to pick winners by investing directly incommercial activities.
28.   Economic growth i s seen as a precondition for sustained poverty reduction, with
citizens and the private sector as the driving force and the Government as facilitator. To
ensure that growth has a significant impact on poverty reduction, the NDP presents a
poverty reduction strategy that seeks to create an enabling environment to generate
opportunities for the economicparticipation of the poor, improving their productivity and
enhancing incomes. Given that the majority of the poor are engaged in agriculture,
investments in improved agriculture-in        irrigation, improved seeds and inputs, and
sustainable management of natural resources-figure       prominently in this strategy. At the
same time, the Plan stresses the importance of developing the formal sector through
creation of an enabling environment and the informal sector through micro-credit and
appropriate technologies.
29.   Seven out of ten people consulted during plan preparation identified improvements
in education as the first development priority, with improvements in health services
coming a close second. Following these priorities, the provision of basic social services,
notably basic education and women and child health, either directly by the state or by
encouraging and helping non-governmental providers, features prominently in the
development strategy.     In education, improved access is identified as the immediate
priority, through the expansion of the primary school network, followed b y
improvements in quality. In health, priority i s given to the expansion of preventive and
promotive services at the community level.
30.   The plan also gives prominence to a transparent and accountable governance
framework. Particular attention i s given to the need to ensure security of person and
property. The Plan stresses the importance of police and law enforcement activities and



                                              9

the establishment of a justice system that i s independent, respects human rights and i s
sensitive to cultural values. Emphasis i s given to empowerment of the poor and other
vulnerable groups through popular participation in decision making and managing village
development. The Plan envisages a gradual process of decentralization, shifting resources
and decision-making authority closer to the field level, both through community
involvement in the management of facilities and through participation at district, posto
(sub-district) and Suco (village) levels. Safeguards institutions have been built into the
constitution, notably establishment of an independent Provedor (Ombudsman) and, over
the medium term, creation of an Administrative, Tax and Audit Court independent of the
legislature and the executive.
31.   Within this broad framework, the Stability Program announced by the Government
in January 2003, in the aftermath of the December 2002 riots, focuses on three areas of
the longer-term program where Government intends to have immediate impact:
governance, service delivery and job creation for poverty reduction. These are the
priority areas adopted as the pillars of the annual Transition Support Programs.

B.    Progressunder the SecondTransitionSupportProgram(FY2004)

32.   The Government's first and second Transition Support Programs were intentionally
ambitious both in the range and number of actions and timing of milestones. While this
approach obviously entailed the risk that many programmed actions would not be
completed, the annual TSP has provided Government with a framework for coordinating
and monitoring its overall program. It has also served as a framework for harmonizing
external partners support around the Government program. Now that Government
systems have been put inplace, notably the preparation and routine monitoring of agency
annual action plans and quarterly reporting matrices, and the Government has made
progress in policy development and strategic planning at the sector level, attention can
turn from in-year scheduling to a medium-term perspective. These changes in approach
are reflected inthe design of TSP I11(FY2005).
33.   Broad progress has been made in the implementation of the programs identified
under TSP I(FY2003) and TSP I1(FY2004). Progress has tended to be slowest in the
area of governance, particularly as regards the establishment of oversight and internal
control mechanisms. There have also been significant delays in the preparation of
legislation across the program, though these delays have often allowed time for
consultations and led to more appropriate design. O f particular concern i s the slow pace
of capacity building and institutional development, calling into question the sustainability
of the program. While TSP I11(FY2005) does include specific measures for capacity
buildingin the critical area of public expenditure management, as a balance of payments
and budget support operation, TSP 111 (FY2005) cannot address broader, institutional
support and capacity building requirements directly. As technical assistance personnel
depart, the pace of program implementation i s expected to slow during FY2005. The
Government, with the support of development partners, i s currently developing capacity
buildingprograms inkey sectors to address these concerns over the medium to long-term.
34.   The attached Letter of Development Policy, prepared by the Government, presents
a detailed overview o f progress in implementing the actions programmed under TSP 11



                                              10

(FY2004), as well as a candid assessment of constraints in some areas. The following
sections highlight key accomplishments and bottlenecks underTSP 11.
GoodGovernance
35.   With regard to the establishment of oversight institutions, the Organic Law for the
Office of the Provedor was approved by Parliament in April 2004. Nomination and
selection of the Provedor i s now underway. An Organic Law for the Office of the
Inspector General has been prepared for submission to the Council of Ministers. The
Office of the Inspector General has made progress inrecruiting staff, has actively pursued
a program o f inspections and, in one case, referral to the Prosecutor General. The Office
intends to resume publication of summary reports on investigations and corrective actions
during FY2005. Finalization of these elements of the legal and institutional framework
for lodging complaints and guaranteeing confidentiality will be critical in reducing
fiduciary risks and improving accountability.
36.   The Government presented an ambitious legislative program for FY2004. Some
progress has been made in prioritization and scheduling, with legislation passing through
the Council of Ministers at an accelerated pace. Nevertheless, less than half the
legislation scheduled has been finalized owing to a lack of clear procedures for
consultation and legislative drafting, inadequate technical support, and, more recently,
bottlenecks at the stage of legislative review. Further work i s needed to develop adequate
procedures and strengthen management of the policy and legislative process.
37.   The framework for public sector personnel management systems and disciplinary
procedures has been laid out in the Public Service Statute, approved by Parliament in
April 2004, though substantial work remains in outlining the supplementary legislation
and regulations. A manual covering basic personnel transactions (such as leave, transfer
and promotion) has been prepared. Most agencies have now established personnel units
or nominated staff responsible for personnel administration. Training i s underway with
support from UNDP. The Ministry of State Administration has made some progress in
establishing hard copy personnel files for each agency, but progress in this area has been
slower than anticipated. Options for computerization of the personnel system are
currently under review, but computerization will not be feasible until the hard copy files
are inplace and staff trained inthe documentation of routine personnel transactions.
38.   Following the Local Government Options               Study,   the Government has
commissioned a comparative study of decentralization experiences in three developing
countries. Follow-up work (selection of preferred option, detailed design and financial
assessment, policy development and legislative drafting) i s expected to be completed in
FY2005. This phased approach i s appropriate given the significant implications of the
decentralization process. In the meantime, Government has approved a Decree Law on
Community Authorities, providing for elected Suco councils and Suco heads. Suco
elections will take place in early FY2005.
39.   In thejustice sector, the decree laws on the Notary and Civil Registration Codes
have been approved b y the Council of Ministers, and the draft Organic Laws for Public
Prosecutors and Public Defenders are being revised following consideration by the
Council of Ministers. Regular meetings of the Superior Council for the Judiciary and the
Council for Coordination of the Judiciary have taken place. However, information and


                                             11

administrative systems continue to function poorly - it i s still not possible to track
performance against key sector indicators, such as the backlog of cases, owing to the lack
of systematic records - and some district courts function only intermittently.
40.   The development of Sector Investment Programs (SIPS) has helped consolidate
poverty reduction planning, focusing attention on priorities, sector strategies and the
coordination of external financing and consolidated fund expenditures. Where the
formulation of SIPs has preceded agreements on sector policies and development
strategies, further work will be needed in program design during FY2005. Progress has
been made in the establishment of the high-level consultative mechanism, intended to
provide a framework for civil society involvement in monitoring and review of NDP
implementation. A workshop was held in August 2003 to initiate discussions on the
mechanism's functions and composition, and a working group convened twice in June
2004 to discuss its future development.
41. In the area of public expenditure management, the Government has made
significant progress in disciplining the budget process. Total agency budget submissions
were just 3.5 percent higher than agreed agency expenditure limits, and the submissions
for education and health were in line with TSP parameters regarding minimum
allocations for primary education and maximum allocations for hospitals. The timeliness
of procurement processing appears to have deteriorated, paradoxically due to the
Procurement Unit's efforts to rationalize purchases through government-wide batching.
Procurement processing reporting was started in January 2004, but these reports do not
yet assess progress against agreed TSP procurement targets. The revised Procurement
Decree Law has incorporated recommendations from the Country Procurement
Assessment Report and i s now being revised on the basis of comments from the Council
of Ministers. The draft Budget and Financial Management Law i s also under review and
will be submitted to the Council of Ministers in early 2005. There has been no progress
in the development of a Human Resource Development strategy for financial
management functions, despite high priority given to this activity by development
partners in view of the imminent scaling down of the UNMISEToperation.
42.   The power sector management contract was signed in November 2003, and the
management team took over management of the EDTL at the end of March 2004. The
contract incorporates incentives for improved commercial performance, through a flat fee
and a bonus linked to reductions in sector subsidies. The installation o f pre-payment
meters, which started in 2003, has been stepped up: by the end of the third quarter about
7,000 meters had been installed against a target of 10,000 units. A further 17,000 pre-
payment meters have been ordered. Disconnections for non-payment are now enforced
and mechanisms put in place for the collection of arrears. Total revenue collections have
increased from US$2.9 million in FY2003 to US$3.5 million in FY2004 (reaching 82
percent of target). However, service provision remains patchy, particularly outside of
Dili:Bacau, the second largest town, has been without power for seven monthsfollowing
the breakdown of its generators.
ServiceDeLvery
43.   In the health sector, the Government has made progress in the development of
micro-policies and in achieving quarterly performance targets for service delivery (albeit



                                            12

with significant variation in performance between districts). The Ministry has established
annual district health plans as a routine tool for decentralized management of health
services. Hospital expenditures are broadly in line with the TSP limit of 40 percent of
recurrent spending, though the Ministry notes that there are difficulties in assigning
expenditures to levels of service. The Ministry exceeded its service delivery targets in
terms of immunization coverage for DPT3 and measles and outpatient attendance.
Staffing requirements are now being revised to provide for a gradual reduction in the
number of expatriates as Timorese assume responsibilities. Framework legislation for the
Autonomous Medical Supply System has been approved. However, recent press reports
of stock outages in both clinics and rural hospitals point to the need for further
improvement in support systems.
44.   The education sector policy framework has been submitted to the Council of
Ministersand work on the legal framework for the sector i s well advanced. The
Government has established curriculum working groups and prepared a draft primary
curriculum to be piloted and finalized during FY2005. The three-year training program
for pre-secondary education teachers has been launched, with much higher enrollment
than originally anticipated. A pilot program in decentralized financial management by
schools and parent-teacher associations has been launched. Financial management
training for senior management and district personnel has yet to take place, and, despite
the recent appointment of a Director of Finance and Administration, the lack of financial
management skills continues to hinder program implementation: budget execution rates
for education are significantly lower than the Government-wide average, particularly for
goods and services for basic education.
45.   The registration and identification of veterans have been largely completed. Public
debates took place in each district during February 2004 to solicit public input on the
recognition and classification of veterans.      A final report has been submitted to
Parliament and will form the basis for legislation to be drafted b y a special Parliamentary
committee.
Job Creation
46.   The Government made progress in establishing the regulatory framework for
private sector development. The law on commercial entities has been promulgated, the
draft investment law has been submitted to the Council of Ministers, a draft bankruptcy
law i s being reviewed by an inter-ministerial committee, and drafts of the insurance law
and accompanying instructions have also been completed.              Further work on this
legislative package i s needed, particularly in terms of minimizing the number of
authorizations required by investors, establishing a level playing field for foreign and
domestic investors, and ensuring that tax breaks, which are better addressed through the
tax code, establish an appropriate incentive regime and minimize fiduciary risks.In view
of the need for further technical consultations, the legislation i s likely to submitted to
Parliament in FY2005. Draft laws for the leasing of private and Government land have
been approved by the Council of Ministers for submission to Parliament. In addition, a
draft policy on land and property dispute mediation has been produced, providing a
framework for a decree law currently inpreparation..




                                             13

47.   Some progress has also been made in terms of interventions intended to create
employment opportunities. Execution of the community-based road maintenance
program was achieved on schedule through December 2003, but has since stalled as a
result of a reallocation of funds. The Government has recently taken steps to reactivate
this program. The Government continued its efforts, as part of its normal exchanges with
the Timor Sea operating companies, to encourage onshore investment by those
companies in the non-oil and gas sector. The administrative systems required for the
Emigrant Workers Program have been prepared, applications received from interested
workers, and interviews and registration are now on-going. The Government has held
talks with the Malaysian Government and interested Malaysian companies in preparation
for the dispatch of a first group of workers.
48.   In the agriculture sector, there are concerns that service delivery to farmers, in
terms of improved varieties and marketing facilities, has not kept pace with demand.
This is partly due to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries' (MAFF) limited
budget and the fragmentation of external support to the sector. The policy framework for
the agriculture sector, recently approved by the Council of Ministers, addresses some of
these concerns by providing for a more focused approach to state interventions and a
basis for coordinating external assistance. A supporting Sector Investment Program i s
currently in preparation. MAFF has also prepared a draft forestry and watershed
management policy and strategy, which has undergone extensive stakeholder
consultation. Programs on industrial crops, such as coconut and candlenut oil, progressed
slower than originally anticipated, but this i s justified by the need to complete a
feasibility study prior to field training and piloting. Although the fisheries decree law
and supporting regulations have been approved, the legislative process has outpaced the
development of fisheries management capacity within MAW. The FY2005 program
addresses the development of these management systems.

IV WORLD BANK GROUP'SSTRATEGYAND OTHERDONORS

A.     TransitionalSupportStrategy

49.   The Transitional Support Strategy, presented to the Board in November 2000,
provides the framework for World Bank assistance in the immediate post-Independence
period. A new TSS will be presented to the Board during FY2005. The TSP focus areas
coincide with the proposed TSS pillars: establishing an institutional framework for good
governance; improvements in service delivery for poverty reduction, particularly
improvements in the efficiency and effectiveness in the health and education sectors; and
job creation, especially through private sector development and agriculture.
50. Since early 2000, the principal vehicle for World Bank support to poverty
alleviation and reconstruction has been the multi-donor Trust Fund for East Timor
(TFET). TFET-financed projects in agriculture, education, health, infrastructure, private
sector   development      and community      empowerment total $170 million.        Since
Independence in 2002, as TFET winds down, attention has turned to financing the
Government's post-Independence program, laid out in the National Development Plan,
directly, through budgetary support. This support has been provided by IDA through
annual Transition Support Programs: TSP I(FY2003), TSP I1 (FY2004) and TSP I11



                                             14

(FY2005). The Government has asked IDA to schedule a TSP IV (FY2006) and TSP V
(FY2007).
51.   TSP I11 (FY2005) i s complemented by grants to support capacity building,
particularly in the area of governance, and a program of analytical and advisory work.
Grants include support to the Ministry of Planning and Finance in the areas of planning,
expenditure management and procurement, the Inspector General and the Provedor's
(Ombudsman's)      office.  Analytical   work    has included:    a Country Economic
Memorandum, which informed preparation of the NDP; a Poverty Assessment, presented
inearly 2003 and used as an inputto the design of sector programs; aPublic Expenditure
Management and Accountability Note, delivered in May 2002, and a Public Expenditure
Review, delivered in June 2004. Sector analytical work has supported the policy process,
both through analytical studies (as in the case of an education sector study) and through
technical assistance to the preparation of sector policies and Sector Investment Programs
(inthe case of agriculture, education, health, roads andpower).

B.    Other Agenciesand Donors

52.   The IMFhas been closely involved in the design and staffing of key public finance
institutions, through advisors placed in the Ministry of Planning and Finance, including
the Revenue Service and Statistics Departments, and the independent Banking and
Payments Authority. IDA and the IMFhave collaborated closely in the design of both the
TSP and capacity building strategies for the Ministry of Planning and Finance. The IMF
Article IV Consultations took place in April 2004, just before the TSP 111Appraisal
Mission.
53.   Timor-Leste benefits from substantial assistance from bilateral partners.         In
preparing the Sector Investment Program, the Government has sought to align external
financing with its development priorities. The Ministry of Planning and Finance prepares
a Combined Sources Budget, covering the Consolidated Fund, as well as bilateral and
multilateral assistance. External financing supports a substantial share of spending in all
sectors, particularly in health, agriculture and infrastructure. About one-eighth of total
external financing i s channeled as budgetary support.

C.    TSP and the IDA Financing Strategy

54. The Transition Support Program was conceived as a multi-donor, medium-term
program of balance of payments and budgetary support in support of the National
Development Plan over the three years to end-FY2005. Financing pledged to TSP for the
three-year period amounts to US$99.4 million (on a gross basis at exchange rates of
September 23, 2004), of which US$14.1 million i s financed by IDA as balance of
payments support, US$76.2 million i s bilateral financing through IDA administered Trust
Funds, andUS$9 million is parallel financing. The WorldBankprovided US$5 millionin
FY2003, as a grant from earmarked FY2003 Development Grant Facility allocations for
the Post Conflict Fund, and SDR2.9 million as an IDA grant in FY2004. IDA will
provide SDR3.4 million as a development grant for balance of payments support in
FY2005.
55.   Seven bilateral donors will provide budgetary support co-financing for the Third
Transition Support Program through World Bank-administered Trust Funds in FY2005,


                                             15

amounting to approximately US$23.4 million (gross basis at exchange rates of September
23, 2004): the United Kingdom (US$7.1 million); Australia (US$4.3 million); the United
States of America (US$4.0 million); Norway (US$3.6 million); Ireland (US$2.4 million);
Finland (US$1.3 million); New Zealand (US$0.7 million). Portugal provides parallel
budgetary   support financing amounting to US$3 million. Additional bilateral
contributions for FY2005 are currently under review. All donors, including the UN
system partners, have participated in TSP design and monitoring, regardless of whether
they provide budget support or channel funds through Bank-administered funds.

V     TRANSITIONSUPPORTPROGRAMI11(FY2005)

A.    Rationale

56.   The rationale for the Transition Support Program (TSP) i s to provide bridging
finance that will allow Timor-Leste to put in place key governance institutions,
strengthen institutions, develop day-to-day service functions and implement a modest
development program in the lean years before substantial oil and gas revenues come on
stream. The program focuses on the development of institutions and the delivery of
public services that are critical for a stable transition to Independence and the effective
use of future oil and gas wealth.
57.   On the basis of the Government's FY2005 budget submissions, budgetary and
balance of payments support financing requirements for FY2005 are estimated at US$31
million, which should be fully covered by IDA and TSP partners' co-financing. IDA'S
proposed contribution in FY2005 will be SDR 3.4 million equivalent, corresponding to
the IDA grant component, to support the balance of payments.

B.    ProgramDesign

58.   The Transition Support Program (TSP) presents a sub-set of the highest priority
actions drawn from the Government's strategic planning instruments (notably the
National Development Plan, sector policies and Sector Investment Programs) and
reflected in agencies' FY2005 Annual Action Plans (AAPs) and budgets. In consultation
with MOPF, Government agencies identified their TSP priorities, together with quarterly
milestones and performance targets to guide implementation.
59. Buildingon the experience of previous TSP exercises and Government's policy and
planning initiatives, TSP I11(FY2005) will seek to:
      a)    Focus on systems pevformance by making greater use of quantitative
            performance indicators. The development of sector management information
            systems permits a gradual shift away from milestones towards performance
            indicators, thereby reinforcing the service delivery and results orientation of
            TSP 111(FY2005). By adopting a results orientation, future TSP missions can
            focus the management systems supporting service delivery. The health sector
            program i s already formulated in this way, using a mixture of coverage and
            expenditure allocationindicators. The TSP I11program includes management
            system and service delivery performance indicators for key sectors. Where




                                              16

             feasible the definition of output and outcome indicators has been based on the
             national MillenniumDevelopment Goals (MDG).
             Zntroduce a medium-term perspective. Both TSP I(FY2003) and TSP I1
             (FY2004) were prepared and implemented as rolling annual programs.
             Recent work on sector policies, Sector Investment Programs and the
             formulation of national MDG targets and indicators has allowed the
             Government to better define its objectives for the period to FY2007. The
             medium-term objectives and outcomes are presented in TSP I11(FY2005) in
             order to guide the design andmonitoring of subsequent annual programs.
             Mainstream gender issues, Survey data reveal significant gender inequalities
             indevelopment indicators and accessto public services. There are, moreover,
             concerns that gender issues are not given adequate attention in the
             development and poverty reduction policy agenda.          In this context, the
             Government asked the TSP partners to collaborate with the Office for the
             Promotion of Equality (OPE) with a view to integrating gender-disaggregated
             performance indicators and specific issues critical to gender equality into the
             TSP process. Key issues addressed in the program include the treatment of
             domestic violence in the judiciary and police services and the integration of
             gender analysis and issues in the annual planning process of key institutions,
             notably policies and programs of the Ministry of Health, Ministry of
             Education, Ministry of Justice andNational Police.

C.    Prior Actions

60. Within the broad programpresented by Government for TSP 11(FY2004), the Staff
Assessment in the Program Document identified eight actions that were considered
critical to the achievement of the program's development objective. Five of these actions
were completed by the end of FY2004 (a to e below), and a further two actions partially
completed (f and g below):
             Establishmentof an independent oversight function through the approval of
             the Statutes of Ombudsman (Provedor de Direitos Humanos e Justiga).
             The Recipient has promulgatedthe Public Service Statute, including a
             framework for management systems and disciplinary procedures.
             The Recipient has prepared the FY2005 Annual Action Plan and presented the
             FY2005 Budget to Parliament.
             The Superior Council of the Judiciary, created b y Law 8/2002, has been
             established and has initiatedits functions.
             The Recipient's Ministry of Healthhas established annual district health plans
             as a routine tool for decentralized management of health services. The
             Recipient's Ministry of Education, Culture, Youth and Sport has developed a
             developed a pilot program indecentralized financial management by schools
             andparent teacher associations.
             The Recipient has approved the policy framework for the agricultural sector.




                                               17

      (8)   The Recipient has promulgated the law on commercial entities to promote
            private sector development.
61.   The incomplete actions are finalization of the Investment Law and the Budget and
Financial Management Laws, both of which were carried over from TSP I(FY2003), and
the policy framework for education. Following extensive consultations, a draft
investment law has been presented to the Council of Ministers for review. Completion of
this action has been rescheduled to the FY2005 program. With regard to the Budget and
Financial Management Law, a draft i s under review and will be submitted to the Council
of Ministers in early 2005 and submitted to Parliament before the end of FY2005.
Similarly, the draft education policy has already been submitted to the Council of
Ministers and will be finalized duringFY2005.

D. ComponentObjectivesand Outputsfor TSPI11(FY2005)

62.   The Third Transition Support Program for FY2005 i s set forth in the Government's
Letter of Development Policy and Action Matrix. On the basis of discussions with
Government and external partners, three thematic areas were identified for the TSP I11
(FY2005) and successor operations, reflecting NDP and Stability Program priorities:
Good Governance; Service Delivery for Poverty Reduction; and Job Creation. Some of
the activities identified in these areas follow up on activities launched under TSP I
(FY2003) and TSP I1(FY2004), including some actions that were not completed and
have been rolled over to TSP I11(FY2005). IDA provides support to and monitors those
activities within the Transition Support Program as consistent with its institutional
mandate: activities related to the strengthening of the national police force and related
judicial activities are supported and monitored by bilateral TSP partners. The key
elements of and rationale of the IDA monitored and financed program are reviewed
below.
Good Governance
63.   Oversight Institutions. Programmed actions and outputs focus on the establishment
and operation of the Ombudsman's office. Outputs include:
      (a)   Appointment of the Provedor, and establishment of the Provedor's office.
      (b)   Submission of the Provedor's annual report to Parliament.
64.   Core Govemment Functions. Programmed actions and outputs focus on the
establishment of the institutional arrangements for: a transparent policy and legislative
process, offering opportunities for public consultation; regulatory framework to address
risks of conuption and nepotism; ensuring adequate oversight over public funds through
independent audit; effectively managing oil and gas revenues and savings; and nurturing
responsible and effective media. Outputsinclude:

      (a)   Approval of a directive on the policy and legislative process, providing for
            opportunities for public consultation.
      (b)   Approval of the Organic Decree Law on the Office of the Inspector General.
      (c)   Publication by the Office of the Inspector General of summary reports on
            investigations and recommendedcorrective measures.




                                            18

     (d)    Submission of an options study on the development of an income and asset
            register to the Council of Ministers.
     (e)    Submission of a study on implementation arrangements for independent audit
            to the Council of Ministers.
     (f)    Submission of a draft Petroleum Fund Law to Parliament, together with an
            approved savings policy, prepared following an open and consultative
            process.
     (g)    Preliminary draft policy on freedom of information prepared and subject to
            consultations.
65.  Public Sector Management. Programmed actions and outputs seek to apply the
recommendations of the local government options study, to develop the legal and
regulatory framework for the civil service, and to establish an effective human resources
management system. Outputsinclude:
     (a)    Submission of a draft policy for local administration and implementation plan
            to Council of Ministers.
     (b)    Preparation of a plan for the development of supplementary legislation and
            regulations relatedto the Public Service Statute.
     (c)    Approval of disciplinary regulations for the civil service.
     (d) Development of an action plan for the establishment of a personnel registry
            and preparation of progressreports against that plan.
66.  Justice Sector. Programmed actions and outputs focus on the finalization of the
oversight framework for the judiciary, establishment of basic management systems and
improvements in system performance, as indicated by reductions in the backlog of cases.
Outputs include:

     (a)    Implementation of notary and registrations delivery systems.
     (b)    Approval of the Public Registrations Decree Law.
     (c)    Implementation of inspections b y the Superior Council of the Judiciary,
            enforcement of decisions on disciplinary cases, and publication of
            resolutions.
     (d)    Reduction inthe backlog of cases across the judicial system.
67.  Planning and Public Expenditure Management. Programmed actions focus on
capacity building in financial management, improvements in procurement and
expenditure performance, transparency and accountability to the legislature, and
promotion of gender equality through the planning system. Outputs include:
     (a)    Formulation of a medium to long-term capacity building program for
            financial management.
     (b)    Submission o f the Budget andFinancial Management Law to Parliament.
     (c)    Approval of the Public Procurement Decree Law by Council of Ministers.
     (d) Execution of the FY2005 budget in line with the appropriations schedule and
            agency procurement plans.




                                             19

      (e)   Submission of the FY2006 Annual Budget and Medium-Term Expenditure
            Framework to Parliament, on a Combined Sources basis.
      (f)   Timely publication of budget execution reports and external audit of state
            accounts as required by law.
      (g)   Integration of gender sensitive planning into the FY2006 Annual Action
            Plans of the Ministry of Health; Ministry of Education, Culture, Youth, and
            Sports; Ministry of Justice.
Service Delivery
68.  Health. Programmed actions and outputs seek to define key policies and strategies
for public health priorities, strengthen planning and resource allocation to improve
service delivery, and improve the performance of health services. Outputs include:
            Development and approval of four health policieshtrategies: Primary Health
            Care, Maternal Health, ChildHealth, and Communicable Diseases.
            Hospital expenditures less than or equal to 40 percent of the Consolidated
            Fundrecurrent budget.
            Dissemination of Hospital Annual Activity Plans to guide resource allocation
            andbudgetmonitoring.
            Preparation of six-monthly reports for all districts, focusing on service
            indicators; analysis and discussion with districts.
            Improvement of service delivery, meeting targets for delivery of DPT3 (72
            percent) and measles (70 percent) vaccinations, percentage of deliveries'
            attended by skilled health staff (50 percent), and outpatient visits per capita
            (2.4).
69.  Education. Programmed actions and outputs focus on the development of the
education policy and legislative framework, building on the recommendations of the
2003 National Education Congress; improvements in the access, efficiency, and quality
of basic education; and the strengthening of capacity in financial and administrative
management, including measures to deconcentrate spending to the field level. Outputs


            Submission of Basic Law on Education to Parliament.
            Approval of regulations on tertiary education and private schools.
            Implementation of a study on dropout and repetition and preparation of an
            action plan to address these issues.
            Distribution of teaching materials and guides to all primary schools.
            Piloting of primary education syllabuses in 32 primary school clusters.
            Implementation of pilot grant mechanism in primary schools and decision on
            follow-up, with a view to integratingallocations inthe FY2006 budget.
            Improvement in budget execution against plan, as measured by monthly
            management reports submitted by MOECYS divisions to Ministry
            management.
            Preparation of FY2005 procurement planin first quarter of FY2005.



                                             20

70. Vulnerable Groups (Veterans). Programmed actions and outputs focus on
development of the policy and legal framework to recognize veterans of the resistance.
Outputs include:

      (a)   Approval of the Veterans Policy.
      (b)   Finalization of legislation on veterans (drafted by Parliamentary Committee).
Job Creation
71. Private Sector Development. Programmed actions and outputs focus on finalization
of the key private-sector regulatory instruments, development of programs for emigrant
workers and entrepreneurship, promotion of investment and exports, and creation of
employment through community-based roads maintenance. The FY2005 program will
give particular attention to improvements in the efficiency of the regulatory environment,
including the establishment of mechanisms for consultation between Government
departments and the private sector. Outputs include:
      (a)   Submission of legislation on investment, bankruptcy, insurance, leasing and
            contracts to Parliament.
      (b)   Establishment of an Investment and Export Promotion Agency.
      (c)   Establishment of a Business Forum, with two sessions held duringFY2005.
      (d) Implementation of the community-based roads maintenance program
            according to budget and plan, and preparation of reports recording job
            creation statistics.
      (e)   Launch of a program for voluntary emigrant workers.
72. Agriculture. Programmed actions and outputs focus on the implementation of the
policy framework for the sector and launch of operational plans, development of
sustainable marine fisheries, and improvements in food production and food security,
including:

      (a)   Completion of sector policy and investment program and preparation of two
            sub-sector action plans reflecting implementation of sector policy.
      (b)   Implementation of off-shore fisheries licensing legislation and evaluation of
            first-year performance.
      (c)   Assessment of irrigated rice economics and completion of irrigation water
            policy.

E. Staff Assessmentof TSPI11(FY2005)

73.  The Government has presented a broad and ambitious Third Transition Support
Program (FY2005), building on the experience of the First and Second Transition
Support Programs. Ownership of the resulting TSP i s strong at a cross-governmental and
agency level. The Government intends that the TSP partners should monitor progress
through its quarterly reports and biannual progress missions, in order to reinforce its
internal performance management systems. Within this broad TSP program, a number of
areas that are regarded as particularly important in achieving program development
objectives and laying the foundations for a prospective Fourth Transition Support




                                              21

Program (FY2006) are highlighted. These focus on the establishment of an adequate
governance framework. The key outputs are:
            Appointment of the Provedor de Direitos Humanos e da Justica
            (Ombudsman), and establishment of the Provedor's office.
            Approval of a directive on the policy andlegislative process.
            Publication by the Office of the Inspector General of summary reports on
            investigations and recommended corrective measures.
            Submission of a study on implementation arrangements for independent audit
            to the Council of Ministers.
            Submission of the Budget and Financial Management Law to Parliament.
            Approval of the Public Procurement Decree Law by the Council of Ministers.
            Submission of a Petroleum Fund Law to Parliament, together with an
            approved savings policy, prepared following an open and consultative
            process.
            Approval of disciplinary regulations for the civil service.
            Implementation of inspections by the Superior Council of the Judiciary,
            enforcement of decisions on disciplinary cases, and publication of
            resolutions.
            Submission of the FY2006 Annual Budget and Medium-Term Expenditure
            Framework to Parliament, on a Combined Sources basis.
            Implementation of pilot grant mechanism in primary schools and decision on
            follow-up, with a view to integrating allocations inthe FY2006 budget.
            Establishment of a Business Forum, with two sessions held duringFY2005.

F. Grant Administration

74. Recipient and Grant Amount. The grant recipient i s the Democratic Republic of
Timor-Leste. The IDA Grant i s a single tranche grant of SDR3.4 million. The first and
only tranche will be made available upon Grant effectiveness. The closing date of the
Grant i s October 31,2005.
75. Implementation Arrangements. The Third Transition Support Program will be
implemented under the overall guidance of the Minister of Planning and Finance. The
program will be managed by the Vice Minister and the Ministry's National Directorate of
Planning and External Assistance Coordination (NDPEAC). The NDPEAC coordinates
the formulation of a common program with line agencies and external partners, through a
team including representatives of the Ministry's Budget Office and Treasury, together
with representatives of the Council of Minister's Secretariat and participating line
agencies. NDPEAC monitors program implementation and prepares detailed quarterly
progress reports. Treasury processes, tracks and provides regular reports on TSP
disbursements.
76. Reporting Arrangements. The Government provides quarterly progress reports on
Transition Support Program implementation, submitted within three weeks of the end of
each quarter. The Government's progress reports assess the current status of program



                                            22

components and, where implementation i s off-track, propose corrective action. Regular
meetings with external partners provide an opportunity to assess the status of donor
inputs to the program, both in terms of financing and the delivery of external assistance
inputs.
77. Monitoring Arrangements. IDA and TSP partners will field a Progress Mission in
the second and fourth quarters of FY2005 to monitor implementation and work with the
Government in rescheduling and reprioritization where implementation i s off-track. The
Progress Missions present a report on the status of the program components to the
Government and TSP partners. The IMF plays a central role in monitoring macro-
economic developments. The IMF Article IV consultations have been scheduled to
coincide with the budget process, preceding the fourth quarter TSP Progress Mission. The
results of these consultations, and on-going monitoring activities, constitute an important
resource for TSP partners.
78. Disbursement, Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements. Disbursement,
financial reporting and auditing arrangements for the IDA Grant will follow the
simplified disbursement procedures for adjustment operations.' Disbursement will not be
linked to specific purchases, and no procurement requirements will have to be satisfied.
Measures taken to ensure that the overall fiduciary policies and institutions are adequate
to proceed with support from IDA and the development partners are outlined below
(Section G).
79. The Recipient will open and maintain a dedicated Deposit Account inU S dollars in
the Banking and Payments Authority (BPA) into which the proceeds of the IDA Grant
will be disbursed for the Recipient's use. Disbursements from the Deposit Account will
follow normal Government policies and procedures. If after deposit in the Deposit
Account the proceeds of the Grant or any part thereof are used for ineligible purposes, as
so defined in the Development Grant Agreement, IDA will require the Grant Recipient to
either return that amount to the Deposit Account to be used for eligible purposes, or
refund the amount directly to IDA. The Ministry of Planning and Finance, on behalf of
the Government, will maintain an appropriate accounting system in accordance with
generally acceptable accounting principles. Ifrequired by IDA, the Deposit Account may
be independently audited on the basis of terms of reference agreed with IDA.
80. All U S dollar disbursements out of the Deposit Account will be executed by the
Government of the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste in accordance with its existing
rules and should be monitorable by IDA. The Ministry of Planning and Finance will
ensure that payments are made for eligible imports and will retain supporting
documentationrequiredfor such verification.
81. Trust Fund Arrangements. Several donors provide co-financing through IDA-
administered Trust Funds. For the purposes of the First and subsequent Transition
Support Programs, the Recipient may use Trust Fund disbursements for expenditures in
the currency of the Recipient and originating from the territory of the Recipient. The
Recipient of the Trust Funds will open and maintain dedicated Deposit Accounts in U S
dollars in the Banking and Payments Authority into which proceeds of Trust Funds will

  Operational Memorandum. Simplifying Disbursements under Structural and Sectoral Adjustment Loans,
February 8, 1996.


                                               23

be disbursed. The Deposit Accounts will be independently audited each year on the basis
of terms of reference agreed with IDA. The external audit of FY2003 financial statements
verified compliance with TSP Grant Agreements and a similar audit will be undertaken
for FY2004 andFY2005 financial statements.
82.   Where disbursementsfrom the Trust Fund are to be made in a single tranche, the
single tranche will be disbursed on effectiveness of the respective Trust Fund Grant
Agreement. Where the Trust Fund Grant Agreement specifies disbursements in two
annual tranches, the second tranche will be released on evidence of satisfactory progress
inthe implementation of the annual program.

G. FiduciaryAssessments

83.   A Public Expenditure Management and Accountability Note completed in May
2002 concluded that the basic financial management systems are sound. A number of
recommendations were made to address weaknesses in supporting systems, such as
linking the procurement and budget execution information systems and the creation of a
comprehensive asset register. These actions have been implemented.
84.   A Country Procurement Assessment was finalized in 2003. Again, many of the
assessment's recommendations, such as reductions in the thresholds for purchases
through shopping, an end to telephone shopping, and implementation of the procurement
information system have already been implemented. The assessment points to the
centralization of procurement as a cause of delays and undermining the accountability of
line agencies. Delegation has been authorized where adequate internal controls are in
place,   as in defense.     Revised procurement      legislation, incorporating CPAR
recommendations, i s currently before the Council of Ministers. The MOPF authorized a
procurement review by World Bank staff, based on a sample of procurement dossiers and
stakeholder consultations. While the overall system was found to be reasonably sound,
problems were identified in the roll-over of supply contracts and incomplete record
keeping in some cases, and the review underlined the importance of early approval of
revised legislation.
85.   A Public Expenditure Review was presented in July 2004. A PER briefing note
discussed with Government during the November 2003 TSP I1 Supervision Mission
highlighted expenditure     control issues, particularly increases in administrative
expenditures and areas o f poor compliance. The Government responded quickly to these
concerns, announcing a number of expenditure control measures during its Mid-Year
Budget Update. These include: rigorous prior review of all expenditures and
procurement; ensuring that University revenues are surrendered to Treasury; tightening
vehicle use policies and taking preliminary steps to streamline its vehicle fleet; and
adopting hardlimits as the basis for the FY2005 budget process.
86. Even though the basic financial management systems are robust, the fiduciary risk
i s considered high. There are two principal concerns: i)weak institutional capacity,
particularly given the gradual scaling down of UN-funded financial management posts
and limited experience of national personnel; and ii)the compliance environment and
risks of corruption. Little progress has been made in implementing a human resource
development strategy for MOPF originally discussed in November 2002. An IDF Grant



                                            24

to support development of an intensive training program on procurement and expenditure
management approved in mid-2003 was activated in May 2004. TSP I11(FY2005) will
give greater prominence to the implementation of the MOPF human resource
development strategy, with a view to putting in place a medium-term capacity building
program by the end of FY2005, when the UN successor operation ends. Implementation
of the expenditure control measures announced in the MYBUhas improved compliance,
though at some cost in terms of the centralization of approvals and delays in expenditure
processing, which may have compounded delays in budget execution.              The Prime
Minister has recently established an inter-ministerial technical committee to address
budget execution and oversight issues. The MOPF has also confirmed that it will
undertake a study of budget execution constraints, including transaction tracking. This
should help identify areas for streamlining budget execution procedures, procedures that
require improved enforcement and areas requiring further training.

H. Technical AssistanceRequirements

87.    Implementation of the Transition Support Program requires significant technical
assistance inputs, particularly short-term consultant services to assist in policy
formulation and the legislative process, in addition to international staff on long-term
assignments. Following the practice in TSP I(FY2003) and TSP I1 (FY2004),             the
technical assistance requirements for program outputs and source of funding have been
identified in the FY2005 Action Matrix. This allows the Government and donors to
program and track the mobilization of technical assistance in line with the Government's
program.

I. EnvironmentalAspects

88.    In accordance with IDA'S environmental policies (OP 4.01) this structural
adjustment operation i s classified as Category C (Not Required).

J.     Benefits and Risks

89. The principal benefit of the proposed Third Transition Support Program (FY2005)
i s that it provides additional resources to support the Government's core governance and
development programs in the lean years before substantial oil and gas revenues come on
stream. The TSP 111 provides these resources through a coordinated framework for
external partners providing budgetary support to Timor-Leste. This reduces transactions
costs for the Government and allows Timor-Leste to mobilize financing from partners
that would not otherwise be able to provide budgetary support. The Third Transition
Support Program (FY2005) also helps focus attention on key development priorities, both
in the design of sector programs and by highlighting cross-cutting issues, notably
measures to address corruption and the implementation of a systematic approach to
capacity buildingat the agency level.
90. Implementation of TSP 111(FY2005) will bringthe following benefits:
       a)     Strengthened govemance        environment,   particularly as   regards  the
              establishment of oversight and consultative decision making mechanisms,
              improvements in the administration of justice, internal controls and specific
              measures to address corruption, transparent financial management and the


                                              25

            establishment of the governance framework for Timor-Leste's oil and gas
            revenues.
            Improvements in basic public services, particularly improvements in the
            coverage, quality and service delivery focus of the education and health
            services,   maintenance of the core road network and improvements in
            electricity services and electricity sector financial performance.
            Job creation by putting in place regulatory framework and institutions that
            support the development of the private sector, while at the same time
            promoting programs that will generate employment in the short term, and
            developing a policy framework for the agricultural sector that focuses on
            services to farmers.
91.  Program implementation risks will be addressed by ensuring that TSP I11(FY2005)
outputs, actions and milestones are reflected in agencies' annual action plans and
quarterly reporting matrices, and so are monitored and subject to follow up by agency
management, the Ministry of Planning and Finance, and ultimately the Prime Minister.
The risks outlined below focus on the translation of TSP I11 (FY2005) outputs to
development outcomes.
92.   Limited Capacity. Capacity constraints are likely to come to the fore during
FY2005 as the number of UN-funded posts i s further reduced and a wider range of
managerial functions are assumed by national staff. The program does include specific
measures for capacity building inthe critical area of public expenditure management and,
following discussions with external partners, the Government's Action Matrix identifies
sources of technical assistance to support implementation of specific outputs. However,
as a balance of payments and budget support operation, TSP I11(FY2005) cannot address
broader, institutional support and capacity building requirements directly. As technical
assistance personnel depart, the pace of program implementation i s expected to slow
during FY2005. The Government i s undertaking capacity building programs in key
sectors with the support of development partners.
93.   Expenditure program. The expenditure program has been characterized by low
budget execution, the concentration of spending in the capital and rapid growth of
administrative overheads. TSP 111(FY2005) will follow up on recent measures to realign
expenditures with service delivery priorities, strengthen expenditure management and
gradually deconcentrate spending, including the implementation of pilot mechanisms for
channeling resources to service delivery units.
94.   Consultation, oversight and transparency, To address concerns that decision
making has been excessively centralized to and within the executive and that some
stakeholders, particularly local civil society, have been excluded, TSP I11(FY2005) seeks
to build opportunities for consultation into the legislative, policy-making and sector
strategic planning process.
95.   Corruption.There i s mountingconcern on the part of Government and civil society
regarding corruption, poor compliance and lack of discipline in the civil service. The
Government has included specific measures to strengthen civil service management,
internal controls and disciplinary procedures, as well as improved transparency in



                                               26

reporting on investigations as part of the program for TSP I11(FY2005). However, swift
implementation of disciplinary action, without favor, will be equally important in
deterring corruption.
96. Stability and security. There i s some dissatisfaction with the limited immediate
benefits from Independence, particularly as regards lack of employment opportunities.
TSP I11 (FY2005) includes activities that will generate some employment, though the
impact will be limited. Continuing high levels of urban unemployment will have to be
addressed. These risks are of particular concern given the withdrawal of UNPOL. The
Government's program includes measures supported by development partners to
strengthen police management and oversight, including mechanisms for community
consultation and independent investigation of complaints.




                                             27


                                                                                                          ANNEX 1




                          REPfJBLICADEMOCRATICADETIMOR-LESTE

                          MINISTgRIO DO PLAN0 E DAS FnVANcAS

                                 GABINETE DA MINISTRA
2004-A N 0 Da ConstruCPodo SistemaNacionnlde Educnclo,da ConstruePo e da Legitimidade dos poderesda Comunidade




Date: 27'h September 2004

Mr.James Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
1818 HStreet, NW
Washington, DC, USA

Dear Mr.Wolfensohn

 Subject: Letterof DevelopmentPolicyfor the Third Transition Support Program

    I t is with pleasure that Iwish to acknowledge the support o f the World Bank to the
   Democratic Republic o f Timor-Leste during the past two years under the three-year
    Transition Support Program pledged at the Meeting with Development Partners in
   May 2002. Provided herewith are our statement of development policy and the
    Action Matrix in regard to the ThirdTransition Support Program (TSP 111) for Fiscal
    Year 2005 (FYOS).


1.       Two years after the hand over o f governance by the United Nations Transitional
Administration (UNTAET) to the National Govemment (the Govemment), we are
graduating from the post-conflict relief, rehabilitation and recovery stage to the medium
and longer-term development phase. The Govemment's efforts during the past two years
have accomplished a lot, thanks to the generous support o f our development partners,
including the World Bank, to the Government budget - the Consolidated Fund for East
Timor or CFET - under the Transition Support Program (TSP), and through other
channels. However, we cannot be sanguine about the achievements as a large segment o f
our people continue to suffer poverty and deprivation. We go on to face daunting
challenges on the economic and social fronts to improvethe wellbeing o four people.

2.       In the past two years, we have put in place the basic govemance structures, and
some laws, regulations, procedures and practices. More needs to be done to complete the

2.       In the past two years, we have put in place the basic governance structures, and
some laws, regulations, procedures and practices. More needs to be done to complete the
establishment of an adequate govemance framework appropriate to the situation o f our
fledgling democracy. Strengthening the other three Sovereigx Organs o f State - the
Office o f the President o f the Republic, the National Parliament and the Judiciary - to
fulfil their mandates is essential. This will enable them to better fulfil their fLinctions and
guarantee that they will exercise their competencies within the checks and balances
foreseen in the Constitution. Many of the employees o f the Public Administration are
receiving training in the processes of executing their work with the assistance o f
international advisors and participating in fomial courses in diverse areas. Some expert
foreign advisers have assisted in the development o f our capacity to improve the level o f
service provided to our citizens.

I. OURPEOPLE'SVISIONANDTHENATIONALDEVELOPMENTPLAN
3.       The main features o f the development and poverty reduction strategies o f our
country and the salient achievements are presented in the following. Our country's first
National Development Plan or N D P (2003-2007) has been prepared in a highly
participatory manner and released in M a y 2002. It incorporates the vision of our people
for our country in the year 2020:'

    e    Timor-Leste will be a democratic country with a dynamic culture and a
         sustainable environment;
    e    Tinior-Leste will be a prosperous society with adequate food, shelter and clotliing
         for all people;
    e    Communities will live in safety, with no discrimination;
    e    People will be literate, knowledgeable and skilled. They will be healthy, and live
         a long, productive life. They will actively participate in economic, social and
         political development, promoting social equality and national unity;
    e    People will no longer be isolated, because there will be good roads, transport,
         electricity, and cominunications in the towns and villages, in all regions o f the
         country;
    e    Production and employment will increase in all sectors - agriculture, fisheries and
         forestry;
    e    Living standards and services will improve for all Timorese, and income will be
         fairly distributed;
    e    Prices will be stable, and food supplies secure, based on sound management and
         sustainable utilization of natural resources;
    e    The economy and finances o f the state will be managed efficiently, transparently,
         and will be free from corruption; and
    e    The state will be based on the rule o f law. Govemment, private sector, civil
         society and community leaders will be fully responsible to those by whom they
         were chosen or elected.
4.       Povei-ty reduction and the promotion o f rapid, equitable and sustainable economic
growth that improves the well being o f all our population are the overriding goals o f

' Source:Plaiining Coinmissioii, Nn/imo/Developriterir Plm (2003-2007). Dili, May 2002.


                                                                                              2

development identified by our people and incorporated i n the NDP. These are to be
achieved in the following ways:2

    0  Helping the sizeable number o f poor Tiniorese to help themselves, and to reduce
       poverty;
    0  Iniproving the position of women to achieve gender parity;
    b  Improving human resource capacities in the Government, private sector and civil
       society to manage and administer a nation state in the 21st Century;
    0  Facilitating an orderly and cost-effective transition to the new official languages
       o f Tetun and Portuguese;
    b  Transforming the agrarian subsistence production to a market-based economy;
    0  Improving productivity in all sectors through the introduction o f appropriate
       technologies and practices, reducing risk and modemising production processes;
    0  Creating an enabling environment for the private sector (including farmers,
       fisliemien, small, medium and large investors and entrepreneurs, traders and
       others) to generate the jobs and economic growth necessary to improve the
       welfare o f the people;
       Managing public finances in an efficient and pragmatic way to enhance good
       govemance and attract adequate budgetary support from donor partners, to
       provide essential services during the next three to five years, until significant
       revenue flows from the exploitation o f oil and gas reserves inthe Tiinor Sea begin
       to materialise; and
       Developing a sound administration and sustainable utilisation of the oil and gas
       revenues fioin the Timor Sea to benefit present and future generations of
       Tiniorese.
5.     The next section presents the development strategy and the macroeconomic
outlook, while Section 111focuses on the poverty reduction strategy and the prospects for
reducing poverty. Section IV enumerates the progress made on the actions agreed to
under the Second Transition Support Program or TSP 11. The major actions proposed to
be taken over the next 12 months are highlighted in Section V and the actions are listed in
the Action Matrix, presented in the Annex.

11.    DEVELOPMENTSTRATEGY AND MACROECONOMIC OUTLOOK

6.     Our development strategy presented in the NDP focuses o n growth, employment,
improved living standards, and better delivery of public services to our people, in a
culturally appropriate and environmentally sustainable manner. The broad principles that
guide our actions include the following:

            Maintenance o f a market economic system, with strategic and regulatory roles
            for the Government, including the provision o f a social safety net during
            difficult times;
            Strong role for the private sector in development.


'lbid

                                                                                          3

            Open trade and investmentpolicies. The Government's role will be limited to
            ensuringthat physical and social infrastructureand services are provided, and
            to establishing a growth enabling policy and legal environment, including
            provision of macroeconomic stability.
      0     Effective, transparent and corruption-freemanagement of the economy and
            public finances.
            Pursuing a fair and equitable economy and society with equal opportunities
            and improving livingstandards for all.
            Developing in ways that preserve the environment, traditions and custon~sof
            Tinior-Leste.
            Increasing public investment in the creation of social and physical
            infrastructureand launchinga base for development.
7.      The NDP visualised a decline in the economy in FY03, the first year of the Plan,
largely due to the phased withdrawal of UNTAET and the tailing-off of the operations
under tlie Trust Fund for East Tinior (TFET). The worst hit sectors during the downturn
have been transport, communications,trade, hotelsand restaurants, utilities, construction,
finance, rents, business and govemment services. Employment in the formal sector
declined putting downward pressure on wages. Infoimal sector employment has
expanded, albeit at a slow pace. Despite these pressures, the Government continues to
cap the number of peimanentpublic sector employees at 17,200. The Plan anticipatedthe
economy to recover in FY04 and continue to grow at a brisk pace thereafter. However,
the projected recovery in FY04 proved elusive as the economy continued to decline, in
part due to the weak maizeharvest and the scalingdown and/or withdrawal of enterprises
that provided services to the foreign enclave portion of the economy. GDP i s projectedto
decline in FY05 as well, and stage only a modest recovery in FY06, with higher level of
improvement in FY07. Overall, GDP at the end of the Plan i s projected to be no higher
than that at the beginning of the Plan. It is hoped that broad based economic growth
would reach andpossibly exceed the 5% per annum target in the first NDP at least during
tlie secondNDP.

8.      Public spending through CFET and off-CFET has been the main driving force of
the economy. I t has been the catalyst to generate and sustain economic activity in
virtually all sectors with the possible exception of agriculture. This makes a good
argument for ongoing donor budgetand project support to help smooth out what will be a
difficult transition in our economy. After rapid growth in FY03, CFET expenditures
adjusted for inflationremain stable. Domestic revenueswhile growing are modest. In the
meantime, total combined sources expenditures (on and off-CFET) are projected to
contract significantly over the course of the Plan period, as UN and TFET contributions
peter out and some bilateral assistance is scaled down. We are formulating Sector
InvestmentPrograms (SIPS) to gauge the projected resource demands on and off-CFET,
in a combinedsources framework.

9.      As development partners recall, the rationalefor budgetary support under TSP has
been to provide resources to bridge the fiscal gap during FYs03, 04 and 05, with the
expectation that the projected sharp increase in the flow of Timor Sea oil revenues



                                                                                        4

(Timor Sea revenues) from FY06 onwards, together with the domestic non-oil revenues,
would be adequate to fund the projected expenditures thereafter. However, the projected
"sharp increase" in the flow o f Timor Sea revenues has been delayed. In the FY04 Mid-
Year Budget Update, which was based on the September 2003 projections o f the Timor
Sea revenues, the CFET Budget financing gap in FY05 was projected to be
approximately $40 million, with that in the following two years (FYs 06 and 07) at about
$1 16 million. Accordingly, in early 2004, the Government sought $10 million in
additional budgetary support over that anticipated under TSP 111(about $30 million).

10.     However, recent projections on Timor Sea revenues are more favourable due to
earlier production o f oil (technical factors) and substantially higher world oil prices. As a
result, the Government wishes to adhere to the original request o f about $30 million
equivalent under TSP 111, and utilize the improved domestic non-oil revenues, Timor Sea
tax revenues and a portion o f the carry over o f CFET balances to cover the fiscal gap in
FY05. The fiscal gaps in FYs06 and 07 too have been reduced. However, sensitivity
analysis on the Tinior Sea revenues illustrates that the fiscal situation could reach a
favourable surplus o f about $90 million under the high case scenario (positive technical
factors and high world oil prices) and a deficit o f around $138 million under the low case
scenario (negative technical factors and low world oil prices). The Govemment considers
that it is important to protect the CFET budget from fiscal shocks by maintaining a
cushion o f savings in the Consolidated Fund Account that would be used for stabilization
purposes before the Petroleum Fund and new savings policy are put in place.
Accordingly, the Goveinnient sees a further need for budgetary support at recent levels
for another two years beyond the current three-year TSP, and requests development
partners to extend such support. This would provide a cushion against Timor Sea oil
production and price volatility. The Govemment assures development partners that the
resources received under budgetary support would be applied to priority investment
projects identified in consultation with development partners if the high case scenario on
the fiscal situation materializes.

111.    POVERTY REDUCTION STRATEGY

A.    Growth and Poverty Reduction
1I. Economic growth and poverty reduction are t.he overall goals of the development
o f our country. Our people - including farmers, fishermen, traders, labourers, workers,
and micro, small, medium and large investors - are the main actors that generate
economic growth throughtheir innovation, skills and work. Our Govemment is primarily
a facilitator in this process. The assets and efforts on behalf of all, and particularly the
poor are necessary for our country to accelerate its economic growth, and sustain
development. This i s all the more significant, since the poor constitute more than two-
fifths of the population. Thus, we recognise our people as our most valuable resource.

12.     The poor should participate and contribute to our coimtry's economic growth and
development. Only a small minority (including orphans, the disabled, widows, and other
vulnerable groups) require either temporary or continuing direct transfers o f income or
other help to lead a reasonable life by the standards o f the Timorese society. Since such
direct transfer mechanisms have yet to be put in place, it might be appropriate to add that


                                                                                             5

their implementation would require further analysis, not least regarding the fiscal
sustainability of such mechanisms. The challenge the Govemnient faces is to provide an
enabling environment for the poor to participate in, and to partake of the benefits o f
developnient, while assisting the few that cannot help themselves.

13.     The Government understands that a dynamic relationship exists between
econoniic growth and the reduction of poverty. Or in another way, that economic growth
must be an instrument for the reduction of poverty, as the reduction of poverty will
contribute and support economic growth. Accordingly, the Poverty Reduction Strategy o f
the country is fomiiilated on the basis of this approach. It is understood that rapid
economic growth is a prerequisitefor sustained poverty reduction. The main elements o f
the PovertyReductionStrategy comprise the following:

          Create an enabling environment to generate opportunities for the economic
          participation of the poor, improving their productivity and enhancing their
          incomes;

       m  Provide and/or encourage and help others to provide basic social seivices to the
          poor on affordableterms;
          Provide, or help to provide, security of person andproperty, andprotectionfrom
          unforeseen shocks and disasters (vulnerability), including food security at both
          the householdandnational levels; and
          Empower the poor and other vulnerable groups throughpopularparticipation,to
          decide upon and manage development in their aldeias, sucos, sub-clistricfs,
          districts andthe country.
14.     Elaboration of these four elements o f the strategy and their links with activities
undertakeninthe various planningsectors are illustratedinthe followingsections.

B.    Opportunitiesfor Economic Participation
15.     The poor in our country are engaged primarily in agriculture and improving
productivity in the sector i s recognized as a highpriority.The Government has continued
with significant     interventions to improve agricultural productivity, including
rehabilitation and construction of irrigation systems; distribution of improved seeds of
crops, fi-uits and vegetables; vaccination o f livestock against pests and diseases; and
sustainable management of watersheds. Improvementsinmarketingand infrastructureare
also planned, as is the provision of support services.

16.     Alongside agriculture, a large proportion of the employed in our country are
dependent on the informal sector, in both the urban and rural areas, and a majority o f
them are poor. Consequently, increasingopportunitiesand improving productivity in this
sector are crucial for enhancing the country's economic performance and reducing
poverty. Government initiatives include training and supply of micro credit. A third
importan1area is the formal private sector, in manufacturing,constructionarid real estate;
trade, transport, tourism, and financial and other services. Priority policies and laws and
regulations are being put inplace to improve the enablingenvironment, and to encourage
both domestic and foreign privateinvestment inthe country.


                                                                                         6

17.      A fourth area is the provision o f infrastructure - including roads and bridges,
ports and airport(s), electricity, telecommunications and postal services. These are critical
for the movement o f people and goods, an orderly and efficient functioning o f markets,
and for a sustainable development o f the country. The Government is already
implementing a number o f measures to maintain and improve the country's
infrastructure, drawing on both CFET and other resources. The final area relates to
macroeconomic policies and the managemeni of puhlic finances, including public
expenditure allocation. In this area, pro-poor macroeconomic and public expenditure
policies are being implemented.

18.      Remunerative employment including self-employment is the main mediating
factor for people to graduate out o f poverty. Employment in the formal sector has been
declining while the creation of new jobs in the informal sector has been modest. A t the
same time, the labour force has been increasing with about 15,000 new entrants each
year. The economy has been declining and the population is growing rapidly. As a result,
the incidence o f income poverty i s likely to increase significantly during the Plan period.
Rejuvenating the economy and expandingjobs are highpriorities o f the Government.

C. Basic Social Services
19.     The provision and effective use o f basic social services i s an important means to
break the poverty cycle. Duringthe past two years, we have been successful in enhancing
our people's access to social services including basic education, primary health care,
clean water and safe sanitation. Whilst access to schooling improved considerably, the
quality o f teaching and leaming has been low. A fourth o f children o f scliool age are not
enrolled, although gross primary enrolment rate is high, largely due to the large number
o f overage children. Repetition and dropout rates are high. Access to and use o f public
health services remains limited due to the inadequate number o f trained personnel and
facilities (supply constraints), coupled with poor access and cost (demand constraints).
For example, in the rural areas, reaching the nearest health facility requires-on  average  -
a 70-minute walk. After reaching the facility, there is no guarantee that a doctor or nurse
will be available. Access to safe water and sanitation although improved is still low by
regional standards, and the quality o f much o f the housing stock is inadequate.

D.      Security
20.     The third element o f the Poverty Reduction Strategy is concerned with ensuring
the security o f person and property (against violence, destruction and theft), food
security, livelihood or job security, and protection against unforeseen calamities -
including natural disasters such as floods and droughts, as well as economic shocks and
political and social disturbances. The security situation has improved considerably in the
past two years. The National Police (PNTL) has been trained and has taken over policing
functions in all districts by the end o f 2003 with the assistance o f UN Police advisors.
Also, the Border Patrol, Immigration and Maritime Units o f the PNTL, as well as
Customs have been functioning. The hand over o f the command o f the policing function
fiom the United Nations Mission o f Support to East Timor (UNMISET) occurred on 20
May 2004. Further external assistance to strengthen the capacity o f the P N T L is foreseen
in the coming years.



                                                                                           7

21.     Reconciliation and reintegration of refugees and other groups at risk has
continued, with assistance from among others, the Commission for Reception, Truth and
Reconciliation (CVAR). The work o f C V A R has been largely completed and the
Commission i s expected to present its report to the President o f the Republic by October
2004, when its mandate i s scheduled to conclude. The NDP also emphasises the
identification and location of vulnerable groups such as widows and orphans of the
resistance, veterans, the traumatized and the mentally ill.In 2003, the President o f the
Republic appointed two Conmissions to address the veterans' issues and their reports
were submitted in June 2004.

22.     Food security i s an important concern for our population in general, and for the
poor in particular. The findings from the Poverty Assessment show severe stress in food
availability during December and January, the lean months between the rice and maize
harvests, with significant stress during November and February. Coping strategies
mentioned by our people include reducing consumption (eating two meals a day instead
of three), substitutingmaize for rice, and cassava and sweet potato for food grains, selling
livestock, and bonowing from relatives and friends. Commercial imports o f rice average
at between 40,000 mt to 50,000 mt annually. We continue to seek food aid from our
development partners to tide over the situation. Food security continues to be a major
concern at the household and national levels.

23.     Security froni natural and man-made disasters is a further dimension that we have
been addressing with the help of our development partners. A recent example is the onset
o f the rainy season, which resulted in significant damage to the roads and bridges,
impeding access to several areas o f the country. Duringthe past three to four years, much
o f the periodic maintenance and rehabilitation work was undertaken by the engineering
battalions o f the UN Peace Keeping Force (PKF) and contractors financed and supervised
by TFET projects. With the scaling-down o f the PKF and the impending departure of the
remaining Force, winding down o f TFET, and the tight CFET budget allocations in
FY04, the road maintenance operations have tailed o f fand road conditions deteriorated.

24.     Security from economic shocks is an area that also needs attention. Some o f the
more significant recent economic shocks include the scaling down o f UNTAET
operations in 2002 and those o f UNMISET in 2003-04, tailing-off of TFET and other
bilateralprojects, and the likely decline in overall extemal assistance. The impact of these
i s being felt not only in the urban areas o f Dili and other district towns, but also in the
hinterlands that formerly received resources and provided goods and services to the
externally assisted projects and their personnel. Some modest funds are channelled to the
people at the grassroots level through such initiatives as the Program for Community
Capacity Building, the Micro-Finance Program and other rural development projects
supported by bilateral and multilateral partners including RESPECT and the Small
Enterprises Project under TFET.

E.     Participation
25,     The fourth dimension, participation, embraces the development o f capacity to
give "voice", and create conditions for the participation o f the poor inmaking decisions,
both about their future and the future o f their communities, on economic, social, cultural


                                                                                            8

and political issues. Popular participation is a widely accepted norm in our country and
examples include community decision-making in the management of water supply, road
maintenance, watershed protection and husbandry o f natural resources. Also, a pilot
program on community management o f schools b y school councils or parent-teacher
associations is beinglaunched.

26.     It is recognised that decentralisation is an important means to ensure the sustained
participation of our people, including the poor and women, in local affairs. The
forthcoming elections for Suco (village) Councils and Chiefs, which will take place soon,
are a step in this direction to legitimise the local authorities at the grassroots and promote
democratic decision-making. Also, we are examining decentralization options based on
coniniissioned studies and experiences in other countries.

27.     It i s a challenge to inform and educate our people on the roles, functions and
activities o f the different organs o f the Govemment, donors, NGOs and other civil society
organisations, as well as their rights and responsibilities. Informed participation o f our
people requires civic education and improvements in education and communication. Such
efforls are continuing through Government channels and civil society organisations
supported by our development partners. Additionally, separate programs on civic
education are being run through the mass media, in partnership with civil society
organisations. At the same time, the need for developing viable channels to facilitate the
flow o f infoimatioii from the people 011 the ground to policy makers, Goveinnient
fLinctionaries and stakeholders i s acknowledged.

28.     The Government recognises the importance o f an informed population free o f
mistrust and fear, particularly in the districts, sub-districts and Sucos, to promote their
involvement in development and commitment to implement the NDP.Beginning in 2003,
the Government has been organising Open Goveniment Forums in the districts, sub-
districts and Sucos, with the intention o f showing leadership, instituting simple and direct
fomis o f mutual communication, to listen and guide the people. The Open Govemment            ,
forums help the Government take into account the people's concenis in the developnient
o f programs, and gauge the level o f participation and commitment of the people in the
programs. A mechanism involving various Ministries and Secretaries of State has been
established to pursue and implement the actions arising from the Open Govemment
Forums.

29.     To complement the outreach efforts and in accordance with the provisions in the
NDP, the Govemment initiated the process o f creating a multi-stakeholder High Level
Mechanism to bring forth and discuss priority development concerns and propose options
lo address them. A national workshop on the Mechanism was organized inAugust 2003,
which brought together senior Govemment officials including fi-om the districts and
representatives o f various Timorese civil society organizations including the Church and
the private sector. Also, exteinal development partners including international NGOs
participated as observers. The workshop participants constituted a comniittee/working
group to take the process forward. The committee comprises eight persons, seven o f
whom are drawn from civil society organizations and one from the Government. The
Government has indicated its readiness to support the committee as appropriate.



                                                                                             9

JV. PROGRESSUNDER SECONDTRANSITION SUPPORT PROGRAM
30.     The TSP actions have been fully incorporatedin the Government'sannual action
plans (AAPs) and quarterly reporting matrices (QRh4s).   In fact, the TSP I1actions have
been drawn from the FY04 AAPs of the Ministries and Agencies, forming an inipoitant
sub-set. Progress on the TSP actiuns is monitoredand reportedas a part of the quarterly
reports on implementation of the AAPs. Actions under TSPs Iand I1have been rather
ambitious, given the fledgling state of the Government institutions and the limited
capacities of the civil service. Also, the emphasis has been on establishment o f
institutions and enactment o f laws, althoughdelivery of education andhealthservices has
been highlighted. The main thrust o f the programs has been to accomplish specific tasks,
within the one-year time frame of each program.

3 1.    Overall, significant progress has been made in the implementationo f the actions
under TSP 11. The progress has been good in the areas o f service delivery in education
and health and preparation and adoption of organic laws for various Ministries and
Agencies. In tlie area o f governance, the Government made significant progress in the
creation of supervisory meclianisnis. The Office o f the Prime Minister initiated draft
legislationto establish the Office of the Provedor (Ombudsman), which was approved by
the National Parliament in April 2004. This was completed in less than two years, which
i s a "world record."

32.     Also, as a result of the efforts by tlie Govemment, the Parliament and the
President of the Republic, the Court of Appeal was reestablished. However, progress in
service delivery has been slower than expected, particularly in regard to the capacity of
the COUIIS. The Courts continue to fiinction with probationaryjudges who still need more
qualifications. The Court o f Appeal is temporarily assumingthe functions of the Supreme
Court and the HighAdministrative, Tax andAudit Court.

33.     There were considerable delays in the preparation and enactment of laws,
particularly as there were capacity limitations. Delayswere often causedby the necessity
and accomplishmentof wide consultations with stakeholders. The development of a clear
legislative process, which would provide for a policy statement as the basis for
consultations, may be the most appropriate way to deal with these problems. It is
necessary to provide concrete support to strengthen the capacity of institutions, such as
the Office of the President of the Republic, the National Parliament, the Courts, and the
Office of the InspectorGeneral within the Office of the PrimeMinister..

34.     TSP 11 focused on the three thematic areas of good governance, service delivery
for poverty reduction and job creation reflecting our NDP and Stability Program
priorities. A summary o f progress made on the salient activities under TSP I1i s provided
in the following.




                                                                                        10

Good Governaiice (TSP 11)
35.      Oversight Imtitutions: The organic law for the Office of the Provedor was
approved by the Parlianient in April 2004. The Office of the InspectorGeneral (reporting
directly to the Prime Minister) has actively pursued a program of inspections and has
submitted reports recommendingadministrative measures to strengthen internal controls
and, in one case, referral to the Prosecutor General. Dissemination of the reports will
resume in FYUS. The Government's legislativeprogram for FY04, including legislation
h a t was carried over from the previous year, has provento be ambitious. Some progress
has been made in prioritization and scheduling, with the pace o f legislation passing
through the Council of Ministersaccelerating.

36.     Public Service: The Parliament approvedthe Public Service Statute in April 2004.
It provides the framework for public sector personnel management systems and
disciplinary procedures. A manual covering basic personnel transactions (such as leave,
transfer and promotion) has already beenprepared. The Ministry of State Administration
has made some progress in establishinghard copy personnel files for each agency (other
than those with delegated personnel management registers, including the Ministry o f
Education, Culture, Youth and Sports) using a simple template. Options for
coniputerisationofthe personnelsystemare currentlyunder review.

37.     Decentrulizatioiz: Following the local government options study, the Government
has commissioned a comparative study of experiences in three developing countries.
Follow-up work including the selection of a preferred option, policy development,
detailed design and financial assessment, and legislative drafting is     expected to be
completed in FY05. The phased approach i s appropriate given the significant fiscal,
institutional and humanresource implicationsof the decentralizationprocess.

38.     Jzurice Sector: The Council of Ministers has approved the Decree Laws on Civil
Identification and Notariate. The proposals regarding the Civil Registry Code and the
Organic Law of the Public Prosecutor have been submitted to the Council o f Ministers.
Regular coordinationmeetings have been happeningbetween the pillars of the system of
Justice  - the Ministry of Justice, the Superior Council for the Judiciary, the Public
Prosecutor's Office andthe Office of the Public Defenders. However the backlogof cases
and the intermittent functioning of some courts are still a cause o f concein. In order to
make the applicable legislation dearer, the Government with bilateral assistance from
Portugal, has initiated drafting the Penal Code, the Penal Procedures, Civil Code and the
Civil Procedures for submissionand approval by the Council of Ministersand submission
to the Parlianient, in order for these to be implementedas the Civil and Penal Codesof an
IndependentTinior-Leste.

39.      By initiativeof the Office of the Prime Ministerthroughthe Adviser to the Prime
Minister on the Promotion of Equality, and after extensive consultations with various
stakeholders, a law  011 domestic violence was drafted. The draft was submitted R number
o f times to the Council of Ministers for consideration, and has been sent to the Ministry
of Justice to ensure conformity with projectedclauses on processes and penalties within
the criminal code.



                                                                                        11

40.     Public Expenditure Management: The Govemment has made significant progress
in expenditure control and disciplining the budget formulation process, and some
progress in strengthening the procurement system. However, progress on institutional
development milestones identified in TSP I1 has been lagging. The FY05 budget
submissions by line Ministries and agencies were in line with the TSP parameters as
regards allocations for education and health, primary education and hospitals. The
tiineliness   for   processing procurement       requests  seemed to    have deteriorated,
paradoxically due to the efforts o f the Procurement Unit to rationalize purchases through
govemnient-wide batching. The revised Procurement Decree Law was submitted to the
Couiicil of Ministers and was sent back for adjustment and improvement. The revised
draft law will be resubmitted to the Council o f Ministers in forthcoming sessions. The
draft o f the revised Budget and Financial Management Law i s being considered within
the Ministry o f Planning and Finance and i s expected to be submitted to the Council o f
Ministers in January 2005. It will be submitted to the Parliament in FY05. Progress      011
the development of a Human Resource Development strategy for financial management
ftrnctions has been delayed.     The Government remains comiiiitted to developing the
strategy in FY05.

41.      The first national Census o f Timor-Leste was successfully completed and the
preliminary results were released on 14 September 2004. Also, the Automated System
for Customs Data or ASYCUDA has been established and made operational in FY04,
leading to the provision of more reliable and timely trade statistics as well as significant
improvements in customs revenue collection.

42.     Power. Sector.: The management contract was signed in November 2003 and the
management team was fielded in January 2004. The team took over management o f the
power utility, EDTL, by the end o f March 2004. Revenue collections showed an upward
trend with realizations at or above the level o f collections in FY03, but significantly
below the FY04 MYBU budgeted target o f US$4.3 million (which in turn is US$)
niillion lower than original budget estimates). Installation of the 10,000 prepaid meters
came across initially with little comprehension on the part of consumers, as a result there
was certain level of resistance but the pace o f installation has accelerated in recent
months, with more than 7,000 meters installed by the end of April 2004. These measures,
together with those aimed at reducing costs through load shedding, are expected to lead
to significant improvement in the sector's financial position before the end o f FY04.
Service provision remains patchy, particularly outside of Dili. Baucau, the second largest
town has now been without electricity for several months following the breakdown o f
the generator. This was as a result of a failure to maintain the equipment.

Service Deliveryfor Poverty Reduction (TSP 11)
43.     Health: The Ministry of Health has made good progress in the development of
micro-policies and in achieving quarterly perfoiniance targets for service delivery, albeit
with significant variation in performance between districts. Utilization of health services
i s low and the Government recognizes that this is partly due to demand factors, such as
distance to facilities and availability o f personnel and medical supplies. The Ministry has
now established annual district health plans as a routine tool for decentralized



                                                                                          12

managementof health services, updatingthe planningguidelinesbased on the experience
of the past two years. Hospital expenditures are thought to be broadly in line with the
TSP limit of 40 percent of recurrent spending, though the Ministry notes that there are
difficulties in assiging expenditures to levels of service. The Ministry has also revised
its staffing requirements in order to accommodate a gradual reduction in the number of
expatriates as Tiniorese assume responsibilities and transferring some of the personnel
costs     from the TFET to the CFET budget. The Framework legislation for the
Autonomous Medical Supply System has been approved.

44.     Ehrcutzon: Following a National Congress in November 2003, the Ministry of
Education, Culture, Youth and Sports has finalized a draft education sector policy
framework and preparation of the legal framework for the sector is well advanced. The
Government has established curriculum-working groups. Recently, a draft primary
curriculum has been presented to the Council of Ministers. The three-year training
program for pre-secondary education teachers has been launched, with 1,000 teachers -
or around one in six - participating, which i s well above the 300 originally planned.
Some progress has also been made on the development of a financial model for
decentralized financial management by schools and Parent Teacher Associations(PTAs),
with preparations underway for the launch of the pilot program by the end of FY04.
However, the scheduled training for senior management and district personnel in
financial management procedures has yet to take place. Lack of financial management
skills continues to hinder program implementation; with budget execution rates for
education significantly lower than the Government-wide average, particularly on goods
and services for basic education.

45.      Veterans: The registration and identification of veterans by the Veterans'
Commissions has been largely completed on schedule at the end of March 2004.
Following public debates in each district in February 2004 io solicit public input on
criteria and suggestions on policy for recognition of veterans, the lists of ex-combatants
and veterans were compiled and a final report was submitted to the President o f the
Republicin mid-2004.

Job Creation (TSP 11)
46.     Private Sector; Progress across most of tlie private sector development actions
has been good, notably in the preparation o f enablinglegislation, such as the Company,
National Investment, Foreign Investment, Bankruptcy and Insurance Laws. The law on
commercial entities has been approved by the Parliament and promulgated by the
President.The InvestmentLaw has been drafted and presented for review by the Council
of Ministers. It is being revised incorporating their amendments. A draft of the
bankruptcy law i s before an inter-ministerial committee for review. The Banking and
Payments Authority has completed a draft of the insurance law and submitted it to the
Council of Ministers. Draft laws for the leasing of private and State propertyhave been
prepared and approved by the Council of Ministers for submission to the Parliament.    111
addition, the second phase of the Land Law Project had produced a draft policy on land
and property dispute mediation, underpinning a draft law, which is already under
Govemment review. It is expected to be enacted before the end of FY05. The



                                                                                       13

Government continued its efforts, as part o f its normal exchanges with the Tinior Sea
operating companies, to encourage investment by the companies in onshore non-oil and
gas sectors.

47.      With the support of a short-term UNDP adviser, the administrative systems
required for the Emigrant Workers Program have been prepared and a further mission to
Malaysia (and eventually other countries) i s being planned by the Secretariat of Labor
and Solidarity to organize the dispatch o f the first batch of Tiniorese workers under the
voluntary program.

48.      Agriculture: The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries has developed
the Agriculture Sector Policy and Strategy, which was approved by the Council o f
Ministers in September 2004. The decree law and regulations on fisheries have been
approved by the Council o f Ministers, and the Ministry i s in the process o f establishing
the necessary mechanism and structures so that the licensing process can begin in FY05.
Also, the Ministry has prepared a draft forestry and watershed management policy and
strategy, which have undergone ample public consultation. Programs on industrial crops,
such as coconut and candlenut oil are progressing slower than originally anticipated, but
this i s justified by the need to complete a feasibility study prior to field training and
piloting.

V.       PROPOSALSUNDER THIRD TRANSITIONSUPPORT PROGRAM
49.      As in the case of TSP 11, the TSP I11 (FY05) actions are based on the priorities
and policies identified in the Government's strategic planning instruments, including the
National Development Plan and sector policies and Sector Investment Programs. The
priorities are reflected in the FY05 AAPs and budgets o f the Ministries and Agencies,
and the TSP I11actions form a subset o f these.

50.      Building on the experiences under TSPs Iand I 1and the Government's policy and
planning initiatives, the TSP I11 adopted a medium-term perspective within the
framework o f a combined sources budget approach. The mainstreaming o f gender is
introduced in TSP 111 with increased emphasis on capacity building. Also, the Program
focuses on systems performance by making greater use of quantitative performance
indicators. I t i s agreed that the three focus areas o f good goveinance, service delivery for
poverty reduction and job creation will be continued under TSP 111 and successor
operations. Most o f the activities identified in these areas follow-up on measures
launched under TSPs Iand 11. They include some actions that were not completed and
have been rolled over to TSP 111.

Good Governance (TSP 111)
5 1.      Governance Issues: In preparation for the TSP 111appraisal mission and with the
knowledge o f the Goveinment, the World Bank prepared a draft paper         011 "Timor-Leste:
Key Issues in Govemance," which played a catalyiic role in the discussions on the
goveinance area. The paper highlighted the strength o f the Executive (the Goveinment)
relative to the other three sovereign Organs o f State - the President o f the Republic, the
National Parliament and the Judiciary. It argued for strengthening the latter tlirough,



                                                                                             14

among others, adequate budgetary resource allocations, to enable them to better fulfill
their functions as visualized in the country's Constitution.The Government will continue
to protect the budgetary allocations to these independent institutionsand in this sense will
include a provision in tlie proposed Budget Law. The Government feels that priority
should be given to the creationo f a solid base of capacity, primarily in the District Courts
in the first instance and the Court of Appeal thereafter, in order to improve their
perfomiance in their service delivery functions as foreseen in the Constitution.
Developmentpartners are requestedto provideadditionalassistanceand adequatesupport
to the institutions mentioned above.

52.     Giridelinesfor Policy and LegislciriveProcess: The need for a well-definedpolicy
and legislative process to ensure effective management o f a heavy policy and legislative
workload and provide opportunities for public consultation has been recognized under
TSP 11. The Secretariat of State for the Council of Ministers is in the process of
mobilizing the necessary technical assistanceto accomplishthis task. Procedureswill be
defined during FY05, as well as the routine scheduling instrument that constitutes the
legislativeprograni,

53.     Provedor: As indicated above, the organic law for the Office of the Provedor,
drafted by the Advisor on HumanRight through the initiative and direction of the Prime
Minister, was approved by the Parliament in April 2004, and has been promulgatedby
the President. The Parliament i s in the process of electing the Provedor.Once appointed,
the Provedor i s expected to operationalise the office through systematic collection of
infomiation on human rights abuses and administrative malpractices, including
corruption, receiving and responding to complaints from the public, together with
inforniation campaigns to increase public awareness of citizens' rights and means of
redress. The Office of the Provedor will require various types of support in to order to
perform its functions. Developmentpartners are requestedto provide assistance.

54.     Public Service: Preparations are under way for implementation of the recently
approved Public Service Statute. It provides a framework for disciplinary procedures.
Guidelines and training on the application o f these procedures will be prepared in FY05.
Key actions under TSP I11 include (i)tlie preparationof a plan for the formulation and
approval of supporting decree laws and regulations; (ii)approval of a Disciplinary
Regulation dealing with the most serious cases and providing mechanisms for
independent review during FY05; and (iii)      formulation of a plan for implementationof
manual and computerised personnel filing system. A UNDP project currently provides
training and support inthe administrationand recordingof routinepersonnel transactions
at agency level. The Ministry of State Administration i s now reviewing options for
computerisingthis system. However, computerisationis only viable once hardcopy files
have been prepared. The compilation o f hard copy agency registriesbegun in FY04 will
continue during FY05. The Govemment i s committed to keeping the total number of
public sector permanent employees below or at 17,200. The Government intends to
fonnulate a human resource development strategy in key ministries, including the
Ministries of Planning and Finance and Justice. The principle of gender balance will be
introduced in all the MinistriesiAgencies in order to allow women with capacity to have
the opportunity o f assuming leadership functions.


                                                                                          15

55.     The Organic Law for the Office of the Inspector General will be presentedto the
Council of Ministers in FY05. The office, which is an integral part of the Office of the
Prime Minister,will be strengthened in its role as the intemal auditor of the Government,
in order to be capable of continuing its program of inspections and to disseminate its
reports. However, it should not duplicatethe functions ofthe Office of the Provedor. The
reports of the Inspector General indicating acts of a criminal nature will be refelTed to
the ProsecutorGeneral of the Republic.

56.     Decentralizntion: The Govemment is continuing work on decentralization and
intends to carefully consider the option most suited to the situation in Timor-Leste,
drawing upon the Decentralization Options and the Comparative Experiences Studies.
Thereafter. a draft policy and implementation plan for local administration is to be
foimulated, which would serve as the basis for public consultations and guide the
development of legislative instruments. Simultaneously, the Govemment is continuing
with efforts to promote decentralised managementin health (tlirough hospital and district
plans) and education (throughpilot mechanism on grants to schools and the development
ofPTAs).

57.     Justice Sector: The Govemment recognizes the need for further work on the
legislative framework and the supervision of the judiciary and the judicial system. The
Superior Councils for the Public Prosecution and Public Defence are planned to be
established during FY05. Also, greater attentionwill be paid to improving the efficiency
of the court system and reducing the backlogs, through, among others, recruitment o f a
few expatriate judgedmentors and prosecutors. Regular functioning of District Courts i s
critical for improving access and service delivery. In order to ensure adequate oversight,
support services and coordination, the Superior Council for the Judiciary will initiate
inspections and monitor the performance of judges. The government will promote the
establishment and improvement of administrative, statistics and infonnatioii support
systems across the autonomous and independent bodies of the justice sector, and to that
effect considers the Council of Coordination to be the appropriate forum for achieving
the required consensus and coordination. The preparationand submission to Parliament
of legislation on domestic violence is seen as a priority in this regard. The Government
a!so intends to strengthen the notary and registration services by approving the Public
Registration Decree Law and putting in place systems to support the issuing of bii-th,
mamiageand death certificateson a timely basis.

58.     Police; Improving tlie relations between the police and the communities will
continue through training including on gender sensitivity. Pilot programs on community
awareness will be carried out on such aspects as domestic violence. A national strategy
for community awarenessprogram will be prepared incorporatingthe results of the pilot
programs.The law on police discipline will bepublished,and the policies andprocedures
of the Professional Standards Unit of the PNTL will be adjusted to be compatible with
tlie law. The Government has a program that will incorporate capacity development of
the police in the areas of investigation and responding to queries and complaints of
citizens. To define the policy, the government will consult widely to gather the opinions
from different parts of the Timorese society. Gender mainstreaming is proposed to be
piloted in the FYO6 AAPs of the PNTL.


                                                                                       16

59.     Plaiining and Public Expendilui-e Management: The fomiulation o f AAPs and
QRMs will continue. Gender mainstreamingis proposed to be piloted in the FY06 AAPs
o f the Ministries o f Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, Health and Justice. The legal
framework for management of public finances needs to be updated to reflect changes in
institutional   arrangements    after  the  Restoration    o f Independence      and   recent
improvements in procedures. A draft Budget and Financial Management Law has been
completed and will be submitted to the Council o f Ministers and            presented to the
National Parliament in FY05. The Procurement Decree Law i s in the process of revision,
and will also be submitted for approval o f the Council of Ministers in the second quaiter
o f FY05. In addition, the focus will be on the implementation and monitoring of routine
budget and planning activities, including the continued timely publication o f a
comprehensive state budget, finalization of the Sector Investment Programs (SIPS)
including prioritization and sequencing within and across sectors; preparation o f the
FY05 Mid-Year Budget Update; formulation o f the FY06 CFET budget within the
framework of a combined sources approach incorporating the SIPS;regular procurement
reporting. with improvements in processing times; timely publication o f comprehensive,
detailed quarterly budget execution reports and financial statements; and submission o i
the audit report and management letter to the Parliament.

60.     On the initiative o f the Prime Minister, a committee was formed in FY04 to
oversee and improve budget execution. The Government is proceeding with a number of
measures designed to address the problem of budget execution. These actions include: (i)
establishment o f an inter-ministerial committee to monitor and promote specific actions
to address budget execution; (ii)implementation o f a public expenditure tracking survey
to identify constraints in budget execution, particularly at the field level; (iii)preparation
o f agency procurenient plans in FY05 in key sectors and reporting on progress; and (iv)
assessment o f funds release requirements through the negotiation o f front-loaded
Expenditure Authorization Notices in key sectors. It i s hoped that these measures will
lead to a significant improvement in budget execution in key sectors, without sacrificing
the quality o f spending.

61.     In the medium-teim, one o f the key determinants o f sustainability in the financial
management system is progress in capacity building, particularly          in regard to .skills
transfer. The Ministry o f Planning and Finance has begun the process o f formulating a
human resource development strategy, with assistance from the World Bank and other
development partners.

62.     Power Sector: Under TSPs Iand 11, we have focused on improving the financial
position o f the nation's electric utility, EDTL, by strengthening its capacity through a
management contract, improving cost-recovery through the installation of pre-paid
meters and, most recently, competitive tendering for fuel supplies. These arrangements
will continue to be implemented during FY05. Now,           the attention has turned to the
investments needed to improve EDTL's performance from the supply side, especially
upgrading. the generation capacity and distribution lines. The draft Sector Investment
Prograni (SIP) has been prepared to lay the foundation for the fiiture development o f the
power sector.     Actions contemplated during FY05 include measures to support the
establishment o f the legal, regulatory and institutional framework for the power and on-


                                                                                            17

shore petroleum sectors; and preparation o f plans for the exploitation o f indigenous
energy resources and long-term plans for rural electrification. The financial position o f
EDTL will continue to be monitored by the Govemment, together with other
management contract perfoimance indicators for power generation, and distribution
reliability and efficiency. In addition, the Goveninient wit11 assistance from some
development pailners i s developing studies with the purpose o f identifying new sources
o f energy supply such as hydroelectric dams, gas and other altemative sources

63.     Petroleum Fund; The Govemment plans to establish a petroleum fund in FY05.
The fiind will be created after extensive consultations. It will be established on the
principle o f inter generational justice. It would incorporate adequate governance
provisions and policy arrangements for safe investment and sustainable utilization of
Timor Sea revenues. So far, the Government's practices have been consistent with the
principles o f the so-called      "Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative       ' I .The
Government anticipates to utilise these very same principles after the fund has been
created. The Government is conscious o f the necessity to utilise part o f these funds for
public investment, such as in the creation o f infrastructure to better serve the current and
future development o f the Country.

64.     Access lo Information: Alongside the above actions, the Government plans to
introduce meastires to improve access to information. It has established an Infoimation
and Communications Unit within the Office o f the Prime Minister. Also, the Prime
Minister has invited local journalists to work with the Goveniment on              IegisIation
regarding freedoin o f infomation.

Service Delivery for Poverty Reduction (TSP 111)
65.     Health: In FY05, the Ministry o f Health will focus on developing and adopting
sub-sector policies and strategies on primary health care, maternal health, child health
and communicable diseases; maintaining hospital expenditures at or below 40% o f core
CFET expenditures in the health sector; improving the management o f hospitals through
preparation and dissemination o f annual activity plans for each hospital; and enhancing
monitoring o f service delivery in districts through six-monthly reports on implementation
o f district health plans addressing inter-sectoral coordination and gender issues. In
addition, as under TSPs Iand TI,     the Ministry has set and intends to achieve key annual
perfoimance targets for DPT3 (72%) Measles (70%), deliveries attended by skilled health
staff (50%), and number o f outpatient visits to health centers (to 2.4 per capita per year).

66.     Educatioii: The Govemment i s currently finalizing its education sector policy,
which will provide the broad framework for state interventions in the sector. The policy
and a supporting Sector Investment Program (SIP) are to be approved in FY05. The SIP
will identify the priorities for external assistance to the sector, and the legislative
framework for the sector, including an education law, an organic law for the Ministry,
and regulations on tertiary education and qualifying private schools. The internal
efficiency o f primary and pre-secondary education i s to be improved through the
identification o f factors contributing to dropout and repetition, and initiation o f remedial
measures. The quality o f teaching is to be enhanced through distribution o f teaching
materials and guides to all primaiy schools and adoption o f new primary education


                                                                                             18

syllabuses. Schools demonstrating good management capacity will be provided with
pilot grants to be managedby the school committee. The Ministry's budget execution in
FY05 is to be improved through closer monitoring of expenditures on a nionthly basis
and timely preparationofprocurementplans.

67.     Vererons: Based on the work of the two Veterans' Commissionsand building on
consensus on the draft criteria for identification of veterans, the Government is ready to
support the Parliamentin the development of a policy on veterans and in the elaboration
of legislation recognizing the veterans, defining their rights and obligations. These are
planned to be completed in FY05. Decisionson the location and use of the database on
veterans and the launching of a process of identifying and registering members of the
clandestine resistance, will have to be taken jointly by the President of the Republic, the
National Parliamentand the Government during FY05.

Job Creatioii (TSP 111)
68.    Prhute Sector' Development: Under both TSPs I and 11, particular emphasis was
placcd on the establishment of a legal framework supportive of private sector
development. The Government intends to maintain the momentum in developing the
business regulatory environment, with due attention to the operation of institutions
necessary for implementation of the framework, including in particular, activities aimed
at stimulating new investment and expanding employment opportunities. Key legal
instrumentsto be finalized and/or approvedinFY05 includethe company and investment
laws; insurance, bankruptcy and insolvency, cooperatives, the banking system, contract
and collateral laws; key regulations relatingto land and property, and further regulations
on the leasing of State and private property. Activities related to the land and property
registry, cadastre registry, and land and property dispute mediationniechanisnisare to be
pursued with the objective of clarifying land and propertytitles and ensuring they can be
valued in the market.

69.     The Goveinment is also preparing to establish an investment and export
promotion agency (IEPA) as the unique provider of information with a view to attract
direct foreign and national investment that will contribute towards the creation of new
jobs. Local entrepreneurship is to be developed through a national program of
entrepreneurship that will organize ongoing national entrepreneurship programs and
business foiums, help incorporate entrepreneurship programs in secondary and tertiary
business studies, structured training in entrepreneurship through business development
centers, and public awareness campaigns. The Ministry o f Development and
Environment has initiated a process of basic training for small and medium sized
enterprises and cooperatives.

70.     The State Secretariat for Labour and Solidarity intends to pilot the voluntary
Emigrant Workers Program, continuing the effort of finalizing employment agreements
with Malaysian companies and a memorandum o f agreement with the Government of
Malaysia. Also, the Secretariat plans to explore opportunities for sending labor to South
Korea. Two basic objectives of the Government underlie this program: (i)to create
employmentfor thousands of young Timorese, and (ii) to technically and psychologically
enable the Tiniorese to participate and take on the future challenges by obtaining the


                                                                                         19

necessary qualifications and participatingcapably in those areas which are integral to the
developnient of Timor-Leste. The community-based roadmaintenance (and construction
and repair of small infrastructure) program will be continued in FY05, as will other
activities within the scope of the RESPECT project or other initiatives to reduce,
although in a seasonal manner, the number of unemployed.

7 1.      Agricultzire: The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries will finalize its
sector policy and strategy, and Sector Investment Program(SIP) in FY05, in consultation
with stakeholders including development partners. The intention i s to define the role of
the   Ministry in supporting agricultural and fisheries development, aligning the
institutional structure and expenditures with the Ministry's service delivery and
regulatory mandates. Thus, the medium-temipriority actions will be clarified following
the adoption of the policy and strategy and the SIP. Other short-term actions to be
implementedduring FY05 include development of departmental and sub-sectoral action
plans, design and operationalisation of the management infoimation system, issuance of
licenses for off-shore fishing, monitoring the operations o f the licensees, and preparation
of B repoil on the operation o f the fisheries licensing. Some of these actions, particularly
the design of a management infomation system and monitoring of offshore fisheries
licensing (which requires a sophisticated vessel monitoring system) are critically
dependent on suppoi-t from development partners. Food production and food security are
to be enhanced through evaluation of the rice crop yields and development of a policy
framework for agricultural water, together with a plan for upland seed and tuber
multiplication and distribution.

VI. CONCLUSIONS
72.       As the inipleinentation of the National DevelopmentPlan unfolded, some gaps
and the need for modification of certain aspects to address the emergingnew challenges
were identified. The adjustments have been made first as a part of the Prioritization and
Sequencing and Stability Program exercises in the first quarter of 2003 and included in
the Road Map for implementation of the NDP. Further refinements and additions are
beingcai-riedout through the formulation of the Sector InvestmentPrograms (SIPS), with
about 15 draft SIPs completedby August 2004. These revisions were and will continue
to be made in full consultationwith our development partncrs.

73.       Our recent achievements in the areas o f planning, govemance, public expenditure
management, the power sector, and service delivery in health and education are
noteworthy. The proposed actions over the next twelve months are designed within a
medium-tenn perspective. An implementation schedule by quarter for the proposed
actions is presented in the Action Matrix inthe Annex. It is importantto note that Timor-
Leste still faces significant capacity limitations in the civil service, private sector and
civil society organizations. The country continues to depend on a significant number of
international advisers, particularly in the area of fiscal management. Also, we rely
hea-,;il:v on our development partners for the timely provision of competent technical
assistance to facilitate completion of the tasks. As in the past, we take our commitments
seriously, and will make every effort to fulfil them.




                                                                                          20

74.    In this context, the Govemment o f the Democratic Republic o f Timor-Leste
reaffirms its commitment to the implementation o f TSP 111. The Govemment requests
the financial assistance of the Intemational Development Association (the Association)
and other development partners for implementation o f TSP 111. We understand that the
Association's   support,    if approved, will be utilised exclusively toward the
implementation o f the activities proposed and outlined in Section V, paragraphs 5 1 to 57
and 59 to 71 o f this Letter, and actions A.1.1 to A.4.1 and A.6.1 to C.2.3 o f the attached
Action Matrix.

Sincerely yours,



Maria Madalena Brites Boavida
Minister o fPlanning and Finance




                                                                                          21

      rI  c




L.
5

            N




L
e,
n




      cVI

m

      5      .-M




     c   f .P
          o b
     O W




d




U

      .-S
      c




4    8
     E       II

B




  h
  3w




c

                         n
                         ?
                         -4




w
am
E
Y
L                        n
                         7
                         -4


E
0
.I
2
c,




Y
L                              U
a
0
a
m
1




      9    p!    V
                 6 E"

i




              I
 a
 E




      x




           -..
           Y--

aa




       *-




z z
$ 5

x
.I
3
L
c)




.I
c)         L
4m         B


0
s
0

R
2M
E:
Pm
c)
L
a
0
a
m
a


.I
.I
c,
v1
d

b
E

e
.I
z




      3
             a-


                                                                                                                                 ANNEX 2
                                   Timor-Leste at a glance                                                                           9/30/04


                                                                        East           -~
     ~~~~                                                     ~                   ~~




POVERTYand SOCIAL                                          Timor-     Asia &         Low-
                                                            Leste     Paclflc     Income        Developmentdiamond'
                                                                                               ~



2003
Population, mid-year(millions)                                 0.81     1,855        2,310    I
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                             500      1,080         450                     Life expectancy

GNI (Atlas method, US$billions)                                0.40    2,011         1,038

Average annual growth, 1997-03
Population (%)                                                            1.o          1.9
Labor force (%)                                                           1.1          2.3      GNI                                  Gross
                                                                                                Per               i                 primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1997-03)                                           capita                             nrollment
Poverty (% of population belownationalpoverty line)              40
Urban population (% of totalpopulation)                          24        40           30
Life expectancyat birth (years)                                  57        69           58                           -
Infant mortality (per 1,000live births)                          86        32           82
Child malnutrition ("A of children under5)                                 15           44           Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source (% of population)              63        76           75
illiteracy ("A ofpopulationage 15i)                              48        10           39
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-agepopulation)           113        111           92             ~      Timor-Leste
    Male                                                       112        112           99                     Low-incomegroup
    Female                                                     114        111           85

KEY ECONOMICRATIOSand LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                  1983        1993      2002         2003
                                                                                                 Economlcratios'
GDP (US$billions)                                                        0.38         0.34
Gross domestic investmenUGDP                                             29.0         27.0
Exports of goods and services/GDP                                                                                  Trade
Gross domestic savingdGDP                                                                                            -
Gross nationalsavings/GDP                                               -43.0        -32.0                            ,
Current account balance/GDP                                              11.5         12.6
Interest payments/GDP                                                                            Domestic                        Investment
Total debt/GDP                                                                                  savings

Total debt servicelexports
Presentvalue of debtlGDP
Presentvalue of debtlexports
                                                                                                                Indebtedness
                                       1983-93 1993-03        2002      2003      2003-07
(averageannual growth)                                                                                  -
GDP                                                 0.9         3.0       -3.0                                   Timor-Leste
GDP per capita                                                  0.0       4.8                                    Low-incomegroup
Exportsof goods and services


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY

(% of GDP)
Agriculture
industry
   Manufacturing
Services
Private consumption
General government consumption
                                                                                                            _PI
imports of goods and services                                                                                      GDI     +GDP



                                               1983-93 1993-03          2002         2003
(averageannualgrowth)                                                                            Growth of exports and imports (%)

Agriculture                                                                                     2 ,
Industry                                                                                 ..    i
   Manufacturing
Services
Privateconsumption                                                                       ..     04
General government consumption                                                                          98    99     00     01     02    03
Gross domestic investment                                                                                 -Exports         +Impofis
Importsof goods and services

Note: 2003 data are preliminaryestimates.
  The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-groupaverage. If data are missing, the diamond will
    be incomDiete.

                                                                                                                          Tim0r-Leste

PRiCES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                          1983  1993  2002   2003
Domestic prices                                                           Inflation (%)

(% change)
Consumer prices                                        10.0    4.0                                          \
                                                                        I 5 OT                            B
Implicit GDP deflator                                  -4.4   -7.7
                                                                        loo1
                                                                          50
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                         0                                               -ek%wv
                                                                                                     98   @9      00      -
Current revenue                                        15.0   19.0                                                        U1      02      03
                                                                         -50
Current budget balance                                -67.0  -53.0                 .:.:<.;,..:<.;<.:.                    -CPI
Overall surplusldeficit                               -90.0  -72.0                                       GDP deflator


                                                                      1
TRADE
                                          1983  1993  2002   2003
(US$ millions)                                                             Export and import levels (US$ mill.)

Total exports (fob)                                       6      7
  Coffee                                                  5      6      300T
                                                                        250

  Manufactures                                                          200

Total imports (cif)                                    251    203       150

  Food                                                                   100

  Fuel and energy                                                          50
  Capital goods                                                             0
                                                                                 97                    98    99    00     01     02     03
Exportprice index (1995=100)
Import price index (1995=100)                                                                            E3 Exports          Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)

                                                                       I
BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                          1983  1993  2002   2003
(US$millions)                                                              Current account balance to GDP (%)

Exportsof goods and services
Imports of goods and services                                             " T
Resource balance                                       -293   -236

Net income                                                1      6
Net current transfers                                   336    273

Current account balance                                  44     43

 Financing items (net)
Changes in net reserves                                                I
 Memo:                                                                    -Io1

 Reservesincluding gold (US$ millions)
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)                        1.o    1.o

 EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                          1983  1993   2002   2003
 (US$millions)                                                              Composition of 2002 debt (US$ mill.)
 Total debt outstanding and disbursed
   IBRD
   IDA
 Total debt service
   IBRD
   IDA
 Composition of net resource flows
   Official grants
   Official creditors
   Privatecreditors
   Foreign direct investment
   Portfolio equity
 World Bank program
   Commitments                                                              A IBRD                                            E -Bilateral
   Disbursements                                                            B IDA
                                                                             --                        D Other multilateral
                                                                                                         .                    F Private
                                                                                                                               .
   Principal repayments                                                     C-IMF                                             G .Short-term
   Net flows
   Interest payments
   Net transfers

 Development Economics                                                                                                                9130104

MAP SECTION


