Document of
THE WORLD BANK
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.19383
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GEORGIA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Credit No. 2809-GE
June 30, 1999
hifrastructure Sector Unit
Country Department III
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.



CURRENCY E QUIVALENTS
(as of December, 1998)
Currency Unit   =    Lari
1 Lari   =    US$0.56
US$1    =    1.8 Lari
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
1995           1996              1997         1998 (December)
1.4            1.25             1.35               1.8
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DCA   -  Development Credit Agreement
ERR   -  Economic Rate of Return
GEL  -  Georgian Lari
ICB   -  International Competitive Bidding
IDA   -  International Development Association
IFB   -  Invitation for Bidding
IMF  -  Intemational Monetary Fund
IS  -  International Shopping
LIL  -  Learning and Innovation Loan
MOF  -  Ministry of Finance
MOT  -  Ministry of Transport
MSPM   -  Ministry of State Property Management
NCB   -  National Competitive Bidding
NPV   -  Net Present Value
NS  -  National Shopping
NS  -  National Shopping
PIU   -  Project Implementation Unit
RID  -  Railway Department
RMOT       Reorganization of Ministry of Transport
SDRG   -  State Department of Roads of Georgia
TRACECA   -  Transport Corridor-Europe-Caucasus-Asia
TRP  -  Transport Rehabilitation Project
TSRP  -  Transport Sector Reform Project
TRRC   -  Transport Reform and Rehabilitation Center
TSM   -  Transport Sector Memorandum
TSRP  -  Transport Sector Reform Project
TUTRRC   -  Training Unit of Transport Reform and Rehabilitation Center
USAID   -  United States Agency for International Development
GEORGIA'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
Vice President: Johannes F. Linn, ECA
Country Director: Judy O'Connor, ECCO3
Sector Director: Ricardo A. Halperin, ECSIN
Sector Leader: Eva Molnar, ECSIN
Team Leader: Pedro Taborga, Senior Economnist, ECSIN



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FOR WORLD BANK OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT.
GEORGIA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT (CREDIT NO.2809-GE)
Contents
Preface ........................................................1...........                                                 i
Evaluation summary .........................................................................                                ii
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment .........................................................................1l
A. Project Origin and Objectives ..........................................................................lI
B. Achievement of Project Objectives ..........................................................................2
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ..............................................8
D. Project Sustainability ...........................................................................    l
E. Bank Performance ..........................................................................                   11
F. Borrower Performance ..........................................................................                12
G. Assessment of Performance and Outcome ..........................................................................    12
H. Future Operations .........................................................................                   12
I. Key Lessons Learned .......................................................................... 13
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES .........................................................................                      15
TABLE 1: SUMMARY  OF ASSESSMENTS .........................................................................    15
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS ....................................................................... 17
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE .........................................................................             18
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED &ACTUAL ............. 19
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION .................................... 20
TABLE 6. ROAD WORKS FOR THE  PERIOD  1996 - 1998 ..................................................... 21
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED  IN PROJECT ........................................................................ 22
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS .........................................................................                23
TABLE 8 B: PROJECT FINANCING .........................................................................           23
TABLE 8C. PROJECT COSTS & FINANCING INTEGRATED WITH CO-FINANCING ....... 24
TABLE 8D. SUMMARY  OF PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS ........................................ 26
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS ..................................................................... 27
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ....................................................................... 28
IBRD MAP 26918R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GEORGIA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT (Credit 2809-GE)
Preface'
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Transport Rehabilitation
Project (TRP) in Georgia, for which Credit No.2809-GE in the amount of SDR8.1 million
equivalent was signed on January 31, 1996 and made effective on July 2, 1996.
The Credit was closed on June 30, 1999, the original closing date. It was fally committed
on December 28, 1998, and the last disbursement is expected to take place in July, 1999.
The draft ICR was prepared by the Project Implementation Unit - Transport Reform and
Rehabilitation Center (TRRC) in cooperation with Pedro N. Taborga, Task Team Leader, who
incorporated some additional comments to reflect the perspective of the Bank Group. The ICR
was reviewed by Eva Molnar, Sector Leader, Judy O'Connor, Country Director, and Ricardo
Halperin, Sector Director. The State Department of Roads of Georgia (SDRG) and the Railway
Department (RD) of Georgia as the borrowers of the subsidiary loans, and the Ministry of
Finance provided corresponding information.
I     This linplementation Completion Report of Credit No.2809-GE is the result of a participatory effort. The
implementation team of the Borrower has undertaken the preparation of the full report in accordance with Bank
guidelines concerning all matters related to field implementation. Successive drafts have been reviewed by the
supervision team and the finished report reflects accurately the implementation history of the project and the facts
recorded during Project Implementation. The Evaluation Summary highlights specific items from the institutional
perspective of the Bank/IDA introduced by the IDA team.



ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GEORGIA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT (Credit 2809-GE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Transport Rehabilitation Project (TRP) of SDR8.1 million followed the Municipal
Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project as the first IDA investment credit to Georgia. Involvement
of IDA in the transport sector of Georgia started with two transport sector review missions, in
August 1993 and June 1994, which led to the Transport Sector Memorandum (TSM,
Report No.13978-GZ). The TSM provided the analytical underpinning for this project, it
proposed medium and short term strategies for the Georgian Transport Sector. Given the urgent
need to assist the Government with the rehabilitation of transport infrastructure, it was agreed to
start with an IDA credit for the TRP to implement the short term strategy proposed. It became
obvious during the identification and preparation of this project that the eroding asset base might,
within the next five years, deteriorate to the point at which maintenance and rehabilitation would no
longer be possible. If this occurred, the only option would have been costly and complete
reconstruction.
2.    The project was prepared  between  April and November 1995 (Table 3). Project
preparation was assisted by a PHRD grant from the Government of Japan. The Credit became
effective on July 2, 1996, five months after signature on January 31, 1996, as the Borrower
endeavored to obtain approval by Parliament and fulfill conditions of effectiveness. Implemented
in 40% less time than anticipated at appraisal, it has attained significant results. Project indicator
targets have been met or exceeded in all categories; policy and institutional impacts have been
significant; and the resulting Net Present Value is estimated ex-post at US$65 million, as a result
of the application of road user charges introduced as a project condition. This is against a Credit
Amount of US$12 million equivalent at Board approval. 2
Project Objectives
3.  The TRP had the following objectives:
(a)  to support policy reform in the transport sector and restructure its institutions to operate
in a market economy; and
(b)  to repair and maintain some of the most critical transport infrastructure links to remove
key bottlenecks.
2     Policy reforms introduced as project conditions, criteria for investment selection and types of investrnents
under the project ensured the widest possible impact of project funds. In addition, institutional reforms provided
further leverage. Direct project investments show an ex-post Net Present Value in the vicinity of US$20 mnillion.



iii
4.    The project objectives were realistic in terms of the Borrower's capabilities and supported
the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), which included among country assistance objectives the
provision of support to physical rehabilitation and to improvements in the efficiency of the
transport sector.
5.    TRP consisted of two main components as follows:
(a) Institution Building (US$4.9 million) including consultant services for: (i) advice and
support to teams preparing sector reforms; (ii) technical assistance for the formulation
of technical and legal frameworks necessary to the restructuring, commercialization
and privatization of sector entities; (iii) managerial assistance for public and private
transport enterprises; (iv) training program to update transport technical staff from the
private and public sectors; and (v) project management. Some of the technical
assistance under the institutional building component was expected to be covered by
other donors.
(b) Investment component (US$13.2 million) including financing for: (i) a road
maintenance program, including selected equipment and spares for road maintenance,
emergency repairs and imported building materials; (ii) a railway sub-component
including bridge repairs and structural steel, track materials, spare parts,
commnunications and selected signaling equipment.
Implementation Experience and Results
6.    The project achieved its overall short term objectives of: (a)  initiating institutional
strengthening and the adjustment of transport sector policies; and (b) helping to preserve the
Georgian roads and railways by carrying out critical infrastructure maintenance, and improving
the efficiency of road maintenance operations. This was accomplished because of the rapid
preparation of the project and its effective implementation by a diligent Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) - Transport Reformn and Rehabilitation Center (TRRC) staff and Government
Agencies involved.3 The credit was parceled into subsidiary loans to the beneficiary agencies
under standard on-lending interest and maturity matching the life of the repairs. Implementation
agreements were drawn to establish the responsibilities of the parties. This arrangement proved
successful (Table 1- Summary Project Assessment), and was maintained after the re-creation of
MOT and the attachment of the TRRC to it.
Policy Reform
7.   The MOT was established about the same time the Credit became effective. This led to a
rearrangement of the project. This was done in two ways: i) Providing consultant services with the
main objective to work out the functional and organizational structure of the newly established
3     The TRRC was created under a Presidential Decree to foster sector reform and development of
international corridors at a time the Ministry of Transport (MOT) did not exist. The Government delegated project
implementation to this existing unit.



iv
MOT; and ii) Purchasing some office equipment for the MOT to increase it's functional
capabilities. This was done by using funds under the Policy Studies and Equipment and Spares
categories of the project. The structure proposed for MOT is based on the principle of division of
policy and regulatory functions from the "production of service" functions. On this basis, the
Borrower committed to the reorganization of the MOT and to the preparation of a Learning and
Innovation Loan (LIL) operation approved by the Board in September 1998, and a proposed
second IDA credit in the transport sector, the Transport Sector Reform Project (TSRP).
8.   Technical assistance provided by the project for policy reforms (deregulation of transport
sector, technical and emission inspection of motorized vehicles, restructuring and privatization of
Georgian Shipping Company and the Railways) has significantly contributed in changing the
legal and regulatory framework of the transport sector, including the issuing of the President's
Decree on "The Conception of Transport Policy" of September, 1997. The decree incorporates
most of the policy recommendations concerning liberalization and privatization in the transport
sector made in the Transport Sector Memorandum (Report No. 13978-GZ).
9.    Emphasis on human capital formation has been particularly successful. The training unit
created under the PIU (TU TRRC) to implement the Training Component has continued
operating beyond project completion as the Transport Consulting and Training Center
(TC&TC), an independent non-governmental organization, and allow for the cost recovery of
future training activities at TRRC. High level of satisfaction and assessments received from
course participants illustrate the successful implementation of the training component of the
project.
Roads
10.  The Road Fund has been reorganized, cost recovery composition improved and collection
increased to a much higher level than before the project. As a result, the project was instrumental
in the execution of road maintenance and repairs for a current amount equivalent to about US$75
million. The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) had indicated some distortions in the existing road
user charges law (over-reliance on charges to foreigners and enterprise tax), and gave
recommendations in this regard, which have been incorporated into new legislation submitted to
Parliament. The direct linkage between usage and resources available to the road sector is
expected to improve its sustainability, particularly in the current fiscal situation of Georgia.
11.   The project had as a primary task the privatization of the road maintenance and
construction activities with the aim of introducing competition, improving efficiency, and
reorganizing the management of road maintenance and construction activities according to a
market economy. This task has been accomplished successfully. The road construction
enterprises and most large production units - asphalt plants and crushing plants - have been
privatized. Competitive bidding nonexistent before the project, was at 29% in cost of road works
in 1996-1998, as road works were contracted with private companies. In August 1998 State
Department of Roads of Georgia (SDRG) requested the Ministry of State Property Management
(MSPM) to privatize all road maintenance units (except buildings and lands) by May 1999. A
pilot phase covering two regions was launched on December 17, 1998.



v
12.   The full reorganization of SDRG has been studied under the sub-component for roads.
The study recommends: (i) financial and technical audits; (ii) reorganization of contract award
systems on the basis of competitive bidding for all projects; and (iii) allocation of resources on
the basis of measurements under a pavement management system and traffic counts with
corresponding economic evaluations. A study financed by the Transport Corridor-Europe-
Caucasus-Asia (TRACECA) has provided the first steps towards the development of a pavement
management system. Its recommendations are planned to be implemented under the proposed
IDA financed follow up project.
Railways
13.   Under the Railway technical assistance sub-component, a conceptual study of Railway
reorganization was carried out. Two main Strategic Business Units were proposed by the project,
one for passenger and one for freight services, each with responsibility for its own marketing,
sales, operations, staff management, and management accounting. Each would operate very
much like a private commercial company. Two Service Units (Infrastructure and Rolling Stock)
were also proposed. A number of studies have been carried out by other donors covering SAR
expectations in full (see Table 7). Restructuring of the Railways has started: Georgian Railways
has been established as a Limited Liability Company. Governmental decision regarding the draft
of a new Railway Law incorporating the recommendations above is expected to be enacted
during 1999. This process was delayed in its inception partly due to the need to substitute with
TRACECA funds studies expected under bilateral assistance.
Ports
14.    Recommendations for optimization and reorganization of the ports of Poti and Batumi
have been prepared with support from the German Government (GTZ) in 1996-97, which was
followed by the Presidential decree for the reorganization of Georgian ports. Later on, a
feasibility study for a new terminal facilities at Georgian ports was carried out under the
TRACECA project. A parallel study for Poti port privatization has been accomplished financed
by the United States Agency for International Development (USAID). In both studies
privatization plans for Poti port have been developed, and the Georgian Government is in the
process of choosing between the privatization options proposed.
Environmental Issues
15.    At the time of project identification, the components in the TRP were not expected to
generate any significant environmental problems, and the project was classified as Category B
under OP 4.01. The implementation of the TRP has confirmed the validity of this assumption.
The areas in which mitigation actions were prescribed concerned: (i) the production and
application of bituminous products, i.e., emission reports, training on proper application to
contractors and enforcement of emission standards at mixing plants; (ii) quarrying of stone and
gravel, i.e., clearance and licensing of quarrying sites; (iii) short-term impacts, training to
potential contractors on mitigation of noise dust, vibration, and congestion during execution of
works; (iv) waste materials, training to potential contractors on proper disposal of materials to
avoid contamination of soils and waters adjacent to work sites; and (v) drainage and erosion
control.



vi
16.   A review conducted in early October 1998 indicated that, actions in support of all five
concerns were taken. Institutional mechanisms intended to coordinate the application of the
mitigation action plan to future SDRG operations were established in November 1998. Progress
towards enforcement of national fuel quality standards has been significant as the informal
retailing of fuel is no longer the norm; it has been displaced by commercial operations subject to
the same controls as imports.
Disbursements
17.   Credit funds were fully been committed by December 30, 1998 and disbursements will
be completed in July, 1999. Credit funds were promptly available, with no delays in availability
of counterpart funds. IDA disbursement officers were responsive to TRRC inquires concerning
replenishment requests. The schedule of disbursements by year is given in Table 4 and the text
table below shows the IDA disbursements and the percentage of expenditures financed.
Category                      Amount of   Disbursed         % of
Credit                  Expenditures
(IJS$ million)                 to be
Financed
SAR/DCA                        SAR/DCA4                   SARIDCA
1. Civil Works                                   2.36 / 2.35     3.45          57%
2. Goods Spares and Equipment                    4.67 / 4.67      5.60         100%
(a) Railway track materials                   1.25 / 1.24        3.04      100%
(b) Materials and spare parts for:            1.51 / 2.81        1.19      100%
(i)    SDRG                                 - /2.46           0.94
(ii)    RD                                  - /0.35           0.25
(c) Office equipment and vehicles for:        1.30 / 0.40        1.15      100%
(i)    TRRC                                 - / 0.22          0.29
(ii)   SDRG                                 - / 0.19          0.86
(d) Emission monitoring and control           0.20 / 0.22        0.23       100%
3. Consultant Services and Training              1.90 / 1.92      1.70         100%
4. Operating costs of TRRC                       0.20 / 0.21      0.40         100%
5. Unallocated (including contingencies)         2.87 / 2.81      n.a.          n.a.
TOTAL                                               12.00        11.15
4     Differences between SAR and Development Credit Agreement (DCA) resulted from reallocations between
2 (b) and 2 (c) at negotiations, which were not reconciled before presentation of the TRP to the Board.



vii
Actual resources provided under the Credit were 7 % less than anticipated, because the SDR lost value
with respect to the dollar during project implementation. This shortfall was made up by use of PHRD
funds for policy studies and expanded grants from other donors. Expanded contributions by the
European Union (EU) under the TRACECA program allowed a coverage of technical assistance needs
beyond those identified for co-financiers at project appraisal. Increased operating costs of TRRC cover
the implementation of the LIL and a portion of the preparation costs of the TSRP.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
18.   Implementation was on schedule. This was due in large because TRRC recruited a small,
highly competent staff to operate the PIU and because the Government's counterpart funding was
provided in full in less than half the time expected under the DCA. Key indicators and
operational objectives were either reached or exceeded (Table 5).
19.    The project outcome is rated as fully satisfactory (Table 1). SDRG benefited from the
new methods of operation offered through the project, the rail law is under study, ports
restructuring and policy reform including MOT restructuring are underway.
20.   Project sustainability seems likely, although less than assured, by the following aspects:
Governance. The General legal framework has been changed by the Govermnent in a
way that supports the achievements of the project. A partial list of laws and decrees
follows: Amendments to the Motor Transport Law (October, November, December,
1997), Amendment to the Railway Law (November 1997), Maritime Code (May,
1997), President's Decree on "The Conception of Transport Policy" of September,
1997.
. Institutional. Institutional changes started during project implementation are
irreversible. Transformation of the road construction industry is undoubtedly
permanent. The Government is fully committed to railway and port reforms and the
reorganization of the MOT.
* Financial. User charges introduced under the project are a first step towards the
generation of adequate funding for road maintenance. The use of competitive bidding
is now firnly established as a way of achieving good results at the least cost. Some
uncertainty relates to the lack of strong mechanisms for collecting funds to finance
road maintenance under current fiscal difficulties in Georgia. A new Road Fund law
prepared under the project is under discussion at the Parliament, and its enactment
will be followed up in the proposed TSRP.
* External. External influence on the Georgian economy has been minimized by the
strong fiscal policy of the Government after issuing the local currency Lari in 1995.
The recent devaluation of the Russia Ruble has influenced the Lari, but not
significantly, although the fall in fiscal revenues may pose a significant risk.
Regional transit traffic is likely to grow.
21.   The Government has been satisfied with the results of the project and appreciates the
assistance at a time when the Government lacked the means to meet its institutional reforms and
infrastructure rehabilitation requirements with its own resources. It believes that it can not



viii
finance these needs by itself for some time. Accordingly, two new transport related projects
started: (i) "Restructuring of the Ministry of Transport", a LIL operation for which the credit is
effective since February 1999; and (ii) "Transport Sector Reform Project" (TSRP) under
preparation.
22.   TRRC experienced loss of time and resources because of different auditing procedures
used by international auditing organizations and the State Chamber of Control. Official control
procedures need to be adapted to internationally recognized methods, including official
acceptance of the reports of the international auditors provided under the DCA.
23.   There are difficulties in translating into Georgian the reports prepared by foreign
consultants. Georgian translations of concepts and terms used by IDA in legal documents and
general procedures need unification across sectors.
Institutional Lessons 5
24.   From the perspective of the Bank Group, some valid lessons can be drawn from the
mildly innovative nature of the project and institutional responses to some aspects of: (a)
processing; (b) resource use; and (c) impacts of the project.
25.   Processing.- Project features called for quick and flexible responses. This was the case
of: (i) disbursements; (ii) implementation; and (iii) technical assistance content.
(i)  Disbursements.- Amendment of the Development Credit Agreement to
increase replenishment levels was made within six months of
effectiveness, to keep the pace of implementation and avoid delays.
(ii) Implementation.- Adaptation of project content within established
categories kept up the pace of implementation. The formal mid term
review was not necessary due to the early completion of the project.
(iii) Technical Assistance.- The policy content and technical assistance of
the project added an element of risk with significant pay-off to a
project addressing short term needs, i.e., the Borrower was able to
carry out urgent infrastructure works for US$75 million.
26.   Resource Use.- Resource use has been below, regional and Bank averages.  Total
processing cost was US$157,000.  Cost of supervision from  Board approval to project
completion was US$144,000, with a yearly average of US$48,000. A total staff of 85 staff-
weeks was used over a 50 month period, identification to completion.
27.   Preparation of the ICR with the Borrower was undertaken as a participatory exercise, and
the result would seem to indicate the advantage of a wider use of this approach. Experience in ECA
(FY97, FY98, FY99) indicates that the average cost to completion is in the upper side of the range
US$ 16,000-20,000.
5     This section reflects the institutional lessons drawn by IDA



ix
28.   Project Impacts.-  Project impacts have been significant in all project dimensions,
economic, policy and institutional.
(i) Economic Impacts.- The ex-post evaluation of project components follows the
same methodology of the SAR. Economic returns substantially higher than
originally estimated, have been the result of traffic increases, both national and
regional, exceeding appraisal estimates and lower construction costs in the road
sector.
(iH) Policy Impacts.- The project financed brief advisory pieces in key areas of
policy innovation for Georgia. In addition, and following the DCA, the Borrower
sought to expand the amount of grants available for technical assistance from co-
financing sources. This resulted in a net increase of resources available to the
project, which helped to provide the background for policy measures and
development of legislation (Table 5).
(iii) Institutional Impacts.- The institutional impacts of the project are mainly:
-  the formulation of a new structure for the Ministry of Transport which is being
implemented as part of a follow up project
- the restructuring, privatization, and introduction of competitive bidding in the
road sector with a significant reduction in project and administrative costs
- the partial restructuring of the railway and maritime sub-sectors
* the establishment of a sustainable training function.
Recommendation
29.   An OED review of the possible causes and underlying factors of project success seems
warranted. The possible lessons would seem to be systemic and of interest to a wide audience, and not
limited to country interests.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GEORGIA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT (Credit 2809-GE)
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT ORIGIN AND OBJECTIVES
1.    Soon after independence, in 1991, Georgia became embroiled in political and civil strife.
The consequences have had a devastating effect on the nation's economy, infrastructure and social
stability, further compounding the difficult transition to a market economy. In the period 1991-
1993, GDP fell by a cumulative total of 70% and in 1994 it was estimated at about US$410 per
capita. Inflation of the Soviet ruble, which was used as a currency in the country, reached about
120% in 1991 and almost 1,000% in 1992. In early 1993, as a step towards creating its own
currency, the Government issued "coupons". The inflationary process accelerated, however, and at
the end of 1993, the annual rate of inflation had reached 8,400%.
2.    The economic recession had a major impact on the state-controlled sector and particularly
on the transport sector. Little, if any, maintenance (even basic routine maintenance) was done in all
sub-sectors except air transport in 1991-1994. Major structural changes were taking place
spontaneously and institutionally, and the sector was in disarray. The MOT was dismantled in early
1994. The four modes (rail, road transport, ports and air) reported directly to a Deputy Prime
Minister responsible for the infrastructure sectors, and a fifth, (the road infrastructure sub-sector)
reported to the Council of Ministers.
3.    Since the beginning of 1994, the Government begun to consolidate its control over the
country. Law and order improved, and the Government renewed efforts to rebuild the economy
through market-oriented reforms. In September 1995 the new national currency, the Lari, was
introduced and the inflation process stopped. In January 1996 the Transport Coordination Council
was formed as a transport policy making body. In June 1996 however the Coordination Council
was dismantled, and the MOT was established again.
4.    In summary, the main characteristic features of the Georgian transport sector at the time of
project identification were:
*  lack of resources for all the modes;
*  an eroding asset base;
*  lack of technical innovation and upgrading;
*  absence of a meaningful statistical base for the sector; and
*  absence of reliable financial indicators.
5.    The involvement of IDA in the transport sector of Georgia started with two transport
sector review missions, in August 1993 and June 1994, which led to the transport sector
Memorandum (TSM, Report No.13978-GZ). The TSM  proposed medium and short term
strategies for the Georgian Transport Sector. Given the urgent need to assist the Government



2
with the rehabilitation of transport infrastructure, the Transport Rehabilitation Project (TRP) was
proposed for an IDA credit. It was obvious during the identification and preparation of this project
that infrastructure might deteriorate to the point at which maintenance and rehabilitation would no
longer be possible within the next five years. Had this occurred, the only option would have been
costly and complete reconstruction.
6.    The project, addressing priority short-term needs of the sector, was prepared between
April and November 1995. Project preparation was assisted by a PHRD grant from the
Government of Japan. The Credit became effective on July 2, 1996, just a month after the MOT
was re-established.
7.    The TRP had the following objectives:
(a)   to start the adjustment of the transport sector policies and restructuring of its
institutions to operate in a market economy; and
(b)   to repair and maintain the most critical transport infrastructure links to remove
bottlenecks.
8.    The project objectives were realistic in terms of the Borrower's capabilities and supported
the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), which included among country assistance objectives the
provision of support to physical rehabilitation and to improvements in the efficiency of the
transport sector.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
9.    The project achieved its overall objective of initiating the adjustment of transport sector
policy, helping preserve Georgian roads and railways, and improving the efficiency of road
maintenance operations. This was accomplished because of the rapid preparation of the project
and its early implementation as a result of the diligence of TRRC staff, and Government
Agencies involved.
10.   The narrative description of the project achievements given below follows the project
components given in Table 8C. Corresponding key monitorable targets and performance
indicators are given in Table 5. Prior review was used for all procurement under the project.
I. Institution Building Component
Policy Reform
11.   The MOT did not exist at the time of project preparation and it was established about the
same time the Credit became effective. This required rearranging the policy reform sub-component
to meet the needs of the newly established MOT. This was done in two ways: i) Providing
consultant services with the main objective of working out the functional and organizational
structure of the newly established MOT; and ii) Purchasing office equipment to increase the
functional capabilities of the MOT.



3
12.   The new structure of the MOT proposed is based on the principle of the division of policy
and regulatory functions from "service production" functions. It proposed a substantial decrease
in Ministry staff, in conjunction with recommendations for the reorganization of other transport
agencies. Immediate implementation of recommendations lagged because of obstacles to be
expected on the side of the Borrower: i) lack of managerial skills necessary in a market economy;
ii) inadequate legal framework; and iii) behaviors shaped during seventy years of a centrally
managed economic system. The first two of these obstacles were addressed by consulting
services provided by TRP and the EU TRACECA (Table 7). The third obstacle was addressed
by: discussions between consultants and main stakeholders; a training program (see below); and
world-wide study tours. As a result of these activities: a) Presidential decrees supporting the
reforns in the transport sector have been issued; and b) the Borrower committed to the
reorganization of the MOT, which became the basis for a LIL operation.
13.   Technical assistance has been provided under the project on deregulation of the transport
sector. The legal and regulatory framework of the Georgian transport sector has been examined
and recommendations proposed to minimize restrictions, requirements and controls. Some of the
proposals and recommendations made have been incorporated in legislation and executive
decisions on ports, railways, and motor transport.
14.   Technical assistance has been provided to specify the organizational framework of
technical and emission inspection of motorized vehicles; the level of technical inspection for
each vehicle category; and the number and type of inspection units needed for the city of Tbilisi
and the rest of the country. Recommendations are not yet implemented, but the study initiated
activity towards changing the existing system of technical and emission inspections, delegating
these activities to the private sector.
15.   Technical assistance has been provided for restructuring and privatization of the Georgian
transport sector. Besides work on railways restructuring mentioned below (par. 28), a
comprehensive analysis of the Georgian Shipping Company has been accomplished and
recommendations for its restructuring and privatization have been proposed.
16.  In summary, technical assistance provided by the project for policy reforms have
contributed to change the legal and regulatory framework of the transport sector and led to the
issuing of the President's Decree on "The Conception of Transport Policy" of September, 1997.
The decree incorporates most of the policy recommendations concerning liberalization and
privatization in the transport sector made in the Transport Sector Memorandum and makes them
explicit Government Policy.
Training
17.   According to the SAR, policy reforms were supported by training activities that were
under the responsibility of TRRC. In April 1997, TRRC issued the Development Strategy of the
Training Unit of TRRC, consisting of a list of courses/seminars with rough cost estimates and
requesting that donor organizations fund specific courses/seminars. The objective of this report
was to set forth the overall development strategy for the Training Unit (TU) which would
become a center of quality transport training, serving the Georgian transport sector and expected



4
to become of regional significance at a later date. Elements of this training strategy have been
incorporated in the LIL project mentioned above.
18.   The MOT allocated space for the TU TRRC with a total area of 160.5 square meters at
the MOT building, all expenses for refurbishing, furniture and equipment have been covered by
the Credit. In 1997 the Dutch Government, allocated a grant of US$550,000 for a training
program. The program was implemented by consultants and administered by the Bank. About
400 persons have been trained against the 185 planned in the SAR covering three target groups:
(a) senior officials at the policy and decision making levels; (b) senior policy analysts, planners,
statisticians, and other specialists of MOT and private companies and associations (PCA), whose
function is to support the development and admninistration of policies; and (c) upper level
managers and technical staff of PCA and the MOT.
19.   During the implementation of the training program the TU-TRRC acquired considerable
experience in organizing and administration of seminars. It has established contacts with
enterprises and private persons occupied within the transport sector, Government officials and
academicians, who may potentially be viewed as members of a future corps of local trainers or
consultants. High level of satisfaction and favorable assessments received from the participants
point to the successful implementation of this component. As a result of these activities, the
Transport Consulting and Training Center (TC&TC), an independent non-governmental
organization based on the TU-TRRC, has been registered in December 1998, to enable the cost
recovery of training activities in the future.
20.   Study tours were organized under the project to demonstrate successful privatization of
road maintenance operations. The same concept was expanded to include a tour by high level
governmental officials to countries where successful institutional and policy reforms had taken
place: Slovenia, Chile, New Zealand and Australia.  The Georgian delegation included
representatives of the Ministries of Industry and Trade, Transport, Health, Education, and
Finance. These visits have been credited with a significantly increased acceptance of the reform
process in Government circles.
Ports
21.   According to the TRP SAR this component was intended to be covered by other donors.
Recommendations for the optimization and reorganization of the ports of Poti and Batumi was
prepared under the German Government financed technical assistance (GTZ) TA in 1996-97, and
led to a Presidential decree for the reorganization of Georgian ports. Later on, a feasibility study
of new terninal facilities for Georgian ports was carried out under the TRACECA project. A
parallel study for Poti port privatization has been accomplished under the funds of the USAID. In
these studies alternative privatization plans for Poti port have been developed. The Georgian
Government has not yet made a choice between the two options proposed.



5
The Road Sub-sector
Road user charge system
22.    The Road Fund (established in September 1995) has been fundamentally reorganized
under the project. Significant improvements in the composition of cost recovery and in
collection have taken place since the beginning of the project, and about US$ 75 million
equivalent were collected and applied to road repairs in 1996-1998. The cost recovery system
includes: tax on enterprises, surcharge on fuel, charge on vehicles crossing the boundary, vehicles
ownership charges, and tolls on Ricoti tunnel. The Government has submitted to Parliament a new
Road Fund Law acceptable to the IDA and the International Monetary Fund (IMF).
23.   The initial progress needs to be followed by steps to address the following concerns:
*  The introduction of the cost recovery system has been accompanied by attempts to
evade and divert resources, audits of collection and allocations of funds by the
Georgian Government would be steps to reduce these risks;
-  The accuracy of the costs estimates and assignment of priorities could be improved,
as a pavement management system (DCA 3.04 (a)) is not operational;
*  The Parliament has increased charges at border crossing by some 10 % while
introducing numerous exceptions against recommendations of IDA. There are 16
various international agreements granting mutual advantages and free passage for
various types of transport, vehicles and goods with neighboring countries. The result
is avoidance of a significant proportion of cost recovery; and
* The levy on diesel fuel is not imposed today. If it were introduced, the level of the
Road Fund resources would increase to some 80 million Lari per year.
Privatization of Road Construction and Maintenance Units
24.   The project had as a primary task the privatization of road maintenance and construction
activities to introduce competition, improve efficiency and reorganize road maintenance and
construction activities according to the principles of a market economy. Privatization was studied
by SDRG delegations in France, England, Germany, Slovenia and in the Province of Alberta in
Canada. On the basis of this experience, the SDRG decided not to privatize the buildings and the
land of various road maintenance enterprises and bases, to insure that they will be available to
those selected in the next round of road maintenance tenders in 5 years. Only the equipment and
the enterprises will be privatized, the facilities will be leased to the companies selected.
25.   In August 1998 the SDRG requested the MSPM to privatize all road maintenance units
(except buildings and lands), by May 1999. The whole country has been divided into 12 road
maintenance zones. The SDRG has prepared a detailed inventory of all necessary maintenance
and construction works in order to prepare 5 years maintenance and construction programs.



6
26.    Road construction enterprises and most large production units - asphalt plants and
crushing plants - have been privatized since January 1997.
Competitive Bidding for Maintenance and Rehabilitation Contracts
27.   Standard documents for competitive bidding have been prepared for all type of works. All
periodic maintenance, rehabilitation, and reconstruction contracts will follow public competitive
bidding procedures established under Georgian Law. Although all contracts under the TRP have
been awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, the percentage of total works awarded (29%,
Table 6) by this type of contracts represent the extended use of available documents, i.e., those
for small works under the project. The plan is to have a range of contract sizes including large
volume contracts which may attract foreign companies, which will enable the introduction of
new technologies in Georgia.
28.   Introduction of road maintenance contracts for large sections of roads for 5 years should
increase the financial strength of the maintenance companies in the future and facilitate the
procurement of modem equipment. The introduction of larger scale rehabilitation and
reconstruction programs will make possible the introduction of new modem technology as a
result of economies of scale and the possibility of amortizing the companies investments in
equipment over a reasonable time. Full use of competitive bidding is expected in follow up
operations.
Railways
29. Under the Railway technical assistance sub-component a conceptual study of Railway
reorganization was carried out. Two main Strategic Business Units were proposed by the project,
one for passenger and one for freight services, each with responsibility for its own marketing,
sales, operations, staff management, and management accounting. Each would operate very
much like a private commercial company. Two Service Units (Infrastructure and Rolling Stock)
were also proposed.
30.   Restructuring of the Railways has started: Georgian Railways has been established as a
Limited Liability Company. In addition, a number of studies have been accomplished by other
donors and are shown in Table 7: on infrastructure (items 17, 23 ); a pre-investment study
providing an inventory of major elements of infrastructure rehabilitation (items 17, 20); the set-
up of a pilot container train between Baku and Poti (item 18); and a possible joint venture for a
Trans-Caucasus railway (item 19).
Procurement of Consultants
31.   Consultant services and technical assistance were procured in accordance with IDA
guidelines, including short-listing of firms, standard letters of invitations and contracts. Bank's
sample time-based contracts were used in most cases, and lump-sum contracts were used for the
Study Tour for Georgian authorities to Chile, New Zealand, Australia and Slovenia, and the TRRC.



7
11. Investment Component
Road Sub-Component
32.   Investments under the project consisted of urgent road repairs that included road clearing,
drainage rehabilitation, surface dressing and selected bridge rehabilitation on about 1,000 km of
roads (US$4.2 million) and US$1.3 million worth of road maintenance equipment and spares, to
stabilize and avoid the destruction of the main network, improve safety and support trade.
33.   Bidding Procedures.  National Competitive Bidding (NCB) was applied for the
competitive bidding for road works in SDRG. In all 76 district maintenance units and companies
participated in the bidding and 31 contracts were awarded and implemented. Contracts were
implemented on schedule without serious problems. Landslides on some sections caused minor
changes to the quantity estimates within the scope of the contracts. New techniques regarding the
cleaning of roadside ditches and pavement repair were introduced in project pre-launch seminars
for the technical staff of maintenance units and construction companies.
34.   The implementation resulted in road clearing and drainage rehabilitation on 1,303 kmn, and
pothole fixing on 966 km in 1996,. This was followed by road clearing and drainage rehabilitation
on 374 km, and pothole fixing on 403 kon in the years 1997-1998. The total cost of works executed
amounted to US$6.05 million including a Georgian contribution of US$2.60. The Works in 1997-
1998 were executed by re-allocation of US$0.6 million to Civil Works from Category 2 (b) (i)
Materials and Spares for SDRG.
35.   Organization of Works through competitive bidding procedures decreased average unit
costs for pothole fixing from US$12.5 per square meter in 1996 to US$10.5 in 1997, and made
possible to increase the volume of works. Total road work contracts are given in Table 6.
36.   Maintenance equipment and spare parts from the initial procurement items list in SAR was
re-arranged during a supervision mission in October 1996. Remaining items in the list, with the
exception of 2,275 tons of bitumen procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
procedures, were procured through International Shopping. The total cost of these items procured
was US$0.93 million.
37.  Implementation support to the SDRG was enlarged by re-allocation of US$0.71 million
from Category 2 (b) (i), enabled department to procure additional list of urgently needed equipment
including wireless radiotelephone communication system, bridge testing laboratory, mobile drilling
vehicle and inspection vehicles. ICB was applied only for the communication system, and IS and
NS procedures were used to procure the other items.
Railway Sub-Component
38.  Items for this component were limited to urgently needed track materials including rails,
sleepers and structural steel for bridges. ICB was applied to procure these items. Total cost of
investment - US$3.29 million includes financing from the unallocated disbursement category of the



8
project upon borrower's request in April 1997. The procured rails and sleepers were laid on the
emergency sections agreed, and selected bridges have been repaired with the structural steel
supplied under the Project.
IFB        Goods         Quantity   Unit  Contract   IFB      Contract   Completion
No                                 price   Price in  issuance   Signing    Date
US$      date       date
IFB-2   Rails R65        909.5 t     $578    525,691  Oct-96   Jan-97     July-97
IJFB-4  Structural steel for 402.5 t         248,331  Apr-97   Aug-97     Jan-98
bridges         sheet 10     $553
angle 8x8    $509
lOxIO  $520
16x10  $699
16x16  $526
IFB-5   Rails R65        1299.10tn   $510   662,541  Apr-97   Aug-97      Aug-98
IFB-6   Rails R65        1980 t      $480   950,400  Jun-97   Sep-97      Jun-98
IFB-7  Sleepers         32179 units   $28   901,012  Jun-97   Aug-97      Apr-98
I   $     3,287,975  __
39.   Some difficulties were experienced applying IDA procurement guidelines because of lack
of experience. To avoid future risks of procurement mistakes during project implementation,
training has been organized at TU TRRC for procurement officers of implementing agencies and
other PIUs.
40.   Project costs are shown in Tables 8A, 8B, 8C. A summary of Procurement Arrangements is
given in Table 8D.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
41.   Overall Implementation Record. Implementation was on schedule (Table 3). This was
due in large part to the selection by TRRC of a small but highly competent staff to operate the
Project Implementation Unit (PIU), and the provision of adequate and timely counterpart funding
by the Government. Actual resources (Tables 8A and 8B) available to the project from parallel
financing were significantly higher than expected in the SAR as a result of: (i) an expanded
program of grants from TRACECA, Germany and the USA, which increased by about US$ 10
million anticipated expenditures in TA for studies6; and (ii) additional grants from the
TRACECA program towards the completion of construction of the main bridge at the
Azerbaijan border, for a total of about US$ 3 million.
42.    Loss of value of the SDR. One of the major factors affecting the project was the loss of
value of the SDR vis-a-vis the dollar. At the time of Credit signature, the SDR rate was US$1.48,
but in about two and half-years it had decreased to US$ 1,33-1,29. The total dollar loss amounted
to US$0.85 million. It resulted in lower total value of goods and services which could be
provided under the Credit. These losses were minimized by the rapid implementation of the
6     The expected parallel grant financing for technical assistance in support of sector reform was not
confirmed at the time of negotiations and the Borrower undertook to seek alternative sources in the event of
shortfalls.



9
Project, use of remaining PI-IRD funds for policy studies, and the availability of the Dutch grant
for the training component.
43.   Bidding Procedures. Both NCB and ICB were used for competitive bidding in the
Project. Both procedures produced satisfactory results in terms of adequate responses from
bidders and competitive price proposals.
44.   Subsidiary Loans. Subsidiary loans according to IDA on-lending interest policies and
with maturity matching the life of the repairs, were received by SDRG and RD. SDRG started
payback for its subsidiary loan on March 1, 1997. On the subsidiary loan for railways, the RD
begun servicing after its restructuring. Given the short maturity of the subsidiary loans, the
project has had a positive, albeit minor, budgetary impact.
45.   Environmental Mitigation Actions.  At the time of project identification, the
components in the TRP were not expected to generate any significant environmental problems,
and the project was classified as Category B in accordance with OP 4.01. The implementation of
the TRP has confirmed the validity of this assumption. The Environmental Analysis prepared
during project appraisal in 1995, however, identified five areas of possible concern and provided
an Environmental Mitigation Action Plan to facilitate monitoring these concerns.
46.   The areas in which mitigation actions were prescribed concerned: (i) the production and
application of bituminous products, i.e., emission reports, training on proper application to
contractors and enforcement of emission standards at mixing plants; (ii) quarrying of stone and
gravel, i.e., clearance and licensing of quarrying sites; (iii) short-term impacts, training to
potential contractors on mitigation of noise dust, vibration, and congestion during execution of
works; and (iv) waste materials, training to potential contractors on proper disposal of materials
to avoid contamination of soils and waters adjacent to work sites.
47.   A review conducted in early October 1998 of the actions included under the mitigation
plan, indicated that although the institutional mechanisms intended to coordinate the actions had
not been established, actions in support of these five concern areas had been taken. The
Borrower had brought the TRP into full compliance by November 1998.
48.    Pavement Management System. A modern pavement management system at SDRG is
necessary to: (a) monitor the status of the roads; (b) plan allocation of resources; and (c)
elaborate more precise levels of cost recovery from users. The work scheduled under the
TRACECA program covered all countries in the program and was a first step in this direction as
it recommended the features of the necessary systems. The proposed TSRP would support the
development of a pavement management system to improve the allocation of resources in the
road sector.



10
Ex-Post Economic Evaluation
Roads
Project Contracts
49.   Thirty-one contracts for road works were executed under the project. All of them were
completed. Ex-post, the Net Present Value (NVP) for 1995 at 10% discount rate is US$6.67
million compared to US$3.99 million projected in the SAR and the Economic Rate of Return
(ERR) is 59% compared to 45% estimated in the SAR. This is, on the one hand, due to the
significant road traffic growth (annual growth rate was in excess of 13% compared to projected
1-2%) reflecting economic recovery in the region and improvement of the Georgian road
network as a result of the project, and, on the other hand, the decrease in unit costs of the road
works from the introduction of competitive bidding procedures and economies of scale. The
costs used in the evaluation are inclusive of technical assistance.
Road works under the Road Fund (including Project Contracts)
50.    Creation of a road user charge system was one of the conditions of the project. Funds
available to the Road Fund included the IDA Credit, EU grants and cost recovery flows
introduced by the Road Finance Law of September 2, 1995, and its further amendments.
51.   NPV and ERR were calculated for all patching, overlays and surface dressing operations
carried out by the Road Fund. Results are as follows: the N PV to December 1995 at 10%
discount rate is US$51.94 million and the ERR is 69%. The methodology used was the same as
used for the Project Contracts and in the SAR (Table 9).
Railways
52.   Rail tracks and sleepers were replaced on sections with total length of 25 km and several
bridges were repaired. Rails purchased in August 1998 have been received and will be laid as
part of the ongoing renewal plan of the Railways, and will replace additional 8.5 km of track.
The benefits and cost-savings linked to the railway component were estimated on the basis of: (i)
decreases in operational unit costs of Georgian railways with respect to the without the project
alternative; and (ii) estimates of net benefits from generated traffic on sections repaired under the
project. The significant growth in rail freight traffic - from 1,141 million ton.km in 1996 to
2,500 million ton.km in 1998, or 119% growth increased the benefits accordingly.
53.   Costs of technical assistance and local investments were included in the evaluation.
Expenses for laying of rails and sleepers and rehabilitation works were estimated as 230,000
GEL per km. On this basis amount of local investment was calculated as US$3,507,391.
54.   The NPV of the railway component at 10% discount rate is US$13.155 million and the
ERR is 55% compared to the SAR figures US$8.05 million and 29% respectively. Results are
given in Table 9.



11
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
55.   Project sustainability seems likely, although less than assured, by several aspects:
* Governance. The general legal framework has been changed by the Government in a
way that supports the achievements of the project; a partial list of laws and decrees
follows: Amendments to the Motor Transport Law (October, November, December,
1997), Amendment to the Railway Law (November 1997), Maritime Code (May,
1997), President's Decree on "The Conception of Transport Policy" of September,
1997. The ongoing LIL should help strengthen sustainability prospects in this area.
* Institutional. Institutional changes started during the project implementation seem
irreversible. Transformation of thpe road construction industry is expected to be
permanent. The Government is fully committed to railway and port reforms and the
reorganization of the MOT, and risks of reversals seem low.
* Financial. Some uncertainty is related to the road finance system and the
Government seems to recognize the importance of road maintenance, as new road
user charge legislation has been submitted to Parliament. Still, the risk of diversion
of road user charges exists under the adverse current fiscal situation of Georgia.
- External. External influence on the Georgian economy has been minimized by the
strong fiscal policy of the Government after issuing the local currency Lari in 1995.
The August 1998, devaluation of the Russia Ruble has influenced the Lari, but not
significantly, although the fall in fiscal revenues poses a risk that budgets will remain
too tight to enable catching up with delayed maintenance. Regional transit traffic is
expected to grow.
E. IDA PERFORMANCE
56.    Preparation. The IDA team started project preparation at a time when extremely
difficult conditions existed in Georgia. The team recognized the need for increased resources
was urgent, and that funds spent early would save a substantially larger amount for
reconstruction. The team therefore prepared the project rapidly so that, actual rehabilitation
activities were able to start in July 1996. On the whole the IDA did well in preparing the project
quickly and adequately, so that road and railway infrastructure deterioration on main routes was
held to a minimum while providing support for institutional reforms.
57.   Implementation. Overall IDA performance during implementation is considered to be
satisfactory (Table 1). Regular supervision missions were extremely useful to the Borrower. The
performance of IDA showed flexibility and adapted to changing circumstances such as: (i) the
establishment of MOT at the beginning of implementation and the Project was slightly
restructured; and (ii) the search for alternative sources of support in response to the loss of value
of the SDR.



12
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
58.   Preparation. Although management of the Transport Sector was at an embryonic stlage
at the beginning of the Project, transport agencies of the Borrower were responsive to
information requirements and worked with consultants in the preparation of the feasibility studies
needed for preparation of the project. The Borrower agencies provided the necessary level of
personnel, and processed the project through Government.
59.   Implementation. The Borrower recruited a good team to obtain the quickest possible
implementation. The team consisted of four project staff and administrative support staff, and
benefited from intensive training under the project. As a result, the Project was implemented in
60% of the time initially planned and 90% of the credit had been disbursed by July, 1998, two
years after effectiveness. There were some problems with the coordination of the activities of the
bidding evaluation committees at SDRG and Railways, but on the whole the PIU solved these
problems and carried out a commendable project implementation, learning about new processes
and procedures while on the job.
G. Assessment of Performance and Outcome
60.   The project outcome is rated as fully satisfactory. At the same time, the quality of road
works could perhaps have been higher if international technical supervision standards had been
in place in SDRG. Also, it would have been preferable if the Government had developed a more
adequate level of road user charges that would have assured the necessary level of funding
needed for road maintenance beyond emergency repairs and reconstruction.
61.  It is particularly satisfying that the SDRG has absorbed so much and benefited from the
new methods of operation offered through the project. It has come a long way in its adaptation
to a market economy, with the acceptance of competitive bidding and contract management
techniques. It is continuing to improve its operational systems, and is expected to make
continued progress on its own in the future.
62.   The Training Unit formed under the project is one of the best in the region and
successfully implemented the training component, created the conditions for the continuation of
technical training for the sector under the newly established TC&TC. Status of Legal Covenants
is shown in Table 10.
R. FUTURE OPERATIONS
63.   The Government is satisfied with the results of the project, and appreciates this assistance
at a time when the Government lacked the means to meet institutional reform and infrastructure
rehabilitation requirements with its own resources. It believes that it can not finance these needs
itself for some time. Two new transport related projects started preparation during
implementation of the TRP and will continue the reform process initiated under the project i)
"Restructuring of the Ministry of Transport" (RMOT) supported by a LIL operation, which



13
became effective and begun implementation in February, 1999; and ii) a proposed "Transport
Sector Reform Project" (TSRP) under preparation.
64.   Project items are likely to continue operations in the foreseeable future. This follows
from the likely sustainability as well as the institutional steps taken.  In particular, the
establishment of the TU as a separate non-governmental non-profit organization will allow
continued operation of training courses with cost recovery from participants. The establishment
of private construction and maintenance practices will ensure as a very minimum the
continuation of road maintenance initiated under the project. The restructuring of the railways
has started as regional traffic continues to increase and new legal framework is being discussed.
The logistical support items, and equipment for laboratories, onsite testing, environmental
monitoring and office technology provided are likely to see intensive use throughout their useful
lives.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
65.   Because of the loss of value of the SDR, about US$ 0.84 million was lost to the Project.
The risk of currency fluctuations would need to be kept in mind when calculating contingencies
and determining credit amounts in future projects.
66.   International technical supervision standards and international financial audits should be
developed at SDRG to improve the quality of road works and resource management.
67.   TRRC experienced losses of time and resources because of differences in the auditing
procedures used by international auditing organizations and the State Chamber of Control. State
control procedures need to be adapted to internationally accepted and recognized methods,
including official acceptance of the reports of the international auditors provided under the DCA.
68.  In  the process of project implementation, there were response delays and
misunderstandings on procurement matters. This fact may be explained as a result of insufficient
experience and project ownership in the chaotic situation in the Georgian transport sector during
project identification and preparation. Project ownership increased during the implementation of
TRP, and the level of ownership is an important ingredient of success for future projects.
69.   TRRC experienced difficulties in editing Georgian translation of reports prepared by
foreign consultants in English and translated by local interpreters. Good knowledge of English
by an interpreter is not enough to ensure adequate translation. Two additional requirements
should also be requested from translators: some background or at least analytical skills to
understand the subject, and good knowledge of Georgian technical language (TRRC started to
create specific Georgian transport terminology). Georgian translations of concepts and terms
used by the Bank in legal documents, and guidelines and procedures need unification.
70.   Since the second half of 1997, in addition to the implementation of the TRP, TRRC has
been working on the preparation of two other projects RMOT and TSRP. As a result, in some
periods the implementation team was extremely overloaded.



14
71.   Coordination and cooperation among the agencies implementing IDA projects would
benefit everyone. Besides the language problems mentioned, there are other fields in which
cooperation, including exchanging information among PIUs, would have resulted in increased
efficiency for these projects, particularly in the fields of procurement, accounting and training.
The Resident Mission could be of significant assistance in this area.



15
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:  Summary of Assessment
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:  Project Timetable
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:  Key hidicators for Project nplenementation
Table 6:  Road Works for the Period 1996 - 1998
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project
Table 8A: Project Costs
Table 8B: Project Financing
Table 8C. Project costs and financing integrated with co-financing
Table 8D: Summary of Procurement Arrangements
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. AchievementofObjectives   Substantial    Partial      Negligible    Notapplicable
Macro Policies                03           0             I              I
Sector Policies               03           0             0              0
Financial Objectives         0x            0             0              0
Institutional Development     03           0             0        
Physical Objectives           03           0             0              0
Poverty Reduction             0            0m            0              0
Gender Issues                 0            0             0              [El
Other Social Objectives       0            0             0              0
Environmental Objectives      0            0             0              0
Public Sector Management      (El          0             0              0
Private Sector                [El          0             0              0
Development
Other (specify)               0            0             0              0



16
(Continued)
B. Project Sustainability      Ley                Uni                  Uncertain
(V)                  (V)                  (V)
01                   0                    0
Highly
C. Bank Performance          Satisfactory        Satisfactory          Deficient
(V)                 (V)                  (11)
Identification               (E]                 [                     0
Preparation Assistance                            El 0                 0
Appraisal                    Ix                  a                     D
Supervision                 13                  O                     O
Highly
D. Borrower Performance      Satisfactory        Satisfactory          Deficient
Preparation                  E                   El]                   El
Implementation               El                  n                     E
Covenant Compliance                              [El                   E
Operation (if applicable)    E                   E                     E
Highly                                   Highly
B. Assessment of Outcome    Satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory  unsatisfactory
(/)         (V)           (v)            (v)
X            El            El            El



17
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Loan/credit titl                Purpose                      Year of      Status
approval
Preceding
operations
1. None.
2.
Following
operations
1. Restructuring   (i) Transfonm a traditional Soviet style ministerial    FY99    Implementa
of the Ministry   structure into the transport sector's policy  (actual)  tion is
of Transport.    formulation and deregulation entity needed in a          starting in
(LIL)            market economy; and (ii) define and contribute to        February
achievement of operational autonomy and                  1999.
accountability of the Transport agencies.
2. Transport     (i) to lower transport unit costs; (ii) to lower  FYOO    Under
Sector Reform    transport fiscal costs; and (iii) to induce efficient   (planned)  preparation
Project          resource use in the transport sector.



18
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project Cycle          Date Planned         Date Actual!
SAR            Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)  April 1995          April 1995
Preparation                               April-Sept 1995     April-Sept 1995
Appraisal                                    09/15/95            09/15/95
Negotiations                               November 95         November 95
Letter of Development Policy (if applicable)  December 95      December 95
Board Presentation                           12/15/95            01/18/96
Signing                                      01/31/96            01/31/96
Effectiveness                                03/01/96            07/02/96
First Tranche Release (if applicable)          NA                  NA
Midterm review (if applicable)                 NA                  NA
Project Completion                           12/31/98            12/31/98
Loan Closing                                 06/30/99            06/30/99



19
TABLE 4: LoAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
(US$ million)
FY96 *      FY97         FY98         FY99
Appraisal estimate          0.50         7.00         11.99        12.0
Actual                      2.96         6.15         11.09        11.15
Actual as % of estimate    592.00       87.86        92.95         92.92
* Fiscal Year Jan. 1 -Dec.3 1.



20
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
N   Monitorable Items           Units   Dec'95          Dec'96               Dec'97                 98
Target    Actual    Target    Actual      Target      At
Complet
ion
Institution Building
(TA &Training)
I   Establishment of TRRC        %0                 100       100        100        100        100       100
2   Estab. Management Units       %        0        100        100       100        100        100       100
3   TA Program                             0 _       20        20         60        20         100       100
4   Numnber of Staff trained               0         20         -        40         162        185       487
5   Pavement Managmt. Study       %        0        100        90        100        100        100       100
6   Comp. Bidding of Public    %           0         60         -        80         100        100       100
Works
7   Ports Reorganization          %        0         50        50        100        50         100       100
8   Railway Restructuring         %        0         35        10        75         10         100        50
Legal Frameworks
9   Road      User     Charge    %        100       100        100       100        100        100       100
Legislation
10  Railway Reform Legislation    %       20        55         20        90         20         100       100
11  Ports Restructuring          %        15        35         20        75         20         100       50
12  Privatization    of   Road    %       100       100       100        100        100        100       100
Transport
13  Privatization of Construction    %     -        100                  100        100        100       100
Units
State Department of Roads
(Former HC)
14  Surface     Dressing/Road   km         0         50       966        800       1136        987       1227
repairs
15  Procurement  of  list  of   %          0         90        40        100        90         100       100
equipment and spares
16  Collect. of User charges     %         5         40        50        55         65         70         80
17  Pavement Mgmt.               %         0         35        35        65         35         100        35
18  Competitive bidding          %        100       100        29        100        34         100        25
19  Staff (realloc./reduct.)             6200       1500      6200      1000       4800       400        458
RD
20  Civil Works-Bridges           %        40        70         0        80                    100       100
21  Procuremt. of a list of track  %       40        80        40        100        40         100       100
materials, spares and
structural steel
22  Asset re-evaluation           %        30        60        30        85         100        100       100
23  Tariff adjustrnents
(USCents/traffic unit):
passengers (pass.km)       units    0.80       1.0       0.48      2.0        0.84       3.0       0.63
freight (ton.km)           units     3.3       3.5       2,8       3.8        2.27       4.0       2.26
24  Staff (realloc./reduct.)             18200      8000     18,000     6000       17043      4000      16500
25  Cost reduction Program        %        25        45         -        70          -         100         -
(divestiture of non-transport.
Activities, and reorg.)
Notes: In row 19 - Total staff 458 includes 280 staff of Road Fund



21
TABLE 6. ROAD WORKS FOR THE PERIOD 1996 -1998
Year   Total Cost         Competitive Bidding                 Direct Contracts
of works
Number    Total cost  % in cost     Total cost        % in cost
(GEL)                    (GEL)
1996   15,021,000      27       4,365,308     29         10,655,692          71
1997   13,506,000      9        4,646,834     34         8,859,166           66
1998   19,649,000      23       4,958,513     25         14,690,487          75
Total  48,176,000      59       13,970,655     29        34,205,345           71



22
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
N                            Study                                  Contractor
Financed Under TRP
1   Reorganization of Management of the Georgian Transport   C. Silva Echiburu
Sector (Phase 1), 1996
2   Reorganization of Management of the Georgian Transport   C. Silva Echiburu
Sector (Phase 2), 1997
3   Action plan for reorganization of the MOT, 1996.         C. Studnicki-Gizbert
4   Reorganization of Management of the Georgian Transport   C. Silva Echiburu
Sector (Phase 3), Assistance to Road Transport Department,
1997.
5   Privatization of Transport Enterprises (Georgia Shipping  Scott Wilson Kirkpatrick &
Company), 1997.                                          Co Ltd.
6   Privatization of Transport Enterprises (The Railway Department CIE Consult
of the Ministry of Transport), 1997.
7   Deregulation of the Transport Sector, 1997               Scott Wilson Kirkpatrick &
Co Ltd.
8   Implementation of Technical and Emission Inspection Units for  SweRoad
___= Motorized Vehicles, 1997.
Financed by EU -TRACECA
9   Regional Traffic Forecasting, 1997.                      WS Atkins
10  Legal and Regulatory Framework, 1997,                     Scott Wilson Kirkpatrick &
Co Ltd.
11  Human Resources, 1996.                                    Netrconsult
12  Trade Facilitation, 1997.                                 Scott Wilson Kirkpatrick &
Co Ltd.
13  Multi-modal Transport Systems, 1997                       BCEOM
14  Railways Infrasructure Maintenance. Pre-investment Study,  TEWET
1997.
15  Road Transport Services, 1997.                            DHV Consultants
16  Pavement Management Systems, 1997.                        KOCKS Consult Gmbh
17  Rolling Stock Maintenance - Railways, 1997.               SYSTRA
18  Railways Infrastructure Maintenance. Pilot train Baku-Batum,   TEWET
1997.
19  Joint venture for Trans-Caucasus railway, 1997.           TEWET
20  Railway Tariffs and Timetables, 1997.                     SISIE
21  TRACECA management team, 1998.                            TRACTEBEL
22  Feasibility Study of Georgian Ports, 1998.                HPTI
Financed by GTZ
23  Optimization and Reorganization of the Ports Poti and Batumi,   HPC
1996-97.
24  Georgian Railways 1996 - 2010 (A Strategy), 1995          M. Strohn
Financed by USAID
25  Privatization of Poti port                                Comell Group, Inc



23
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
Appraisal estimate        Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)               (US$ million)
Item                         Local  Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign    Total
costs    costs             Costs    costs
1. Civil Works               4.50      2.1     6.60      6.05      3.50      9.55
2. Goods                      1.70     4.90     6.60     0.00      5.59      5.59
3. Consultant services and    1.80     2.60    4.40      0.08      14.73     14.81
training
4. Operating Costs of TRRC    0.20     0.30     0.50     0.40      0.00      0.40
5. Unallocated                0.70     1.20     1.90     0.00      0.00      0.00
Total             8.90     11.10    20.00    6.53      23.82     30.35
TABLE 8 B: PROJECT FINANCING 7
Appraisal estimate        Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)               (US$ million)
Item                         Local  Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign    Total
costs    costs             Costs    costs
1. WorldBank                 4.00      8.00    12.00     3.79      7.36     11.15
2. Other Donors               2.90     3.10     6.00     0.00      15.69     15.69
2. Japan                      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.07      0.22      0.29
3. Netherlands                0.00     0.00    0.00      0.00      0.55      0.55
4. Government                 2.00     0.00     2.00     2.67      0.00      2.67
Total             8.90     11.10    20.00     6.53     23.82     30.35
7     PHRD fimds under a country executed grant were applied to intended uses, i.e., policy studies and project
preparation, following express authorization from Trust Fund Administration.



24
TABLE 8C. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING INTEGRATED WITH CO-FINANCING
Description of the Project        Project Costs            Co-Financing Costs
Due to DCA                      IDA
According   Disbursed   According        Actual/
TRP SAR       US$       TRP SAR          Source
US$ m                 / Source in       US$ m
US$ m       (lECU= $1.15)
Part A:
Institution Building Component    1.924       2.637       6.0           7.14
Part A 1: Policy Reform            0.607        0.782       0.6          0.8
Provision of assistance for the                0.782        0.6          0.180
formulation of transport policy                                         (PHRD)
reform and a program for the
privatization of transport enterprises,
and for the formulation of technical                                     0.621
and legal frameworks necessary for                                   (TRACECA)
the restructuring, commercialization
and privatization of entities in the
transport sector.
Part A 2: Support to the TRRC:                 0.536       1.9         0.63
* provision of short term                      0.475       0.9         0.08
consultant services, equipment,                                   (PHRD)
and recurrent cost financing;
* establishment of Training Unit.              0.061        1.0        0.55
(Dutch Grant)
TA to modal agencies:
Part A3: Ports                                              0.9        1.725
Provision of assistance for the                             0.9      NA
formulation of a policy for the                           GTZ        (GTZ-USAID)
commercialization of ports and
definition of related policy of
adjustments and institutional reforms
1.725
(TRACECA)



25
(Continued)
Part A 4: The road sub-sector    1.300       1.309       1.1          0.75
Road user charge system; road user              1.309                   0.096
charge collection performance and                                     (PHRD)
procedures; privatization of road
construction and maintenance units;
rentals, leasing and sale of road
construction and maintenance
equipment; competitive bidding
contracts; winter road maintenance.
Pavement Management System                                1.1        0.644
(TRACECA)
Part A 5: Railway                       0.010        1.5        3.24
Financial restructuring; program of                         1.5        3.24
minimal renewal and rehabilitation;                         GTZ      (TRACECA)
legislation.
NA
(GTZ)
Part B
Investment Component                       8.52                   9.48
(a) Road maintenance program                    5.23                   2.875
* urgent road repairs;             2.353        3.45                   2.875
(TRACECA)
* road maintenance equipment and   1.940        1.78
spares.
(b) Railway Sub-component     X                 3.29                    6.6
* urgent investments to remove    1.598         3.29                    6.6
bottlenecks                                           ___A__ (UN Food for Peace)
unallocated    2.812    _
TOTAL    11.937         11.15        6.0       16.62
Notes:
* As far as TRACECA is multi-country program, costs of TRACECA projects given in the
table correspond only to the Georgian portion of each referred project;
* US$ 2.88 under TRACECA project given under road investments table represents the Red
Bridge rehabilitation project.



26
TABLE 8D. SUMMARY OF PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million)
Procurement Method
Project Element and amount allocated in DCA        IDA                  NIF  Total Cost
financing
Procurement method
ICB NCB Other Total
1. Works                           4.13 (2.35)       3.45          3.45 2.60       6.05
2. Goods                           4.69 (4.69)                     5.60            5.60
a) Railway track materials            1.24  3.04                3.04
b) Materials and spare parts for:
(i) SDRG                       2.46  0.49         0.44   0.93
(ii) RD                        0.36  0.25                0.25
c) Office equip. and vehicles for:
(i) TRRC                       0.22               0.29   0.29
(ii) SDRG                      0.19  0.26         0.60   0.86
d) Emission monitoring and control    0.22  0.23                0.23
3. Consultant Services and Training    1.92 (1.92)                 1.70            2.53
a) parts A.1- A.3 of the Project      0.61               0.39   0.39 0.73 1.12
b)partA.4oftheProject                 1.30               1.29   1.31  0.10 1.41
c) Part A. 5 of the Project           0.01
4. TRRC operational costs          0.20 (0.20)             0.40   0.40             0.40
5. Unallocated                     2.81 (2.81)
Total                11.97  4.27  3.45  3A1  11.15  3.45       14.58
The table above does not include the financing from EU, GTZ or other possible donors proposed in
SAR. Those donors as well as their contribution to the development of Georgian transport sector
are specified in Table 8C. Prior Review applied to all IDA procurement for the TRP.



27
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
Type of Expenditure    Cost in      Estimated      Actual     Actual NPV
US$ Million     IERR          IERR       US$ Million
TRP - Road           8.47         45%           59%           6.67
Component
TRP - Railway         6.84          29%          55%           13.15
Component
Overall TRP         15.31         36%           57%           19.82
Road Fund                    I                 69%      1    51.94



28
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Original    Revised
Agree              Covenant  Present Fulfillment  Fulfillment    Description of
ment   Section      Type    Status      Date        Date         Covenant         Comments
Cr. #   3.01(a)       03        C      09/15/96      NA      Establishes roles of  Complied with
2809-                                                        TRRC,SDRG, and
GE                                                           RD
-do-   3.01 (b);(c)   05       C; C;   07115/96;     NA      (a) Makes reference  Complied with,
& (d)                   CD     03/01/97;             to Implementation    delay refers to
09/15/98              Program; (b)&(d)    onset of service
sets Implementation  of subsidiary
Agreement for      loan by RD
SDRG &RD with
subsidiary loans
-do-   3.02           03        C      09/15/96      NA      Establishes         Complied with
Procurement
Thresholds
-do-   3.03           09        C      09/15/98      NA      Acceptable future    Complied with,
operation of the   assured by
project            sustainability
and inst.
Reforms
-do-   3.04 (a)       10       CP                    NA      Execution of        Study carried
Pavement           out, system not
Management Study,  installed and
with proposal on   was not used as
road user charges    anticipated
-do-   3.04 (b)       10        C      03/15/97      NA      Exchange views on   Complied with,
3.04 (a)           road user
charges revised
on the basis of
TA for SSDRG
-do-   3.04 (c)       10       CD      04/10/98      NA      Revision to Road    Complied with,
User Charges to    Draft Law at
appropriate levels    Parliament, after
completion of
_ _ ____    ______                         TA for SDRG
-do-   3.05 (a)       02        C      03/15/96      NA      Establishment of a   Complied with
system of collections
at border crossings



29
(Continued)
-do-    3.05(b)       06        CD     03/15/96       NA      Nationwide fuel     Complied with,
quality standards and as informal
monitoring         imports of fuel
were displaced
Cr. #   4.01 (a)      01        C       07/02/96      NA      The Borrower shall  Complied with.
2809-                                                         maintain or cause to
GE                                                            be maintained
records and accounts.
-do-  4.01 (b) (i)   01        C    March 1997      NA       Have the records and Complied with.
accounts referred to
in par. (a) of the
Section for the
Special Account for
each fiscal year
audited.
-do-  4.01 (b) (ii)    01      C      June 1997     NA       Furnish not later than Complied with.
six months after the
end of each year a
certified copy of the
audited reports.
Covenant types:                                                               Present Status:
1. = Accounts/audits                         8. = Indigenous people           C = covenant
2. = Financial performance/revenue generation  9. = Monitoring, review, and   complied with
from beneficiaries                               reporting                 CD = complied
3. = Flow and utilization of project funds   10. = Project implementation not    with after delay
4. = Counterpart funding                       covered by categories 1-9      CP = complied
5. = Management aspects of the project or    11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral  with partially
executing agency                             budgetary or other resource   NC = not complied
6. = Environmental covenants                   allocation                     with
7. = Involuntary resettlement                12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral
policy/ regulatory/institutional
action
13. = Other



MAP SECTION



[BRD 26918R
AU'                                      41'                                      42-                                     43                                       44                                        45'                                      46'
GEORGIA
T,
4,_ _4M  B]LT-ER URBAN AREA
o    SLACERD CT ES
RUSSIAN    FEDERATION                                                                                                                                 AUTONOMOU UBBIC CENTERS
NAKTIONAL CAPITAL
RIVERS
a`7u  : .   ,   i,                                                                                                                                                                       :     J  ACIER AREAS
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ MAIN ROADS
Pcand;%A  r 7  ;   I  _ - ss, w s _ . o   v                                                                                                                                  ECONDARY ROADS
-. PAROADS
DIETS I  OUNDARIES
-43                                             \    S.hum.'                                  ,
- C  ,   '                             -- . - -                                                                                                                    - AUTONOMOUS RE(,LE ROENUAR-ES
--1>                                                                                                                          -  -INTERUATIOIN     BOUNDAB ES
Es. ok,s      ^                  eR, 'b
FELERATION  /U J .>- AhallnJaL                 N <   ang                                                FEDER           .TIO
.5-'-  '-5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4'
Kh.l. ~       ~ Ai....3 t                                              _i j2vi b                          ,;     
OFORM~~~~A ,                                                                                                                                                   hmp   TUR KEYt-c-_sTaThiToj-  _.,.  
>-7 <, z L   z   onbsm pdonol/mp,li. Jmordon                                           ,              ,                                                    (                              -
UKRAINE           _ .                        KAZA_STANd' _                     
_   ,.-SYRANARABRUSS IRAQ   \   ISIAbAICREPOFIRAN              A2s                  .                      43                              \          445                                        45                   {                       46o                          JUrIE19'.
GEO'R                                                                 TURKE
TURKEY                                                                                                                                                                 ARME~~~~~Dosso~ooeOTU K Y  T.U  ,NIAco
A"o OFAROR  AZERBAIS4J'J  41' ooAo, Aeooo.30                                       45e0s7 KIOMEERSAZE    BA JA
SYIRAN ARAB REP"  IRAQ  I    ISLAM4IC REP. OF IRAN                                                                       4,3'                                         1                                         05 
JLIE US97



