Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15029-GE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GEORGIA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
DECEMBER 26, 1995
Infrastructure Division
Country Department IV
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(as of September, 1995)
Currency Unit  =  Lari
1 Lari  =  US$0.8403
US$1   =  1.19 Lari
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES (Prior to September, 1995)
Coupons per US$1
December 1993        January 1994         April 1994           July 1994
120,000              200,000              1,200,000            1,500,000
August 1994          May 1995             July 1995
2,000,000            1,300,000            1,300,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ATC       Air Traffic Control                 IRI        International Roughness Index
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy         MoEP       Ministry of Environmental Protection
CIS       Commonwealth of Independent States  NCB        National Competitive Bidding
CLAU      Caucasus Logistics Advisory Unit    NEAP       National Environmental Action Plan
CMEA      Council for Mutual Economic         NGO        Non-Governmental Organization
Assistance                          NIF       Non-IDA Financed
DC        Direct Current                      NPV        Net Present Value
EA        Environmental Assessment            PHRD       Policy and Human Resources
EBRD      European Bank for Reconstruction and           Development
Development                        SDR        Special Drawing Rights
EMU       Electric Motorized Unit             SEIC       Socio-Economical Information
ERR       Economic Rate of Return                        Committee
EU        European Union                      SOE        Statement of Expenditure
FSU       Former Soviet Union                 TA         Technical Assistance
FY        Fiscal Year                         TACIS    Technical Assistance for CIS countries
GDP       Gross Domestic Product              TCC        Transport Coordination Committee
GSC       Georgian Shipping Company           TRP        Transport Rehabilitation Project
GTZ       German Agency for Technical         TRRC       Transport Reform and Rehabilitation
Cooperation                                   Center
IAS       International Accounting Standards    TSM      Transport Sector Memorandum
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction  USAID    United States Agency for International
and Development                               Development
ICB       International Competitive Bidding   VAT        Value Added Tax
ICR       Implementation Completion Report    vpd        vehicles per day
IDA       International Development Association WFP      World Food Program
GEORGIA - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GEORGIA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY  ................
COUNTRY AND SECTOR BACKGROUND
A.   Country Context .................... 1
B.     Macroeconomic Background  .................... 2
C.     The Transport Sector ....................  3
D.     Transport Sub-Sectors ....................  7
E.    Bank's Experience and Strategy ................................ 12
II.    THE PROJECT
A.     Project Origin and Formulation  ................................ 16
B.     Project Rationale and Objectives ................................ 16
C.     Project Components and Description ............................. 17
D.     Cost Estimates and Financing  ................................  19
E.  Status of Cofinancing ................................. 21
F.     Implementation   ..........................................   21
G.     Procurement ................................  22
H.     Disbursements ................................  25
I.     Monitoring, Reporting, Accounting and Auditing .26
J. Onlending Terms .27
K.     Project Supervision .... .................................... 27
L. Environmental Aspects .28
M.  Program Objective Categories .28
III.    FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A.   Highway Concern .................... 30
B.     Railway Department ....................  33
IV.    PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.  Project Benefits ................ 36
B. Project Risks .38



V.  SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDATIONS AND CREDIT CONDITIONS
A.     Agreements Reached ....................................... 39
B.     Conditions of Effectiveness ................................... 39
C.     Conditions of Disbursement  .................................. 40
D.     Recommendation  ......................................... 40
ANNEXES
1.   Project Cost Estimates
2.   Project Implementation Schedule and Monitorable Indicators
3.   Estimated Disbursement Schedule
4.   Sector Technical Assistance - Cost Estimate
5.   Implementation Unit - The Transport Reform and Rehabilitation Center (TRRC)
6.   Cost Estimate - Road Sub-Component
7. Financial Projections - Highway Concern
8.   Contracting of Road Construction and Maintenance Units
9.   Rental and Leasing of Highway Concem Equipment
10. Cost Estimate - Rail Sub-Component
11. Financial Projections - Railway Department
12. Railway Department - Current Infrastructure and Equipment Situation
13. Organization of Project Implementation
14. The Training Unit of the Transport Reform and Rehabilitation Center (TRRC)
15. Procurement Arrangements
16. Schedule of Supervision Missions
17. Environmental Analysis
18. Economic Rate of Return Analysis
19. Highway Concern - Technical Assistance
20. Selected Documents Available in the Project File
MAP            IBRD No. 26918
TABLES
Table 11. 1 - Summary of Project Cost Estimate ............................. 20
Table 11.2 - Financing Plan .......................................... 20
Table 11.3 - Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements  ................... 24
Table II.4 - Estimated Disbursements ................................... 26
Table III.1 - Highway Concern: Summary Cashflow Projections  .................. 32
Table 111.2 - Railway Department: Summary Income Statement Projections  ....           ....... 35
Table III.3 - Railway Department: Summary Balance Sheet Projections .............. 35
FIGURES
Figure 1. 1:    Roads - Freight Traffic ................................... 6
Figure 1.2:    Dry Cargo Turnover in Batumi and Poti Ports  .................... 6
Figure 1.3:  Railway - Freight Traffic.                                                         6



REPUBLIC OF GEORGIA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:              Republic of Georgia
Implementing Agencies: Transport Reform and Rehabilitation Center, Highway Concern, Railway
Department
Poverty Category:      Not applicable
Amount:                SDR 8.1 million (US$12 million equivalent)
Terms:                 35 years maturity, including a 10 year grace period, on standard IDA terms
Commitment Fee:        0.50 % on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after signing, less
any waiver.
Onlending Terms:       Funds would be on-lent to modal agencies for 5 years, plus 1 year grace
period, at a fixed rate equal to 7.07%, and repayable in local currency,
determined as of the date or respective dates of repayment.
Financing Plan:        See Table II.2, page 20.
Net Present Value:     US$ 12 million discounted at 10% (36 % Economic Rate of Return on 86 %
of project costs).
Map:                   IBRD no. 26918
Project ID Number:     GE - PA - 39892



REPUBLIC OF GEORGIA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. COUNTRY AND SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. Country Context
1.1          The Republic of Georgia is a relatively small country with a population of 5.4 million
and a geographical area of 70,000 square kilometers. The capital, Tbilisi, has a population of 1.5
million. Georgia occupies the western portion of the isthmus between the Caspian and Black Seas. The
eastern portion is the Republic of Azerbaijan while the land-locked Republic of Armenia takes up a part
of the southern portion. The three republics together constitute a buffer region between Russia to the
north and Iran and Turkey to the south. Two major mountain ranges (the Main and Lesser Caucasus
Chains) run through this region in an east-west direction and constitute major barriers to north-south
movements. Georgia controls most of the valley between the two ranges, and the pass (of less than 1,000
m) that separates the east and west portions of the isthmus.
1.2          Georgia was the first of the non-Baltic states to declare independence from the Former
Soviet Union (FSU), on April 9, 1991. Formal contacts between the World Bank and the Republic of
Georgia (hereinafter referred to as Georgia) began in March 1992, and the country joined the World Bank
in August 1992. One year later, Georgia joined the International Development Association (IDA).
1.3          At the time of its independence, Georgia appeared to be a relatively well-off republic with
fairly good potential for growth. Its sources of strength were its educated labor force, its long tradition
of entrepreneurship, the existence of a significant underground economy, non-negligible private sector
activity in agriculture, tourism on the Black Sea coast, and mineral and natural resources. Furthermore,
the country's location made it a primary transit conduit for goods, providing important access to and from
the Black Sea for Armenia, Azerbaijan, Central Asia, and Iran.
1.4          Soon after its independence, however, the country became embroiled in political and civil
strife. The consequences have had a devastating effect on the nation's economy, infrastructure and social
stability, further compounding the difficult transition to a market economy. Conflicts in Ossetia, located
in north-central Georgia, resulted in numerous casualties and refugees; since 1992, peace-keeping forces
have stabilized the situation. A separatist war in Abkhazia continued throughout 1992-1993, resulting
in an estimated 260,000 refugees migrating to other parts of Georgia, including Tbilisi and the coastal
cities of Poti and Batumi. During the same period, the Government also fought armed supporters of a
previous administration, generating additional casualties and destruction. A cease-fire in Abkhazia is now
in effect, and although the Government does not control the region, an agreement involving Russia and
the United Nations has been signed to work out a peaceful solution of the conflict. Georgia joined the
Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) and Russian peacekeeping forces are now in Abkhazia to
work out the return of refugees to the province and to reopen the route to Russia.



2                                                           1. Country and Sector Background
B. Macroeconomic Background
1.5          Georgia currently remains in the trough of a recession, and much of the country's
agricultural and industrial plant stays idle. At present, it ranks among the poorest countries of the FSU
with the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) per capita estimated at about US$410 in 1994. The decline in
production began in 1989 but has been particularly sharp since 1991. In the period 1991-1993, GDP fell
by a cumulative total of 70%, affecting all sectors. The causes of the recession are many and to a large
extent inter-linked: civil war; disruption of traditional trade patterns; lack of foreign exchange; hyper-
inflation until July of 1994; and an all pervasive shortage of energy.
1.6          Extemal trade with the states of the FSU used to play a big role in the Georgian
economy. Total external trade (average of imports and exports) amounted to almost 43% of GDP in
1988-1990, with inter-republican trade accounting for about 86% of total trade. Georgia relied heavily
on imports of energy from other republics, notably Russia (for electricity and crude oil) and Turkmnenistan
(natural gas). Imported energy amounted to about 80% of the total energy supply in 1990. Wheat,
sugar, and some heavy machinery were the other major imports. Exports included citrus, tea, tobacco,
wine and mineral water. By far the biggest trading partner was Russia.
1.7          In 1991-1993, trade with the other FSU republics and the rest of the world collapsed.
This was due to several factors, which include the self-imposed embargo on trade with other republics
following the declaration of independence, the general breakdown of the trade channels in the FSU, the
disruption of transport routes due to the fighting in Abkhazia and Ossetia, the disruption of production
from input shortages, and the disintegration of the state order system. Today, there is some improvement
as active trade with neighboring countries, in particular Turkey, is taking place, although it remains
largely unrecorded. Although the importance of oil and gas increased greatly as a share of total imports,
enery shortages have been acute, sharply affecting industry, agriculture and transportation.
1.8          Georgia, until April 1993, used the Soviet ruble as its currency. Inflation, low before
1991, increased to reach about 120% in 1991 and almost 1,000% in 1992. In early 1993, as a step
towards creating its own currency, the Government issued "coupons" valued at par with the ruble and
circulating in parallel with it. The inflationary process accelerated, however, and the "coupon" soon lost
its value. By August 1993, it had sunk to 1/6 of the ruble, and at the end of 1993, the annual rate of
inflation had reached 8,400% and was ten times that of Russia. The depreciation of the coupon continued
thereafter and was finally halted by the stabilization program initiated in the Fall of 1994. After
appreciating from 5 million coupons per dollar to 1.3 million coupons per dollar at the end of 1994, the
exchange rate has stabilized, and in July 1995, the exchange rates were 260 coupons to the rouble and
1.3 million to the dollar. Effectively, only the ruble, the dollar and other hard currencies were being used
for trade and as a unit of account, and very few commodities besides food stuffs could be purchased with
the coupon. This situation has changed since the introduction of the new national currency, the Lari, in
September, 1995.
1.9          The economic recession has had a major impact on the state-controlled sector. Major
structural changes are taking place spontaneously, without any explicit policy intent on the part of the
Government. Salient examples are the slow disappearance of functions traditionally performed by the
civil service. This contraction of the civil service, apart from an intended reduction in state employment
levels, is also the result of a rapid loss in the purchasing power of governmental salaries. Those who
can find something more remunerative to do move on, with the predictable result that institutional
capacity is being reduced in a haphazard and disruptive fashion, faster than the level of Government
employment. In this context, for instance, the Ministry of Transport was dismantled in early 1994.



1. Country and Sector Background                                                             3
1.10          Furthermore, the drop in the supply of goods and services by the public sector has
prompted the informal private sector to respond. This growth of an unrecorded economy is amplified
by the fact that Georgians have long had an entrepreneurial tradition and such response is rooted in
ancient history. The case of fuel is a relevant example. Prior to the liberalization of fuel prices, fuel at
controlled prices was not available, while fuel sold directly from "importing" trucks was widely available
at a market price quoted in hard currency for foreigners and in Russian rubles for the local population.
The price of a gallon of gasoline approaches world prices: in July 1995, it was comparable to the price
of gasoline in Washington D.C. at that time. The same entrepreneurial response is evident throughout
the economy, with small shops, bakeries, garages, car rental services appearing spontaneously despite
difficult conditions.
1.11          Recent developments. Since the beginning of 1994, the Government has begun to
consolidate its control over the country. There is some improvement in the law and order situation, and
a new governmental team has renewed efforts to rebuild the economy through market-oriented reforms.
Besides macroeconomic stabilization, progress has already been made in implementing structural reforms
in several areas. Small-scale enterprise privatization has already reached 90 % of enterprises, most prices
have been liberalized, and the import regime is relatively open. Georgia is initiating a comprehensive
program of stabilization policies and structural reforms, however, under very difficult conditions and
stringent financial constraints. Without drastic measures, as well as strong conmmitment to reforms on
every level of Government, it will be difficult to achieve success in this process.
C. The Transport Sector
1.12          A detailed description of the structure and investment priorities of the transport sector in
Georgia, and an action plan for policy and institutional reforms, are presented in the Transport Sector
Memorandum (TSM -- Report No. 13978-GZ, dated May 26, 1995) prepared by the Bank in
collaboration with Georgian authorities and other international institutions.  Agreement with its
recommendations has been confirmed by the Government of Georgia in a Letter of Sector Development
Policy, which has been attached to the minutes of negotiations (see paras. 2.12(b) and 3.15).
The Transport Sector Before Independence
1.13          Prior to independence, Georgia's transport system was closely integrated with that of the
FSU, and the country served as an important transit channel for the other republics. Land trade with the
FSU was mostly by rail, estimated in 1988 at 37.8 million tons, but another 2 million tons moved by
truck. Georgia's two principal cargo ports (Batumi and Poti)' moved 11.5 million tons of cargo in 1988;
85 % of this cargo, in value terms, was cabotage traffic to other parts of the FSU.
1.14          Not only was Georgia's transport system oriented to the FSU but the characteristics of
the system were determined by central authorities in Moscow and reflected patterns encountered
throughout the FSU. These included: (a) overuse of transportation because of specialization of production
in a few locations; (b) over-reliance on rail transport, especially for short hauls and for moving cargo to
and from ports; (c) centralized control of investments affecting all international transport; (d) undoubted
1/     The third port Sukhumi, located in Abkhazia, was essentially a passenger port (see para 1.54).



4                                                              I. Country and Sector Background
technical competence of administrative and managerial structures coupled with unfamiliarity of
benefit/cost or other market-based analyses; and (e) the almost exclusive use of transport equipment made
within the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA) trading area, equipment that typically was
not competitive by world market criteria.
1.15          Georgia also made use of the same institutional arrangements for its transport system that
were the pattern generally in the FSU: the Ministry of Transport received budgetary proposals of various
enterprises in the transport sector, setting their charging policies and the level of mandatory payments
to the Government, authorizing investments and providing support from general government finances if
revenues were inadequate. In addition, maritime and aviation fleets were based in ports or airports and
operated as combined enterprises with them; freight booking and follow-up was handled through central
organizations; transport enterprises typically provided many social services (health, education, etc.) to
their staff at little or no cost; and the design, construction and maintenance of roads and other
infrastructure was carried out by units which were not subject to competition.
1.16          Up to 1990, Georgian statistical authorities compiled summaries of the performance of
the transport system based on reports from various operators, whether they functioned on a "for hire"
or "own account" basis. With some privatization and with a general decline in discipline, the reporting
system has now broken down, and sample surveys have not yet been instituted on a routine basis.
The Transport Sector Today
1.17          Today, Georgia still retains much of the Soviet-style transport system, concerning
institutions and procedures, but without the funding that it enjoyed in the Soviet era.  Physical
manifestations of the shortcomings of this system abound across the sector:
lack of resources for all the modes;
*      an eroding asset base;
-      lack of technical innovation and upgrading;
*      absence of a meaningful statistical base for the sector; and
absence of reliable financial indicators.
1.18          Asset Base. Little, if any, maintenance (even basic routine maintenance) has been done
in all sub-sectors except air transport since 1991. This is the case, for instance, of critical transport
infrastructure assets such as the main road system (the main east-west road from Azerbaijan to the Black
Sea coast and north-south from the Armenian to Russian borders) which is deteriorating badly, of several
railway bridges which are near collapse, and of crucial port infrastructure. This eroding asset base may,
within the next five years, deteriorate to the point at which maintenance and rehabilitation are no longer
possible. If this occurs, the only option will be costly and complete reconstruction.
1.19          Worsening the picture, the conflict in Abkhazia severely damaged road and particularly
railway infrastructure: several bridges were blown up on the critical link between the Black Sea ports and
eastern Georgia; railway electric wires were vandalized, and the signalization system was destroyed.
1.20          Traffic. The transport sector was particularly affected by the economic downturn of the
last four years in Georgia. Today, traffic flows in all modes are significantly reduced when compared
with those of only a few years ago. Less than one fourth of 1990 levels were observed in 1993. In
addition, most of the remaining traffic for ports and rail is humanitarian food-aid cargo, and such traffic
is temporary.



1. Country and Sector Background                                                                    5
1.21           Transit traffic also fell drastically from 204,000 tons in 1989 to 22,800 tons in 1991 and
with further reductions since, although transit traffic has recovered somewhat due, again, to shipment of
humanitarian assistance to Armenia and Azerbaijan through Georgia. Figures 1. 1, 1.2 and 1.3 below give
an indication of freight traffic decline in roads, ports and rail.
1.22           Since independence from the FSU, Georgia has aspired to a role as the western and
crucial link in a land corridor for trade between Europe and Asia, by providing transit facilities for oil
and gas pipelines from central Asia, and container transit traffic for trade between Europe and central and
eastern Asia, and the Persian Gulf. Today, Georgia envisages not only the transit revenues but also the
impetus to domestic ancillary activities that transit trade would generate.
1.23           A shift in external trade relations is already taking place. Although cargo turnover
remains very low, the quantity, range and origins of the comrnmodities handled at Poti port have become
more diversified. The outward shipment of ores through Poti has now stopped, and trade with Turkey
and countries in the Mediterranean has increased. The possible competition by corridors through Russia,
and through Turkey and Armenia, needs to be kept in mind: the significance of transit traffic for the
Railway and ports would grow in tandem with an easing of tensions in the Caucasus region.
1.24           Financial Aspects. Since Government revenues have decreased significantly, from about
25 % to 3 % of a much smaller GDP base, most transport enterprises are having to rely on self-generated
funds to cover their urgent needs, i.e., to provide essential spares and replacements for maintenance of
existing operations. With the exception of urban transport, transport enterprises are not receiving official
"subsidies" anymore2. As for the Highway Concern, it has not received any payments from the state
budget, has not been able to maintain the road network and has difficulties paying its staff.
1.25           Budgeting arrangements for the four transport modes of the erstwhile Ministry, now that
they report directly to a Deputy Prime Minister, do not exist. It is also clear that under present
conditions, transport enterprises in Georgia, whatever the formal designation of their financial status, are
not maintaining their assets and are depleting their capital stock.
1.26           Institutional Aspects.  Institutionally, the sector is in disarray.  The Ministry of
Transport was dismantled in early 1994. Four modal agencies for rail, road transport, ports and air
report directly to a Deputy Prime Minister responsible for the infrastructure sectors, and a fifth, (the road
infrastructure sub-sector) reports to the Council of Ministers. This structure is expected to be adjusted
under the new Government, the modal agencies will continue to be responsible for policy and regulatory
functions. In addition, under the modal agencies there exist operational units. These are public entities,
established by law which requires them to conduct their activities in accordance with Georgian Corporate
Law.  There is no reliable, consistent, information base, and transport statistics are not being
systematically collected.
1.27           The Ministry of Transport was abolished in 1994 in the context of a needed contraction
in the civil service, with more and more responsibilities concentrated in fewer hands. This trend has
adversely affected the ability of policy-makers to formulate sector policy, carry out reforms and adjust
to new realities. The sector, with the exception of the aviation sub-sector, still operates under the
organizational and policy structures of earlier days. Since the restoration of the Soviet-style civil service
2/     The terms 'profit" 'loss" and "subsidy' as used in the former Soviet system do not correspond to accounting concepts
in the industrialized world, most notably because Soviet accounting made no provision for either compensation of capital or
reserves for depreciation.



6                                                           1. Country and Sector Background
Roads - Freight Traffic
mlh wn.kn
slow b#_
ow~~~~ m      . ^.j.     -t _
lo4w      r i  i       Io i         lw
fl*1~~99 bL                             B
Flgure 1.1           Source:      SoiR   Eooge Maical InonsultionGMH Commite ofSPoiC
DrSaroturnove In993;m and PBa otsm n oiPrsfr19
*e.*_ ~ ~ ~ ~ j
1~~~~~~~~00 ~ ~ ~ ~      ~     9
1,000
201
Figure 1.3           Source:       SEIC of the Supreme Council of the Republic of
Georgia; and Railway Department for 1994



I. Country and Sector Background                                                               7
would not be advisable, this presents a unique opportunity to organize reforms and privatize the sector.
Improved sector performance is indispensable for the economy to recover, and the sector may need to
be restructured and market-oriented to be able to perform under increasing traffic volumes. In an effort
to focus and accelerate efforts to reform the sector, two State Committees have been recently formed
under the authority of the Chief of State with somewhat overlapping responsibilities. They are a
Transport Coordination Committee (TCC), dealing with domestic transport issues, and the Transport
Reform and Rehabilitation Center (TRRC), responsible for trans-caucasian transport issues. Both entities
are involved in project implementation (see Annex 13, page 1), the TRRC as coordinator of the project,
and the TCC as a participant in the project steering group.
1.28          Recent Developments. As part of the efforts undertaken by the current governmental
team to rebuild the economy through market-oriented reforms (see para. 1. I1), some encouraging changes
are already taking place in the transport sector. The aviation sub-sector was restructured in 1994, with
the Aviation Department acting as a regulatory body, and airports, airlines, and air traffic control (ATC)
operating under commercial principles as separate entities.  In addition, some steps towards
commercialization of ports have occurred, a program of privatization of road transport entities is
underway, and a recent decree reorganized the road transport sub-sector, liberalizing it and defining a
regulatory body. The implementation of the road transport privatization program started in April 1995,
and about 75% of the assets were privatized in November, 1995 (see paras. 2.11 (a)), and laws on
foreign investments and road user charges were approved in July and September 1995.
1.29          Remaining Issues. Despite these efforts, many issues remain to be addressed, both
institutionally and regarding the necessary rehabilitation of the key transport infrastructure of Georgia.
Institutionally, the issues refer to commercialization, deregulation and further privatization in the sector
with attendant restructuring of operational units concerned. On the rehabilitation side, the issues refer
to the need for cost recovery, giving priority to the maintenance of critical sections, and improving
technologies in use to reduce unit costs of operations and civil works. The deterioration of the transport
system is affecting other economic sectors that rely upon transport. If not addressed, this deterioration
is likely to create transport bottlenecks which will further discourage economic activity and would need
to be removed as a matter of urgency.
D. Transport Sub-Sectors
1.30          The following paragraphs describe the current physical situation of each of the transport
sub-sectors (roads, railway and ports), as well as on traffic levels, past (significant), current (depressed)
and prospective (limited growth). Chapter III - Financial Analysis presents information on the financial
situation of the Highway Concern and the Railway Department.
Road Infrastructure
1.31          The dominant institution in the road construction and maintenance sub-sector is the
Highway Concern, a public entity with management autonomy, that operates independently of the rest
of the transport sector, reporting directly to the Council of Ministers.
1.32          The Road System. The total length of the Georgian road network consists of 21,600 km
of roads, of which 9,720 are paved and 11,800 are gravel or earth. The road system of Georgia in the
Soviet era was oriented essentially for trade with other republics of the Union, to the east (Azerbaijan),
but more importantly to the north (the Russian Federation). The aspirations of Georgia as an independent
nation, and specifically the possibility of becoming part of an east-west corridor linking the Caucasus and
central Asia with the Black Sea, require a radically different emphasis for the road system from that



8                                                           1. Country and Sector Back round
previously envisaged, one in which the road from the Azeri border to Georgia's Black Sea ports would
play the dominant role.
1.33          The Principal Road Through Georgia: "The Magisterial". The principal road in
Georgia, measuring about 728 kIn, runs from the Azeri border, through Tbilisi, to the Black Sea
(Sukhumi), and on to the Russian border. At Samtredia, close to the Black Sea, two roads take off from
the Magisterial to provide access to the ports of Poti and Batumi. The Magisterial runs generally along
the valley between the two ranges of the Caucasus.
1.34          Geometry. The alignment, longitudinal gradients and slope stability of this principal
highway are generally acceptable except for two mountainous sections (100 km west of Tbilisi, and in
the area of Rustavi, the major industrial complex, between the Azeri border and Tbilisi). The Magisterial
is however beset by long tangents (straights) that may cause problems from headlights at night and that
certainly encourage speeding by drivers of automobiles.
1.35          Pavement. Apart from a few short concrete sections in and adjacent to the cities, the
Magisterial pavement is of flexible construction. The bituminous surfacing looks dry, potholes have
appeared, there is some evidence of use of uncrushed gravel, and of stripping, but there is no widespread
deformation of surface that would indicate base or formation failure; probably the relatively high
embankments on which the road has been constructed have helped to keep the critical pavement strata
dry and hence conserve their strength. The lane markings are faded to the point of not being visible any
longer. The standard design for the pavement is a total depth of 30 cm (5 cm of carpet, 5 cm of
bituminous base and a stone base of 20 cm). This construction is adequate for today's reduced traffic,
but less so if and when previous traffic levels return or if there were to be an increase in heavy traffic
from the central Asia region.
1.36          Structures. The structures, principally bridge decks, piers, abutments and wing walls, are
characterized by thoroughly poor concrete. The side elevations of the decks exemplify the problem --
crumbling concrete and reinforcement exposed. This shortcoming carries over to railway overpasses. The
condition of the concrete could be attributable to working in frosty conditions, or to use of ingredients
that have chemicals inimical to concrete, or to skimping on the cement content, but more likely the
condition is the result of poor compaction or even the total absence of compaction.
1.37          A further negative feature associated with the bridges, is inattention to the side drains in
the cuttings that form the approaches to the structures. These approaches, and therefore the side drains,
are often steep, but there appears to be no practice to protect the drains either by lining or by use of
scour checks, with the consequence that the drains are deeply scarred into the shoulders of the road, and
the wing walls of abutments tend to be undercut.
1.38          Other Roads. The remaining roads comprise secondary and tertiary roads leading off
the Magisterial, and feeder/agricultural roads and tracks. The secondary/tertiary system also is in poor
condition. The limited means now at the disposal of the Highway Concern, however, are concentrated
on the "magisterial" road in preference to the other roads.
1.39         The lowest class roads (feeder roads, agricultural roads and tracks) are important to move
agricultural inputs and produce. Because of lack of funds, these vital access roads are not being
maintained. According to the staff of NGOs assisting agricultural development, lack of farm to market
access roads is the second most significant impediment to agricultural development, after the lack of
agricultural inputs and energy.



I. Country and Sector Background                                                        9
1.40         Traffic.  Based on counts from the engineers of the Highway Concern whose
construction/maintenance units are positioned along the Magisterial, current traffic levels are in the range
of 250-500 vehicles per day (vpd), down from previous levels of up to 10,000 vpd. These latter flows
could materialize again as agricultural activity in eastern Georgia and in the western plain, and industrial
activity in Kutaisi, Tbilisi and Rustavi resumes. There is no credible evidence, however, that this
recovery is imminent. The concept of Georgia being part of the Central Asia-Black Sea corridor, if it
materializes, would obviously augment the flow on the Magisterial, probably with container traffic; at
best, and certainly in the short term, this transit traffic would only be a small proportion of the locally-
generated flow. Since May, 1995, a moderate increase of this traffic has become apparent.
1.41         Maintenance and Rehabilitation. Work on the road system as a whole is virtually non-
existent, a result of lack of funds and cost recovery from users. The funding currently available does not
even cover all wages and salaries of Highway Concern employees. The Legislation approved on
September 2, 1995 (para. 1.28), introduces a new cost recovery and road user charges system to finance
road maintenance and rehabilitation. However, this system introduces some distortions to the "road user
= road payer" principle, in the form of discriminatory taxation between local and foreign road users.
Adjustments to correct this situation will be made later, in light of the recommendations of a Pavement
Management Study (see paras. 2.11 (c), 3.4, and 5.1 (e)). Competitive contracting of both maintenance
and construction of new roads would help to lower unit costs, but privatization of these operations would
require an appropriate and steady level of funding.
1.42         Maintenance Units and Equipment. Few of the 14 road construction and repair units
and of the 88 road maintenance units appear to be in working condition. Maintenance equipment is of
rather heavy design, and capacity to mix and lay bituminous base and carpet is far larger than the
construction and maintenance function would dictate. Possibly road maintenance units in the past had
received equipment that happened to be available and not necessarily that which was needed.
1.43         Private Sector Participation. Today, there are intentions to privatize road construction
and maintenance, with eventual divestiture of related assets, and requests for assistance have been made
to the Bank. This has been explicitly included as part of the project (see paras. 2.11 (c), and Annexes
8 and 19).
The Rail Sub-Sector
1.44         The Railway Department is a public entity operating under Georgian Corporate Law.
At its peak (in the mid 80's), it had 41,000 employees - 18,000 in transport operations and 23,000 in
support and social functions. At that time, annual freight traffic was in excess of 40 million tons. Today,
the downturn in activity has brought total staff to about 18,000, and freight traffic to only 5 to 6 million
tons.
1.45         Infrastructure and Equipment. Georgia has 1,569 km of railways. The main line
between Poti and Tbilisi dates back to 1872 but other lines were built as recently as 1970. Currently,
most of the country lies within 50 km of a railway line, and the densely populated areas are in the 20 km
catchment of the railways. About 80% of the network is in mountainous terrain with grades reaching
4.9%; 247 km have curves with radii of less than 300 m. The main lines are all electrified (Georgia
was the first republic of the FSU to undertake the electrification of its railway network) with DC at 3.3
kv.



10                                                         I. Country and Sector Background
1.46         The condition of the network and related civil engineering structures is poor (see Annex
12 for a detailed description). Tracks are old, embankments are not well maintained, overhead lines are
in need of repair; most structures and buildings are more than 80 years old. Many sections are subject
to slow orders, and communications are difficult because of stolen wires. In addition, the Railway was
adversely affected by the unrest in Abkhazia: the track to the north and Russia remains closed because
of physical damage; specifically, the complete destruction of two bridges and severe damage to several
others, as well as vandalized electric wires and signalization equipment. Although main lines are
electrified, poor power supply and vandalized equipment have made electric locomotives and trains
unreliable.
1.47         The rolling stock of Georgian Railways was supplied from the erstwhile Soviet system,
which purchased its requirements not only within the FSU but from suppliers elsewhere in the CMEA
and even in Western Europe and Japan. Little of this non-CMEA equipment, however, was passed on
to Georgia. The main traction equipment consists of a total of 496 units, of which 280 were reported
in working order in May, 1995. This includes 230 (in working condition: 110) electric locomotives --
mostly assembled at a plant in Georgia --, 159 (90) diesel-electric locomotives and 107 (80) electric
motorized units (EMU). Of nearly 20,000 freight wagons in 1991, about 5,000 were said to be out of
use in 1993, and in May, 1995, only 5,000 were reported in operation.
1.48         The low availability of rolling stock is due to: (i) delayed maintenance (about 90% of the
locomotives need periodic overhaul, work that was normally done in Russia but has until recently been
impossible due to political conditions); (ii) lack of spares (the Railway does not have the hard currency
to procure them); and (iii) operational and organizational flaws.
1.49         Traffic. In 1988, nearly 13 billion ton.km moved by rail. Today (in 1994 and in the first
half of 1995), this number barely exceeds 1 billion ton.km per year. Most of the remaining traffic is
grain, flour and liquid fuel, as part of the emergency assistance for maintaining food and energy supplies
to Georgia, Armenia and Azerbaijan.
1.50         Collapse of traffic on Georgian Railways reflects weak demand but also the lack of
railway capacity. Both have been declining but not necessarily on parallel paths. The problems in
railway operations include slow-orders on track and unserviceable rolling stock, both of which reduce
the movement of trains and the supply of wagons to customers. For example, a typical transit time from
Poti to Tbilisi is 17 hours for 324 km (for an average operational speed of 19 km/hr), and the Railway
cannot supply more than 100 grain wagons per day to either Batumi or Poti port for unloading of ships.
Wagon turn-around times (in days) also have deteriorated sharply from about a week in 1992 to more
than two weeks today.
1.51         These statistics, and the complaints from users since 1994, point to the possibility of
further declines of railway service in Georgia. If the urgent maintenance and rehabilitation and
managerial needs are not met, the Railway will not be able to cover such basic needs as fuel and food
supply, let alone new traffic once economic activity picks up.
1.52         External Assistance. The Railway is benefitting - both financially and operationally -
from the United Nations World Food Program (WFP), and specifically from the work of its Caucasus
Logistics Advisory Unit (CLAU); the latter has representatives in Tbilisi, Batumi, Yerevan and Baku.
Through its primary concern for movement of food shipments, WFP/CLAU is impacting beneficially on
operation of the railway system (and of the ports) by its continuous and obviously very professional,
"hands-on" diagnoses of operational shortcomings. WFP, to add force to its diagnoses, has provided
funding for the leasing of 10 diesel locomotives in 1994, and has programmed US$4.5 million of grant



I. Country and Sector Background                                                            11
funding for the Railway for 1995. Furthermore, CLAU issues periodical "Situation Reports" analyzing
the general logistical situation in the Caucasus, and specifically the situation in the ports and on the
Railway. These situation reports have become the only reliable source of current information on
transport. Also, the German Agency for Technical Cooperation (GTZ) has funded technical assistance
to make a detailed assessment of the physical and technical condition of the Railway, as a first step
towards the determination of future assistance levels. This work has been recently completed.
Ports
1.53          Georgia has three ports, Batumi near the Turkish border, Sukhumi in the West, not far
from the Russian border, and Poti in the central coastal plain. Sukhumi is in Abkhazia and is reported
to have been used in the past primarily for passenger traffic and to have only limited cargo facilities.
Operations at Sukhumi have been affected by the unrest in Abkhazia. The territory around the other two
ports is also subject to some political constraints. Batumi is the capital of the (former Soviet) Adzhar
autonomous Republic, which still has certain differences with the Central Government, while Poti lies
in the Mingrelia region.
1.54          In 1994, Batumi handled only about 0.7 million tons of dry cargo, whereas Poti's dry
throughput was at 1I.1 million tons. Today, most of the dry cargo handled by both ports (95 % of the total
in Batumi, and 89% in Poti) is the humanitarian food aid for Georgia, Armenia and Azerbaijan. Almost
no liquid cargo moved through the ports in 1994. This low level of traffic contrasts with past pattemrs:
Batumi's throughput in 1988 of 6.9 million tons was about three-quarters in petroleum and petroleum
products and the rest of Batumi's cargo in 1989 (no data available for 1988) was nearly all in grain and
alumina with only 0.2 million tons represented by other dry cargo. Poti, on the other hand, handled no
bulk liquids, but 70% of the 4.4 million tons of dry cargo in 1989 was in four commodities (grain, ores,
bauxite and coal).
1.55          The role of the ports is likely to change. During the era of the FSU, Batumi and Poti
served mainly traffic to and from other Soviet republics, but now they are expecting to provide a channel
for an increasing volume of imports to the Caucasian republics from the world market and for exports
of the products of these republics, most importantly oil. The ports are expecting also to serve the transit
traffic to and from central Asia and beyond and to and from Iran and other countries in the near and
middle East.
1.56          Current Situation at Batumi and Poti. This assessment of the situation at Batumi and
Poti is based on World Bank findings in 1993, 1994 and 1995, and reflects the remedies suggested by
the US Embassy in Tbilisi and WFP/CLAU.3 Both of these sources rightly touch on the role of the
Railway as it affects port operation.
1.57          At both ports, the general impression remains that the facilities available, if properly
operated to maximum capacity, should be able to accommodate current traffic and any traffic growth
foreseeable in the medium-term, without the need for major investments. The longer-term flows at the
ports will depend on (i) the timing and magnitude of the economic recovery, and (ii) the extent to which
Georgia will be used as a transit corridor for trade to and from central Asia. In this context it should be
noted that Georgian ports may face competition from Turkish ports on the Black Sea, the latter sending
their traffic by rail through Armenia by-passing Georgia. Certainly for movement of oil from Georgian
3/     See Georgian Sea Ports. 1994, US Embassy in Georgia, Ref. 93 USDOC 19 439; and Situation Report, 17
Februarv 1994: External Transport, Caucasus Logistics Advisory Unit, World Food Program.



12                                                         1. Country and Sector Background
ports, the concern of Turkey over the passage of laden tankers through the Bosphorus will also need to
be addressed.
1.58          At Batumi (five oil berths and one off-shore oil terminal, four dry cargo berths, an
offshore mooring for lightering, and a small container handling capacity) there is limited dry cargo
storage, hence virtually all discharging is direct, primarily to rail. This is a shortcoming of port design,
the lack of railway wagons constraining port throughput. The oil pipeline across Georgia is corroded and
remains closed, hence oil has had to move by rail. The principal operational problems at Batumi persist
as (i) inability of rail to provide adequate and timely wagonage for evacuation of cargoes, (ii) a work
force with little motivation, (iii) an inadequate and unpredictable electric power supply, and (iv) lack of
spares for cranes and handling equipment.
1.59          At Poti, the cargo terminal has ten berths (two for grain, six for other bulk, one for
containers, and one for general cargo) all served by rail. There are additionally a passenger berth, two
fishing piers, one berth for coastal traffic and one being rehabilitated. The principal operational problems
are similar to those at Batumi: (i) the inability of the Railway to adequately serve the port, and (ii)
uncertainties and interruptions in the electric power supply. The port has a stand-by generator, but this
in turn is beset by periodic lack of fuel. Poti has an advantage in its working areas behind the berths
being more spacious than those at Batumi, which is surrounded by a densely-settled community and
hemmed in at the foot of steeply-rising mountains. Unlike Batumi, however, Poti has the problem of
littoral drift, and maintenance dredging is needed. Since 1993, Poti has been contracting a foreign
company to dredge the approach channel to 12 m and to make corresponding adjustments alongside the
berths. Using its own resources, the port of Poti spent about US$ 0.9 million in 1994 for dredging, and
is planning to spend an additional US$ 2 million in 1995 to continue dredging maintenance of the access
channel.
1.60         External Assistance. GTZ has recently financed and completed field work to define an
in-depth study of the technical and institutional conditions of the ports, their potential for development,
and required assistance for institutional reform, rehabilitation, and private sector participation. A formal
agreement with the Government of Georgia to carry out this work is expected in the near future. In
addition, EBRD has identified a Grain Terminal Project in Poti which would have private sector
participation.
E. Bank's Experience and Strategy
Bank's Role and Past Experience in Georgia
1.61         The intention of the reform program of the Georgian Government has been to reverse the
economic decline of the past few years and to move to a private sector led, market-based economy.
Through the end of 1993, however, given the civil conflict and resulting lack of focus and impossibility
to send Bank missions, lending from the Bank was not feasible. Instead, the focus was on building
macroeconomic and sector knowledge and providing limited technical assistance to the extent possible.
1.62         In response to the Govermnent's new focus on economic reform, the Bank has initiated
a broader program of lending and sector work in municipal infrastructure, energy, health, agriculture,
transport and environrment. Three lending operations were approved in FY 1995: The Institution Building
Credit (US$10.1 million, approved by the Board in July 1994), which provides support to the country's



I. Country and Sector Background                                                              13
privatization efforts, financial sector reform, tax and customs administration strengthening, and economic
policy development; the Municipal Infrastructure Rehabilitation Credit (US$18 million, approved in
November 1994); and the Rehabilitation Credit (US$75 million, approved in March, 1995) which
supports the Government's economic reform program, aimed at restoring macroeconomic stability and
at promoting the resumption of growth and improvement in living standards.  The Transport
Rehabilitation Project will be the first operation of the Bank to support essential needs of transport
infrastructure in Georgia.
Bank's Assistance Strategy in the Transport Sector
1.63          The need for assistance to Georgia's transport sector is substantial. The macro economic
situation, the role of transport in assisting supply responses to policy reform (see para. 1.39), and
regional trade being one of Georgia's comparative advantages, give a sense of extreme urgency to this
assistance. The situation is quite desperate, aggravated by institutional breakdowns, financial imbalances,
and the stoppage of practically all maintenance work. Support for rehabilitation and improvements in the
efficiency of the transport sector is a key element of the proposed 1996-1998 country assistance strategy
(CAS). These elements were also included in the lending strategy as outlined by the Rehabilitation Credit
approved by the Board in March 1995. The Bank discussed an action plan of sector reforms with the
Government in the context of the TSM (para. 1.12) in May 1995. The cornerstones of the discussed
medium-term assistance strategy are:
(a) Sector Policy Reform and Legal Frameworks: The sector institutions which will be assisted
range from the ministries and modal agencies formulating the sector's reform program, such as
ports, Railway, and the Highway Concern. The assistance will cover: formulation of legal
frameworks; attributions and functions of the sector institutions in a market economy;
restructuring of public enterprises in the sector to enable their independent operation in a
competitive environment and prepare their privatization; liberalization of transport and of freight
forwarding markets; and privatization of road freight and passenger transport.
(b) Privatization  or Commercialization  of Sector Enterprises:   The privatization and
commercialization of sector operations, and attendant restructuring, will help determine the
corporate structure and costs of viable transport enterprises. If left untouched, these enterprises
would not be credit worthy, would be unable to raise capital to assure their sustainability, and
would be candidates for liquidation.
(c) Cost Recovery for Transport Services and Infrastructure:  Cost recovery and financial
restructuring do not guarantee minimum transport costs. This can only result from competition
among suppliers of transport services within and across sub-sectors. Competition and market
determined prices will be ensured by liberalization of entry and pricing for transport services.
(d)  Maintenance and Rehabilitation of Key Infrastructure: Maintenance is the top priority,
followed by rehabilitation. Georgia should start considering investments in new infrastructure
only when the existing services are brought back to a reasonable level of operation and traffic has
started flowing again.



14                                                           1. Country and Sector Background
1.64          In the short-term, the assistance strategy aims at:
*      The initiation of the institutional strengthening; and
*      Avoidance of potential capacity constraints by carrying out critical infrastructure
maintenance.
1.65          For rehabilitation and maintenance, the Bank's assistance strategy will primarily focus
on the roads, rail and, to a lesser extent, port sub-sectors. Civil aviation in Georgia is well on its way
towards reform and commercialization while following an "open skies" policy. In addition, two
operations, a recently approved EBRD-financed project of about $13 million for the refurbishing and
modernization of the Tbilisi terminal building, and a possibly private sector-funded project for the
rehabilitation and renewal of air traffic control, are currently under consideration.
1.66          For ports, there already exists private sector interest in rehabilitation investments. This
interest has not developed into concrete investments yet, mainly because of the lack of a legal framework
for foreign investment in Georgia, and because it would be pointless to increase current port capacity as
rail and road transport cannot match this capacity today.
1.67          The Transport Rehabilitation Project (TRP) is the Bank's first response to the pressing
short term needs of the transport sector in Georgia. It will address directly existing bottlenecks and be
a catalyst for the adjustment of the sector and the restructuring of its institutions. The TRP will amount
to a necessary first step and will lay down the basis on which to develop a program of financial assistance
for transport once economic recovery is established.
1.68          Further support of rehabilitation, restructuring, and orientation towards a market economy
of operations in the sector could be assisted with additional lending over the next five years. The extent
of this medium term assistance would be subject to: (i) the successful implementation of the TRP; (ii)
economic recovery in neighboring countries and demand for transit services; and (iii) increased domestic
economic activity and transport demand.
1.69          In any case, technical assistance and training, so far accepted and welcomed by the
Government, have an obvious role to play. The continuation of current technical assistance and direct
operational support to maintain the flow of humanitarian aid to both Georgia and Armenia would be
needed during the transition to a more comprehensive approach to the sector's problems.
Rationale for IDA Involvement
1.70          Given that in the transport sector debt capacities are small and revenues limited, any
financing made available to the sector, and to Georgia generally, needs to be on concessional terms. Most
external donors are focusing their assistance efforts in Georgia almost exclusively on humanitarian aid.
Up to now, IDA is the only concessional source available to help finance programs to address the severe
transport dysfunctions in Georgia. Assistance from IDA will play a significant role in helping foster an
environment in which economic stabilization and growth can take root while laying the foundation for
improved management and operations in the transport sector.
Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Projects in the Transport Sector
1.71          The Transport Rehabilitation Credit will be the first Bank/IDA transport project for
Georgia. The Bank's experience in the transport sector has been substantial over the last fifty years.



I. Country and Sector Background                                                              15
This experience has highlighted the need to address, in addition to investment needs: (i) the institutional
capacity to carry out the project; (ii) cost recovery mechanisms; (iii) policy reform; and (iv) emphasis
on maintenance and rehabilitation of existing assets. The project incorporates these experiences in its
design as exemplified, in particular, by recent developments in Eastern and Central Europe and Latin
America.
1.72          Traditionally, transport projects financed by the Bank have been designed to respond to
expanding demand for infrastructure and services. In Georgia, as in other economies in transition to a
market economy, this is not the case. Infrastructure is deteriorating, traffic is about a fourth of the
volume it used to be six years ago, and the public administration has been sharply reduced. Policy
making functions have suffered, and implementation capacity has been affected. This has led to a project
design which addresses the need to alleviate severe bottlenecks, while assisting the implementation of
broad-based policy and institutional reform.



11. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin and Formulation
2.1           The Bank's involvement in the transport sector in Georgia started with two transport
sector review missions, in August 1993 and June 1994, which led to the Transport Sector Memorandum
report and policy note (Report No. 13978-GZ). In late 1994, the Government expressed interest in a
project to address the pressing rehabilitation needs of the transport system. The project was prepared
between May and August 1995. Project preparation addressed: (i) the policy and sector reform
recommendations of the Transport Sector Memorandum; and (ii) the possible composition of the
Transport Rehabilitation Credit. Project preparation has been assisted by a PHRD grant from the
Government of Japan. The project supports the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), has a favorable fiscal
impact on the basis of cost recovery measures, and makes substantial contributions to economic efficiency
in other sectors while reducing transport costs. An environmental analysis leading to a mitigation
program integral to the project has been carried out.
B. Project Rationale and Objectives
Project Rationale
2.2           The rationale for the project rests on the urgent need to avoid: (i) potential collapse of
the transport system; (ii) excessive transport costs; and (iii) early reconstruction of infrastructure.
Simultaneously, the project minimizes the risks of major accidents from the use of extremely damaged
road and rail networks, and assures the delivery of humanitarian assistance to the Caucasus region.
2.3           The project scope also paves the way for a wide range of reforms in sector policy and
regulatory framework. As such it will address environment and safety issues, avoid service breakdowns,
and restore a minimum of safe physical capacity in road, rail, and port transport. Air transport, being
quite advanced in the development of its policy framework and in the updating of fixed facilities and
privatization of services, is not included in the Transport Rehabilitation Credit.
2.4           In identifying the project, the following questions were addressed:
(a)    Given the scarcity of resources, how best to address the significant road rehabilitation and
maintenance backlog?
(b)    Is rail a truly viable option?
(c)    Should rail passenger traffic be stopped altogether to concentrate on freight and food aid?
(d)    Is there a long term need for the East-West railway or would the road suffice?
2.5           How to address the road rehabilitation backlog? Road is a key transport mode and traffic
has been increasing. Its importance can be expected to grow as the economies of the Caucasus republics
improve and local and international traffic develops. At this point, road repairs are needed as a priority
for safety reasons and to avoid the need for reconstruction. The government has not been able to make
the financial contributions sufficient to deal with the maintenance and rehabilitation backlog, estimated
as a minimum at US$85 million (see Annex 6, page 5). It is, therefore, proposed to allocate resources
to kick off a priority program of road repairs. It would consist initially of emergency works to stabilize
and avoid further destruction of about 1,000 km of the main road network of Georgia. Later, as



I1. The Project                                                                               17
resources generated by the recently approved cost recovery system become available, the Highway
Concem would start addressing the backlog of rehabilitation on main roads and of maintenance on
secondary roads, totalling about 7,000 km.
2.6           Is rail viable? Under the current conditions in Georgia, there is no alternative to rail for
the transport of humanitarian aid to Georgia, Armenia, and Azerbaijan. The road access to ports has
limited capacity for heavy trucking, and the truck fleet is also limited; the cost recovery system needed
to maintain the roads is not yet in place; and the destruction of the roads would be accelerated if the
Railway were to be closed. Selected expenditures to rehabilitate existing locomotives, maintain track to
minimum safety standards, and prevent the collapse of key bridges are, therefore, justified. If freight
and passenger tariffs are established to reflect economic costs, the payback period could be of about five
years and would recover the costs of the investments. This payback period would be well within the near
term expectations of no significant traffic growth.
2.7            Should all rail passenger traffic be stopped and emphasis given to freight? The emphasis
for the Railway should be to discontinue all services where full cost recovery is not possible, be it
passengers or freight. As a result of a review of costs and tariffs included under the institution building
component, the tariff increases necessary to recover costs will affect real demand for services, and
passenger traffic is expected to fall.
2.8           Is there a long termn role for the East-West rail?  The long term role of the Railway is
linked to the recovery of the Caucasian Region, increases in trade, in particular with the west, and an
improvement in the stability of the region. The uncertainties are such that the potential importance of
the Railway, significant as it may be, is not a sufficient reason to embark on full rehabilitation and
ambitious investments at this time.
Project Objectives
2.9            The Transport Rehabilitation Project, which will be the first transport sector investment
project in Georgia, will have the following objectives:
(a)    to support policy reform in the transport sector and restructure its institutions to
operate in a market economy; and
(b)    to repair and maintain some of the most critical elements of the transport system.
C. Project ComRonents and Descripfion
2.10          The project has two main components, each of them associated to one project objective.
They are presented in detail in para. 2.11 below. Their summary description is as follows:
(a)    Institution Building Component (US$ 4.9 million). It will include consultant
services for: (i) advice and support to teams preparing policy sector reforms; (ii)
technical assistance for the formulations of technical and legal frameworks
necessary to the restructuring, commercialization and privatization of sector
entities; (iii) managerial assistance for public and private transport enterprises;



18                                                                           II. The Project
(iv) a training program to update transport technical staff from the private and
public sectors; and (v) project management.
(b)    Investment Component (US$ 13.2 million). It will include financing for: (i) a
road maintenance program, including selected equipment and spares for road
maintenance, emergency repairs, and the necessary imported road building
materials; (ii) a railway sub-component, including bridge repairs and the
required structural steel, track materials (ties, rails and fastenings), spares for
locomotives, and communications and selected signalling equipment.
The component cost estimates above are without physical and price contingencies.
2.11          Institution Building Component. This project component will include the following:
(a)    Policy Reform (US$ 0.6 million): Provision of consulting services to modal agencies to
assist in (specific topics and cost estimates are shown in Annex 4): (i) revising legal
frameworks; (ii) advancing cost recovery policies; (iii) deregulating the sector ; and (iv)
privatization of road transport enterprises (see para. 1.28).
(b)    Support to the Transport Reform and Rehabilitation Center (US$ 0.9 million): Provision
of short term consultant services, equipment, and recurrent cost financing for the
Transport Reform and Rehabilitation Center (TRRC). Paras. 2.17 to 2.20 and Annex 5
present the functions of the TRRC.  These will include coordination of: project
preparation and implementation; procurement; policy fornulation; and sector reform.
In particular, the TRRC will be responsible for arranging training activities financed
under the project.
(c)    Consultant services to modal agencies and operational units, including:
For the Highway Concern (US$ 1.3 million):
e     to elaborate a revised road user charge system (see paras. 3.3 and 3.4) to address
existing financial issues and allow the start of road rehabilitation, as cost
recovery flows and recommendations of the Pavement Management Study
become available.
*     to improve road user charge collection performance and procedures.
*     to implement: (i) a program of privatization of road construction and maintenance
units -- submission of an implementation schedule of this program acceptable to
IDA, will be a condition of disbursement for civil works contracts (para. 5.3 (a))
-- see Annex 8 for the nature of contracts with these units; (ii) a program of
rentals, leasing and sale of road construction and maintenance equipment (see
Annex 9); and (iii) competitive bidding for all maintenance and rehabilitation
contracts. (Work on (ii) and (iii) has started under a PHRD grant.)
*     Pilot winter road maintenance techniques and equipment.
*     Carry out feasibility studies of road rehabilitation works already identified.



II. The Project                                                                           19
For the Railway Department (US$ 1.2 million):
0      Assistance to: (i) elaborate and implement a financial restructuring and
adjustment plan, including a program of cost and staff reductions and tariff
adjustments sufficient to recover costs (see Financial Analysis, chapter III); (ii)
assist management to execute a program of minimal renewal and rehabilitation;
(iii) organize seminars on modern railway management practices; and (iv) draft
legislation to change the railways status into that of an independent corporation.
For the Ports (US$ 0.9 million):
*     Assistance to: (i) elaboration of the regulatory framework necessary to the
commercialization/privatization of ports and related adjustments; and (ii) financial
restructuring focusing on cost and staff reductions and tariff increases to provide
the ports with some investment capacity of their own. This investment capacity
would be later used on carefully evaluated projects, in collaboration with private
partners.
2.12          Investment Component. The investment component of the project (US$ 13.2 million)
will include:
(a)    Road Maintenance Program (US$ 6.6 million): The assistance under the project will
consist of urgent road repairs (road clearing, drainage rehabilitation, surface dressing and
selected bridge rehabilitation on about 1,000 km of roads, costing an estimated US$ 5.3
million, and US$1.3 million worth of road maintenance equipment and spares), see
Annex 6 (cost estimates) and Annex 18 (economic evaluation).
(b)    Railway Sub-component (US$ 6.6 million): The sub-component will consist of urgent
investments to remove bottlenecks. The western part of the network requires stabilization
and protection of bridges, track repairs in critical sections, and traction capacity sufficient
for ten trains per day in both directions as a maximum, as well as basic communications
equipment and signalling to ensure a minimum of safety and reliability for humanitarian
aid and trade. For a detailed cost-estimate, see Annex 10. As the Railway does not have
any investment capacity of its own, these investments will be conditioned on the
generation of the ability to serve debt by a combination of cost reductions and tariff
increases (see Financial Analysis (Chapter III) and Annex 11). Assurances in this regard
have been included in the Government's letter of Sector Development Policy (see para.
3.15). Specification of an investment program acceptable to IDA and in such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request is a condition of disbursement for this sub-
component (see para. 5.3 (b)).
D. Cost Estimates and Financing
2.13          The estimated total cost of the project is US$20 million, net of taxes and duties, including
physical and price contingencies ($1.9 million). The foreign exchange component is US$11.1 million,
or about 56% of total project costs. Costs were estimated in US$ at July 1995 prices and include
physical contingencies of US$ 1 million, i.e. 5.5% of base costs, for materials, equipment and civil
works. Price contingencies amounting to US$0.9 million were estimated based on a constant 2.6% price
increase per year for foreign supplied goods and relative fluctuations in foreign exchange rates applicable



20                                                                        II. The Project
to the project. Estimated cost recovery flows (para. 3.2) are sufficient to cover unexpected increases in
local costs. The estimated cost of the project is given in detail in Annexes 6 and 10 and is summarized
in Table 11.1 below.
Table II.1: Summary of Project Cost Estimate
Component                         US$ million            Foreign as %
of Total
Local     Foreign    Total
I. Institution Building                  1.8       2.6        4.4          59%
II. Investments
Road Maintenance Program          4.5       2.1        6.6          32%
Railway Sub-component             1.7       4.9        6.6          74%
Project Management                      0.2        0.3        0.5          60%
Base Cost (July 1995 prices)             8.2       9.9       18.1          55%
Physical Contingencies (5.5%)           0.7        0.3        1.0          30%
Price Contingencies (5%)                 --        0.9        0.9         100%
.
TOTAL                      8.9       11.1      20.0          56%
2.14         IDA will finance US$12.0 million, or 60% of total project costs, to be applied to items
under paras. 2.11(b); 2.11(c) (i), (ii) and (iii); 2.12 (a); and 2.12 (b). Other donors will finance US$
6.0 million to be applied as follows: (i) the EU will address technical assistance items under para. 2.11
(a)(i) and (c) -- Highway Concem; (ii) the Government of Germany has been asked to consider Technical
Assistance under para 2.11 (c) for the Railway department and Ports; (iii) USAID is considering a request
to finance the training elements of the project (Annex 14); and (v) the World Food Program is
considering extending its direct operational support to the Railways Department under 2.12 (b). Local
Funds will finance the remaining US$ 2.0 million which will be applied towards road repair contracts
under 2.12 (a).
2.15         The financing plan for the project will be as follows:
Table 11.2: Financing plan
(Net of duties and taxes)
Sources of Funds               Local   Foreign    Total
IDA                                           4.0       8.0      12.0
Other Donors (to be determined)               2.9       3.1       6.0
Local Funds                                   2.0       --        2.0
TOTAL                        8.9       11.1  |  20.0



II. The Project                                                                          21
E. Status of Cofinancing
2.16          Contributions to project finance by other donors and the private sector are still under
discussion. Tentative allocations still to be confirmed and subject to independent, parallel, appraisal and
disbursement procedures, are the following:
EU        Germany         USA          WFP    |   Total]
[   US$ million        1.00         2.50          1.00          1.50         6.00 ]
The effectiveness of project implementation and the development impact of IDA's contribution to
project finance would not be affected by unforeseen major delays in securing project cofinancing for
technical assistance. The impact of IDA's contribution to project financing for investments does not
depend on the availability of co-financing funds, since: (i) it would be applied to self contained, high
priority project components; (ii) the TA needed initially is already in place at the Highway Concern
(PHRD), the Railway (Germany) and project implementation (EU); and (iii) the repair capacity of the
agencies is adequate. All items indicated in para. 2.14 have been the subject of formal requests by
the Government of Georgia to the respective donors and are currently under consideration.
F. Implementation
2.17          Project implementation will be the overall responsibility of the Transport Reform and
Rehabilitation Center (TRRC - see para. 2. 11). This arrangement (see Annex 13 for details) has been
confirmed during negotiations. Each individual modal agency (the Highway Concern and the Railway
Department) will appoint a component manager and provide the necessary staff support, under the
supervision of the head of the agency and the overall coordination of the TRRC, to implement its sub-
component. The component manager will serve, in each agency, as the person responsible for assuring
that the component is implemented efficiently and on schedule. Additionally, each agency will be
responsible for sub-component accounting and will submit periodic implementation progress reports to
the TRRC. The TRRC will also coordinate the inputs of cofinancing partners and other Government
agencies, and will be responsible for assuring that implementation, including procurement, is in
compliance with Bank/IDA Guidelines and other agreements. The TRRC will also be responsible for
hiring auditors for all project audits, be the primary point of contact with IDA, and consolidate all project
reports and disbursement requests for their submission to IDA. IDA disbursements will be made directly
to contractors and suppliers of goods and services on the basis of this documentation or directly by TRRC
from the Special and Project Accounts.
2.18          Each component manager will be assisted by high quality staff recruited in part from the
ranks of each agency and augmented by consultants in case new skills are required. Each component
management team will be responsible for planning, budgeting, contracting and procurement of his
component. These functions will be carried in accordance to project implementation agreements between
the borrower and the implementing agencies the conclusion of which is a condition of credit effectiveness
(see para.5.2(a)). During the project, the component managers may utilize the services of the design
institutes as well as private engineering firms for the preparation of specifications and bidding documents
and for providing engineering supervision for the civil works sub-components of the project, provided
that they are technically competent and eligible to participate. Over time, the component management
teams could become the nucleus of revised and strengthened project management skills within the
agencies. As a minimum, each component manager will be assisted by a procurement and contracts



22                                                                          II. The Project
specialist and an administrative assistant/accountant, in addition to support staff. See Annex 13 for
suggested organizational charts for each of the component management teams.
2.19          The TRRC will also be responsible for arranging training programs, will serve as a
channel for technical information available from outside of Georgia, and will coordinate foreign technical
assistance (see Annex 5 and Annex 19). The training programs will focus on environmental protection,
contracting, procurement, budgeting, and will address the most urgent needs of the evolving private
construction industry in the transport sector, including subjects such as: bidding, bid evaluation, cost and
quality control and general conditions of contract. On matters such as business administration, the
training will be broad-based, intended as means of familiarizing transport industry personnel with the
needs of private sector operations. This training will be provided by consultants through seminars and
training sessions held in Georgia. The need for further training will be identified and if possible
incorporated in the curricula of existing training institutions. See Annex 14 on a proposed training
coordination unit within the TRRC.
2.20          Staffing arrangements to assist the component manager for the road and rail
subcomponents and manage  technical assistance for ports and road transport privatization and
liberalization have been confirmed during negotiations.  The appointment of key staff to the TRRC
(deputy director, accountant, procurement specialist, transport operations), the Railway Department and
the Highway Concern ( for each a component manager, a project preparation officer, a contract manager
and a financial officer) is a condition of credit effectiveness (see para 5.2(b)). Technical assistance for
Ports will be managed by the TRRC.
G. Procurement
2.21          The procurement arrangements under the project are included in Annex 15, while Table
11.3 below summarizes the project elements, their estimated costs and proposed methods of procurement.
Each project agency will use the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents and procurement procedures in
accordance with the World Bank Procurement Guidelines, January 1995, and Consultant Guidelines,
August 1981. All IDA financed contractsfor this operation - goods and works - above US$ 100,000 will
be subject to Bank Prior Review. Prior review will also apply to consultantfirms contracts above US$
50,000, and above US$ 25,000 for individual consultants.
2.22          Bank standard bidding documents will be used for the Project. Procurement matters were
addressed in a Project Launch Workshop (October 9-14, 1995) and are included in the training program
financed under the project (see Annex 14). A General Procurement Notice will be published on
December 31, 1995. Procurement packages are being prepared, and those for goods and works will be
ready for review at the time of negotiations.
2.23          Contracts for civil works may be awarded by NCB, subject to an aggregate ceiling of US$
5 million, if they are under US$250,000 for small contracts; and between US$ 250,000 and under US$
450,000 for medium size contracts. All contracts greater than US$ 450,000 shall be subject to ICB.
In this project, contracts for road repair works will be small, dispersed, and of a diverse nature, not
suitable for grouping into bigger contracts for ICB, and may not interest foreign bidders. These contracts
will be awarded by NCB, and bids invited on the basis of locally advertised calls to tender. However,
qualified foreign contractors shall not be prevented from submitting bids. Regional Sample bidding
documents will be used for contracts below US$ 250,000, (issued September, 1995) and contracts



II. The Project                                                                           23
between $250, 000 and $450,000 (issued August, 1995). The construction and maintenance units which
operated under the Highway Concern may participate in NCB, provided that they are found eligible under
Bank guidelines. These units have technical expertise to perform the work and some equipment of their
own, and are legally independent entities operating without any budgetary support. Equipment owned
by the Highway Concern may be made available under rental or leasing arrangements, on a first come
first served basis, with equal accessibility to any bidder who may indicate a need for them. Grouping
of contracts to allow for individual or combination bids will be done where possible.
2.24          Contracts under implementation support including office equipment and materials, and
vehicles, will be subject to the same arrangements as goods and equipment (see para. 2.25). The
remaining items including local administration costs such as salaries for project staff, utilities, and travel
and per diem, will be subject to Statements of Expenditure (SOE) (see para. 2.30), according to an annual
budget pre-approved by IDA, and are included in Table 11.3.
2.25          Contracts for goods and equipment (see Procurement Arrangements, Annex 15) may be
awarded according to the following thresholds: (i) International Competitive Bidding (ICB) for contracts
valued above US$ 200,000; (ii) International Shopping (IS) for contracts valued between US$200,000 and
US$ 30,000, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$ 1 million; and (iii) National Shopping (NS)
for contracts valued below US$ 30,000, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$ 650,000. In cases
(ii) and (iii) the list of suppliers invited to bid will be agreed upon by IDA. Single source procurement
is not anticipated. Under ICB contracting for goods, a margin of preference of 15% will apply to
domestic bidders in accordance with paras. 2.54 and 2.55 of the Bank Guidelines.
2.26          Consultant services and technical assistance under the project (see para. 2.11 and
Procurement Arrangements, Annex 15) which are financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with
IDA guidelines. Subject to prior review ceilings (para. 2.21), and SOE thresholds (para.2.30), it is
anticipated that contracts for consultant services, including technical assistance, financed by IDA will be
for consulting firms on the basis of short listing, and their selection and terms of reference will be
subject to prior review by IDA. In the event that contracting of individual consultants takes place under
items 3.1 and 3.2 in Table 11.3, these contracts shall not exceed an aggregate amount of $ 200,000, and
their selection and terms of reference will be subject to prior review.
2.27          Civil works, railway spare parts, supplies, and consulting services financed under parallel
financing agreements by other donors, will be procured under the procurement rules of those donors.
2.28          The executing agencies will collect and record procurement information and will include
it in quarterly progress reports to the TRRC, which will be responsible for the submission of such reports
to IDA, indicating: revised cost estimates of physical and price contingency allowances and physical
execution and payments made; and revised timing of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding,
contract award, and completion times for individual contracts. The borrower will provide a completion
report within six months of the credit's closing date (see paras. 2.36 and 5.1 (a)).
2.29          Contracts under implementation support including office equipment and materials, and
vehicles, will be subject to the same arrangements as goods and equipment (see para. 2.25). The
remaining items including local administration costs such as salaries for project staff, utilities, and travel
and per diem, will be subject to Statements of Expenditure (SOE) (see para. 2.30), according to an annual
budget pre-approved by IDA, and are included in Table 11.3.



24                                                                                                     II. The Project
Table 11.3: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent, including price and physical contingencies)
Procurement Method
Project Element                     ICB        NCB        Other       NIF'I       Total Cost
1. Works
1.1 Road repairs                                             4.59                                 4.59
(2.59)                               (2.59)
1.2 Rail bridge rehabilitation                                                      0.73          0.73
2. Goods, Spares and Equipment
2.1 Bitumen and fuel oil for road                0.61                                             0.61
resurfacing                                  (0.61)                                          (0.61)
2.2 Materials for road bridge                    0.26                                             0.26
rehabilitation                             (0.26)                                           (0.26)
2.3 Aggregates (road resurfacing)                                       0.39b'                    0.39
(0.39)                   (0.39)
2.4 Structural steel for rail bridges            0.38                                             0.38
(0.38)                                          (0.38)
2.5 Spares for: rail .1..........                                                   1.25          1.25
roads  ......                     0.80                  0.62d                      1.42
(0.80)                (0.62)                    (1.42)
2.6 Track Materials, Rails, Sleepers,             1.37                              1.65          3.02
Communication, and Signalling               (1.37)                                          (1.37)
3. Consultant Services & Training
3.1 TA for project implementation                                       0.67 '                    0.67
(0.67)                   (0.67)
3.2 TA for modal agencies                                               1.42"v      2.37          3.79
(1.42)                   (1.42)
4.Implementation Support
4.1 Office Equipment                                                  0. 36b rA u                 0.36
(0.36)                   (0.36)
4.2 Vehicles                                                            0.08"                     0.08
(0.08)                   (0.08)
4.3 Administration and other                                            0.22"                     0.22
logistical support                                                        (0.22)                    (0.22)
0.23                                            0.23
4.4 Emissions, Monitoring and Control            (0.23)                                          (0.23)
5. Unallocated Railway Investments                  2.00                                             2.00
(2.00)                                          (2.00)
TOTAL                           5.65        4.59       3.76        6.00         20.00
(5.65)     (2.59)      (3.76)       -           (12.00)
ote: Amounts in paren tsis are tinanced by IDA.
Non-IDA Financed, financed by any of EU, German bilateral aid, USAID, and the Govemment of   Georgia.
National Shopping, NS.
International shopping, IS
d/       IDA would finance consultants, in accordance with IDA Guidelines on use of consultants (SL &  IC).
Includes utilities, operating costs (including local staff salaries), and supplies, payable  under Statements of
Expenditure(SOE)
2.30              Contracts for goods and equipment (see Procurement Arrangements, Annex 15) may be
awarded according to the following thresholds: (i) International Competitive Bidding (ICB) for contracts
valued above US$ 200,000; (ii) International Shopping (IS) for contracts valued between US$200,000 and



II. The Project                                                                           25
US$ 30,000, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$ 1 million; and (iii) National Shopping (NS)
for contracts valued below US$ 30,000, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$ 650,000. In cases
(ii) and (iii) the list of suppliers invited to bid will be agreed upon by IDA. Single source procurement
is not anticipated. Under ICB contracting for goods, a margin of preference of 15% will apply to
domestic bidders in accordance with paras. 2.54 and 2.55 of the Bank Guidelines.
2.31          Consultant services and technical assistance under the project (see para. 2.11 and
Procurement Arrangements, Annex 15) which are financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with
IDA guidelines. Subject to prior review ceilings (para. 2.21), and SOE thresholds (para.2.30), it is
anticipated that contracts for consultant services, including technical assistance, financed by IDA will be
for consulting firms on the basis of short listing, and their selection and terms of reference will be
subject to prior review by IDA. In the event that contracting of individual consultants takes place under
items 3.1 and 3.2 in Table 11.3, these contracts shall not exceed an aggregate amount of $ 200,000, and
their selection and terms of reference will be subject to prior review.
2.32          Civil works, railway spare parts, supplies, and consulting services financed under parallel
financing agreements by other donors, will be procured under the procurement rules of those donors.
2.33          The executing agencies will collect and record procurement information and will include
it in quarterly progress reports to the TRRC, which will be responsible for the submission of such reports
to IDA, indicating: revised cost estimates of physical and price contingency allowances and physical
execution and payments made; and revised timing of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding,
contract award, and completion times for individual contracts. The borrower will provide a completion
report within six months of the credit's closing date (see paras. 2.36 and 5.1 (a)).
H. Disbursements
2.34          The Credit will finance procurement of spare parts, goods, emergency repairs and
technical assistance. Because of their nature, disbursements are expected to be completed in about 30
months. The expected closing date is June 1999. An estimated schedule of disbursements is shown in
Annex 3. To ensure prompt availability of credit funds, the Government will establish a Special Account
in a comrmercial bank at terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, to cover IDA's share of eligible
expenditures (Table 11.4 below). The Authorized Allocation would be US$ 500,000 -- approximately four
months of average expenditures made through the Special Account. During the early stages of the
project, the initial allocation to the special account will be limited to US$ 250,000. However, once the
aggregated disbursements under the credit have reached the level of US$ 3,000,000 , the initial allocation
may be increased up to Authorized Allocation of US$ 500,000 by submitting the relevant application for
withdrawal. Applications for replenishment of the special account would be submitted monthly or when
one third of the amount has been withdrawn, whichever occurs earlier. Documentation requirements for
replenishment will follow the standard Bank procedure as described in the Disbursement Handbook,
Chapter 6. Monthly bank statements of the special account which have been reconciled by the Borrower,
will accompany all replenishment requests.
2.35          All disbursements under the project will be made against standard documentation except
for contracts valued at less than US$100,000 equivalent, which may be claimed under Statement of
Expenditures (SOEs) -- with related documentation retained by the project agencies for review by IDA
supervision and project audit missions. The minimum size of an application for direct disbursement from



26                                                                        II. The Project
the Credit Account will be 20% of the current Authorized Allocation to the Special Account. In addition,
the Government will establish a Project Account for counterpart funds in a commercial Bank with an
initial allocation equal to 10% of the estimated local funds contribution to the project. The opening of
the Project Account is a condition of credit effectiveness (see para. 5.2 (c)).
2.36         The estimated schedule of disbursements (Annex 3) is based on the project implementation
schedule (Annex 2). Delays in implementation are less likely to occur given the emergency nature of the
project. Table II.4 below shows the estimated IDA disbursements and the percentage of eligible
expenditures financed. In the case of goods, the eligible expenditures and percentages of financing will
be: 100% of foreign expenditures, and 100% of local expenditures (ex factory cost). For all other items
procured locally, the eligible expenditure is the price amount net of VAT or 80% of the invoice amount.
Table 1A.4: Estimated Disbursements
Category                  Amount of Credit        % of Eligible
(US$ million)      Expenditures to be
Financed
1. Civil Works                               2.36                    57%
2. Goods, Spares and Equipment                4.67                  100%
(a) Railway track materials                1.25                 100%
(b) Materials                              1.51                 100%
(bitumen,aggregates, steel)
(c) Spares                                 1.30                 100%
(d) Office Equipment and Vehicles         0.40                  100%
(e) Emissions, Monitoring and Control     0.21                  100%
3. Consultant Services and Training          1.90                   100%
4. Operating Costs of TRRC*                  0.20                   100%
5. Unallocated                               2.87                    n.a.
TOTAL                                        12.00
Includes local costs such as utilities, salaies (not for Government employees), transport and per diem.
I. Monitoring. Reporting. Accounting and Auditing
2.37         The accounting for all Special Account transactions and for all other project-related
accounts will be maintained in accordance with international accounting standards. Annual financial
statements of IDA-financed components and of project implementing agencies will be prepared and
audited in accordance with International Auditing Guidelines by suitably qualified independent auditors
acceptable to IDA and submitted to IDA within six months of the close of the project agencies' financial
year.
2.38         Audits of SOEs, against which disbursements have been made or are due to be made out
of the credit proceeds, will also be carried out in accordance with IDA guidelines. Specific reference will
be made in the audit reports accompanying the financial statements.



11. The Proiect                                                                           27
2.38          Audits of SOEs, against which disbursements have been made or are due to be made out
of the credit proceeds, will also be carried out in accordance with IDA guidelines. Specific reference will
be made in the audit reports accompanying the financial statements.
2.39          Auditors acceptable to IDA will be retained by the project agencies to: (i) review the
accounting systems and supporting internal procedures and practices for the special and project accounts
and SOEs; and (ii) recommend any needed changes that would be implemented not later than 3 months
after the issuance and acceptance of the auditors report by IDA.
2.40          During negotiations, it was agreed that by June 30 each year, the TRRC will submit to
IDA the auditor's report and audited financial statements for the Special Account, Project Accounts and
SOEs for the preceding calendar year.
2.41          Quarterly progress reports, including monitoring of progress on project targets and
performance indicators (see Annex 2, page 3) and covering all project components, will be prepared by
TRRC and sent to IDA within one month after the end of each quarter. These reports will also include:
(i) progress achieved against agreed implementation and disbursement schedules, and number of contracts
awarded; (ii) work programs and cost estimates for the coming quarter and for the total project; and (iii)
financial indicators outlined in paras. 3.8 and 3.15. The main purpose of the reports will be to provide
the project agencies timely and updated information on implementation of project components,
highlighting issues and problem areas, recommending actions follow up on previous recommendations
(see para. 5.1 (a)).
2.42          The project agencies will also prepare, under the coordination of the TRRC, an
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) in accordance with IDA guidelines and submit it to IDA
promptly after completion of the project but in any event not later than six months after the credit closing
date. During negotiations, agreement has been reached on the preparation of progress reports (see para
5.1 (a)), including a Mid-term Implementation Report to be submitted to IDA on June 30, 1997, and the
ICR.
J. Onlendini Terms
2.43          The beneficiary of the credit will be the Republic of Georgia. Funds on-lent to modal
agencies will have the following terms: the principal amount to be denominated in US$ equivalent as of
the withdrawal date, no more than one year grace, plus no more than a 5 year repayment period, at a
fixed rate equal to 7.07 %, and repayments in local currency, determined as of the date or respective dates
of repayment (see para. 5.1 (c)).
K. Project Supervision
2.44          Three Bank supervision missions each year, each staffed by a senior engineer and such
specialists as may be appropriate for each phase of the project (such as procurement expert, training
expert, traffic safety specialist or financial analyst) will be required over the life of the project, each of
about one to two weeks duration, for a total of 96 staff weeks, including time at head quarters. Missions
will assist in project start-up, will review physical progress, and will assist in coordinating the cofinanced
elements of the project. Cofinanciers will be invited to attend all supervision missions. The project
implementation schedule and monitorable performance indicators are given in Annex 2, and a schedule
of supervision missions is included as Annex 16. A Mid-Term Review will be held not later than July
15, 1997, to assess the effectiveness of project implementation arrangements and reallocate funds between
project categories if necessary.



28                                                                            II. The Project
L. Environmental Asaects
2.45          The project will have a positive impact on safety, with potential saving of human lives
which would otherwise be lost due to road and rail accidents. The different components included in the
project are not expected to generate any significant environmental problems since all work will be done
on existing infrastructure, utilizing as much as possible existing equipment. In the case of the Railway,
for example, the repair of bridges, repacking of ballast, and replacement of track to be included under
the project will be confined to the existing right-of-way. In the case of the road maintenance sub-
component, however, some environmental concerns may arise from: (i) the production and application
of bituminous products; (ii) the quarrying of aggregates; (iii) noise, dust and disruption of traffic during
the rehabilitation and maintenance work. Since these environmental risks are limited, this project has
been designated as Category B, indicating that a full Environmental Assessment (EA) is not required.
In compliance with OD 4.01 however, a brief environmental analysis has been prepared and a summary
of it is included as Annex 17.
2.46          Included in this analysis is a mitigation plan (Annex 17 Table 1) addressing the five areas
of concern mentioned in para. 2.40, and ensuring the minimization of the limited environmental risks
under the project. Important elements under the plan include: (a) the initiation of emission testing to
determine actual rather than projected levels of pollution emitted as a result of the resumption of
production at asphalt plants (2.40 (i)); (b) a review of procedures and formats for the environmental
reports and licenses for asphalt plants, landfills, and the quarrying of gravels (2.40 (i,ii)); (c) training in
environment aspects of construction management and road maintenance including asphalt application and
disposal of wastes (2.40 (i,iii,iv)); and (d) contractual guarantees and monitoring to assure compliance
by contractors with environmentally sound and safe standards for the performance of civil works (2.40
(ii,iii,iv)). Additionally, a portion of civil works under the project, will address the need for improved
drainage to avoid the risk of localized instances of erosion (para. 2.40 (v)).
2.47          The mitigation plan is expected to be in place no later than March 15, 1996. The
Ministry of Environmental Protection (MoEP) has been recently empowered with reinforced and
consolidated responsibilities to make policy and promulgate standards relevant to environmental
protection. The MoEP is in the process of preparing a National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) as
required by IDA for all IDA-recipient countries as well as reviewing a variety of policies and regulatory
standards. In addition, the MoEP has been empowered to overhaul the current licensing system for such
facilities as asphalt plants and gravel quarries. Priority will be given to reviewing the licenses currently
held by the State Concern of Highways. The MoEP will also establish a special task force to assist with
environmental monitoring relative to the mitigation plan of this project. Thus, the minimal chance of risk
and the above discussed safeguards would make the project environmentally sound. Agreement has been
reached during negotiations on the implementation of all measures required by the project's environmental
mitigation plan no later than March 15, 1996, and included as a side letter to the Credit Agreement (see
para. 5.1 (d)).
M. Program Objective Categories
2.48          The project will contribute directly to sustainable development of Georgia by preserving
key transport infrastructure. It will also make a significant contribution to the development of the private
sector in the country through the competitive bidding of public works contracts and privatization of the
road construction and maintenance industry, the introduction of licensing of port and railway operators,
and the divestiture of some non-transport activities currently under the ownership of transport entities.



II. The Project                                                                                  29
Submission of a privatization schedule acceptable to IDA is a condition of disbursement for civil works
contracts (see para. 5.3(a)). The project will also assist small farmers and tradesmen in their efforts to
begin to develop private business ventures by assuring that they have improved access to markets for their
products.



III. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Highway Concern
3.1          Current Financial Situation. In recent years, the state could not fulfill its statutory
obligation to fund the Highway Concern. In 1995, only proceeds from a "Road Tax" on enterprises
estimated at about $150,000 were available. The cost recovery issue was recently addressed by the
Government in the context of its program of reforms, and in September 2, 1995 the Georgian Parliament
approved legislation establishing a cost recovery system based on specific road user charges, aiming at
generating revenues for road construction, maintenance and rehabilitation.
3.2           This cost recovery system, which will be referred to as the "initial road user charge
system" in the following paragraphs, includes:
*     A fuel tax of 5% on value-added of diesel, gasoline and lubricants;
*     A border crossing tax on vehicles registered abroad entering Georgia (this tax averages
$20 for cars, $80 for buses and $160 for trucks); and
*     A yearly domestic vehicle registration tax of $0.2 for cars, $1 for buses and $1.5 for
trucks.
This cost recovery system also keeps the previous so called "Road Tax" (1 % on most enterprises' gross
revenues). All proceeds would be directed into a Road Fund, directly managed by the Highway Concern.
In addition, State budget allocations to the Highway Concern would be eliminated.
3.3          Issues on the Initial Road User Charge System. Although acceptable as a first step,
and expected to yield sufficient resources to start addressing the road maintenance backlog, the initial road
user charge system introduces some distortions to the "road-user = road-payer" principle:
3     Border crossing taxes are too high (they alone would generate about 45 % of all revenues
under the current system), making foreign vehicles pay an unreasonably high share of
road maintenance costs in Georgia. Road user charges within Georgian borders need to
be indistinguishable with regard to ownership or provenance, and each vehicle, local and
foreign, should be taxed according to the damage it produces to the roads (i.e., according
to its axle load).
*     Fuel and lubricants taxes, on the other hand, appear to be too low. Fuel and lubricants
would only be taxed on the value-added portion of the retail price, thus only generating
less than 1 % of total road user charge revenues.
*     The "Road Tax" on enterprise gross revenue also generates distortions since it does not
tax enterprises according to their use of roads.
3.4          The Revised Road User Charge System. The need for revising road user charges to
remove distortions and discriminatory practices was agreed during negotiations, including: (i) the need
for the execution no later than October 31, 1996 of a study to determine a pavement management system
and refine levels of cost recovery; and (ii) the Government's approval and implementation, after
consultation with IDA no later than January 31, 1997, of a revised road user charge system as shall be
appropriate for the maintenance and keeping up of its primary road network no later than June 30, 1997
(see para. 5.1(e)). The revised system would yield resources which would become directly available to
the Highway Concern and would include revenue sources such as:



III. Financial Analysis                                                                   31
*      A fuel surtax of 10% on the full price of diesel, gasoline and lubricants;
*      A charge on vehicles registered abroad entering Georgia (this tax would be defined on
an axle-load basis, and would amount to $2.5/ton of axle load); and
*      A yearly domestic vehicle registration tax, also based on axle-loads, of $7/ton of axle
load.
The "Road Tax" on enterprise income would be eliminated. All road maintenance and rehabilitation
works would be exclusively financed by proceeds from the revised road user charge system. The
parameters of the revised system will correspond to the actual road damage from each type of traffic, and
would be subject to adjustment on the basis of a Pavement Management Study to be carried out under
the project (see para. 5.1 (e)).
3.5           In addition, collection procedures would need to be put in place to ensure proper
collection performance and that all the proceeds from this user charge system are exclusively used by the
Highway Concern for road maintenance and rehabilitation (see para. 3.8).
3.6           The charges on the entry of foreign vehicles is subject to reciprocal measures in
neighboring countries. This is less than ideal, since it raises the costs to trade, and in the case of
Georgia, might divert traffic away as alternative routes become available. Such discriminatory practices
would need to be discontinued under the revised road user charge system .
3.7           Future Financial Performance. Total resources generated, on the basis of the present
level of road traffic and once collection is well established under the initial road user charge system, will
reach US$30 million per year. Cashflow projections for the Highway Concern are presented in summary
form in Table Ill.1, and in their entirety, including a detailed list of notes and assumptions used, in
Annex 7. The projections include a US$5 million borrowing from the proposed IDA Credit to make the
most urgent repairs to start the process. A significant road rehabilitation program averaging about $20
million per year could be put in place. This is subject to the successful implementation of collection and
enforcement procedures.
3.8           Key monitorable actions factored in the projections will be discussed during negotiations,
and are the following:
-     Tax Collection Performance: The projections assume that road user charge proceeds
would start to be collected no later than March 15, 1996. On the basis of systematic
enforcement, collection performance for the border crossing tax is expected to improve
from 20% of potential revenues in 1996, to 60% by year 2000, and from 20% to 70%
for the vehicle registration tax. Collection performance for the fuel tax is assumed to
improve over time, to reach full collection by the year 2000. Assurances in this regard,
and on enforcement of national environmental and fuel quality standards, will be sought
during negotiations (see para. 5. 1 (f)).
*      Highwav Concern Staff: Highway Concern staff levels would be brought down to 1,000
employees by 1999; this matches Highway Concern officials estimates. The 5,500 staff
estimated to work in maintenance and construction units would become private sector
employees as these units become private. About 1,500 of the remaining 2,500 employees
would be laid-off by 1998 in a staff reduction program. Full operation of a national
competitive bidding process is expected to take place in 1997 as the construction and
maintenance units undergo privatization (see para. 5.3 (a)).



32                                                                    III. Financial Analysis
0      Severance. Salaries and Wages: Staff reduction would be compensated by severance
payments of up to 2 years of salary, a total of US$ 720,000 over three years. At the
same time, in order to retain qualified human resources, average salaries would be
initially increased from current US$4.7 per month to about US$20 per month.
*     Divestiture of Assets:  The privatization of maintenance and construction units, as
proposed in the road sub-component of the project, could generate up to an estimated
US$1 million in sales of assets, mostly real estate and equipment. Alternatively, these
assets could be leased out. In any case the resulting revenues would be used by the
Highway Concern as additional resources for road rehabilitation.
Table III.1: Highway Concern - Sunmmary Cashflow Projections
US$ million (On the basis of initial Road User Charge System)
1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002
Highway Concern Staff     8,000    7,000    1,500    1,250    1,000    1,000    1,000    1,000
Sources of Funds          1.00    16.00    16.86    22.22    28.09    33.95    33.95    33.95
of which:
Divestiture of Assets               .50     .50
Budget Allocation         0.85     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00
Border Crossing Charge    0.00     5.04     7.56    10.07    12.59    15.11    15.11    15.11
Vehicle Registration Tax  0.00     5.23     8.51    11.78    15.05    18.32    18.32    18.32
Fuel Tax                  0.00     0.07     0.14    0.22     0.29     0.36     0.36    0.36
Road Tax on Enterprises   0.15     0.15     0.15    0.15     0.16     0.16     0.16    0.16
IDA (Approximate)                  5.00
Applications of Funds     1.00    15.51    17.08    22.32    28.07    33.97    33.89    33.82
of which:
Road Maintenance/Rehab    0.50    13.25    16.12    20.42    26.43    32.40    32.40    32.40
Surplus Funds             0.00     0.49    -0.22    -0.10    0.01    -0.02    0.06     0.14
Closing Cash Balance      0.00     0.49     0.26    0.17     0.18     0.16     0.22    0.36



111. Financial Analysis                                                                          33
B. Railway Denartment
3.9            Current Financial Situation. The accounts of the Railway Department are on accrual
basis4 and show a poor cashflow situation, although substantial "profits" are indicated for 1994 (about
US$ 11 million). These "profits" are explained by an underestimated asset value (today, assets are valued
at about US$ 13 million, i.e., less than the purchase price of 10 locomotives), and very low allocations
to depreciation. This situation makes the Railway pay more profit taxes than it should if assets were
revalued and depreciation charges applied. The Railway is decapitalizing at a fast pace, and even if all
"profits" were allocated to the rehabilitation of the asset base, the erosion of the capital base would not
be stopped.
3.10           Most of the revenues of the Railway come from freight operations (most of which is food
aid transport), where the average tariff was of about USCents 2.2 per ton.km in 1994. Passenger
transport, where the average tariff was of only USCents 0.03 per passenger.km in 1994, is far from
covering its costs.
3.11           Despite its "profit", the Railway has difficulties in paying its bills. Payables, mainly to
Sakenergo, the power supplier, amounted to about US$ 11 million at the end of 1994, or about 16 months
of total expenses. This situation partly results from the fact that the Railway's accounts are considered,
de facto, as treasury accounts by the Government, and do not belong to a truly independent commercial
enterprise.
3.12           Adding to these difficulties, current legislation in Georgia requires all companies,
including the Railway Department, to sell 32 % of all hard-currency revenues to the National Bank. The
railway has therefore limited capacity to import rolling stock, spares and track maintenance materials.
Hard currency can be bought back from the National Bank, provided that an importing license has been
requested and obtained.
3.13           Today, the Railway is not able to invest its surpluses. Unless significant efforts to move
towards financial adjustment and restructuring are undertaken with urgency (see para. 3.15), no funds
would be available for the necessary rehabilitation of the railway system.
3.14           Future Financial Performance. Given the current financial situation, the proposed credit
for the Railway sub-component would require the generation of an ability to service debt. This can be
achieved by starting the implementation of a financial adjustment and restructuring plan (see below),
including a combination of cost reductions and tariff increases. Financial projections5, based on the
assumption that the proposed financial adjustment restructuring plan is effectively put in place, and
including about US$6.6 million in borrowing, some of which in concessional terms, are presented in a
summary form in Tables 111.2 and 111.3 below, and in their entirety, including a list of notes and
assumptions used, in Annex 11.
4/     i.e., revenues and expenditures are reported at the time of billing, as opposed to cash-basis accounts, where revenues
and expenditures are reported at the time of payment.
5/     Financial projections were prepared in US$. Company accounts have been restated to approximate International
Accounting Standards (IAS) and have been converted from Georgian coupons into US$ for easier comparability.



34                                                                        III. Financial Analysis
3.15          The need for a financial adjustment and restructuring plan has been recognized in the
Letter of Sector Development Policy which was signed during negotiations. It will require the
establishment of the railways as an independent commercially operated, state owned enterprise, with
improved operating and financial practices to avoid further decapitalization of the Railway Enterprise,
and allowing rail operations by other private operators. The specific areas to be addressed include: (i)
asset revaluation; (ii) tariff adjustment; (iii) staff reduction and salary increases; and (iv) a cost-reduction
program. The necessary technical assistance will be made available under the Institution Building
Component.
(i)    Asset revaluation: A recent Government decree, to be implemented on October 1, 1995,
will revalue assets 12.7 times, from current US$ 13 million equivalent to about US$ 171
million to account for distortions from past inflation.  This revaluation factor was
calculated by the Ministry of Finance for all enterprises in Georgia to account for
inflation. The asset revaluation factored in the projections is in line with the decree; full
depreciation of these assets was estimated to take place over 11 years, their average
useful life remaining. A detailed railway-specific asset revaluation, however, made by
qualified auditors is needed, taking into account all assets in working condition. All other
assets would be written off the accounts, and eventually used as a source of spare parts.
The average remaining life of the revalued assets, along with the corresponding average
depreciation rate, would then be assessed and revised as necessary.
(ii)    Tariff Adjustment: In order to reflect the costs of the services provided and to generate
enough funds to cover the necessary rehabilitation investments, average passenger
transport tariffs would need to be sharply increased from current USCents 0.05/pass.nkm
to an estimated USCents 3.00/pass.km by the year 2000, and average freight tariffs from
USCents 3.07/ton.km to about USCents 4.00/ton.km by 1998. The Railway would have
to discontinue all services where cost recovery is not possible, be it passengers or freight.
In other words, lines may remain open, and given transport services can remain part of
the Railway's operations, only if revenues from these services cover all the costs involved
in providing them.
(iii)   Staff reduction and salary increase: Today, the Railway Department employs about
18,200 people in transport operations. Of these, about 6,600 are not paid ("technical
unemployment").  The current number of employees would need to be reduced,
according to current traffic levels and given the size of the railway network, to about
10,000 as a first step. Staff reduction would be compensated by severance payments of
2 years of salary. These payments of about US$ 4 million over four years, are financially
feasible, and have been factored in the financial projections (see Annex 11). This would
give employees incentives to consider leaving the entity, and would increase the number
of voluntary departures. At the same time, in order to retain qualified human resources,
salaries would be initially increased 3 times to about US$20/month.
(iv)    Cost-reduction program: This program would include divestiture of all non-transport
related activities, returning to the state public services and selling (e.g., auctioning)
assets, and enable private companies to operate activities which may or may not be
directly linked with railway operations.
These steps would be discussed during negotiations, and made part of the project implementation plan.



111. Financial Analysis                                                                     35
Table 111.2: Railway Department - Summary Income Statement Projections
US$ million, unless otherwise indicated
1994*  1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002
TraMc
Passenger.km (million pass.km)   1,032   428    381    334    297    240    193    195    197
Freight (million ton.km)      1,030  1,231  1,184  1,139  1,102  1,113  1,124  1,135  1,147
Tariffs
Avg. pass. tariff (USc/pass.km)   0.03   0.16   1.00   1.50   2.00   2.50   3.00   3.00   3.00
Avg. freight tariff (USc/ton.km)   2.16   3.33   3.50   4.00   4.00   4.00   4.00   4.00   4.00
Railway Department Staff      18,191 18,000 14,801 11,601 10,000 10,000 10,000 10,000 10,000
Operating Revenues            22.63  41.65  45.27  50.57  49;82  50.51  50.76  51.27  51.79
Operating Expenses             8.25   19.70  21.30  19.52  17.56  16.37  15.96  15.79  15.64
Depreciation                  0.45   5.02   20.22  22.13  24.00  25.93  27.93  30.00  32.20
Net Profit After Tax          11.15  13.55   3.00   6.73   6.21   6.25   5.26   4.23   3.08
Ratios
(Expenses+Deprec.) / Revenues   38%    59%    92%    82%    83%    84%    86%    89%    92%
Net Profit after tax as % of  49%    33%    7%    13%    12%    12%    10%    8%         6%
* Actual, 1994
3.16          The financial projections also take into account actions to improve billing and collection
performance. Accordingly, payables would be brought down to less than 3 months of expenses over the
next 7 years.
Table III.3: Railway Department - Summary Balance Sheet Projections
US$ million
1994*  1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002
Total Assets                   37.4  138.5  145.6  149.5  152.5  156.2  159.5  162.4  164.1
Fixed Assets                   16.9  115.2  123.6  129.5  134.5  138.5  141.6  144.6  146.4
Current Assets                 20.5   23.3   22.1   20.1   18.0   17.7   17.9   17.7   17.7
Total Liabilities              37.4  138.5  145.6  149.5  152.5  156.2  159.5  162.4  164.1
Equity and Reserves            22.1  121.0  124.0  130.8  137.0  143.2  148.5  152.7  155.8
Long-Term Debt                  0.0    0.0    6.6    6.6    5.3    4.0    2.6    1.3    0.0
Current Liabilities            15.3   17.5   15.0   12.2   10.2    9.1    8.4    8.3    8.3
Ratios
Current Assets/Current Liabilities  1.34   1.33   1.47   1.65   1.76   1.96   2.14   2.13   2.13
Days of Receivables            52     50      45     40     35     30      30     30     30
* Actual, 1994



IV. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Proiect Benefits and Costs
4.1           Benefits - Institution Building Component. This component will support the program
of reforms under preparation by the Government of Georgia, by accelerating the development of the
policy framework in the transport sector. The reforms will result in lower costs and better transport
services and are summarized in a Letter of Sector Development Policy signed by the Government.
Although the Institution Building component, which accounts for about 25 % of total project costs, does
not lend itself to conventional economic rate of return analysis, it will help to: (i) consolidate a new and
downsized role for the State in transport; (ii) create an enabling environment for the development of
competitive transport markets; (iii) introduce fiscal discipline in the sector; and (iv) privatize and divest
from state owned transport entities. All these actions tend to increase entrepreneurs' perception of
fairness, openmess and freedom from intervention, and will make Georgia a more attractive investment
choice for potential investors. For the purpose of the economic evaluation, technical assistance to the
Highway Concern and the Railway Department has been included in the total costs of the respective
investments.
4.2           Benefits - Investment Component. This component, by maintaining and rehabilitating
key transport infrastructure, will remove a real risk of facing critical bottlenecks in the transport system.
In the short term, it will ensure that the basic transport infrastructure remains available to transport
humanitarian assistance to Georgia, Armenia and Azerbaijan, and that trade activities which are
developing in other economic sectors can actually take place. More specifically, ror each of the
ir-estment sub-components:
(a) Road Maintenance Program: This sub-component, representing about 40% of total
project costs (inclusive of technical assistance), will greatly increase the capacity of the
Highway Concern to carry out key maintenance and rehabilitation of the public road
network in Georgia, by introducing an equitable road user charges system. It will
prolong the life of the highway system and delay and/or avoid costly reconstruction. The
program will also reduce vehicle operating costs and maintenance as well as road accident
risks. An additional sub-component benefit will be the experience that would be gained
by the private construction industry in carrying out road maintenance work on a
competitive basis. The economic evaluation has been performed separately for the
primary and secondary roads included in the project, a traffic growth of less than 2 % per
year has been used, and the same traffic applies to both the without the project and with
the project alternatives, i.e. there is no expectation of generated traffic in this case. The
main economic benefit quantified is vehicle operating cost savings. The economic life
of the repairs is three years for the main roads and five years for secondary roads, and
no reconstruction expected in the intervening years in the without the project case. The
Economic Rate of Return for this sub-component is expected to be in excess of 46% (see
Annex 18 Table I).
(b) Railway Sub-Component: This sub-component (about 46% of total project costs,
inclusive of technical assistance) has been evaluated on the basis of: (i) reduced rail
operating costs, and (ii) generated freight traffic benefits resulting from increased levels
of service resulting from the project, and (iii) reduced passenger traffic after tariff



IV.  Project Benefits and Risks                                                             37
adjustments. There are other benefits of the project which were not quantified, such as
the removal of potential bottlenecks which, if left untouched, would lead to the complete
stoppage of railway transport to and from the Black Sea ports. This would be critical for
the transport of food-aid and capital goods to Georgia and neighboring countries. In
addition, the railway sub-component will also enhance cost-effectiveness and management
skills for future railway operations in a market-oriented economy, and will improve
safety on the railway system by rehabilitating bridges, track, and some selected
telecommunications and signalization elements. The economic life of the investments has
been estimated at seven years.  The Economic Rate of Return for this sub-component
is expected to be about 29% (see Annex 18 Table II).
4.3           Project Costs. The estimation of project costs in an economy in transition such as
Georgia poses some difficulties which come in part from remaining price distortions, less than perfect
market operations and incomplete information on the level of economic activity. The effects of these
difficulties have been reduced by means of: (i) a systematic use of US dollar based estimates at a time
of improved fiscal management and exchange rate stability, and (ii) use of unit costs for project cost
estimates following the experience in other countries in the region. As a result, adjustments in key
parameters such as the wage rate, which are likely to occur over the next few years, are not expected to
have an extreme impact on actual project costs to be observed during project implementation.
4.4           Sensitivity Analysis.  The weighted Economic Rate of Return for the Investment
Component (inclusive of technical assistance, and excluding taxes and contingencies), representing 86%
of project costs, will be in excess of 36%, with a Net Present Value discounted at 10% of US$ 12
million. A sensitivity analysis has been performed (see Annex 18, Table III) for: (a) traffic varations of
+ 5%, reflecting the awareness that a sharper contraction or sudden increases in economic activity are
not likely in the near future in Georgia; (b) Changes of + 20% in project costs, which could result from
the fact that this is a first project in the sector in Georgia and there is no prior experience with
competitive bidding systems; and (c) Changes in operating costs of + 20% resulting from imperfect
knowledge of operating costs parameters such as the economic wage rate, equipment and maintenance
real costs and the valuation of foreign exchange. The results indicate a robust project with a significant
return on investments under likely scenarios, as follows: (i) a slight sensitivity to traffic levels, a
reduction of about 2% in the ERR would result from traffic levels 5% lower than estimated; (ii) a
damped sensitivity to project costs, a 20% increase in project costs would have a proportionally smaller
impact on the ERR, which would decrease by about 17%; and (iii) the variations in the ERR due to
changes in operatring costs estimates, are similar in magnitude and opposite in sign to the effects of
project cost changes, and will tend to offset each other.
4.5           Project Sustainability. The ERR of the project in excess of 36% on 86% of project
costs is far greater than could be achieved by any other measures to improve transport infrastructure to
a comparable extent. This results from the selection of priority sections using economic criteria as well
as the rehabilitation nature of the project, with emphasis on infrastructure maintenance, and equipment
repairs. The sustainability of the project will be assured by: (i) the implementation of cost recovery
measures (road user charges and adjustment of railway tariffs); (ii) restructuring of State owned
enterprises on a commercial basis, including divestiture of non transport and non performing assets; and
(iii) privatization and liberalization of road transport and road and construction industries. A financial
analysis from a Government as well as an agency perspective, has shown that subject to the
implementation of the measures proposed, the project would be sustainable.



38                                                            IV. Project Benefits and Risks
B. Project Risks
4.6          In light of the results of the sensitivity analysis, remaining project risks mainly relate to
the ability of the Govermment of Georgia, after setting-up the Transport Reform and Rehabilitation
Center, to create the framework for the project agencies (the Highway Concern and the Railway
Department) to establish effective implementation units capable of carrying out project activities and
perform contracting and procurement effectively.
4.7          Institution Building and Policy Reforms. The risks of this component relate to the
degree of commitment of the Government and of project agencies to continue the chosen program of
sector reforms. Although the government has taken a series of decisive and courageous measures over
the last few months, and there is a growing number of top government officials committed to reform,
there is not yet unanimous support for all the aspects of the reform program. For example, such matters
as the implementation of equitable road user charges and collection procedures are likely to challenge the
local capacity to effect change.
4.8           Road Maintenance. Risks in this sub-component include: (i) the ability of the Highway
Concern to put in place a contracting system for road rehabilitation and maintenance works; (ii)
availability of a steady flow of resources necessary to implement the program; and (iii) the lack of
experience of newly privatized construction companies. Risks (i) and (iii) which are more irprortant for
the future will be mitigated by technical assistance being provided under the project. Regarding (ii), a
condition of Board presentation, fulfilled on September 2, 1995, was the enactment of legislation to
introduce a road user charge system, which will provide the necessary funds even under gradual
enforcement and compliance schedules.
4.9           Railway Rehabilitation. The risks relate to the capacity and commitment of the Railway
Department to undertake a major restructuring, including in particular divestiture of non-transport related
activities, a staff reduction program and significant tariff increases. Even though these aspects are
included in the Letter of Sector Development Policy, and technical assistance would be made available
under the project, the long-term commitment of the Railway Department to reform is still to be
determined. This aspect has been addressed by the inclusion of a disbursement condition on all railway
investments which are subject to the submittal to IDA of an acceptable railway investment plan and
related financial statements (see para. 5.3 (b)).
4.10          Other Risks. Another risk of the proposed project is delayed implementation due to
inadequate capacity within the Govermnent and the project agencies. Given the state of disrepair of the
transport network, a timely implementation and rapid materialization of benefits from the proposed
Transport Rehabilitation Credit are essential to its success, To reduce that risk, continuous effort has
been provided by the Bank during project preparation by setting up training and working sessions by
procurement specialists through a PHRD grant, by additional training financed under the Credit, and
through the mobilization of further external technical assistance.
4.11          Finally, there is a risk that civil strife in Georgia might resurface. Negotiations are taking
place in search of a lasting resolution to problems in Ossetia and Abkhazia, but there is still uncertainty
regarding their final outcome.



V. SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDATIONS AND CREDIT CONDITIONS
A. Agreements Reached
5.1          The following actions were agreed during negotiations, and included in the Letter of
Sector Development Policy which has been attached to the minutes of negotiations:
(a)    preparation of comprehensive quarterly progress reports, including a Mid-Term
Implementation report and a completion report within six months of the credit's
closing date (see para. 2.28);
(b)   implementation of project accounting and auditing arrangements and reporting
under (a) above by June 30 of each year (see para. 2.35);
(c)    on-lending terms for project funds as follows: funds would be on-lent to modal
agencies for 5 years, with one year grace period, at a fixed rate equal to 7.07 %,
and repayable in local currency, determined as of the date or respective dates of
repayment (see para. 2.38);
(d)   implementation of all measures required by the project's environmental mitigation
plan no later than March 15, 1996 (see para. 2.42 and Annex 17, Table 1); and
(e)    execution of a pavement management system study no later than October 31,
1996, and revision and adjustment of road user charges to implement the
recommendations of a Pavement Management Study no later than June 30, 1997
(see para. 3.4);
(f)    establishment of a system of collection of fuel taxes and road user charges at
border crossings, and enforcement of national environmental and fuel quality
standards no later than March 15, 1996 (see para. 3.8).
B. C,nditions of Effectiveness
5.2          The conditions of credit effectiveness are the following:
(a)    Conclusion of project implementation agreements between the Borrower, and the
Railway and the Highway Concern (see para. 2.18);
(b)    appointment of key staff to the TRRC and to component implementation units
(see para. 2.20); and
(c)    establishment of a Project Account on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA
(see para. 2.30)



40                                   V. Summarv of Recommendations and Credit Conditions
C. Conditions of Disbursement
5.3          The conditions of disbursement are the following:
(a)    Road repair works - submittal of an implementation schedule of a program of
privatization of road construction and maintenance units acceptable to IDA(see
paras. 2.11(c)); and
(b)   Railway investments - specification of an investment program acceptable to IDA
and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request (see para. 2.12 (b)).
D. Recommendation
5.4          With the above agreements and conditions to be obtained, the project is suitable for an
IDA credit to the Government of Georgia of Special Drawing Rights (SDR) 8.1 million (US$12 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms of 35 years, including a grace period of 10 years.



Annex 1
Page 1 of I
GEORGIA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
(Net of Duties and Taxes)
Component                       US$ million          | Foreign as %
of Total
Local    Foreign     Total
I. Institution Building                1.80      2.60       4.40        59%
General TA for the sector         0.20       0.40      0.60        67%
Support to the TRRC               0.10       0.30      0.40        75%
TA to modal agencies               1.50      1.90      3.40        56%
II. Invest'nents                       6.20      7.00      13.20        53%
A. Road Recovery Program          4.50       2.10      6.60        32%
Equipment and Spares                       1.30      1.30        100%
Road Repair Program             4.50       0.80      5.30         15%
B. Railway Sub-Component          1.70       4.90      6.60        73%
Bridge rehabilitation           0.65       0.35      1.00        35%
Track capacity enhancement      0.55       2.72      3.27        83%
Traction capacity enhancement   0.50       1.50      2.00        75%
Communication and signalling               0.33      0.33       100%
Project Management                     0.20      0.30       0.50        60%
Base Cost (May 1995 prices)            8.20      9.90      18.10        55%
Physical Contingencies (5.5%)          0.70      0.30       1.00        30%
Price Contingencies (5%)                         0.90      0.90        100%
TOTAL               |    8.90      11.10     20.00         56%



Annex 2
Pane I of 3
GEORGIA - Transport Rehabilitation Project - Proposed Project Implementation Schedule
Activity (Responsibility)                     Start            Finish
Credit Processing (Bank, Government of Georgia)
Board Approval                                            12.15.95         12.15.95
Effectiveness                                              3.1.96            3.1.96
Project Implementation Units
(Railway, Highway Concern, Port & Transport Depts.)
Establish the TRRC and Project Implementation Units       8.15.95          2.1.96
Nominate Project Coordinators for each sub-component      9.15.95          2.1.96
Nominate Secretaries and Accountants                      9.15.95          2.1.96
Technical Assistance- Institution Building
(TRRC, Railways, HC, Port & Transport Depts.)
Issue of documents                                        4.1.96           6.1.96
Submission of proposals                                   6.1.96           8.1.96
Award of contract signing                                 9.1.96           9.1.96
Completion of services                                    6.1.98           6.1.98
Highway Concern (HC, TRRC)
Bitumen. Fuel Oil, Aggregates. Bridge Materials
Preparation of specification, quantities and bid documents  8.15.95        1.15.96
Bank reviews bid packages                                 1.15.96          1.31.96
Bids preparation                                          3.1.96           8.1.96
Bids, received, opened and evaluated                      5.1.96           10.1.96
Bank review of evaluation reports                         5.1.96            10.15.96
Contracts awarded                                         6.1.96            10.30.96
Supply period                                             7.1.96           6.1.97
Equipment and Spares
Preparation of specifications, quantities and bid documents  8.15.95       12.15.95
Bank reviews bid packages                                 12.15.95         12.31.95
Bids preparation                                          3.1.96           5.1.96
Bids received, opened and evaluated                       4.1.96           7.1.96
Bank review of evaluation report                          4.1.96           7.15.96
Contracts awarded                                         5.1.96           7.30.96
Supply period                                             7.1.96           3.1.97
Road Repairs
Designs                                                   9.1.95           5.1.96
Preparation of bidding documents                          11.15.95         6.1.96
Bank comments                                             6.1.96           6.15.96
Issue bidding documents, submission of bids               6.15.96          8.15.96
Evaluate bids and post qualifications                     8.15.96          9.1.96
Bank reviews                                              9.1.96           9.15.96
Award of contracts                                        9.30.96          9.30.96
Contractors mobilize and repair                           10.30.96         6.15.98



Annex 2
Page 2 of 3
Proposed Project Implementation Schedule (Continued)
Activity (Responsibility)                  Start            Finish
Railway Department (Railway, TRRC)
Bridges - Civil Works*
Designs                                               4.1.96          7.1.96
Contracts awarded                                     10.1.96          10.1.96
Mobilization and rehabilitation/construction          11.1.96         11.1.97
Equipment and Spares (Steel for Bridges, Tracks, Traction,
Communication and Signalling)
Preparation of specifications, quantities and bid documents   9.15.95  12.31.95
Bank reviews bid packages                             1.5.96          1.15.96
Bids preparation                                      5.1.96          8.1.96
Bids received, opened and evaluated                   7.1.96          8.15.96
Bank review of evaluation report                      8.20.96         8.30.96
Contracts awarded                                     9.15.96         9.15.96
Supply period                                         9.15.96         9.15.97
Likely to be co-financed and procured under different rules



Annex 2
Page 3 of 3
GEORGIA - Transport Rebabilitation Project
Monitorable Targets and Performance Indicators
Monitorable Items        Units   At Start   Dec'95   Dec'96   Dec'97   At Completion
(Oct'95)                                 (Dec'98)
Institution Building
(TA&Tralning)
Establishment of TRRC            %         0         0       100       100          100
Establish Management Units       %         0         0       100       100          100
TA Program                       %         0         0        20       60           100
Number of Staff being trained              0         0        20       40           185
Pavement Management Study        %         0         0       100       100          100
Comp. Bidding of Public Works    %         0         0        60       80           100
Ports Reorganization             %         0         0        50       100          100
Railway Restructuring            %         0         0        35       75           100
Legal Frameworks
Road User Charge Legislation     %        10        100      100       100          100
Railway Reform Legislation       %         0        20        55       90           100
Ports Restructuring              %         0        15        35       75           100
Privatization of Road Transp.    %        65        100      100       100          100
Privatization of Construction
Units                            %        0         70       100       100          100
Highway Concern
Surface Dressing/Road Repairs    km        0         0        50       800          987
Procurement of list of equipment
and spares                       %        0          0        90       100          100
Collection of User Charges       %         0         5        40       55           70
Pavement Management (network)    %        0          0        35       65           100
Competitive bidding
Staff (reallocation/reduction)   %        0         100      100       100          100
5,500     2,500    1,500    1,000         400
Railway Department
Civil Works-Bridges (execution)
Procurement of list of track     %        0         40        70       80           100
materials, spares and structural
steel
Asset revaluation
Tariff adjustments              0%                   40       80       100          100
(UsCents/traffic unit):          %        15        30       60        85           100
passengers (pass.km)
freight (ton.km)
Staff (reallocation/reduction)  units    0.05      .80       1.0       2.0          3.0
Cost reduction program          units    3.07       3.3      3.5       3.8          4.0
(divestiture of non-transp.             18,200    10,000    8,000    6,000         4,000
activities, and reorganization)
%        0        25        45       70           100



Annex 3
Page 1 of 1
GEORGIA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
IDA         Quarter     Disbursements        Cumulative         Cumulative
Fiscal Year    ending           by           Disbursements by    Disbursements
Quarter         end of Quarter      (% of total)
l ____________   ________       (US$  mln)         (US$  mln)
FY 96        Dec-95           0                   0                 0%
Mar-96           0                  0                 0%
Jun-96          0.5                0.5                5%
FY 97        Sep-96           0.5                1.0               10%
Dec-96          2.0                3.0                30%
Mar-97          2.5                 5.5               55%
Jun-97          1.5                7.0                70%
FY 98        Sep-97           1.5                8.5               85%
Dec-97          0.5                9.0                90%
Mar-98          0.5                 9.5               95%
Jun-98          0.3                9.8                98%
FY 99        Sep-98          0.1                 9.9               99%
Dec-98          0.1                10.0              100%



Annex 4
Page I of I
Georgia
Transport Rehabilitation Project
Sector Technical Assistance -- Cost Estimate
Cost (US$)
1.    Review and revision of legislation ruling foreign investment.       30,400
2.    Cost recovery of public investments.                                56,000
3.    Simplification and revision of commercial legislation.              63,500
4.    Simplification of import and export procedures.                     40,400
5.    Determination of the personnel needs in downsizing the public
administration related to the transport sector.                     29,600
6.    Determination of the market conditions under which qualified
staff can be attracted and retained.                                29,200
7.    Measures to expand the availability of financial services.          46,000
8.    Deregulation of the transport sector.                               72,500
9.    Refonn of taxation applicable to enterprises in general, and to
the sector in particular. Simplification of applicable taxation.    62,500
10.   Price Liberalization. Monitored liberalization of prices.
Stimulus to free competition.                                       75,000
11.   Privatization of transport enterprises.                             76,500
12.  Implementation of technical and emission inspection units for
the motorized vehicles of Tbilisi.                                 29,200
Total Cost: US$ 610,800
Cost Breakdown (US$1
Task      Consultants     Local     Translation    Trips    Subsistance    Total     No. of
#____________   ____________   Assistance                                          Months
1             20,000          na         2,400     4,000         4,000    30,400    1.0
2             40,000        4,000        2,000     4,000         6,000    56,000    2.0
3             40,000        4,500        2,000     8,000         9,000    63,500    2.0
4             30,000           na        2,400     4,000         4,000    40,400    1.5
5             20,000           na        1,600     4,000         4,000    29,600    1.0
6             20,000           na        1,200     4,000         4,000    29,200    1.0
7             30,000        6,000        2,000     4,000         4,000    46,000    1.5
8             50,000        4,500        2,000     8,000         8,000    72,500    2.0
9             40,000        7,500        2,000     4,000         9,000    62,500    2.0
10             50,000       5,000        2,000     8,000         10,000    75,000    2.0
11             50,000       6,000        2,500     8,000         10,000    76,500    2.0
12            20,000           na        1,200     4,000         4,000    29,200    1.0
Total         410,000       37,500       23,300    64,000         76,000   610,800



Annex 5
Page 1 of 3
Georgia
Transport Rehabilitation Project
Implementation Unit - The Transport Reform and Rehabilitation Center (TRRC)
Introduction
1.    One of the great challenges of the Government of Georgia in the short term is to plan and
organize the reform of the transport sector. Such efforts would follow up on indicators reflecting
changes in property ownership and means of production, from the state to the private sector. In this
context, the reform of the transport sector would affect the structure and functions of various sectoral
agencies and their mutual relationships. Their staff will have to adapt to new management styles and
objectives. Changes, which would take place gradually, would affect all levels and all sub-sectors. In
order to minimize upheavals, the approach to sector reform must be carefully planned and designed and
the process well managed.
Basic Requirements
2.     To succeed in this process, reforms need to build on existing technical skills and consider
cultural and social aspects. Remedies must be applied judiciously so that disruptions of functions and
linkages within the system are minimized. In order to successfully implement and sustain the proposed
changes, it is important, that:
i)    the Government of Georgia is committed at the highest level and provides leadership and
support;
ii)    such agencies of the transport sector as Directorates, Enterprises and Services,
participate in their own process of conversion;
iii)   the development of the legal and regulatory framework and sectoral policies is
coordinated;
iv)   the law and policies established are adapted by each organization and agency according
to its function, and the organizations can benefit from the reform process;
v)    the plan and programs for transformation are flexible to increase credibility; and
vi)    human resources receive adequate training according to the need.
Most importantly, to succeed, Georgia needs an organization which would enunciate the development
goals, validate them at the highest level, allocate authority and responsibility, and coordinate and control
the process of the reform. In this process, such an organization would determine the required action steps
and their timing, as well as allocation of capital and human resources. Basically, it would manage and
coordinate the entire process of reform of the sector.



Annex 5
Page 2 of 3
Coordination and Management of the Reform Process
3.      Existing sectoral institutions are not well suited to a market-based economy and there are few
people in the sector who may have in-depth knowledge on how a transition from centralized to market-
based economy should happen and be managed. Georgia does not have presently an organization in the
sector which would be capable of carrying out these tasks.
4.    However, the recently established Center for Problems of the Euro-Asian Transport Corridor
under the Head of State could become a core element and play an integral role in the process of
converting the sector. The Center could be expanded in manpower to include the existing transport
coordination group. The name will be changed and simplified to Transport Reform and Rehabilitation
Center (TRRC). The staff of this TRRC will be empowered by training to obtain the necessary skills to
carry out the tasks necessary for conversion of the sector. It is envisaged that the activities of the TRRC
would be supervised by a Steering Committee appointed by the Head of State. The Steering Committee
would include representation from the Council of Ministers. Additionally, there will be a Training Unit
attached to the TRRC. This Unit will have a small number of permanent staff and a well defined
program for training young professionals, and re-training sector executives, to prepare them for dealing
with the sector's challenges. It has to be emphasized that only by establishing a clear institutional
structure and defining responsibilities of all people and organizations involved in the conversion process,
the sectoral reform could succeed.
TransRort Reform and Rehabilitation Center (IRRC)
5.    TRRC Structure and Function. As described in the above paragraph, it is envisaged that the
TRRC will become responsible for converting the transport sector to a market-based economy. The
project staff of the TRRC will consist of its Director, his deputy, an accountant, a procurement specialist,
a transport specialist, a lawyer, one policy/institutional specialist, and the necessary administrative support
staff. Their duties will be to: i) represent the TRRC in contacts with project agencies; ii) be in charge
of specific actions corresponding to the reform program in the sector; iii) coordinate issues resolution
among sub-sectors as necessary; iv) contribute to the planning process and development of new policies;
v) carry out other tasks to promote national transport safety; vi) keep the project accounts; and vii)
coordinate and manage procurement.
6.    In order to sequence correctly the steps in the process of sector reform, it may be desirable for
the TRRC to employ services of an expatriate transport economy expert, who could work in the country
on the basis of a medium term contract. Such expert would be in an advisory position to the Chief of
the TRRC and his main task would be to ensure consistency of the reform process.
7.    In addition to the responsibility for conversion of the sector, the TRRC will coordinate the
preparation of the Transport Rehabilitation Project. This is expected to be prepared within one year.
In the context of sector reform and project preparation, the TRRC may consult with the top executives
of the land (road, railways and pipelines), maritime (ports and shipping) and air (airlines and airports)
transport.



Annex 5
Page 3 of 3
How the System Will Operate
8.    Besides carrying the main responsibility for reforming the sector, the TRRC will propose
periodically and formally to the Head of State the policies to be adopted in the sector. Acceptance of the
policies will be followed by official executive and legal action. The TRRC, once the decree or the
respective legal document has been dictated, will be responsible for the follow-up on its dissemination,
implementation, and enforcement. Subsequently, the TRRC will comment on action programs proposed
by each sector agency. If the TRRC would determine that a newly established policy would require some
additional program, then the TRRC may  recommend it to the agency. The action programs will
designate the tasks and the time involved to their completion, as well as the frequency of reporting,
monitoring and controls. Extensions of agreed-on time tables will be handled as an exception, by special
request through the TRRC to the Head of State. This request will be evaluated by the TRRC and,
following its approval, might be presented to the Head of State.
Main Policy Subjects
9.     The main policy subjects that are expected to be addressed by the TRRC are the following:
(a)    Sector Deregulation. Sector deregulation refers to: simplification of laws, decrees and rules.
It aims at generalizing the right of entry to sector activities and removing controls and procedures
which make transport services complicated and more expensive. It is expected that the size of
the public services associated with the sector would decrease. The public function would amount
to recording and monitoring, ex-post, of sector activities.
(b)    Privatization of Transport Services. The transport services will be transferred to the private
sector on the basis of specific plans and programs after appropriate selection and announcement
of the mechanism to be used in each case. Every opportunity and juncture allowing the
privatization of any enterprise, or part of it, will be taken.
(c)    Price LUberalization. Price liberalization represents a stimulus to free competition. Fixed prices
are incompatible with a market economy and their elimination will be a subject of a specific
program. Under this concept it will be important to adopt legislation and establish some rules and
an organization in charge of preserving free competition, penalizing monopolistic practices and
defending the freedom of personal and corporate initiative.
(d)    Cost Recovery. The only way to maintain a healthy balance between public investment and
availability of the necessary infrastructure in a country, is to create mechanisms to recover the
associated costs from the users. Every person or enterprise will pay for the full costs of the
goods or services which they use. The different ways to recover those amounts are, for example,
various taxes, license fees, tolls, etc. They will be the subject of specific programs. In this way,
infrastructure could be maintained, improved, and expanded.
(e)    Foreign Investment. The regime under which foreign investments will be approved will operate
centrally, and its rules will apply to all economic sectors. In this context, the TRRC's role will
be limited to providing information regarding the relevant legislation and/or regulation.



Cost Estimate - Road Sub-Component                                                    Annex 6
Page 1 of 5
Georgia
Transport Rehabilitation Project - Road Sub-Component
A. Road Maintenance and Construction Equipment
Proposed Equipment and Spares to be Procured under the Project
Type of Equipment                 Quantity    Unit Price (US$)    Total Price (US$)
Flattening machinery                                -                .                      209,600
Loaders                                                                                     200,000
Compactors                                                                                   94,900
Crushers                                                                                       9,900
Asphalt mixing plants (Ukrainian design)                                                      60,500
Asphalt mixing plants (German design)                                                       115,800
Electric motors                                                                             127,600
Spares for truck engines                                                                     22,100
Small Equipment (mainly electric wires)                                                      48,500
Tires (mainly for road maintenance vehicles)                                                128,000
Batteries                                                                                    22,500
Base Cost                                                             1,039,400
Transportation Expenses and Other                                                  260,600
Total, Equipment and Spares                                                   1,300,000



Cost Estimate - Road Sub-Component                                                                          Annex 6
Page 2 of 5
Georgia
Transport Rehabilitation Project - Road Sub-Component
B. Proposed Road Resurfacing and Bridge Rehabilitation under the Project
B.l. Road Clearing and Drainage Rehabilitation
Neme of Road                     Total Length          Working Zones            Unit Cost       Unit Coat       Total Cost
_ _ _ _ _ _ __ _  (km)  Length (km)    Volume (rn3)  IUS$/m3)      (US*lkm)          (US$)
1. Main Roads
MI - Tbilisi-Senaki-Leselidze-Russian border                 553           120        282,000             1.20          2,820          338,400
M2- Senaki-Poti-Sarpi-Turkish border                         119            30          48,000            1.20           1,920           57,600
M3- Mtskheta-Lhazbegi-Larsi-Russian border                   139           100        270,000             1.20          3,240          324,000
M4- Tbilisi-Tsiteli Hidi-Azeri border                         58            20          12,000            1.20            720           14,400
M5- Tbilisi-Bakurtsikhe-Lagodehki-Azeri border               160            40          24,000            1 20            720           28,800
M6- Tbilisi-Marneuli-Guguti-Armeni border                    106            60         36,000             1.20            720           43,200
M7- Marneuli-Sedakhlo-Armeni border                           34            25          20,000            1.20            960           24,000
M8- Khashuri-Vale-Turkish border                             103            20          12,000            1.20            720            14,400
M9- Tbilisi entrance highway                                  48            30          18,000            1.20            720            21,600
Total, Main Road.                         1,320           44S         722,000                                          866,400
2. Secondary Roads
Pt- Batumi-Ahaltsihe-Ninotsminia                             279            83          43,938            1.20            637            52,726
P2- Tbilisi-Kolchor-Tsalka-Ninotsminla                       165            30          27,850            1.20          1,110            33,420
P3- Kutaisi - Bardasi - Sairme                                55            24          34,750            1.20           1,738           41,700
P5- Gori-Tsinvali-Oni                                        113            30          39,163            1.20          1,581           46,996
P6- Goupta - Djava - Roki                                     45            35          36,875            1.20           1,264          44.250
P7- Gomi-Sashere-Shiatura-Zestafoni                          108            32           7,650            1.20            287             9,180
P8- Kutaisi-Tkibuli-Ambrolauri                                76            15          25,000            1.20          1,993           30,000
P9- Kutaisi-Alpana-Mamisonsky                                165            55          62,712            1.20           1,379           75,254
P10- Kutaisi-Tsaltubo-Tsageri-Lentehi-Larinli                160            26          62,500            1.20          2.848            75,000
P11- Zugdidi-Tsalendshiha-Chorotsky-Senaki                    91            34          18,750            1.20            657            22,500
P12- Zugdidi-Dvari-Mestia-Lasdili                            198            53          65,375            1.20          1,489           78,450
P15- Ahmeta-Telavi-Bakurtsihe                                 72            20          13,125            1.20            790            15,750
P16- Tianeti-Ahmeta-Psaveli-Ninrogon                         129            49          13,750            1.20            340            16.500
P22- Tbilisi-Tianeti                                          79            30          18,750            1.20            757           22,500
P31- Zagez-Mtseta-Kav1isevi-Gori                              62            21          12,875            1.20            747           15.450
P37- Samtrelia-Sohatauri-Ozurgeti-Kobuleti                    81            30          14,000            1.20            551           16,800
P38- Sadshavaho-Lanshuti-Subsa-Ureki                          48            18          27,438            1.20          1,823           32,926
Total, Secondary Roads                       1,926           584        524,501                                          629,401
Base Cost, Total                         3,246          1,029      1,246,501                                        1,495,801
Additional Expenses                                                                                                    304,199
Total B.L. Road Clearing end Drainage Rehabiltation                                                                                   1,800,000



Cost Estimate - Road Sub-Component                                                                           Annex 6
Page 3 of 5
Transport Rehaitation Project - Road Sub-Componant
S. Proposed Road Rosurfacing end Brdge Rehabiitation under the Project
tU1. Pothole Fixing
Nans  of Rood                    Totai Length         Woring Zons             Unit Cost       Unit Cost       Total Cost
(km)       Length lkm)    Surface (m2)    (US$tm2)       (US$/kmi          (US$)
1. Main Roads
coating (4 cm) & bituminous concrete (Scin
MI - Tbilisi-Senaki-Lszildzs-Russianborder                  553           120          17,600          15.50           2,273         272,800
M2- Ssnaki-Poti-Ssrpi-Turkith border                        119            20           6,770          15.50          4,472            89,435
M3- Mtskheta-Lhszb*gi-Lsrni-Russien border                  139            70          18,100          1.550          4,008          280,550
M4- Tbilfi-Tsitefl Hidl-Azsri border                         58            50           6,390          15.50           1,981          99,045
M5- Thilisi-Bakurtsikhe-godshki-Azeri border                160            20           3,500          15.50          2,713           54,250
M6- Tbi is-Mameuli-Guguti-Armani border                    10o            40          15,100          15.50          5,851          234,050
M7- MameuH-S*dskhlo-Armrnsi border                           34            15         14,250           15.50         14,725          220,875
M8- Khashuri-VaIs-Turkish border                            103            20           1,800          15 50           1,395           27,900
M9- Tbilisi entrance highway                                 48            48           8,640          15.50          2,790           133.920
Total, Main Roads                        1,320           403          91,150                                       1,412.825
of whkch                                       Ouantity        Unit     I Unit Cost (USO I               Total Cost (US$)
Biturman                                1,969 tons                 150                               295,348
Sand                                   5,834 m3                    16                                 93,340
Gravel                                  5,834 m3                   1 8                               105,008
Mszut                                    109 tons                  110                                12,010
Sub-total, materials                                                                                                 505,706
2. Secondary Roads
coating (15em
P - Batumi-AhaltsihseNinotsminta                            279            83          12.266           8.75           1,297          107,334
P2- Tbilisi-Ko(chor-Tsalka-Ninotsminvs                      165            30           9,030           8.75           2,625           79,018
P3- Kutsis. Bardai - Sirms                                   55            24           3,360           8.75           1,225           29,402
.5 - Gori-Tsinvsli-Onl                                      113            30           5,757           8.75           1,674           50,377
P6- Goupta - Ojavs - Roki                                    45            35           9,450           8.75           2,363           82,693
P7-GoMi-Sssher-Shisturs-Zestsfoni                          108            32           5,757           8.75           1,575           50,377
P6- Kutsisi-Tkibuli-Ambroluri                                76            1 5          2.709           8.75     .    1,575            23,705
P9- Kutaisi-Alpana-Mamisonsky                               185            55          186254           8.75           2,607          142.232
P10- Kutsisi-Tsaltubo-Tsageri-Lentehi-Larinil               160            26           7,901           8.75          2,625           69,138
PI 1 - Zugdidi-Tsalendshiha-Chorotsky-Ssnaki                 91            34          10,272           P:75           2,625           89,886
P 12- Zugdidi-Dvari-M*stis-Lasdill                          198            53          15,802           8.75           2,625         138,276
P1 5- Ahmata-Tslevi-Bakurtsihs                               72            20           2,393           8.75           1,050           20,940
P16- Tisneti-Ahmset-Psaveli-Ninogori                       129            49           7,675           8.75           1,384          67,161
P22- Tbilisi-Tbneti                                          79            30           6,321           8.75           1,861          55,312
P31- Zagez-Mtseta-Ksvtisevi-Gori                             62            21           3,725           8.75           1,575           32,596
P37- Somtrelia-Sohatauri-Ozurgeti-Kobuleti                   81            30           3.454           8.75            992            30,224
P38- Sedshavaho-Lanshuti-Subss-Ureki                         48            18          10,114           8.75          4,901           88,503
Total. Secondary Roads                      1.926          584         132.240                           _           1,157.175
of whkh                                        Ouantity        Unit       Unit Cost (US$)                Total Cost iUS$)
Bitumen                                 1,587 tons                 150                               238,050
Sand                                   4,702 m3                    16                                 75,232
Gravel                                 4,702 m3                    18                                 84,636
Mazut                                     88 tons                  110                                 9.680
Sub-tota/, materials                                                                                                 407,598
Total B.1., Pothole Fixing                                                                                                          2.570.000
of which materials:                                                                                                         913,304



Cost Estimate - Road Sub-Component                                               Annex 6
Page 4 of 5
Georgia
Transport Rehabilitation Project - Road Sub-Component
B. Proposed Road Resurfacing and Bridge Rehabilitation under the Project
8.111. Selected Bridge Rehabilitation (Main Roads only)
Name of Road                              Total Length             Total Cost
(km)                   IUS$)
Main Roads-Civil Works
Ml - Tbilisi-Senaki-Leselidze-Russian border                                   553                 203,000
M2- Senaki-Poti-Sarpi-Turkish border                                           119                       0
M3- Mtskheta-Lhazbegi-Larsi-Russian border                                     139                 300,000
M4- Tbilisi-Tsiteli Hidi-Azeri border                                           58                  30,000
M5- Tbilisi-Bakurtsikhe-Lagodehki-Azeri border                                 160                       0
M6- Tbilisi-Marneuli-Guguti-Armeni border                                      106                 170,000
M7- Marneuli-Sadakhlo-Armeni border                                             34                       0
M8- Khashuri-Vale-Turkish border                                               103                       0
M9- Tbilisi entrance highway                                                    48                  25,000
Sub-Total                                                                                          728,000
Materials
Steel                                                                                 v             80,000
Other Materials                                                                                    160,000
Sub-Total                                                                                          240,000
Total B.ll., Selected Bridge Rehabilitation                                                       968,000
Grand Total, Equipment (A), Resurfacing (B.l. and B.ll.) and
Bridge Rehabilitation (B.111.)                                                                   6,638,000
(excluding Physical Contingencies (8%) and Price Contingencies (10%)



Georgia
Highway Concem
Full Road Rehabilitation Program
Name of Road
Road Characteristics /                Unit        Poti - Senaki     poti -       Mtskheta -       Khashuri-        Total               0
Type of Rehabilitation Work Needed                        Tbilisl-      Baturni -      Khazbegi -     Akhaltsikhe -
_________________  Tsitelit   Hildi  Sarpi      Larsi        Turkish border  _
Length of the road                                  km             400             86             139             103            728
Asphalt/concrete overlays                           km             100             20             40               30            190
min US$         3.00            0.50           1.00             0.75           5.25
Wayside reinforcement                               km            150 x 2        50 x 2         100 x 2          60 x 2          720
mln USS          3.00           0.50           2.00             1.20           6.70
Fence arrangement                                   km              12              3              15              6              36
min US$         12.00           3.00           15.00            6.00          36.00
Arrangement of signal bollards                    quantity        2,000            100           2,000            200           4,300
_   min US$        1.00           0.15            1.00            0.10           2.25
Arrangement of standard road signs                quantity        1,900           1,200          1,000            200           4,300
mln US$         0.45            0.36           0.30             0.06           1.17
Arrangement of individual road signs              quantity         200             200            200              50            650
mn US$           3.00           0.50           0.50             0.20           4.20
Horizontal marking                                  km            1,000           200             300             200            1,700
mmn USS          1.60           0.34           0.50            0.30            2.74
Vertical marking                                    m2           500,000         100,000        200,000         100,000        900,000
min US$         7.50            1.50           3.00             1.50          13.50
Routine maintenance                               mln USS          8.00           1.70            2.80            2.10       _  14.60
Total i mmn US$1                                  39.55           8.55           26.10           12.21          86.41
A.. 



Annex 7
Page 1 of 5
GEORGIA - Transport Rehabilitation Project
Financial Projections - Highway Concern
Notes and Assumptions on the Attached Financial Projections
1.    Cashflow projections for the Highway Concern were developed on the basis of the road recovery
system defined in the draft law on road user approved by Parliament on September 2, 1995. It was
assumed that proceeds from this road recovery system would not be available before 1996. Listed below
are the other main assumptions used in the projections (tables pages 4 and 5).
Table page 4: Key Assumptions for Cashflow Projections
2.    Motor Vehicle Fleet: A conservative assumption that there would be no growth in the motor
vehicle fleet was adopted. Data is based on 1993 information collected by the (former) Ministry of
Transport.
3.    Vehicle Operating Ratios: The ratios are defined as the number of vehicles in working condition
divided by the total number of vehicles for each of the vehicle categories: cars, trucks and buses. These
numbers were discussed with the Highway Concern and assumed constant over the projection period.
4.    Incoming Border Traffic of Vehicles Registered Abroad: These numbers, shown in vehicles per
day (vpd), represent the total incoming border traffic of vehicles registered abroad at Tsiteli Hidi (Azeri
border), Lagodekhi (Azeri border), Sarpi (Turkish border), Vale (Turkish border), Larsi (Russian
border), Leselidze (Russian border), Guguti (Armenian border), and Sadakhalo (Armenian border). It
was assumed that no traffic was coming through Abkhazia (Leselidze), and that traffic at Vale was
negligible.
5.    In addition, based on traffic figures provided by the Highway Concern and after discussion with
officials of the Highway Concern, it was assumed that 15% of the total incoming border traffic of
vehicles registered abroad was cars, 55% trucks and 30% buses.
6.    Finally, the conservative assumption that this traffic would not grow over the projection period
was made.
7.    Fuel Consumption: This item represents the estimated total consumption of fuel (diesel and
gasoline) by vehicles in Georgia. Again, this estimate was held constant over the projection period.
8.    Avg. Fuel Price (Gasoline and Diesel): Prices of gasoline and diesel in Georgia currently are at
about the World levels. They were assumed to remain constant over the projection period.
9.    Ave. Car-Truck-Bus Horse Power: These figures indicate the average units of horse power for
each vehicle category in Georgia.
10.   Incoming Border Crossing Tax: This item refers to the tax on vehicles registered abroad entering
Georgia, as defined by the draft law on road user charges proposed to Parliament. The draft law defines
the tax amounts according to the size, axle load and horse power of each vehicle. The figures given in



Annex 7
Page 2 of 5
the table refer to average tax levels for each vehicle category. The proceeds of this tax are calculated
as the annual incoming border traffic of vehicles registered abroad times the tax (in $/entry), for each
vehicle category (cars, trucks and buses), times the collection performance ratio (see below).
11.   Collection performance for the incoming border crossing tax was assumed to increase from 20%
in 1996 to 60% by year 2000, and remain constant thereafter. This assumption takes into account initial
tax implementation and enforcement difficulties, and high incentives for tax evasion given the high tax
levels.
12.   Annual Domestic Vehicle Registration Tax: This item represents the yearly domestic vehicle
registration tax, based on horse power, as defined by the draft law on road user charges proposed to
Parliament. The tax was assumed to apply to all the domestic vehicles which are in working condition.
In other words, its proceeds are calculated as the total motor vehicle fleet times the vehicle operating ratio
times the tax (in $/horse power), for each vehicle category (cars, trucks and buses), times a collection
performance ratio.
13.   Collection performance for the vehicle registration tax was assumed to increase from 20% in 1996
to 70% by year 2000. This assumption takes into account initial tax implementation and enforcement
difficulties, high incentives for tax evasion given the high tax levels, and the fact that part of the vehicle
fleet is in conflict zones (e.g. Abkhazia).
14.   Fuel Taxes: They are defined in the draft law on road user charges as a percentage (5%) of the
value-added on fuel and lubricants. Full collection of these taxes is assumed to be reached by year 2000.
15.   Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Needs: Under this heading lies a possible road maintenance
and rehabilitation program starting from 1996. This program was defined according to road user charge
proceeds and priority needs. Surface dressing (potholes) as well as critical repairs on bridges and some
road equipment would be fixed as a priority; overlays and reconstruction would be undertaken only where
necessary and as funds become available (e.g., limited reconstruction would not start before 1998).
Provisions for machinery and spares would only occur in 1996 and 1997, as road maintenance and
construction units would be privatized by 1997.
16.   For 1995, officials of the Highway Concern estimated that realistically only about $500,000
would be available from the state budget for road maintenance and rehabilitation. This translates into
about 71 km of surface dressing (pothole fixing) at $7,000 per kilometer.
17.   Highway Concern Staff: Highway Concern officials indicated that only about 8,000 of the
original 22,000 employees are currently being paid. Staff of the Highway Concern would be brought
down to 1,000 employees by 1999, as maintenance and construction units become private. Of the 8,000
paid employees of the Highway Concern, about 5,500 are estimated to work in maintenance and
construction units, and would become private sector employees. About 1,500 of the remaining 2,500
employees were assumed to be laid-off by 1998 in a staff reduction program.



Annex 7
Page 3 of 5
Table page 5: Cashflow Projections
18.   This table indicates the sources and applications of funds as a result of current and prospected
budget allocations, road recovery system proceeds, and the above mentioned program of road
maintenance and rehabilitation. All figures are in 1995 US$.
19.   Budget Allocation: For 1995, the projections assume that the state budget allocation will be the
only source of funds for the Highway Concern. This allocation, estimated at $1,000,000, would cover
salaries, wages and administrative expenses and some pothole fixing (worth $500,000 or about 71 km of
surface dressing, as mentioned earlier). Starting from 1996, as the road recovery system begins to be
implemented, no state budget allocations would be directed to the Highway Concern. All expenditures,
including salaries, wages, severance, administrative and headquarters expenses, as well as road
maintenance and rehabilitation needs would be exclusively covered by road user charge proceeds.
20.   Divestiture of Assets: This item indicates the revenues (estimated at about $1 ml) generated by
the privatization of maintenance and construction units. The privatization process would be completed
by 1997.
21.   World Bank Loan Borrowing: The projections include a World Bank loan borrowing of about
$5 ml in 1996.
22.   Salaries and Wages: These were assumed to increase from current $4.7 per month to about $20
per month in 1996, and remain constant thereafter.
23.   Severance: The projections assume that a severance payment of 2 years of salary would be given
to the 1,500 employees laid-off in the staff reduction program (see para. 17 above).
24.   Other expenses:  These include administrative and headquarters expenses of the Highway
Concern.
25.   Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation: This heading includes all the expenses linked to the
proposed road maintenance and rehabilitation program. The following cost estimates were factored in the
projected expenses:
-     Surface Dressing (potholes):      $7,000 per km.
-     Overlays:                          $32,000 per km.
-     Reconstruction:                   $132,000 per km.
26.   Debt Service: The interest rate would be of about 7.6%, and the loan would be repaid over five
years after a one year grace period.



Road Usr Charge System as Currently Drmfted
Trnsport Rehabilitation Project - State Concorn of Highways
Wortd Bank Preliminary EstImates. July 1995
Key Assurnptions for Cashflow Projections
1995      1996      1997     1998      1999      2000      2001      2002
Motor Vehicle Fleet [number of vehicles)                          644.5    644500       4(   6445 0    6445 0    644 5        6445      644iQ
Cars                                                           489.200  489,200  489.200  489,200  489,200   489.200  489.200  489.200
Trucks                                                          136,800   136,800   136.800   136.800   136.800   136,800   136.800   136f800
Buses                                                            18.500    18,500    18,500    18,500    185600    18.500    18,500    18.500
Vehicle Operating Ratios 1% of vehicles in working condition)
Cars                                                               65%      65%       65%       65%       65%       65%       65%       65%
Trucks                                                             50%       50%       50%       50%       50%       50%      50%       50%
Buses                                                              50%       50%       50%      50%       50%       50%       50%       50%
Incormina Border Traffic of Vehicles Redostered Abroad (vod)          fiQQ      600                 lQ        fQ        6Q                  J
Cars (15% of traffic)                                               90        90        90        90        90        90        90        90
Trucks (55% of total traffic)                                      330       330       330       330       330       330       330       330
Buses 130% of total traffic)                                       180       180       180       180       180       180       180       180
Fuel Consumption ('000 tonhyrl                                        100       100       100       100       100       100       100       100
Avg. Fuel Price (Gasoline and Diesel; $ltr)                          0.40      0.40      0.40      0.40      0.40      0.40      0.40      0.40
Avg. Car Horse Power (units)                                           70        70        70        70        70        70        70        70
Avg. Truck Horse Power (units)                                        200       200       200       200       200       200       200       200
Avg. Bus Horse Power (units)                                          130       130       130       130       130       130       130       130
Incoming Border Crossing Tax for Cars($/entry)                          0        20        20        20        20        20        20        20
Incoming Border Crossing Tax for Trucks (W/entry)                       0       160       160       160       160       160       160       160
Incoming Border Crossing Tax for Buses (S/entry)                        0        80        SO        80        80        80        80        80
Annual Domestic Vehicle Registration Tax for Cars (S/horse power)      0.0       0.2       0.2       0.2       0.2       0.2       0.2       0.2
Annual Domestic Vehicle Registration Tax for Trucks 1S/horse power)    0.0       1.5       1.5       1.5       1.5       1.5       1.5       1.5
Annual Domestic Vehicle Registration Tax for Buses 1S/horse power)     0.0       1.0       1.0       1.0       1.0       1.0       1.0       1.0
Fuel Taxes 1%, on value-added on fuel and lubricants)                  0%        5%        5%        5%        5%        5%        5%       5%
Road Maintenance and Rehabillation Needs
Surface Dressing (Potholes) (km)                                  71      750      1.000     1.500     175 0     2.000     2.000     2.000
Overlays (km)                                                      0         0       35        45        75       150       160       150
Reconstruction (km)                                                0        0         0        15        40        50        50        50
Bridges and Tunnels (min 6)                                      0.0       3.0       3.5       3.5       3.5       4.0       4.0       4.0    IV
Road Equipment. Machinery and Spares ImIn SI                     0.0       5.0       4.5       3.0       3 0       3 0       3.0       3.0   IrQ
Highway Concern Staff                                              8000      7,000      1b500    1.250      1,000     1,000    1,000 1t000
U1



Road User Charge System as Curnently Drafted
Transport RehabDitation Project - State Concern of Highways
World Bank Preliminary Estimates, July 1995
Cashflow Projections, 1995 US$
1995       1996       1997        1998       1999        2000       2001        2002
Sources of Funds
Budget Allocation                                   850,000          0          0           0          0           0          0          0
Divestiture from Assets                                  0    500,000    500,000            0          0           0          0          0
Incoming Border Crossing Tax Revenues                    0  5,037,000   7,555,500  10,074,000  12,592,500  15,111,000  15,111,000  15,111,000
Annual Domestic Vehicle Registration Tax Revenues        0  5,234.844   8,506,622  11,778.399  15,050,177  18,321,954  18,321,954  18,321,954
Fuel Taxes Revenues                                      0      72,000    144,000    216,000    288,000    360,000    360,000    360,000
Revenues from the Road Tax on Enterprise Income     150,000    151,500    153,015    154,545    156,091      157,652    159,228    160,820
Total, Internal Sources                              1.000.000  10.995.344  16.859.137 22.222.944  28086.767 33 950.606 33.952.182  33 953.774
World Bank Loan Borrowing                                   0  5,000,000           0          0           0          0           0          0
Total, Sources                                       1.000 000 15.995.344  1859.137 22.222.944  28.086.767 33-950.606 33.952.182  33.953774
Application of Funds
Highway Concern Operational Expenses
Salaries and Wages                                 450,000   1,680,000    360,000    300,000    240,000    240,000    240,000    240.000
Severances                                               0    480,000    120,000    120,000            0          0           0          0
Other Expenses                                       50,000    100,000    100,000    100,000    100,000    100,000    100,000    100,000
Total. Hiahwav Concern Operational Expenses           50Q0Q.Q   2.2600.0Q    580.000    520.000    340.000    34000        340C       34000
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation
Surface Dressing (Potholes)                      500,000   5,250,000   7,000,000  10,500,000  12,250,000  14,000,000  14,000.000  14,000.000
Overlays                                               0          0   1,120,000   1,440,000   2,400,000   4,800,000  4,800.000  4,800,000
Reconstruction                                         0          0          0   1,980,000   5,280,000   6,600,000   6,600,000   6,600.000
Bridges and Tunnels                                    0  3,000,000   3,500,000   3,500,000   3,500,000   4,000,000   4,000,000  4.000,000
Road Equipment, Machinery and Spares                  0  5,000,000   4,500,000   3,000,000   3,000,000   3,000,000   3,000,000   3,000,000
Total. Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation            500.000  13.250.QO  16.120.000 20420.000 26.430.000  32.400.000 32.400O   32.4QQ.0QQ
Debt Service
Interest                                              0           0    380,000    380,000    304,000    228,000    152,000       76,000
Principal                                             0           0          0   1.000,000  1,000.000   1.000,000   1.000,000   1.000,000
Total. Debt Service                                         Q          Q    380.000   1.380.000   1.304.      1226.000   1.152.QOQ   1 076.QQQ
Total Applications                                  1.000.000  15.510.00   17080.000 22.320.    28.074000  33.96800  33.892.    33,816
Surplus Funds                                               0    485,344   -220,864    -97,056       12,767    -17,394      60.182    137.774        >
Opening Cash Balance                                                   0    485,344    264,481      167,425    180,192    162,797    222,979    j 
Closing Cash Balance                                        0    485,344    264,481      167,425    180,192    162,797    222,979    360,754    O4
-4<



Annex 8
Page 1 of 2
GEORGIA
Transport Rehabilitation Project
Contracting of Road Construction and Maintenance Units
Obiective
I .    The objective of each enterprise is to perform, under specific contract with the Highway Concern,
works related to the maintenance, rehabilitation and construction of roads and associated structures. It
will be privately owned and allowed to perform other construction work.
Staff
2.    Initially the enterprises will be formed by ex-professionals and interested workers previously
employed by construction units operating for the Highway Concern. (How many to employ and under
which conditions, is a matter to be decided by the enterprise's management.)
Assets
3.     The main asset of the enterprise will be the operative capacity of its staff, and capital assets
(machinery and equipment) which could be owned, directly purchased, if the enterprise has the financial
capacity, or acquired from the Highway Concern, in accordance with the rules established by the Ministry
of Public Property, in the context of the privatization program.
Contract
4.     The initial contracts between the Highway Concern and the enterprise, provided that it is found
eligible under Bank Guidelines, will be for road repairs, including all elements of the road cross section,
and will be part of the Program of Emergency Repairs defined under the Transport Rehabilitation Project.
Quality standards of performance would be included in the contracts.
Price
5.     The contract price will be given by such a formula as:
Price =  # road surface units to be repaired under the contract x  unit repair cost */
[*/ Detemnined by bidding prcess]
The unit repair cost would reflect the state of road disrepair, variable direct costs, indirect costs,
mobilization costs, as well as profit and taxes to be paid by the enterprise.



Annex 8
Page 2 of 2
Payments
6.    Payments from the Highway Concem will be made proportionally to the progress of the
contracted work and will take place on a regular basis (e.g., monthly). This progress will be accredited
by a designated supervisory unit of the Highway Concern. The supervisory unit will act as the technical
counterpart of the enterprise for the purposes of the contract, including quality control. An advance
payment of about 15% of the value of the contract may take place to facilitate the purchase of materials
and provide some working capital. The equipment made available by the Highway Concern either under
a rental, leasing or purchase agreement, will be reflected as a deduction in every statement of payments.
Asphalt and Stone Crushing Plants
7.    The Highway Concern will allow free choice to contractors to procure the most adequate
materials to the work site(s). Any rental costs applicable, will be deducted from the gross amount due
in each statement of payments.
Payment Deductions
8.    In each statement of payments, the gross amount to be paid would be reduced by: (i) a proportion
of the 15% advance payment; (ii) any cost of equipment rental, leasing or purchase as agreed, including
the rental cost of asphalt and stone crushing plants; and (iii) a 5% of the gross payment due, to serve
as a guarantee for the delivery of the works to the satisfaction of the concern. The balance will be fully
paid to the enterprise upon the satisfactory completion of the works. The guarantee funds will be
deposited in a financial institution acceptable to the enterprise under the name of the Highway Concern,
in accordance with mutually agreeable conditions.
The Highwav Concern
9.    The Highway Concern will cease to be responsible for the execution of road works. It will open
and maintain a Registry of Contractors and will operate on the basis of competitive bidding among
enterprises included in the registry.  All contractors, local or foreign, fulfilling the criteria for such
enterprises under Bank Guidelines, will be eligible for inclusion in the Registry.



Annex 9
Page 1 of 1
Georgia
Transport Rehabilitation Project
Rental and Leasing of Highway Concern Equipment
1.    Under the Transport Rehabilitation Project, an Emergency Road Repair program is one of the
established priorities. The required works will be carried out by private and independent enterprises.
To assist the development of the a local contracting industry, the Highway Concern will make available
under mutual agreement its equipment pool. The Highway Concern will purchase spares, make repairs,
and when necessary, purchase equipment with Project funds. The equipment and parts will be valued
at market prices and will be available to any contractor. On the basis of this value, for each item, a
rental leasing fee or a sale price will be established.
2.    As an example of the monthly fees involved, the following table has been calculated. It refers
to an estimated market value of equipment of $10,000 with a life of 60 months, interest rate of 0.7 to
1.0% per month for rental and lease, and 1.0 to 1.5% per month for sales.
-     Rental: $258 for periods inferior to 40 months
-     Lease:        $288 to $305 for 40 month leases
$238 to $255 for 50 month leases
$205 to $222 for 60 month leases
-     Sale:         $500 to $524 with 20 months for full purchase
3.    The alternative to use in each case will depend on the duration of the contract, type and future
use of the equipment, and the financial capacity of the enterprises.



Cost Estimate - Rail Sub-Component                                                   Annex 10
Page 1 of 1
Georgia
Transport Rehabilitation Credit - Railway Sub-Component
Proposed Goods, Equipment and Works to be Procured under the Project
Type of Equipment                        Quantity       Unit Cost    Total Cost
or Length       (US$)         (US$)
I. Stabilizing and Protection of Bridges
Samtredia-Batumi line                                                                  750,000
Samtredia-Poti line                                                                    250,000
Sub-total, 1                                                        1,000,000
of which materials (mainly structural steel)                                     350,000
tl. Track Capacity Enhancement (on 40 km of track)*
Wooden sleepers                                     75,000 sleepers        25.00      1,875,000
Switches R-65                                           13 sets          30,000        390,000
Track links (ties and fastenings)                     250 tons            4,000       1 000,000
Sub-total, 11                                                       3,265,000
Ill. Traction Capacity Enhancement"
Rehabilitation of electric locomotives                  1 0 locos       135,000       1,350,000
Spares for electric locomotives & rehabilitation
of sub-assemblies                                                                      651,800
Sub-total, IIJ                                                      2,001,800
IV. Communication and Signalling Equipment
Rehabilitation of communication means at:
Samtredia-Senaki section                           28 km              1,200        33,600
Senaki-Poti section                               41 km               1,200        49,200
Tbilisi-Sadakhlo                                   59 km              1,200        70,800
Tbilisi-Gardabani                                  33 km              1.200        39,600
Rehabilitation of automatic bloc systems on key
sections of the network                                 10 km            14,000        140,000
Sub-total, IV                                                         333,200
Grand Total                                                         6.600,000
(excluding Physical Contingencies (5.5%) and Price Contingencies (5%)
Notes:
Subject to definition of a detailed program of track capacity enhancement
* Subject to detailed specifications of works and materials



Annex 11
Page 1 of 6
Georgia - Transport Rehabilitation Project
Financial Projections - Railway Department
Notes and Assumptions on the Attached Financial Projections
1.    Financial projections for the Railway Department, reflecting the financial adjustment and restructuring
plan proposed in Chapter IV (Financial Aspects) were developed. Listed below are the notes and assumptions
used in these projections, presented by table. In all tables, the currency unit is constant 1995 US$.
Table page 3: Key Assumptions and Income Statement Projections
2.     Traffic: Passenger traffic was assumed to decrease from current levels (4.4 million passengers per year)
to about 2 million passengers per year by year 2000, as a result of tariff increases. This traffic would then
grow by 1 % per year. Freight traffic (in tons) was assumed to grow by only 1 % per year over the projection
period. Today, the humanitarian food aid cargo makes up for most of the railway freight operations. Such
traffic is temporary. In the short to medium term, humanitarian freight traffic is likely to decrease, whereas
other freight traffic would progressively increase in line with the overall economic recovery of Georgia. The
average trip for passenger transport was assumed to remain constant over the projection period; for freight, it
was assumed to decrease from current 350km to about 300km by 1998 as the share of domestic traffic increases.
3.     Average Passenger/Freight Tariffs: Average passenger tariffs were assumed to increase from current
(1st half of 1995) UScents 0.05 per pass.km to UScents 3.00 per pass.km by 2000. As for average freight
tariffs, they would increase from current USc 3.07 per ton.km to USc 4.00 per ton.km by 1997. An increase
of up to 1.5 times the current freight tariff is already scheduled by the railway department, starting September,
1995.
4.     Railway Staff: Currently, the railways employ 18,191 people, of which 6,590 are not paid (technical
unemployment). Unpaid staff would be laid-off by 1996 and paid staff levels would be brought down to about
10,000 by 1998, as a result of a staff reduction program reflecting current traffic levels and the size of the
railway network.
5.     Average Salarv: It was assumed to increase from current (1994) $6.6 per month to about $20 per
month in 1996, and remain constant thereafter.
6.     Operating Revenues: Passenger and freight operations revenues grow with traffic and tariff increases.
Baggage and mail revenues were assumed to grow by 15% per year, to reflect increased baggage and mail
activity and tariffs which would cover costs.
7.     Operating Expenses: Assumptions on operating expenses are as follows:
Salary and Wages:           calculated as the annual average salary times the staff level.
Social Benefits:            costs grow in line with salaries.
Operation and Maintenance:  costs grow by 5% per year, as costs of materials and services
increase, and as aging equipment requires more maintenance.
Fuel and Power:             costs grow with electricity prices and traffic. Electricity prices
were assumed to increase by 50% from 1995 to 1996, as a
result of the restructuring of the power sector.
Severance:                  2 years of salary.
Other expenses:             these expenses mainly relate to capital repairs. As operations
become more efficient and only necessary capital repairs are
carried out, "other expenses" were assumed to decrease by 5%
per year.



Annex 11
Page 2 of 6
Table page 4: Sources and Applications of Funds
8.     World Bank Loan Borrowing and Other Donors Assistance: Total borrowing from the World Bank and
other donors to be defined would amount to about $6.6 million, and would take place in 1996.
9.     Debt Service: The interest rate on the borrowing would be of about 7.6%, and the repayment period
five years with a one year grace period.
Table page 5: Balance Sheets at Years Ending December 31
10.    Gross Fixed Assets: A recent Government decree calls for an asset revaluation, to be implemented on
October 1, 1995. Assets will be revalued 12.7 times, from current US$13 million to about US$171 million.
This revaluation factor was calculated by the Ministry of Finance for all enterprises in Georgia to account for
inflation. Although a detailed railway-specific asset revaluation is needed for the railway department, the asset
revaluation assumptions in the projections follow the Government decree.
11.    Accumulated Depreciation: It was adjusted for 1995 in line with asset revaluation. Old assets (prior
to 1995) were estimated to be fully depreciated in 9 years (i.e., a yearly average depreciation coefficient of
1 1.1 %). New assets (incorporated in the asset base after 1995) would be fully depreciated in 15 years (i.e.,
a yearly average depreciation coefficient of 6.7%).
12.    Capital Work in Progress: This item represents the first year of each capital investment.
13.    Accounts Receivable: Receivables are assumed to decrease to 30 days of revenues by 1999, down from
52 days in 1994.
14.   Inventories: They were assumed constant over the projection period.
15.    Other Assets: These were assumed to decrease to about $5 million by 1998, as a result of the selling
of unnecessary and non-transport related assets.
16.    Capital and Capital Reserve: Both items were assumed constant over the period.
17.    Accounts Payable: Payables are assumed to decrease to 3 months of expenses by 1999.
18.    Advances, Short Term Borrowing and Other Current Liabilities: All of these are assumed to remain
constant over the period.
Table page 6: Ratios of Financial Performance
19.    Profitability: Profitability for 1994 (and to a lesser extent, for 1995) looks high because of the high
"profits" shown by the railways accounts. As explained before (para. 1, page 1), these "profits" do not take into
account proper allocations for depreciation.
20.    Debt Financial Leverage: Debt Service Coverage is defined as the ratio of internal sources to the total
debt service (interest and principal). Interest Coverage is defined as the ratio of the operating profit before
interest and tax to the interest on the debt.



RAILWAY Department - Wodd Bank Preliminary Forecasts, July 1995
Key Assumptions and Income Statement Projections (1995 US$)
With Restructuring, Keeping Passenger Service
Actual                         ........    --   -    - --- ---   Pr  ...  .e.c..t...d  -- ---
1994-      19951         1996        1997        1998         1999        2000        2001         2002
KEY ASSUMPTIONS
Traffic
Passenger (pass)                                      10,876,800    4,433,760    3,947,008    3,460,256   2,973,504   2,486,752   2,000,000   2,020,000   2,040,200
Passenger-km kmln passkm)                                  1,032         428         381          334         287         240          193         195         197
Average trip (km)                                             95          96          96           96          96          96           96          96          96
Freight It)                                            5,655,500    3,564,720    3,600,367   3,636,371    3,672,735    3,709,462   3,746,557    3,784,022    3,821,862
Freight (min t.km)                                         1,030        1,231       1,184       1,139       1,102        1,113       1,124       1,135        1,147
Average trip (km)                                            182         345         329          313         300         300          300         300         300
Average passenger tariff (USc I pass.kml                       0.03        0.16         1 00        1.50        2.00         2.50        3.00        3.00         3.00
Average freight tarff (USc / t.kml                             2.16        3.33         3.50        4.00        4.00         4.00        4.00        4.00         4.00
Total Railway Staff                                          18,191      18,000       14,801      11,601      10,000       10,000      10,000      10.000       t0.000
including technical unemployment                           6,590       6,399        3,200           0           0           0            0           0           0
Average Salary (S/month)                                        6.6        19.6         20.0        20.0        20.0         20.0        20.0        20.0         20.0
OPERATING REVENUES I1995 US$)
Passenget Operations                                        306,355     694,980   3,807,280   4,990,120    5,736,477    5,984,924   5,787,593    5,845,469   5,903,924
Baggage end Mai                                              37,412       8,978       10,324      11,873      13,654       15,702      18,058      20,766      23,881
Freight Operations                                       22,286,043  40,947,660  41,450,400  45,567,242   44,072,815  44,513,543  44.958,679  45,408,265  45,862,348
Total OperatIng Reveue                                   22,629,811   41,651,618  45,268,004  50.569,236  49,822,946   50,514,170  50,764,32 9  51,274,501   51,790,153
OPERATING EXPENSES (1995 US$)
Salary and Wages                                          1,432,020   4,275,158    3,552,120   2.784,240    2,400,000   2,400,000   2,400,000   2.400.000   2.400.000
Social Benefts                                              537,057    1.622,191    1,358,497    1,064,824   917,873     917,873      917.873     917.873     917,873
Operation and Maintenance                                   224.409     698,235     733,147      769,804     808,294     848,709      891,145     935,702     982,487
Fuel                                                        925,486    1,961,999    1,850.995    1,742,103    1,642,384    1,599,885    1,557,515    1,573,090    1,588,821
Power                                                     2,292,168    3,768,229   5,332,549   5,018,843   4,731,562   4,609,124   4,487,061    4,531,931    4,577,251
Severance                                                        0       90,016    1,535,760   1,535,760     768,480           0           0            0           0
Other Expenses                                            2,834,778    7,280,401    6,933,715   6.603,539    6,289,084   5,989,604   5,704,385    5,432,748   5,174.045
Total Operating Expenss                                   8,245,917   19,696,229  21,296,783   19,519,113   17,557,678   16,365,194   15,957,978   15,791,343   15,640,476
Net Profit Before Depreciation. Interest and Taxes       14,383,894  21,955,389  23,971,221   31,050,123  32,265.269  34,148,976  34.806,352  35,483,157  36,149,677
Depreciation                                          446,022    5,020,153  20,224.911   22,131,578  23,998,245  25,931,578  27,931,578   29,998,245  32.198,245
Net Profit Before Interest and Taxes                     13,937,871   16,935,236    3,746,310   8,918,545    8,267,024    8,217,398   6,874,774    5,484,913   3.951,432
Interest on Borrovings and Other                            0           0           0      501,600     501,600      401,280     300,960     200,640      100.320           P'
Net Profit Before Taxes                                  13,937,871   16,935,236    3,746,310   8,416,945    7,765,424    7,816,118   6.573.814    5,284,273    3,851.112        rs
Profit Tax (20%)                                    2,787,574   3.387,047      749,262    1,683,389    1,553.085    1.563,224    1,314,763    1,056,855  770,222
Net Profit after TaX                                     11,150,297  13,548,189   2,997.048   6.733,556   6,212.339[  8.252,894   5.259,051   4.2fl7,418   3.080.890                _
o                                   - -  I                                           -      
As of the end of 1994: $1 - 1.300,000 Coupons; 1994 figures might not be accurate because of high inflation;   1995 projections were estimated based on actual figures for the liust half of the year



RAILWAY Department - World Bank Preliminary Forecasts, July 1995
Sources and Applicadons of Funds (1995 USS)
-^--- ----- ----- ----- ---- ----- ----- Projected  ----- ---- ----- ----- ----- ----- -----
1995         1996         1997         1998         1999         2000         2001         2002
SOURCES
Internal Sources
Net Operating Profit Before Interest and Taxes  16,935,236    3.746,310    8,918,545    8,267,024    8,217,398    6,874,774    5,484,913    3,951,432
Depreciation                                    5,020,153   20,224,911   22,131,578   23,998,245   25,931,578   27,931,578   29,998,245   32,198,245
Total. Internal Sources                              21.955.389   23971.221   31050,1232  32.265.269   34,148.976   34.806.352   35.483.157   36.149.677
World Bank Loan Borrowing                                    0    5,000,000            0             0            0            0            0            0
Other Donors Assistance                                            1,600,000
Total Sources                                       21,955,389   30,571,221   31,050,123   32,265,269   34,148,976   34,806,352   35,483,157   36,149,677
APPUCATIONS
Capital Investments
Project financed by World Bank (incl. local costs)           7,600.000
Other/Future Projects                          18,000,000   21,000.000   28,000,000   29,000,000   30,000,000   31,000,000   33,000,000   34,000,000
Total Capital Investments                           18.000       28.600.000 ,_ 28,0    0     9.000.000   3000.000   31,.000000 Q3QQQQQ 34.000 ooo
Debt Service
Interest                                               0            0      501,600       501,600      401,280      300,960      200,640      100,320
Principal                                                                              1,320,000    1,320,000    1,320,000    1,320,000    1,320,000
Total. Debt Service                                          Q            Q      501.600    1.B21.60Q     1 721.280    1620960      1 1520A4     1420-32
Profit Tax                                            3,387,047     749,262    1,683,389    1,553,085    1,563,224    1,314,763    1,056,855       770,222
Increase (Decrease) in Non-Cash Working Capital       -910,191    1,187,901    1,632,970        12,099      542,406      707,122       84,173       80,688
Total ApplIcadons                                   20,476,856   30,537,163   31,817,959   32,386,784   33,826,910   34,642,845   35,661,667   36.271,230
Surplus Funds                                         1,478,533      34,058      -767,836     -121,515      322,066      163,507     -178,510     -121,554
Opening Cash Balance                                  3,543,494    5,022,027    5,056,085    4,288,249    4.166,733    4,488,799    4,652,306    4,473,796
Closing Cash Balance                                  5,022,027   S5.056,085    4,288,249    4,166,733    4,488,799    4,652,306    4,473,796    4,352,2431
Iosl



RALWAY Dep mnt - Woed Bank Prabsinwy Forecasts. J3y 1995
aI_ce SMeu at Yeo  Ending Deownbr 3111996 US$)
1995 Asset Revalustion Coetticdent:               12.7     Old Assets Depreciation Coeff.:   11.1%     New Assets DWedreton Coe11.:      6.7%
Actual                                                          Projected_-_-_______-_________
_______________________________________           1994     '     1995           1996          1997           1998          1999          2000           2001          2002  |
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Gtoss Rxed Asts                             12.819.805    171.224,202    189.224.202    217.824.202    245,824.202    274,824.202    304.824.202    335.824.202    368,824,202
Lass Accumulated Oeoreositon           -4,329.138    -74,004,969    -94,229,880   -116,361,468   -140.359,703   -166,291,281   -194,222,859   -224.221,104   -256,419,348
Net Fixed Assets                             8.490,667     97.219,233    94,994.322    101.462.744    105.464.499    108,532.921    110,601,343    111,603.099    112,404.854
Caital Work In Progress                      8,412,677     18,000,000    28,600.000     28,000,000    29,000,000    30,000,000     31,000,000     33.000,000    34,000,000
Total, Fixed AsaX                                16.903343|   115.219233   123E432Z    129.462744    134.464499         a1 38       | 141691.343    14.603.099    146 404.8
Long-Trrm hves_nt                                         0             0              0             0              0             0              0             0              0
Current Asst
Cash and Bank Notes                          3,543,494      5,022,027     5,056.085     4,288.249      4,166.733     4,488,799      4.652,306     4,473,796      4,352,243
Short-Termn Iestmetnts                              0              0             0              0             0              0             0              0             0
Accounts Receivbbe                           3,289,658      5,784,947     5,658.500      5,618,804     4,843,898     4,209,514      4,230,361     4,272.875      4,315,846
Inveritories                                 4.002,366     4,002,366      4,002,366     4,002,366      4,002,366     4,002,386      4,002,366     4,002,366      4.002,366
Othe Assets                                  9.672,321      8.504,240     7.336.160     6.1 68.080     5,000,000     5.000.000      5.000,000     5.000,000      5.000,000
Total, Current Assets                                507 839|   2315          229536111      20.077 499    18012997       17Q22,7067    17f8S5.033     17.7497 03    17.670454
Total Assets                                     37,411,182    138,532,813    145,647.433    149.540,243    152,477,496    156,233.600    159,486,376    162.352,136    164,075,308
EQUITY and LUiABILTIES
Equity
Capital                                         40,436        40,436        40.436         40.436        40,436         40,436        40,436         40,436        40,436
Capital Resrve                              22,101,241    22,101,241     22,101,241    22,101.241     22,101,241    22,101.241     22,101,241    22,101.241     22,101,241
Retained Earnings                                   0      13,548,189    16,545,237    23.278,793     29,491,132    35,744,026     41,003,077    45,230,495     48,311,385
Revaluation Reserve                                 0     85,336,042     85,336.042    85.336,042     85,336,042    85,336,042     85,336,042    85,336,042     85.336,042
Total FEuit                                      22_141677|   121025908    124.022.956         . 130.751    136.968.85I    143-221.745    148480-796    152708214   1559104
Long-Term Debt (Donors Project Loan)                      0             0      6,600,000      6,600,000     5,280,000      3,960.000     2,640,000      1,320,000            0
Lialities
Accounts Paysble                            10,893,420     13,130,819    10.648,391     7,807,645      5,852.559     4,675.770      3.989,494     3,947,836      3,910,119
Adv_nces                                     2,136,500     2,1 ?6,500     2,136,500     2,136,500      2,136.500     2,136.500      2,136,500     2,136,500      2,136,500
Short-Termn 8orowvng                                0              0             0              0             0              0             0              0             0
Other Current Liabilities                    2.239.586     2,239,586      2,239,586     2,239,586      2,239.586     2,239,586      2,239,586     2,239,586      2.239,586
Tntliaht                                         IL26iQ i    l50L605          15i024.477     12.183.731    10228L6i4       9051855       8.365580       8.323-921     R-236-20M
Total Equrt nd UabWs                             37.4 11,182    138,532,1813   ,145,647.433    149,540,243    152,477,496    156,233,600    159,486,376    162,352,136    164,075,308
I~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I (
tIQ
0\-



RAILWAY Departnmnt - Wo,ld Bank Preliminary Forecasts. July 1995
Ratios of Financial Performance
Actual                               P--        ---       Projected ------
1994         1995         1996          1997         1998          1999         2000         2001         2002
Uuidqity
Current Assets/Current Uabilities                       1.34         1.33         1.47          1.65         1.76          1.96         2.14         2.13         2.13
Quick Assets/Current Uabilities                         0.23         0.29         0.34          0.35         0.41          0.50         0.56         0.54         0.53
Operting Performance
(Working Expenses + Depreciation)/Revenues             38%           59%          92%           82%          83%          84%           86%          89%          92%
Prorntabity
Return on Gross Fixed Assets                           87%            8%           2%            3%           3%            2%           2%           1 %          1 %
Return on Net Fixed Assets                            131%           14%           3%            7%           6%            6%           5%           4%           3%
Debt. Fmanal Lavag
Debt Service Coverage                                    na            na           na        61 .9         17.71        19.84         21.47        23.33        25.45
Interest Coverage                                        na            na           na         17.78        16.48        20.48         22.84        27.34        39.39
Receivabe
Receivables/Annual Billings (Days)                       52           50            45           40            35           30            30           30          30
-   -----                                                         -            -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1l



Annex 12
Page 1 of 4
GEORGIA - Transport Rehabilitation Project
Railway Department
Current Infrastructure and Equipment Situation,
Physical Description
1.    Georgia has 1,569 km of railways, of which 725 km are main lines and 290 km with double
track. The entire network is electrified (Georgia was the first republic of the FSU to undertake
electrification of its railway network) with DC at 3.3 kV. Except for the narrow-gauge line Borjomi -
Bakuriani (38 km), all lines are in Russian broad gauge (1520).
2.    The backbone of the network is the former "Transcaucasian Railway" which, starting from
Moscow, runs 575 km across Georgia from the Russian border station Veseloe in the north-west via
Samtredia-Thilisi to the Armenian border town Airum in the south-east, and continues from there to
Yerevan. In Leninakan (Armenia), there is a connection to the Turkish (standard gauge) rail network.
From Tbilisi, 42 km of main line link the city to the border of Azerbaijan, providing via Baku the second
connection to the Russian network.
3.    The section between Zestafoni and Khashuri, climbing over the watershed between the Black and
Caspian Seas, passes through topography similar to a low mountain range somewhere in Middle Europe
(from 158 to 778 meters above sea level). The poor layout of the line with a minimum radii of 158 m
and steep gradients of up to 29.9 0/00 makes operations extremely difficult, especially during hard
winters.
4.    The Transcaucasian Railway dates back to 1872 and was completed in 1890, but other lines were
built as recently as 1970. Two branches connect the Black Sea ports with the Transcaucasian Line; these
are Samtredia-Batumi (106 km) and Senaki-Poti (41 kIn). Work on numerous new projects, like the new
Arkhot Pass Line from Orjonikidze to Tbilisi, or the completion of the second track between Ingiri and
Moliti, the branch lines Samntredia-Zulukidze and Telavi-Achmneta, and the Samtredia bypass had to be
abandoned.
5.    For political reasons, railway traffic is disrupted on the Transcaucasian line between Veseloe and
Ingiri (Abkhazia) and the Ossetia branch between Shindisi and Zkhinvali. Except for the Transcaucasian
line and its branches to Azerbaijan, Poti and Batumi, train operations have been reduced to a minimum
or abandoned. Thus, it is estimated that more than 95 % of the present traffic is performed on the core
764 kms (including the 2 km of line between Tbilisi Sort and the Armenia by-pass).
6.    Within this core network, there are 79 stations and branching-off points, of which two are big
marshalling yards at (Samtredia II and Tbilisi Sort). The average distance between operating points is 9.8
kan. Comparatively, the number of level crossings on the Transcaucasian Line (30 out of 75 on the whole
network) is low.
I/    This Annex is based on background information provided by M. Strohn, who has been working in Tbilisi since
March, 1995 under contract with GTZ.



Annex 12
Page 2 of 4
Infrastructure and Equipment
7.     Bridges and structures: There are not only several bridges which have been severely damaged
as a result of the Abkhazia and Arrnenia/Azerbaijan conflicts but also many that need renewal for such
other reasons as age, deffered maintenance, or damages from excessive road traffic or floods. As for the
many tunnels--the most important one is between Zipa and Lichi on the main line with a lenth of 3,998m-
-no survey of condition has been conducted, and even immediate renovation needs have not been
reported. Buildings are generally in a hopeless condition, and do not accomnnodate modern signalling and
telecommunications equipment. Passenger and freight platforms at stations and on sidings are damaged
and unsafe in almost all cases.
8.     Permanent Way: The through lines of the core network--open line tracks and their continuation
in the stations--comprise 802 track kms with mainly heavy rails (R65); only 103 kms (13%) on the
Senaki-Poti branch line and some of Batumi-Samtredia and Tbilisi-Sadakhlo sections are light rails (R50).
Almost half of the sleepers are wooden and equipped with spike fastenings. On concrete sleepers, rails
are usually welded up to 700 m length. The tracks represent the typical Russian practice of over-design
and low levels of maintenance: there are 1,840 to 2,000 sleepers per km, which allows operation ofver
the track even if one third of the sleepers and fastenings are damaged. Ballast is generally of poor quality
and drainage is inadequate, especially along platforms. Embankments are not well maintained, and poor
slope protection as well as lush weeds contribute to the contamination of ballast. All of this results--in
spite of the fact that the average age of track is eleven years, and almost 50% of the tracks are less than
ten years old--in only 28% of the tracks being in a tolerable condition. 51 km must be considered
dangerous, and at least an additional 290 km need renewal within the next 5 years. Furthermore, it must
be noted that more than two-thirds of the tracks renewed during the last five years have already
deteriorated to an extent that speed must be restricted to 40 km/h or less. Turnouts are usually of type
300-1:11, or 200-1:9 if used only for freight trains. Double-slip and curved points are not in use. The
condition of the 735 turnouts on the through lines is yet to be surveyed, but a result similar to that of the
overall track condition must be expected.
9.     The Railway claims to have a few permanent-way machines (ballast screening machines SM2,
track/switch tamping machines WPRI200, renewal trains UK25, screwing machines, track recording
coaches) at their disposal, but except for a tamping machine that handles 1200 sleepers per hour, no
details about condition and availability were obtainable. There is a severe lack of such tools as saws,
screw clamps, and drilling machines.
10.   Signalling: On the routes of the core network there are 78 interlocking blocks comprising 5,177
switch units (a unit=switches + signals + track circuits). One third of the blocks are more than twenty-
five years old, only 13% have been put into operation within the last ten years; as a result of damage
and theft--mainly of impedance bonds (throttle transformers) and cables--only five of these are fully in
operation. In another twenty-eight interlocking blocks, only 30-50% of switches, signals and even track
circuits are in working order; this includes three key interlocking systems. In ten stations, all switches
in the through lines have been locked. Additionally, eleven interlocking plants have been taken out of
operation and the stations temporarily abandoned. In terms of switch units, it is estimated that only 36%
of the equipment is in working order. Power is supplied through Railway's 10 kV (220/380 V) feed line
system; there are no stand-by generators. 59 of the 74 line sections had been equipped with automatic
block, in many cases even for two-way-traffic, totalling 691 signals and 355 impedance bonds. Except
for signals and switch cabinets most equipment has been stolen, so that on almost the entire railway today



Annex 12
Page 3 of 4
there is no section blocking. The same goes for all level crossing equipment; some level crossings are
worked locally but many remain unattended.
11.   Telecommunications: The condition of telecommunications is even worse: line cables have been
stolen partly or entirely on the sections Poti-Senaki-Abascha (53 kmn), Batumi-Saintredia (106 km),
Marneuli-Sadakhlo (29 km) and Gardabani-Bejuk Kjasik (12 kIn), leaving only 327 km (62 %) in
operation. In each of these sections there are two cables of type MKPAB (7*4*1.2+5*0.9+ 1*0.7) with
an average age of fifteen years. Out of twenty-seven telephone exchanges presently only thirteen work.
Radio systems are not state of art and also in a questionable condition. WFP's HF radio system has, of
course, considerably improved communications but cannot be used to permanently restore regular
station-to-station communication.
12.   Overhead Line and Traction Power Supply: The 3.3 kV-DC-catenary has non-flexible carrying
cable and is not in good condition. According to the last survey carried out six years ago, the contact
wire is well below minimum (8.21 mm) on 214 track km (27% of the core network). Catenary supports
are of either steel (minor corrosion) or concrete. The latter often topple after some time as a result of
poor footings. Traction power for the core network is supplied through thirty-two rectifier-substations
(plus three presently out of order) that are connected through 6, 10, 35 or 110 kV AC to the substations
of the 110/220/500 kV public network which includes twelve power plants (one thermal, eleven hydro).
The railway-owned rectifier-substations serve also a 10 kV AC feed line with drops to 220/380 V
transformers for consumers like stations, interlocking plants and switch heating systems. Power cuts are
still regular, lasting from four hours daily to up to several days. During the remaining time, contact line
voltage is likely to drop recurrently below 2 kV.
13.   Motive Power: In May 1995, the Railways had a total of 496 units of traction equipment: 280
were reported in working order. This includes 230 (in working condition: 110) electric, 159 (90)
diesel-electric locomotives and 107 (80) EMU traction units. The electric locomotives belong mainly to
the types VL10, VL1OU and VL11 (4600 kWh, 100 km/h, 184 to 200t, first years built 1961/1976); from
the old type VL8 (3660 kWh, 80 km/h, 184 t, 1953) only 86 (46) double units are left. (Addition
locomotives are also leased for use by the World Food Program). On the operational side, problems arise
from locomotives having their own crew, frequent change of locomotives, excessive demand through
increased travelling times, and the use of many light-engines in mountain pass sections.
14.   Rolling Stock: The freight wagon situation is still in the dark. Of the estimated 20,000 wagons
that jam not only sidings but also most of the main tracks, only some 5,000 are reported in operation.
The ownership of the remaining number is uncertain--disruption of both rail links to Russia may have left
many Georgian wagons in Russia and vice-versa--as is their technical condition. It must be expected that
more than half of the freight wagons are not fit for use, in many cases obviously due to the theft of such
important parts as even floors and walls for firewood or valuable metal parts, e.g. the aluminum covers
over the bearings. Assisted by GTZ, the Railways started a detailed census in May 1995 but did not
manage to complete it as of Aug 1, 1995. As far as operations are concerned, difficulties are linked to
excessive demand through increased travelling times, laborious shunting in jammed sections, and the poor
motivation of shunting crews. Many yards are jammed with damaged wagons and those waiting for
unloading, thus obstructing train operations and increasing shunting time and costs.



Annex 12
Page 4 of 4
15.   Power supply: Because trains exclusively use electric locomotives and signalling units get power
from the same source, public supply of power to the railways is a crucial factor for operations. A
schedule of switch-off times has been set up so that it should be possible to run a limited number of trains
anyway, but railway officials say there are still many unannounced power cuts. An evaluation of control
charts for two weeks in May 1995 (arbitrarily selected) shows, however, that except for the section
Tbilisi-Sadakhlo, which is fed from Armenia and where power was available only 83 % of the time, the
grade of power supply for the core network was between 92 % and 99 %. One must take into account that
the situation is much worse during the winter months, but even then the current level of operations could
be maintained almost unaffected if the supplier and the Railway stick to an agreed schedule. Total power
consumption was 336.0 mln kWh (0.921 mln kWh/day) in 1994 compared to 1,233.8 mln kWh (3.380
mln kWh/day) in 1989 and has further come down to 77.9 mln kWh (0.866 mln kWh/day) during the
first quarter of 1995. This includes 0.610 mln kWh/day for users other than the 3.3 kV DC traction; the
consumption of such users represents one third of the 1989 level. Because of the lack of meters for
power consumption, the share of users that are indispensable for operations cannot be determined.
Between January and March 1995, the daily traction power was still 0.256 mln kWh or 16.5% of that
in 1989; this is more than what the declined traffic performance would suggest. One reason for this--and
probably the most important one--is the heavy grid loss occurring as a result of the questionable method
of keeping all overhead lines powered to avoid theft even in cases where the track has been already
removed.
16.    Permissible Speed: In view of the overall condition of infrastructure, the Railway has decided
to restrict maximum speed to 40 km/h in general. In addition, there are temporary speed restrictions
between 5 and 25 km/h. This is as result of poor layout and geometry, lack of databases, operational
rules determined in Moscow, and cattle having free access to the tracks.
17.    Operating Program: The latest valid timetable dates back to 1987. Today, operations are
carried out more or less on an on-the-spot basis, without any programmed operational strategy.



Transport Rehabilitation Project -- Organization of Project Implementation
World         _Agreements                              _| Governmont of
Bank                       P roject Documents                   Gogia__
tmp(ementation                         delegates coordination to                      forms Steering Committee to control & supervise
Reports                                                                                 implementation of reforms & project
i    i     ~~~Invoices                           f             
l ........... Transport Reform &                 _                             mmitt
ll _ Rehabilitation Center         *                   _ Deputy Prime Minister M. Basilia
(TRRC - Coordination Function)                          Deputy Prime Minister M. Kervalishvili
Supervisions &                  A                                                      Minister of Finance
I     Control of use of Credit                                                                   Minister of Privatization
Minister of Environment
:Transport Coordination Center of the Head of State
Invoices:
Disbursements
I ~~~.............. .......................  ...
Railway Dpt.                  Highway Concern '                  Road Transport                    Ports
Component Manager               Component Manager                  Department
|        .  * ~~~~Invoices_____
l           Suppliers                        Suppliers                       Suppliers                      Suppliers
ffi ____+Goods &                          Goods &                         Services                        Services
Notes:
Responsible for:                                                * Responsible for:
- Coordination of project cofinanciers                           - Component procurement
- Coordination of inputs of other government agencies            - Component accounting
- Training                                                       - Implementation reports
- Project audits                                                 - Work schedules
- Consolidation of reports to IDA
- Coordination of procurement
- Coordination of disbursements



Highway Concern                   Project |(Financed by Technical Assistance)
|Component Mgr. |               | -'Adviser| 
|Institutional Development         Roa Safet                    Planning     |                Ivstment Component5
Coordinator                 Coordinator                Coordinator                           Manager
Training       Tech. Assistance|                  Data          Eco. Eval.
Coord. |           Coord.                      Collection     Programming                                                    0
Project      Contract       Project       Financial
Prep.         Mgt.         Admin.          Mgt.
rAccounting              Dsusmn



l
0
-~~~~~~~~~~~
Railway Department                   Project  (Financed by Technical Assistance)
Component Mgr.                  XAdviser                                             i
Intitutional Development ||                          Plannin      |                  netet Component |t
Coordinator                                    Coordinator                           Manager
Training       Tech. Assistance         Data             Eco. Eval.  |:
Coord.             Coord.             Collection      Programming
Project      Contract       Project       Financial
Prep.         Mgt.         Admin.          Mgt.
FAccounting            r  Disbursemn 
IQ
El



Annex 14
Paue 1 of 6
Georgia
Transport Rehabilitation Project
The Training Unit of the Transport Reform and Rehabilitation Center:
Promoting the Sustainability of Change
I.     Introduction
1.1    The provision of training, in order to introduce new skills and re-orient existing attitudes, is essential to
the introduction and sustainability of the change necessary to reform the transport sector in Georgia. The reform
envisioned under the project will involve both wide-spread change in institutional processes and procedures and
organizational restructuring. All people involved in the reform of the sector will have to adapt to change. For
example, on the one hand the staff of the sectoral agencies will have to understand and to learn how to support
radically redefined organizational missions; such support will require the acquisition of the new skills in corporate
planning, management, and operations that are needed to function in a market-based economy. On the other
hand, the district offices of the Highway Concern, which will be transformed into private enterprises, must learn
how to operate competitively on a cost-effective basis.
1.2    It is important to note that the transformation from the state planning mechanisms utilized under the Soviet
Period to a market-oriented and cost-effective approach requires the creation of a whole new institutional culture.
The creation of this culture assumes the commitment of the Government to the new policy directions supported
by the project. The effectiveness of training under the project, therefore, is dependent upon institutional changes
which only the Government can assure. Setting aside such considerations, it remains important as well to
remember that there is likely to be wastage and leakage in the offering of training within such a transitional
setting.' The design of the training to be offered under the project, however, will attempt to keep both at a
minimum.
1.3    Neither the reform process nor the human resource development necessary to support it can be carried
out over-night. The training to be provided under the project, therefore, is seen as part of a long-term process
and as an investment in the future. Accordingly, a balanced priority must be given in developing the training
program to such immediate needs of project implementation as training in contracting and to such long-termn
requirements for operation in the private sector as understanding cost analysis and depreciation.
1/     WASTAGE refers to training which does not meet the actual needs of the target group relative to the project or to the tasks
designated for the group. LEAKAGE refers to the movement of trained personnel out of the sector to some other position; in this project
most individuals receiving training would remain within the transport sector, but even those shifting out of the sector would take skills
with them which would contribute to overall economic productivity.



Annex 14
Page 2 of 6
II.     Purpose and Structure
2.1    To facilitate the transitional period marked by various institutional changes, a Training Unit (TU) will
be established under the Transport Reform and Rehabilitation Center (TRRC), which is to be in charge of the
reform process for the sector. The main functions of this unit will be to: (i) organize training courses, seminars,
and workshops for executives, managers, and technical staff in the sector; and (ii) make public various types of
information related to the reform process in general and the training program in particular.2
2.2     The Training Unit will consist of three permanent staff: a director, who will be a regular staff of the
TRRC, one administrative assistant, and one secretary/typist.  Demonstrative of cost-effective practices,
supplemental short-term or intermediate services in support of training or the dissemination of information will
be obtained through contractual arrangements on an as-needed basis. Such services will include the preparation
and delivery of training. The unit itself will be limited to a contract administration role.
2.3     The TU director will report on programs and progress to the Chief of the TRRC and will be primarily
responsible for: (i) identifying training needs; (ii) organizing and contracting for courses and seminars; (iii)
liaison with other donors or project providing training for the sector; (iv) monitoring the results of training, and
(v) formulating training programs for the future. The director should be a Georgian training professional with
good organizational and interpersonal skills and an understanding of transport sector policy, management, and
operations. The director should also have, at the minimum, a basic conversational knowledge of English. One
secretary/typist would provide administrative support in the initial period. An administrative assistant, capable
of handling more complex administrative tasks would be hired at a later date.
MII.    TaLrget Audience
3.1     The training program will target two primary groups of people: (i) the sector executives, medium to high
level managers, and technical professionals who carry responsibility for various processes and/or mechanisms
within the process of reform or are concerned with operational responsibilities with the respective modes in the
transport sector, and (ii) key managers and supervisors staffing the evolving enterprises about to be formed from
the district offices of the Highway Concern (road sub-sector specific). 3
3.2     Both groups need to understand the overall concepts of market-based economics.  The first group,
however, will need a deeper understanding of economics and the restructuring of policy-making and regulation
as they affect the entire sector. The second group will need a more practical introduction to how to operate as
private firms, including both the principles of and methodology for costing work and the performance of road-
related services under contract.4
2/     In support of dissemination activities, the TU will prepare topical articles for inclusion as a regular feature in a newsletter to
be released by the TRRC. The TU will assist the TRRC in the overall production of this newsletter.
3/      The staff of the TRRC will receive specialized on-the-job training in such areas as procurement in conjunction with technical
assistance to be provided under the project. They in turn will assist with preparing training modules summarizing what they have learned.
These will be reviewed by the technical specialist provided by the project before further dissemination or use, and the modules would
become a training resource illustrative of Bank procurement guidelines.
4/      Training under the project will be a major source of capacity building for organizations in the transport sector, however, training
will be provided by other sources (See section IV).



Annex 14
Page 3 of 6
IV.   Trainina Program Design
4.1    Overall Approach- A program consisting of courses, seminars, and workshops is to be developed
systematically, but as needs are identified or arise, and as the TRRC approves. Individual Terms of Reference
will be provided for contracting each specific need. Two types of courses will be provided: (i) "crash" courses,
representing a few days, or one/two-week intensive training, which will offer a quick presentation of new
concepts and subjects; and (ii) evening courses, where concepts are introduced at a slower pace. These two
options will allow organizations and individual trainees to make choices according to their needs.
4.2    The instruction of these courses will be based on the preparation of modules that can be readily offered
independently or in combination with one another and address the need to provide differently levels of expertise.
The instruction for the managers of the reform process will include some theory but would focus on the means
of instituting change. The instruction for contractors will be more practically oriented. In both cases the
examples used for instruction, including handouts, case studies and sample forms, will be designed to reflect the
specific realities of the transport sector in Georgia. Where appropriate instruction will include at-site instruction
and follow-up, on-the-job monitoring.
4.3    To the extent possible interactive methodology will be encouraged for instruction. Similarly, contractors
will be asked to use computers to prepare texts and present overhead materials. I The TU and the TRRC will
review all instructional materials before they are presented and at the conclusion of each course. This will not
only ensure quality control but will also enable iterative evolution of course material.
4.4    Topical seminars and workshops will also be offered. For example, as a follow up to the regional FSU
transport seminar which will be organized at the end of 1995, a national transport sector workshop of two to three
days will be organized in Georgia using funding under the credit. This workshop will disseminate the approach
to reform of the transport sector presented at the regional seminar to a national audience and will help clarify
issues within the Georgian context. Such a workshop with the participation of transport sector executives,
technical professionals, and senior managers of operations from each of the sub-sectors, could be extremely
enriching. A great benefit can be derived from sharing fears, problems, initial successes and experiences.
Inviting one or two speakers from countries where a similar reform process has taken place or is ongoing could
enhance the value of the workshop.
4.5    Sources- The trainers and lecturers who will be retained either individually or collectively under short
term contracts throughout the life of the project may be Peace Corps volunteers, Georgian professionals, or
foreign transport experts. In view of the lack of local knowledge of private sector operations and the need to fast-
track training, it will be necessary initially to rely more heavily on external sources. In order to stimulate
capacity building, however, as soon as possible local sources will be incorporated into the training program.
4.6    A review of such local sources will be made at the outset of the design of the training program by the
TU. The Georgian Academy of Science, for example, has recently begun to develop management courses in
conjunction with a cooperative program with the Business School of Harvard University. This program might
be a useful source for management training under the project. There are various universities in the Americas and
Europe which offer special training in transport economics and management. If such sources are used under the
project, efforts would be made to encourage twinning between these organization and local training institutions.
4.7    Training in support of privatization will also come from a variety of non-project sources, including
5/     For example, such readily available software as Power Point will be used for presentations.



Annex 14
Page 4 of 6
activities supported by other donors. Agencies supporting the privatization process, however, will be more likely
to focus on the mechanics of establishing a firm rather than the elements of contracting. Coordination with such
agencies by the TU will minimize any overlap and ensure that the immediate needs of the project are met in a
timely fashion.
4.8    Identification of Needs- The training program  will be fit to the general needs of sector reform,
supporting the program of policy reform presented in the discussion of the Assistance Strategy for the tranLsport
sector discussed in the SAR; it will also support the activities described under the institutional building component
of the project. For example, major emphasis will be given to the deregulation and privatization of transport
services.  The Training Unit will play a pivotal role in preparing the sector staff and other professionals for
tackling the tasks necessary for such reform.
4.9     Because of the embryonic state of the private sector in Georgia, the transport sector sub-specialists of the
TRRC will play a special advisory role in the identification of training requirements. In order to assure the
general validity of the proposed content and timing for training, however, the TU will still need to conduct a
training needs assessment based on liaison with the various agencies and organizations whose staff have been
targeted for training. This assessment will be less rigidly structured than in the case where training is being
offered to a single organization with a pre-determined mission, but it will be essential in order to develop the
operational training plan for the project.
4.10   After the Training Unit is officially established, its director will start preparing a summary statement of
the overall training program and the preliminary implementation plan to be associated with that program.6 These
two documents would be reviewed internally by the TRRC. Following this review the TU will sponsor a training
workshop with representatives of the target groups identified for inclusion in the training program, relying on
liaison with the modal coordinators. Once the objectives of and the approach to training under the project have
been presented, feed-back will be invited from the participants. At the close of the workshop participants will be
asked to select representatives to serve on an advisory training committee not to include more than seven
members. This committee would serve on an informal basis providing advise and support to the TU on an as-
needed basis.
4.11  Following the workshop, liaison would continue with the modal coordinators to clarify issues and further
identify needs. Based on this assessment methodology the TU director will formulate short and long term training
needs and prepare the initial (6-months) training plan. After a final review by the TRRC sub-sector specialists,
the TU director will present the training package for approval by the Chief of TRRC. The TU will then prepare
the Terms of Reference for the training to be provided, assist the TRRC in tendering and contracting for the
required services, and disseminate infornation on the first tranche of training. The TU will also be responsible
for monitoring the quality of the training provided.
4.12   Curriculum-  Although the specific content of the curriculum  remains to be determined,  obvious
requirements can be suggested on the basis of the nature of the reform process and the contracting for
rehabilitation services for the road sub-component of the project.  7 At least ten functional main topics are
proposed relative to economics, finance , management, and procurement. Technical instruction will also be
61      The training plan will be prepared as either a bi-annual plan or as a quarterly rolling-plan. The plan would be action-oriented
with specific targets in terms of courses and enrollments.
7/      The contents of this paper are intended to serve as a guidelines for the design of the training component under the project. As
such, the suggestions relative to the curriculum should not be seen as pre-determinants. The TU will need to review the suggested topics
in relation to the existing realities and requirements revealed in the needs assessment conducted at the outset of the design of the training
program.



Annex 14
Page 5 of 6
provided in support of environmental protection 8 (See Exhibit 1).
4.13    In order to facilitate the technical assistance programming under the project and the transfer of technology
in the future, English instruction will also be given. Although many Georgian specialists understand or can speak
varying degrees of English, there is a need to improve oral and written skills, especially in technical areas. For
this reason, there should be an English course (differentiated by level) offered on a continuous basis, preferably
evening classes, and if deemed necessary, a one-month crash course as an introduction.
V.      The Future of the Training Unit
5.1    Although training needs may diminish within a few years, the extent of the reform proposed for the
sector would indicate the need for continued human resource development services over an extended time-frame.
It is expected, that after the initial contracting effort by the TU is underway, a local technical training industry
would emerge.
5.2    Within such a context, it is possible that in a few years the TU itself could be privatized, becoming a
consulting firm specializing in the provision of training services to government agencies and private companies.
In such a case the TU would continue to retain a small permanent staff and subcontract supplemental services as
needed from newly evolved private sector sources. Alternately, the staff of the TU could be merged with the
staff of a more viable private sector competitor which might emerge during the life of the project.
5.3     Experience has shown that trainees place greater value on training for which they must pay a fee. They
pay more attention during sessions and more rapidly try to apply what they have learned when they have had to
pay for instruction. The introduction of fees for training, moreover, reinforces the overall concept of cost
recovery which is being introduced throughout the sector. In view of the limited resources available, however,
initial fees would have to be marginally structured. Since the production costs for training would have been
covered by the project, subsequently phased increases in fees would only have to cover the recurrent costs of
instruction.
8/     In view of the limited technology for surface dressing envisioned under the project, the current level of technical expertise will
be sufficient. The extent to which instruction in supervision will be necessary to ensure quality control will be reviewed in conjunction
with the development of modules on construction management. Should the introduction of such new technology as emulsions be envisioned
for the near future, training in support of this technology should be considered.



Annex 14
Page 6 of 6
Exhibit 1, OVERVIEW OF CURRICULUM
MAIN TOPICS                                    SUB-TOPICS
Procurement Process            (i) Strategic Planning and Identification of Needs, (ii)
Tendering for the Procurement of Technical Assistance, Goods,
and Services: Tendering Process and Document Preparation,
(iii) Bidding process; Preparing a Responsive Bid; Bid
Evaluation and Selection, (iv) Contract Preparation and
Negotiation, (v) Contract Management, and (vi) Construction
Management and Supervision.
Policy Development             (i) Deregulation of Prices, (ii) Elimination of Economic
Controls, (iii) Monitoring of Liberalization, (iv) Stimulating free
l ______________________________  com petition.
Market Economics               (i) Interdependent Networking of Markets and Services, (ii)
allocation of Resources for Goods and Services Determined by
Supply and Demand, and (iii) Private Ownership of the Means
of Production.
Micro-economics                (i) Planning and Markets, (ii) Market failure v/s. Government
I                      ~~~~~~~~Failure, and (iii) Economic Efficiency.l
Transport Economics            (i) Price Liberalization in the Transport Sector, and (ii) Cost
Transport Economics          I Recovery.                                                   I
Financial Management           (i) Budget Preparation, (ii) Budget Management, (iii)
l                      ~~~~~~~~Accounting Principles, and (iv) Financial Restructuring.   l
Privatization                  (i) Different Forms of Privatization, and (ii) the Organization of |
Privatization.                                              I
Marketing                      (i) Determination of Market Conditions, and (ii) Applied
l ____________________________  ~  M arketing   Skills.
Trading                       (i) Export and Import Procedures, and (ii) Appropriate       1
Documentation and Data Collection. ,
Environmental Protection      (i) Emission Control Testing: Fixed Site Testing(Asphalt Plants), 1
Vehicle Testing, and Laboratory Testing, and (ii) Community
Assessment and Participatory Methodology                    l
English                        (i) Basic/Intermediate/Advanced Fluency; and (ii) Technical
Englishl



GEORGIA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Procurement Arrangements
(Items exdude contingencies)
Iotal Cost Procurement Issuance ot Submission   Signing
Procurement Lots              US$ million   Method   Invitation to    of        of      Completion
Bid        Bids     Contract
Institution Building/Technical Assistance*
General Technical Assistance and
Project Management                            0.611        SL        Jun-96     Aug-96     Sep-96     Jun-98
Technical Assistance                          1.300        SL        Jun-96     Aug-96     Sep-96     Jun-98
for the Road Sub-Sector
Investmnents/Road Sub-Secto                                                                                l
Bitumen and Fuel Oil
for Road Resurfacing                          0.555       ICB       Mar-96    May-96    Jun-96        Dec-96
Aggregates for Road Resurfacing
(Multiple Contracts)                          0.358        NS       Mar-96    May-96    Jun-96        Dec-96
Steel for Road Bridge Rehabilitation          0.080       ICB        Jun-96     Aug-96     Oct-96     Jun-97
Other Materials for Road Bridge Rehabilitation  0.160     ICB        Jun-96     Aug-96     Oct-96     Jun-97
Civil Works/Road-Resurfacing
(25 Contracts)                                4.185       NCB      May-Jul-96 Jul-Sep-96 Aug-Oct-96   Jun-98
* There may be individual consultants contracts for a total not to exceed US$ 200, 000                                 X _



GEORGIA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Procurement Arrangements
(Item exclude contingencies)
l otal Cost Procurement Tssuance of Submiission   Signing
Procurement Lots              US$ million   Method   Invitation to    of       of    Completion
.________________________________________  Bid     Bids      Contract
Spares for Road Maintenance Equipment         1.039
PARTS - GRADER                              0.210        ICB       Mar-96    May-96      Jul-96     Mar-97
PARTS-EEXCAVATOR                            0.200        ICB       Mar-96    May-96      Jul-96     Mar-97
PARTS - ROLLER                              0.095        IS        Mar-96    May-96      Jul-96     Mar-97
PARTS-CRUSHER                               0.010        IS        Mar-96    May-96      Jul-96     Mar-97
PARTS - ASPHALT PLANTS                      0.176        ICB       Mar-96    May-96      Jul-96     Mar-97
ELEC. MOTORS                                0.128        IS        Mar-96    May-96    Jun-96       Feb-97
ENGINES                                     0.022        IS        Mar-96    May-96    Jun-96       Feb-97
ELEC.CABLES                                 0.049        IS        Mar-96    May-96    Jun-96       Feb-97
TIRES                                       0.128        IS        Mar-96    May-96      Jul-96     Feb-97
BATTERIES                                   0.023        IS        Mar-96     Apr-96    May-96      Jul-96
in /lmntNfal l600
Structural Steel for Rail Bridges            0.350        ICB       Jun-96     Aug-96     Sep-96     Sep-97
Track Materials, Rails and Sleepers           1.250       ICB       May-96     Jul-96     Aug-96     Sep-97
CDz
t' Co



GEORGIA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Procurement Arrangements
(Items exclude contingencies)
.   lotal Cost Procurement Issuance of Submission   Signing
Procurement Lots             US$ million   Method  Invitation to    of      of    Completion
Bid       Bids     Contract
Office Technology and Logistical Support/TRRC    0.220
COMPUTERS AND TELEPHONES                  0.150        IS       Mar-96    Apr-96    4/15/96    5/15/96
FURNITURE                                 0.020       NS        Mar-96    Apr-96    4/15/96     5/1/96
AUDIO-VISUAL                              0.010        NS       Mar-96    Apr-96    4/15/96     5/1/96
VEHICLES                                  0.030        IS       Mar-96    Apr-96    4/15/96    5/1/96
PHOTOCOPY                                 0.010        NS       Mar-96    Apr-96    4/15/96     5/1/96
Office Technology and Logistical Supportl
Highway Concern                            0.180
MAIN COMPU-TERS                           0.040        IS       Mar-96    Apr-96    4/15/96    May-96
MAIN TELEPHONES                           0.020       NS        Mar-96    Apr-96    4/15/96    May-96
MAIN VEHICLES                             0.040        IS       Mar-96    Apr-96    4/15/96    May-96
DESIGN COMPUTERS                          0.040        IS       Mar-96    Apr-96    4/15/96    May-96
DESIGN GEODESIC                           0.040        IS       Mar-96    Apr-96    4/15/96    May-96
Emissions, Monitoring and Control          0.210       ICB       May-96    Jul-96     Sep-96    Mar-97
Unallocated and Contingenc
TOTAL                                      12.000                                                                   i
_



Annex 16
Pa,e I of 1
Georgia
Transport Rehabilitation Project
Schedule of Supervision Missions
1.    The schedule below is in addition to the regular needs for the review of procurement documents, progress
reports, and correspondance, estimated to require 6 staff weeks per year for 3 years.
Approximate               Activity                    Expected Sklfl         Staff
Dates                                              Requirment           Weeks*
FY 96
11/95     Project Startup                   Task Manager (Economist),      12
Engineers (2), Procurement
2/96      Supervision                       Task Manager (Economist),     10
Review overall progress and the   Engineer, Disbursement,
implementation of procurement and   Procurement
accounting procedures
6/96      Supervision                       Task Manager (Economist),     10
Review overall progress           Engineer, Financial Analyst,
Procurement
FY 97
10/96     Supervision                       Task Manager (Economist),      6
Review overall progress           Engineer
3/97      Supervision                       Task Manager (Economist),      8
Review overall progress;          Engineer, Financial Analyst
Mid-term review
6/97      Supervision                       Task Manager (Economist),      6
Review overall progress           Engineer
FY 98
10/97     Supervision                       Task Manager (Economist),      8
Review overall progress           Engineer, Financial Analyst
3/98      Supervision                       Task Manager (Economist),      6
Review overall progress           Engineer
6/98      Supervision                       Task Manager (Economist),      8
Review overall progress           Engineer, Financial Analyst
FY 99
12/98     Supervision and Project           Task Manager (Economist),      12
Implementation Completion Report   Engineers (2), Financial
(ICR)                             Analyst
IDA Staff only



Annex 17
Page 1 of 7
GEORGIA - Transport Rehabilitation Project
Environmental Analysis
I.     Introduction
1.1    The environmental review for the Georgia Transport Rehabilitation Project (TRP) was conducted
in July 1995 in conjunction with the pre-appraisal mission for the TRP and resulted in the analysis
provided in this report. The conduct of the review included consultations with the Georgia State Concern
of Highways (SAKAVTOGZA, hereafter referred to as the Highway Concern), the design institutes under
the Highway Concern (both SAKGZAPROJECT and SAKGZAMETSNIEREBA), the Railway
Department, and the Ministry of Environmental Protection (MoEP).
1.2    The review addressed the requirements for IDA projects classified as "Category B" as opposed
to the full Environmental Assessment (EA) required for "Category A" projects. The requirements for
a full EA, however, were discussed in conjunction with the mission as part of a working session held on
August 2, 1995 with the Highway Concern, the design institutes, and the MoEP.
1.3    Discussions with the Railway Department indicated no areas of environmental concern related to
the project; the repair of bridges, repacking of ballast, and replacement of track which would be included
under the project would be confined to existing right-of-way. Additional consideration, however, was
given to the road sector--including site visits--and a mitigation plan was prepared to ensare the quality
control of monitoring for this sub-component.' Assuming compliance with the mitigation plan discussed
in Section V. , the sub-components for the rehabilitation of roads and railways under the TRP would be
cleared as enviromnentally sound. '
II.    Baseline Situation
2.1    The total length of the Georgia road network consists of 21,600 km of roads, of which 9,720 are
paved. The principal road is "the Magistral", a 728 Km route running from the Azeri border, through
Tbilisi to the Black Sea, and on to the Russian border. The alignment, longitudinal gradients, and slope
stability of this principal highway are generally acceptable, but the surface is seriously distressed as a
result of nearly non-existent maintenance in recent years. Certain side drains in the cuttings that form the
approaches to such structures as bridges, abutments and wing walls are deeply scarred. Otherwise there
is little evidence that such enviromnental problems as erosion have resulted from the construction of this
route. Erosion is evident, however, at several sites where new construction was initiated but was
abandoned for lack of funds.
2.2    The rationale for the proposed road rehabilitation under the project is to (i) eliminate the risks
1/     Since the environmental soundness of the railway component could be quickly verified, the major focus of the review
related to the road sub-component of the project. The remainder of this report, therefore, exclusively focuses on environmental
issues related to the road sector.
2/     Additional materials included in the project files ( see Annex 19 of the SAR).



Annex 17
Page 2 of 7
of losing valuable infrastructure, and (ii) remove existing physical bottlenecks to trade and humanitarian
assistance. The investment to be undertaken will not only increase road safety but will also avoid the
need for reconstruction of the network; such reconstruction by definition would involve far greater risk
to the environment than does the proposed rehabilitation and maintenance package identified for the
project.
2.3    The funds available under the project would be used to kick off a priority program of road
rehabilitation. It would consist of emergency repairs to stabilize and avoid further destruction of about
1,000 kmn of the main road network formed by the Magistral and important secondary feeder roads.
Included would be road clearing, drainage, and pothole patching for 26 segments of main and secondary
roads and selected bridge rehabilitation for nine segments of main road (for additional details on the
specific sections see Annex 6 of the SAR).
2.4    The portions of the road network targeted for emergency rehabilitation are diffused over the
central Magistral core of the road network. They were initially identified by the engineering staff of the
Highway Concern. The validity of the analysis was verified by samples in several regions conducted by
Bank missions.
III.   Direct Environmental Impacts
3.1    The environmental impact of most rehabilitation and maintenance projects in the road sector is
seen as positive rather than negative. With the retention of the existing alignments--as is the case in this
project--such projects offer not only more efficient vehicle operation and a corresponding reduction in
the emission of pollutants but also enable reduced nose and vibrations from traffic as well as offer the
opportunity to introduce mitigation actions relative to existing threats. The major sources of directly
negative impacts from maintenance projects, therefore, are considered to arise from (i) the production
and application of bituminous products; (ii) the quarrying of stone and gravel; (iii) such short-term impact
as noise, dust, and the disruption of traffic resulting from the execution of work under the project; and
(iv) the removal of waste materials; and (v) drainage and erosion. These five areas were each examined
in the course of the review.
3.2    Production and Application of Bituminous Products- According to the information provided by
SAKGZAMETSNIEREBA (alternately the Research Design Institute) during the mid 1980s there had
been as many as 110 asphalt plants in operation in support of the road sector. By the early 1990s,
however, the number had fallen to less than 70. The best of these were the 19 Teltomat units
manufactured in the former East Germany. Another thirty had been manufactured in Russia or other
parts of the soviet union and were also of good quality. The remaining plants came from various sources
and were considered to be of poor quality. At the time of the review none of the plants were in
operation, primarily because of a lack of raw materials. The resumption of operation, moreover, would
require varying degrees of rehabilitation at most sites.3
3.3    Until 1990 the Research Design Institute had monitored each of these plants, ideally preparing
3/    A list of the spare parts required for the resumption of operations was provided to the team.



Annex 17
Page 3 of 7
a detailed report for each site on an annual basis. Regulation of effluents and suspended particles was
based on both the projected emission from the plants and existing levels of background pollution from
other sources. National regulatory guidelines followed those used through the Soviet Union. Mitigation
plans were prepared for plants whose emission would result in violation of these standards. The institute
was empowered to issue a production stop order for any plant which failed to take the actions specified
in the mitigation plan.
3.4   In view of the limited amount of bituminous materials needed for the project, production could
be limited to the plants in the best condition, reducing both the number of spare parts needed and the
potential threat from pollution. The resumption of production was discussed with the Highway Concern,
the Research Design institute, and the MoEP, and the most cost effective strategy for asphalt production
for the project was under review.4 All three organizations felt that compliance with national guidelines
could be maintained, however, additional monitoring would be required at the time of start-up. A special
contract would be issued to the Research Design Institute for monitoring start-up activities in support of
the project; this would include a six month follow-up inspection. Equipment and training for emission
testing would be funded under the project. Subsequent costs for monitoring would be drawn from the
funding to be generated by the new user charges.
3.5    The assurance of quality control, including environmentally acceptable application of bituminous
materials, has been a joint responsibility of the Technical Department of the Highway Concern and the
research Design Institute. The need to prevent the leakage of oil, fuel, tar, and grease from asphalting
operations--which might contaminate near-by soil and groundwater supplies--was reviewed at the working
session. It was agreed that under the project the Research Design Institute would serve as a supervising
consultant. The appropriate methodology to control spillage and prevent contamination of adjacent areas
would be specified by the Research Design Institute. Compliance with these specification would be
written into the contracts signed with contractors and would be monitored by the Research Design
Institute. Failure to comply would result in a stoppage of work for initial violators and in a cancellation
of contracts for recurrent violators.
3.6    Quarrying and Crushing of Gravel- Under the Former Soviet Union gravel was obtained on the
basis of need from about 200 different sites. Exploitation at these sites was dependent upon clearance
by various authorities and included a limited environmental review. In the 1980's in an effort to obtain
a more reliable supply of materials, the Concern sought approval for removing barrow materials from
the flood plains adjacent to rivers whose currents have carried gravel down from mountain headwaters.
This practice was welcomed by local environmental authorities as a means of managing erosion and the
impact of flooding in valley basins as well as facilitating a reduction in the number of small quarries in
operation. Although small quarries have remained the major source for gravel, the Highway Concern
has obtained licenses to obtain gravel at four major river sites. The licensing of these sites and clearance
by the MoEP has required the conduct of a comprehensive environmental study for each site. In order
to ensure environmentally sound practices the license specifies from which areas gravel may be removed
and which areas must be left untouched.
3.7   In February 1995 the authority of the MoEP in the administration of the licensing system was
strengthened, and a new licensing system was scheduled for introduction on August 15, 1995. All
4/     Compliance and effective monitoring of production would be an essential elements of whatever strategy is selected.



Annex 17
Page 4 of 7
existing licenses would be reviewed, and the Ministry has promised to promptly review the licenses held
by the Highway Concern for gravel extraction at both quarries and river sites. In view of the major stock
pile of gravel in-country, the needs of the project could be met without additional quarrying, but under
no circumstances would the TRP use sources for materials which were not reviewed and licensed under
the new system. The Highway Concern will prepare and present a plan to the Transport Reform and
Rehabilitation Center (TRRC) for the procurement of aggregates. To ensure compliance, contractors will
be required to provide certification of origin for such materials. The certification will guarantee that no
environmentally sensitive river beds or other sensitive areas are used as a source for such materials
3.8    Short-term Impact-  It is inevitable that there will be short-term impact from noise, dust,
vibration, and traffic congestion during the execution of works. The minimization of such impact would
result from: (i) the training to be offered on construction management and road maintenance, and (2)
as an element of contractual responsibility for enterprises undertaking work under the project.
Contractors would be required to prepare a mitigation plan for any site where the scale of impact is
judged to be sufficiently significant; particular attention would be given to the segments of road adjacent
to residential areas. The need for such a plan and environmental clearance would be reviewed as part
of the tendering process by the TRRC.
3.9    Waste Products- Technical specifications in use today in Georgia require the collection and
containment of all waste materials with bituminous content for subsequent disposal. The relative absence
of work today makes it impossible to verify compliance with this requirement. The Highway Concern
has agreed, in conjunction with the MoEP and the Research Design Institute to ensure that the limited
quantities of waste materials removed during rehabilitation activities undertaken under the project would
be properly collected, handled, and disposed. Future consideration would be given to research on the
recycling of these materials, but for the purpose of the project the Highway Concern would prepare a
plan for their disposition including locations and terraforming actions which would conform with
environmental standards and would require approval by the MoEP.5
3.10   Drainage and Erosion- The necessity for rehabilitation of certain segments of highway is the
direct result of improper drainage. Where such is the case, the Highway Concem would be obligated
to improve provisions for drainage (See Annex 6, SAR for segments identified for improved drainage).
Such activity would consider environmental issues; any activities necessitating the submission of designs
by Project Design Institute or the Research Design Institute would require clearance by the MoEP. The
need for such design and environmental clearance would be reviewed as part of the tendering process by
the TRRC. 6 The role of the MoEP relative to the issues discussed in Section 11 was reconfirmed at the
working session discussed above.
5/     Contractual responsibility and monitoring would again be used to ensure compliance under the project.
6/     Erosion has not been identified as a major problem in the analysis provided by the Highway Concem and reviewed
by World Bank missions, but it would be treated in a similar manner if it is identified during the tendering process.



Annex 17
Page 5 of 7
IV.   Indirect Environmental Impacts
4.1   Indirect environmental impacts possibly arising from any road rehabilitation project include such
long-term developments as increases in the growth of traffic and increases in the speed of traffic.
Although the rehabilitation and maintenance of the main road network is a pre-requisite for such
developments, a far higher correlation exists between such developments and national economic recovery.
4.2    These developments have a particular significance for road traffic safety. The repair of pot-holes
in high traffic areas envisioned under the project would increase road safety and more than balance any
likely increases in the level of traffic or speed of vehicles. Funds arising from the establishment of road
user chargers, moreover, will enable the initiation of a road traffic safety program in the future. The
importance of such considerations has been discussed with the Highway Concern and earmarked as a
priority in conjunction with second-phase rehabilitation activities.
V.    Institutional and Regulatory Considerations
5.1    The Ministry of Environmental Protection (MoEP), upgraded from  the status of a State
Commission, is the government organization responsible for making policy and promulgating standards
relative to environmental protection. The Ministry has made considerable progress in updating national
standards which originated in the Soviet period to comply with internationally recognized criteria. A
national environmental protection act has been drafted and is now before parliament; supportive
legislation covering such areas as soils, plants, forestry, and the transit of wastes have already been
passed.
5.2    Regulatory and licensing systems currently exist which specifically require consideration of
environmental issues in the design and implementation of development projects. The MoEP must clear
all designs for road works ranging from simple rehabilitation to more comprehensive new construction.
Discussions of regulatory procedures in recent years indicates marginal capacity for follow-up activities,
and priority must be given to the resumption of monitoring activities and collaborative consultation
between the MoEP, the Highway Concern, and the Research Design Institute. The MoEP is confident,
however, that the review of monitoring practices to be undertaken in association with the project would
be adequate to ensure compliance by the TRP with national standards. Additional review would be
required for future projects involving major construction components.
5.3    Air pollution has been a major problem for certain urban areas in Georgia for at least two
decades. Although average levels in such areas in the early 1990s well exceeded the average daily
Maximum Permissible Concentrations (MPC), current levels have fallen as a result of the drastic down-
turn in industrial production. The production of construction materials has not been identified as a major
source of air pollution and is not included among the priority targets for national environmental
management. The project would enable the resumption of monitoring activities and introduce emission
testing not previously practiced in Georgia. This would include both the testing of emissions from asphalt
plants and the introduction of a new system for testing automobile emissions. Terms of reference for the
later have already been prepared for implementation under private sector operation (See Annex 19, SAR).
5.4    Responsibility for environmental issues currently falls under the Technical Department of the
Highway Concern. The Chief Engineer heading this department participated in the working session and



Annex 17
Page 6 of 7
would be earmarked for participation in any review of legislation or standards relevant to roads or
dissemination activities sponsored by the MoEP. Although the current level of skills in the department
is adequate for the requirements of the TRP, consultations during supervision mnissions and training under
the project as well would enable long-term institutional strengthening of the Highway Concern. Particular
emphasis would be given to the monitoring responsibilities of the Highway Concern in conjunction with
the Research Design Institute. Training in construction management and road maintenance would also
take into account environmental issues, and responsibility for environmental safeguards during
construction would be specified in contract documents to be signed for the execution of civil works under
the project.
VI.   Mitigation Plan
6.1   In order to assure quality control of environmental issues under the project, the MoEP has agreed
to establish a special task force exclusively devoted to assisting the project. This task force would liaise
directly with the Highway Concern and the Research Design Institute. The Highway Concern would
advise the TRRC of all activities in support of environmental monitoring and mitigation, and the TRRC
would assist with the contracting of any special services or the procurement of equipment required to
support the mitigation plan. The essential elements of the mitigation plan are specified in Table 1, keyed
to the four issues identified in section III above.
VII.  Broader Environmental Issues
7.1    Although during the Soviet Period the Research Design Institute was considered one of the
premier research centers in the Soviet Union, it was cut off from research and studies conducted outside
the Soviet Bloc relative to road construction and maintenance. During this period a wide range of
findings evolved with environmental implications relative to both the use of materials and appropriate
technologies. These findings need to be reviewed by environmental and design specialists in Georgia to
ascertain their validity for the local environmental setting.
7.2    Consistent with the overall strategy of the project, assistance would be given to support the
assessment and monitoring essential to mitigation for the rehabilitation package being funding by the
project. Expanded research activities, however, could be financed out of funds to be generated by the
road user charge system to be introduced in conjunction with the policy reform component of the project.
7.3    Consultations during the design phase of the project have not only reinforced the importance
accorded by the donor community to compliance with internationally accepted environmental standards
but also a created a context and mechanisms for increased communication and cooperation at the local
level. Review of the licensing and monitoring processes would be based on a collaborative approach
including the three major stakeholders. Thus, although the nature of civil works to be supported under
the project does not warrant a fully participatory approach, discussion during the mission and
collaborative actions in conjunction with supervision will provide an introduction to sector managers of
the concepts necessary for the adoption of a participatory approach in future environmental assessment.



Annex 17
Page 7 of 7
Table 1
ISSUES        |                           MITIGATIVE ACTIONS
1. Production and    Emission reporting by the Research Design Institute would be reviewed by the task
Application of       force of the MoEP. Current reporting would be upgraded by the testing of actual
Bituminous           emissions. The initiation of operations at plants would require a start-up review and
Products             supplemental six month monitoring by the Research Design Institute. Plants would
not be allowed to operate which violate national emission standards; plants would be
monitored to minimize ground spillage and ensure proper operational procedures.
Specifications and training would be provided for correct applications by contractors
at work sites. The TRRC, the Highway Concern, and the Research Design Institute
would be responsible for monitoring compliance with these terms; initial violation
would result in the stoppage of work; recurrent violations would result in the
cancellation of contracts.
2. Quarrying of      The licensing of gravel quarries and the four river sites currently used by the
Stone and Gravel     Highway Concern would be reviewed by the MoEP. Clearance would require
proper site study, including hydrological and ecological specialists. Licenses would
be recurrently reviewed on the basis of specified time-frames. The TRP will use no
materials from unlicensed sites. A plan for the procurement of aggregates would be
prepared by the Highway Concern, and contractors will be required to provide
certificates of origin for such materials.
3. Short Term        The training provided to potential contractors would include mitigation planning for
Impacts: Noise,      such short-term impacts as noise, dust, vibration, and traffic congestion during the
dust, vibration,     execution of works. Contracts providing for rehabilitation services would include
traffic safety       clauses specifically requiring contractors to address these issues in the management
of their work. The TRRC, the Highway Concern, and the Research Design Institute
would be responsible for monitoring compliance with these terms; initial violation
would result in the stoppage of work; recurrent violations would result in the
cancellation of contracts.
4. Waste Materials   The training provided to potential contractors would include proper methodology for
the disposal of materials to avoid contamination of soils and waters adjacent to work
sites. Based on a plan approved in advance by the MoEP, the Highway Concern
would be responsible for stock piling and ultimately disposing or re-cycling waste
materials. The TRRC, the Highway Concern, and the Research Design Institute
would be responsible for monitoring compliance with these terms; initial violation
would result in the stoppage of work; recurrent violations would result in the
cancellation of contracts.
5. Drainage, and     Where improper drainage or erosion has caused the deterioration of a segment of
Erosion              road, the Highway Concern would make improvements before rehabilitation of that
segment (See Annex 6 for sections specifically designated for improved drainage).



Annex 18
Page 1 of 6
Georgia
Transport Rehabilitation Project
Economic Rate of Return Analysis
1.    The Economic Rate of Return of the Transport Rehabilitation Project is estimated to be in excess
of 36% on 86% of total project costs (excluding physical and price contingencies). The evaluation of
each investment component, road and rail is discussed separately below.
2.    Road Sub-Component: The economic benefits of this sub-component were evaluated with the
World Bank's Highway Design and Maintenance Model (HDM-III), for the sections of both the main
roads and the secondary roads where maintenance and rehabilitation will be financed by the project.
3.    The road sub-component includes three items: (i) pothole fixing; (ii) road clearing and drainage
rehabilitation; and (iii) selected bridge rehabilitation. Item (ii) is necessary to increase the life-time of
the pothole fixing program. Provided that item (ii) is carried out, the pothole fixing program would have
a life period of about 3 years on the main roads, and of about 5 years for the secondary roads (given the
lower traffic levels and the fact that major rehabilitation works will be carried out on the main network
as a priority). Investments for the selected bridge rehabilitation (item (iii)) are also needed to keep
bridges on the main roads open.
4.    Items (ii) and (iii) are necessary to obtain the full benefits of the project sub-component, and their
costs were included as investment costs in the economic evaluation. Other project sub-component costs
related to technical assistance, office technology and logistical support were also included as investment
costs for the purpose of the economic evaluation.
5.    On average, based on a visual inspection, the road surface of the main road sections under the
project was estimated to have an International Roughness Index (IRI) of about 6.5, with 50% of the
surface deteriorated, mainly with cracks. Average traffic on these road sections was estimated at 1,000
vehicles per day (vpd). Evaluation of the secondary road sections indicated that their IRI was at about
7.0, with 60% of the surface deteriorated. Average traffic on the secondary roads was estimated at about
230 vpd. Finally, the conservative assumption that traffic would not grow by more than 2% per year
was made. See the Project File Documents (listed in Annex 19) for more details on the assumptions used.
6.    Project benefits for the main road sections would generate a Net Present Value (NPV) of US$
1.67 million (with a discount rate of 10%), for an Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of 40%. For the
secondary road sections, the project would induce a NPV of US$2.32 million, for an ERR of 50%.
Table I summarizes the economic evaluation of both road sub-components.
7.    Rail Sub-Component: The benefits and cost-savings linked to the rail sub-component of the
project were estimated on the basis of: (i) decreases in railway operations unit costs, compared to not
carrying out the project; and (ii) estimates of the benefits from additional traffic generated by the project,
compared to not carrying out the project. Project sub-component costs factored in the economic
evaluation include physical investments as well as technical assistance, office technology and logistical
support provided to the railway department. Table 11 summarizes the main assumptions and the
economic evaluation of the sub-component. See the Project File Documents (listed in Annex 19) for
detailed assumptions and projections.



Annex 18
Page 2 of 6
8.     Sensitivity Analysis: A sensitivity analysis has been performed (see Table III) for: (a) traffic
variations of + 5 %, reflecting the awareness that a sharper contraction or sudden increases in economic
activity are not likely in the near future in Georgia; (b) Changes of + 20% in project costs, which could
result from the fact that this is a first project in the sector in Georgia and there is no prior experience
with competitive bidding systems; and (c) Changes in operating costs of + 20% resulting from imperfect
knowledge of operating costs parameters such as the economic wage rate, equipment and maintenance
real costs and the valuation of foreign exchange. The results indicate a robust project with a significant
return on investments under likely scenarios, as follows: (i) a slight sensitivity to traffic levels, a
reduction of about 2% in the ERR would result from traffic levels 5 % lower than estimated;  (ii) a
damped sensitivity to project costs, a 20% increase in project costs would have a proportionally smaUller
impact on the ERR, which would decrease by about 17%; and (iii) the variation in the ERR to changes
in operating costs estimates are similar in magnitude and opposite in sign to the effects of project cost
changes and will tend to offset each other.
9.     The estimation of project costs in an economy in transition such as Georgia poses some
difficulties which come in part from remaining price distortions, less than perfect market operations and
incomplete information on the level of economic activity. The effects of these difficulties have been
reduced by means of: (i) a systematic use of US dollar based estimates at a time of improved fiscal
management and exchange rate stability, and (ii) use of unit costs for project cost estimates following the
experience in other countries in the region. As a result, adjustments in key parameters such as the wage
rate, which are likely to occur over the next few years, are not expected to have an extreme impact on
actual project costs to be observed during project implementation.
10.    Sumnnary:  The weighted Economic Rate of Return for the Investment Component (inclusive
of technical assistance), representing 86% of project costs, will be in excess of 36%, with a Net Present
Value discounted at 10% of US$ 12 million (see Table IV).



Table I
Transport Rehabilitation Project - Road Component
Cost-Benefit Analysis (1995 USS mln)
Discount Rate: 10%
Main Roads Sub-Co ponent
Without Project Case                              With Project Case                    Summary Evaluation
Regular    Vehicle   Total                       Regular    Vehicle   Total    Project  Operating Economic
ADT^    IRI^^   Maintenance Operating   Costs    ADT'    lRl    Maintenance Operabng   Costs    Costs    Costs       Net
Costs      Costs                                 Costs     Costs                       Savings  Benefits
1996     1000        7         0.51    76.43    76.94     1000       5.9         1.7    79.53    81.23    -1.19      -3.1    -4.29
1997     1018      7.5         0.51     79.4    79.91     1018       6.3        0.51    76.07    76.58        0      3.33     3.33
1998     1037        8         0.51    82.63    83.14     1037      6.78        0.51    78.88    79.39        0      3.75     3.75
Net Present Value               1.67
Economic Rate of Return         40%
Secondary Roads S b-Component
Without Project Case                              With Project Case                    Summary Evaluation
Regular    Vehicle   Total                       Regular   Vehicle    Total    Project Operating Economic
ADT*    lRl    Maintenance Operating   Costs    ADT*    IRI^*   Maintenance Operating   Costs    Costs    Costs     Net
I_Costs       Costs                                  Costs     Costs                       Savings  Benefits
1996      228      7.4         0.75    22.97    23.72      228       5.9        1.72    24.47     26.2    -0.98      -1.5    -2.48
1997      231      7.8         0.75    23.79    24.54      231       6.2        0.75    22.39    23.13        0       1.4      1.4
1998      235      8.2         0.75    24.64    25.39      235       6.6        0.75    23.11    23.86        0      1.53     1.53
1999      239      8.6         0.75    25.54    26.29      239       6.9        0.75    23.86    24.61        0      1.67     1.67
2000      244        9         0.75    26.46    27.21      244       7.3        0.75    24.64    25.39        0      1.82      1.82
Net Present Value               2.32
Economic Rate of Return         50%
*ADT: Average Daily Traffic
IRIM: Intemational Roughness Index



Table II
Transport Rehabilitation Project - Railway Component
Cost-Benefit Analysis (1995 USS min)
Discount Rate: 10%
Without Project Case                 With Project Case                           Summary Evaluation
Traffic    Traffic        Unit   Traffic    Traffic           Unit  Project Cost Savings  Cost Savings Operating Economic
Passengers* Freight*" Traffic^-  Cost Passengers* Freight'* Traffic***  Cost   Costs  from  from Generated  Costs     Net
(USC)                              (USc)           Base Traffic    Traffic     Savings  Benefits
1996        407    1173    1580  2.49         381    1184    1565       2.54  -7.80        -0.80        0.0038    -0.80      -8.60
1997        388    1117    1505  2.61         334    1139    1473       2.62   0.00         -0.06       0.0007    -0.06      -0.06
1998        369    1064    1433  2.74         287    1102    1389       2.63   0.00         1.51        -0.0231     1.48      1.48
1999        352    1013    1365  2.87         240    1113    1353       2.61   0.00         3.63        -0.0160     3.61      3.61
2000        335      965    1300  3.02         193    1124    1317      2.64   0.00          4.91        0.0321     4.94      4.94
2001        319      919    1238  3.17         195    1135    1330      2.59   0.00          7.15        0.2657     7.42      7.42
2002         304     875    1179  3,34         197    1147    1344      2.55   0.00          9.27        0.6485     9.92      9.92
Net Present Value                                         8.06
Economic Rate of Return                                   29%
mIn pass. km
- mIn ton. km
-Tota/ equivalent traffic units (mn pass.km + mrn ton.km)
~I>
Xg



Table Ill
Transport Rehabilitation Project
Cost-Benefit Analysis (1995 US$ min)
Sensitivity Analysis
Discount Rate: 10%
Main Roads Sub-Component
Traffic           Investments Costs     Vehicle Operating Cost
________  _______  5%         -5%         20%         -20%         20%        -20%
NPV         1.67      1.81       1.53         1.45        1.89        2.22       1.12
ERR        40%        43%        39%         35%          46%         45%        34%
Secondary Roads Sub-Component
Traffic           Investments Costs     Vehicle Operating Cost
5%        -5%         20%         -20%         20%        -20%
NPV        2.32       2.5        2.18        2.15         2.51        2.98       1.69
ERR        50%        51%        49%         40%          56%         55%        44%
Railway Sub-Component                                                      _
Traffic           Investments Costs       Unit Operating Cost
l_______ ________  5%   -5%         20%         -20%         20%        -20%
NPV        8.05       8.81        7.3        5.88         8.72       11.09       5.03
ERR        29%        30%        27%         23%          33%         34%        23%
I                                                                   W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ >D
lIQ
o.o



Table IV
Transport Rehabilitation Project
Cost-Benefit Analysis (1995 US$ min)
Summary
Discount Rate: 10%
Raod Sub-Component                          Rail
Main Roads         Secondary Roads           Sub-Component
Investment (in 1996)               -4.29                -2.48                     -7.80
Life-time of Investment           3 years               5 years                  7 years
Net Economic Benefits:
1996                    -4.29                -2.48                    -8.60
1997                    3.33                  1.40                     -0.06
1998                    3.75                  1.53                     1.48
1999                                          1.67                     3.61
2000                                          1.82                     4.94
2001                                                                   7.42
2002                                                                   9.91
Net Present Value                  1.67                  2.32                     8.05
ERR                                40%                   50%                      29%
Weighted ERR:            36%
u                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t1
o>x
IQ~o



Annex 19
Page 1 of 5
GEORGIA
Transport Rehabilitation Project
Highway Concern - Technical Assistance
Background
1.    Until 1990/91, the Highway Concern was responsible for the design and management of
construction and maintenance of the principal road network in Georgia. Since 1991, road construction
and maintenance have stopped, as the result of a lack of funds. The staff, badly paid or not paid at all,
goes occasionally to work in the hope of an unlikely resumption of activities. The civil works equipment
pool, abandoned and/or plundered, is reduced to a few machines which could still be of use if repaired.
2.    The main objective of the Transport Rehabilitation Project (TRP) in the road sector is to stop the
degradation of the principal road network, by restoring drainage works and by carrying out basic road
repairs and refurbishing damaged bridges. The works will be performed under national competitive
bidding, the Highway Concern acting as the contracting authority.
3.    The central services of the Concern do not have the experience of civil works contract preparation
and management. Up to now, the private sector has not operated in this technical field. The independent
field units of the Concern, which carried out road maintenance and construction works until 1991, are
well structured. They were financially autonomous, and the operating credits, except for the staff directly
paid by the Government, were transferred to bank accounts managed by these units. These units would
be therefore able to operate independently if eligible to bid.
4.    In the past, the field units had at their disposal overabundant staff and equipment, and their
managers were not concerned about optimizing their costs and revenues. With the forthcoming market
liberalization and competitive bidding, those managers will be forced to improve efficiency.
5.    The technologies which were employed for road construction or maintenance were out of date,
and materials were badly used and sometimes of poor quality (especially the bitumen and granulates).
There exists a need to upgrade costly and obsolete methods of road construction and maintenance, and
improve the quality of works. There are also issues to be addressed in the field of winter viability of
mountain roads, which are under snow-fall during several months of the year.
Diagnosis
6.    Central Services of the Concern. The Highway Concern would be the executing agency of road
civil works contracts. It has skilled staff with field experience in the road sector. Moreover, it has a
sound knowledge of the abilities of the field units, which are likely to bid for civil works contracts. On
the other hand, they have neither the experience of preparing and managing contracts for works or goods,
nor the ability to control the execution of works by the private sector. In the context of market
liberalization, the creation of both a Contract Transactions Department and a Works Supervision
Department by the Highway Concern is the very first and necessary step to be implemented. The Concern



Annex 19
Page 2 of 5
will also be responsible for managing the Road Fund revenues. These revenues will be allocated to cover
the operating expenses of central services and to finance road maintenance. The Concern will also have
to create a Financial Department to undertake this responsibility.
7.     Field Units. Those units eligible to bid may be able to carry out the road maintenance works
included in the TRP. Their staff is skilled with extensive field knowledge. These units and their technical
facilities and equipment are distributed all over the country. Although these units have already carried
out many works, this has been done without any constraints, be it time, equipment or money. They have
to adapt to management practices in a competitive environment.
8.     Equipment Department. This department needs to be eliminated. The Concern will cease to
perform works by force account. Today, the situation amounts to a de-facto privatization, as maintenance
staff has appropriated equipment still working. This situation can help the realization of the project, as
the holders of the equipment may offer their services to enterprises or field units with civil works
contracts. However, the legal status of this ownership will have to be clarified, and costs of spare parts
financed under the project will be fully recovered by the Highway Concern.
9.     Current Technologv. The basic road maintenance techniques are neither efficient nor economical.
Two serious deficiencies must be underlined: (i) the local materials, however abundant and of good
quality, are poorly used, leading to important deformations of roads soon thereafter; and (ii) the imported
materials, such as the hydrocarbonated and hydraulic binders, seem to be of uneven quality. For future
procurement, specifications must be established for the import of these products. A laboratory does exist
within the Concern, but it carries out "scientific research" and is totally disconnected from daily
operations. Pure bitumen is used as hydrocarbonated binder, whereas it is well known in Western-
European countries that it is more efficient and less expensive to use an emulsion of bitumen and other
products, among them water. Therefore, it is necessary: a) to upgrade construction techniques; b) to train
both controllers and contractors; and c) to provide through the competitive process incentives to
contractors to acquire more efficient equipment.
Recommendations
10.    The success of the TRP in the road sector will require a technical assistance to the central services
of the Concern and to the field units on the following topics:
a) Public sector:
(i) Creation of a Financial Department, of a Contract Transactions Department, and of
a Works Supervision Department;
(ii) provision of technical assistance in order to upgrade the costly and obsolete methods
of road maintenance and construction, and improve the quality of works.
b) Private sector:
(i) organization of construction sites and programming of works;
(ii) restructuring of construction enterprises, and acquisition of new equipment;
(iii) management of construction enterprises;
(iv) bid preparation.



Annex 19
Page 3 of 5
Public Sector
11.    Financial Department. Within the Concern a department is already in charge of collecting the tax
on the turnover of private enterprises. These tax revenues are allocated to operating expenses of the
central services. This department would need to be developed into a full Financial Department to manage
the collection, allocation, and disbursement of road user charge proceeds.
12.   Contract Transactions Department. As a result of preparation work for TRP, managers are just
beginning to realize how complex bidding procedures are, and how useful external help for this new
activity can be. There is a need for further cooperation and assistance in implementing this function. This
department should be able to program and manage all contracts in the future. Its functions will include
invitations to bids, contracts preparation and award, and follow-up of disbursements.
13.   Works Supervision Department. A Works Supervision Department supposedly exists within the
Concern, in the form of a 15- to 20-man team based in Tbilisi and Khashuri. This department seems to
be an internal audit department. Nonetheless it could be used as a starting point for the implementation
of a future Works Supervision Department, which would certify executed works and their quality.
14.   Techniques and Materials. The central services of the Concern must be assisted in making known
and widely available more efficient and costs-saving technologies.
Private Sector
15.   Organization and Progranuning of Works. The construction enterprises will need to be assisted
on operations-related topics, such as civil works scheduling and organization, management of resources,
selection of appropriate equipment, and cost estimation.
16.    Restructuring and Manal2ement of Enterprises. The objective is to privatize the road construction
and maintenance units of the Concern, thus enhancing profitability and quality awareness. The staff of
these units will therefore need to learn how to operate competitively on a cost-effective basis, and costs
control and analysis techniques will need to be introduced. Considering the importance of commercial
skills and traditions in the Georgian culture, Georgian people can be expected to succeed in this
transformation, provided foreign experts support them. Moreover, the equipment pools of these
enterprises will need to be rationalized, and road construction and maintenance techniques chosen in a
cost-effective way.
17.    Bid Preparation. The private sector does not operate in the civil works field, and skills
development is needed for managers of construction enterprises in bid  preparation, contracts
administration, and costs analysis.



Annex 19
Page 4 of 5
Technical assistance
18.    Project preparation is underway, with works due to begin at the end of March 1996. Therefore,
there is no time for extended training of central services and field units staff on general theoretical
principles and on modern technologies. Hands-on training within the concerned departments would be
by far the more effective. A successful implementation of the TRP will require training advisers for the
concerned central services and enterprises. Those advisers should be experts and specialists on the above-
mentioned topics. As the only foreign language which is spoken in Georgia is Russian, and as a few
foreign western experts speak this language, communication will be the core of the problem. There are
within the Concern some translators able to translate English technical papers, but interpreters will be
needed.
The table below describes the training advisers who will be needed for the technica' assistance program.



TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PERSONNEL
Adviser                                Role                                        Profile               Languages      Length
Assistance to the management of the Concern on matters related to:   Skills: engineer    Georgian or Russian
- reorganization (creation of a Financial Department,    Experience:                  French or English
Technical      a Contract Transactions Department, and a Works          - five years of                                    15
Adviser        Supervision Department);                                  management within a road                        months
- supervision and implementation of the road-related       government service;
part of the TRP.                                        - Eastern European countries.
Assistance to the Concem on the following topics:           Skills: engineer             Georgian or Russian
Winter viability    - snow and frost-related technical problems;          Experience:                   French or English     5
Expert      - inventory of the equipment to be acquired, and of the protection    - five years of management in a       months
devices to build; use of chemical products against ice.  snow-clearing department in
the public sector.
Assistance to the central services of the Concem and enterprises:  Skills: engineer      Georgian or Russian
- inventory of the equipment pool;                       Experience:                   French or English
Equipment      - inventory of facilities;                                - fifteen years in managing and                    10
Expert       - inventory of recoverable equipment and facilities;       operating civil works equipment                 months
- inventory of equipment to be acquired by the private sector for  pool in the private and/or public
successful and efficient road construction and maintenance in  sector.
the future.
Assistance to enterprises on the following topics:          Skills: pavements specialist  Georgian or Russian
- use of emulsions in road maintenance;                  Experience:                   French or English
Pavements      - implementation of efficient road construction technologies.  - five to ten years of management             15
Specialist                                                                in a public or private laboratory               months
specialized in pavements;
- construction sites.
Assistance to the sub-contracting enterprises on the following topics:  Skills: engineer  Georgian or Russian
- works scheduling;                                      Experience:                   French or English                ,>
Operating     - works organiation;                                      -ten years of management in                         15
Engineer      - management of resources;                                 a civil works enterprise.                       months
- implementation of accounting practices;
- selection of equipment.



Annex 20
Page 1 of 1
GEORGIA
Transport Rehabilitation Project
Selected Documents Available in the Project File
The following documents are available in the Project File:
1.     Draft Terms of Reference for technical assistance to the transport sector.
2.     Draft law on road user charges and draft decree on related implementation procedures.
3.     Decree # 168 on the Aviation Department (March 23, 1994).
4.     Law on Road Transport (April 4, 1995).
5.     Letter of Sector Development Policy (August 5, 1995).
6.     Confirmation letter on Implementation Arrangements (August 5, 1995).
7.     Confirmation letter on the Release of Project Environmental Assessment (August 5, 1995).
8.     Detailed environmental analysis.
9.     Detailed road sub-component cost-estimate.
10.    Detailed cost estimate for office technology and logistical support.
11.    Cost estimates for asphalt plant emission control.
12.    Cost estimates for supplemental monitoring of asphalt plants.
13.    Detailed cost/benefit analysis for the road sub-component.
14.    Detailed cost/benefit analysis for the Railway.
15.    Financial projections - Port of Poti.



MAP SECTION



GEORGIA
K t                  _ n                                              R U S S I A N  F E D E R A T I O N
1   rH  '                                                                                                                            C   > v 5 iEFtE ' A55: ''h'EF'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0S C~CCS
G-r o  H   -       S. tROACL
--                N                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sfco~o.- RaO-
-e-  -   O  CT bOUJND*RIES
-                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A4ICO10.OAS lf~~,C IASS'  ,NC-A-`
T U  R K Ei /Y
~~ -       (  J . .-         >    AF _         k      _        _            SZA                <           )        T               /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ R M E N  I AN
_ _  _   Knob    ;;;S V <chiers p?                              rskh.nvOl            )        r     f 2      i  _                     : E D E R A T I O N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  E  B    I   A 
. <   *     .        .,-  l    <.,                                                ............ ,.    /                        ..... -*---                             !- ,-*.               ;I



IMAGTINT
Report No:       15023 GE
Type: SAR






