Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TF024034
Trust Fund Credit Agreement
(Emergency District Heating Reconstruction Project)
between
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(Acting as Trustee of the Trust Fund for Bosnia and Herzegovina)
Dated May 20, 1996
TF024034
TRUST FUND CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 20, 1996 between BOSNIA and HERZEGOVINA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association), acting as trustee (the 
Trustee) of the Trust Fund for Bosnia and Herzegovina, as herein below described.
WHEREAS (A) the Board of Governors of the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development, acting on the recommendation of its Board of Executive Directors, 
decided on February 23, 1996 to transfer from the surplus of the Bank, by way of 
grant, $150,000,000 to a trust fund for Bosnia and Herzegovina (the Trust Fund), 
established by Resolutions of the Executive Directors of the Bank (Resolution No. 
96-1) and the Association (Resolution No. IDA 96-1) and to be administered by the 
Association, to be used for financing an emergency reconstruction program in the 
territory of Borrower; and
(B)
the Borrower has requested the Trustee to assist in financing the project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project); and
WHEREAS the Trustee has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The General Conditions set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Trust Fund Credit 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Toplane-Sarajevo" means the district heating enterprise established on 
January 16, 1978 through registration no. U-I-6/78 of the Economic Court and operating 
under Statute No. 02-012-24, dated March 4, 1994;
(b)
"Toplana-Banja Luka" means the district heating enterprise established 
and operating in Banja Luka, Republika Srpska;
(c)
"PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit to be established within 
Toplane-Sarajevo pursuant to Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement, and referred to in 
paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(d) 
"Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means the agreements, satisfactory to the 
Trustee, to be entered into between the Borrower and Toplane-Sarajevo, and the 
Borrower and Republika Srpska and Toplana-Banja Luka, respectively, pursuant to 
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(e)
"Subsidiary Loan" means a loan provided under a Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement;
(f)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(g)
"Project Start-up Advance" or "PSA" means any project start-up advance 
granted by the Trustee to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated March 
28, 1996 and April 1, 1996 between the Borrower and the Trustee (PSA Agreement Letters 
for TF 024026, TF 024027, and TF 024028).
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01.  The Trustee agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to twenty million dollars ($20,000,000).
Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Trustee shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank, acceptable to the Trustee, on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Trustee, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Start-up Advance withdrawn and outstanding 
as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn balance of the 
authorized amount of the Project Start-up Advance shall thereupon be canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1998 or such later date as the 
Trustee shall establish. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04.  (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Trustee a commitment charge on 
the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Trustee as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
Page  3
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Trustee 
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the 
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible 
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05.  The Borrower shall pay to the Trustee a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06.  Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semi-annually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07.  The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in 
semi-annual installments payable on each January 1 and  July 1 commencing July 1, 2006 
and ending January 1, 2036.  Each installment to and including the installment payable 
on  January 1, 2016 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each 
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08.  The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end: 
(a)
shall carry out Parts C.1 and D of the Project with due diligence and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
such Parts of the Project;
(b)
(i)
shall cause Toplane-Sarajevo to carry out Parts A, B and C.2 of 
the Project and Toplana-Banja Luka to carry out Part C.3 of the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate construction, maintenance, 
administrative, financial and environmental practices, and to this end shall relend 
part of the proceeds of the Credit to Toplane-Sarajevo and part of the proceeds of the 
Credit to Republika Srpska, to be made available to Toplana-Banja Luka, under 
subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and 
Toplane-Sarajevo, and the Borrower and Republika Srpska and Toplana-Banja Luka, 
respectively, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the 
Trustee, which shall include the terms and conditions specified in paragraph 1 of the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as such 
Implementation Program shall be modified from time to time by the agreement of the 
Borrower and the Trustee; (ii) shall take or cause to be taken all action, including 
the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or 
appropriate to enable Toplane-Sarajevo to carry out said Parts A, B and C.2 of the 
Project and Toplana-Banja Luka to carry out said Part C.3 of the Project; and  (iii) 
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with 
the carrying out of said Parts A, B and C.2 of the Project by Toplane-Sarajevo and 
said Part C.3 of the Project by Toplana-Banja Luka;
(c)
shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such a 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Trustee and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any Subsidiary Loan Agreement or 
any provision of any such agreement; and
(d)
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Trustee may otherwise agree, shall and shall cause 
Page  4
Toplane-Sarajevo and Toplana-Banja Luka to carry out their respective parts of the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall ensure that all licenses, permits and approvals 
required for the rapid reconstruction of the district heating system under the Project 
are granted promptly to Toplane-Sarajevo.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than December 31, 1996, carry 
out, in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Trustee, the tariff 
studies referred to under Part C.1 of the Project; (b) furnish to the Trustee, not 
later than January 31, 1997, the results and recommendations of said studies; and (c) 
thereafter, put into effect the recommendations of said studies as agreed with the 
Trustee.
 Section 3.04. Except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.05.  For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions, and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Trustee, and 
furnish to the Trustee not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Trustee, a 
plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Trustee a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01.  (a) The Borrower shall maintain or shall cause to be maintained 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of 
Toplane-Sarajevo and Toplana-Banja Luka and of the departments or agencies of the 
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall or shall cause Toplane-Sarajevo and Toplana-Banja Luka 
to:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year, audited in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Trustee;
(ii)
furnish to the Trustee, as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, a certified 
copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Trustee shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Trustee such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Trustee shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall or 
shall cause Toplane-Sarajevo and Toplana-Banja Luka to:
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Trustee has received the 
audit for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
Page  5
(iii)
enable the Trustee's representatives, based on an appropriate 
notice, to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the proce\1fduresand internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Trustee
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Toplane-Sarajevo or Republika Srpska or Toplana-Banja Luka shall have 
failed to perform any of its obligations under its Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that Toplane-Sarajevo or Republika Srpska or Toplana-Banja Luka will be able to 
perform its obligations under its Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(c)
The founding documents of Toplane-Sarajevo or Toplana-Banja Luka shall 
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially 
and adversely the ability of Toplane-Sarajevo or Toplana-Banja Luka to perform any of 
its obligations under its Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of Toplane-Sarajevo or 
Toplana-Banja Luka or for the suspension of either of their operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Trustee to the Borrower; and
(b)
the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 6.01. For purposes of Section 12.03 of the General Conditions, the 
following events are specified as conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement:
(a)
the PIU within Toplane-Sarajevo shall have been established in accordance 
with paragraph 2 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(b)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower and Toplane-Sarajevo 
shall have been executed with terms and conditions satisfactory to the Trustee.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Trustee, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
entered into between the Borrower and Toplane-Sarajevo has been duly authorized or 
ratified by, and is legally binding upon, the parties to it in accordance with the 
terms of such Agreements.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Trust Fund Credit 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Page  6
Section 7.01.  The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02.  The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Mehmeda Spahe 5
71000 Sarajevo
Bosnia and Herzegovina
For the Trustee:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C.  20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
  197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
  248423 (RCA),
  64145 (WUI) or
  82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, as of the day and year first above written.
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
By /s/ Hasan Muratovic 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
   (Acting as Trustee of the Trust Fund for 
   Bosnia and Herzegovina)
By /s/ Johannes F. Linn
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
Credit, the allocations of the amount of the Credit to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category   
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
   2,500,000
100% (net of taxes)
(2)
Goods
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of
(a) under Part A
   1,000,000
local expenditures (ex-
of the Project 
factory cost) and 85% 
of local expenditures
(b) under Part D.1
0
for other items 
Page  7
of the Project
procured locally
(c) under Part D.2
0
of the Project
(3)
Consultants’ services
100%
(a) under Part C.1
300,000
of the Project
(b) under Parts B and
      200,000
C.2 of the Project
(c) under Part C.3
500,000
of the Project 
(d) under Part D.1 of 
      0
the Project
(e) under Part D.2 of
      0
the Project
(4)
Commercial services
100%
(a) under Parts A, B
200,000
and C of the Project
(b) under Part D.1 of
      0
the Project
(c) under Part D.2 of
      0
the Project
(5)
Refunding of Project
Amount due pursuant
Start-up Advance
to Section 2.02 (c)
of this Agreement
(a) under Parts A, B, 
   5,300,000
and C of the Project
(b) under Part D.1
   3,800,000
of the Project
(c) under Part D.2
   6,000,000
of the Project
(6)
Unallocated
     200,000
TOTAL
  20,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in 
such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures"; 
and
(c)
the term "commercial services" means procurement, local transport, 
handling, storage, local distribution services and landmine clearance services.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:  (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) for expenditures relating to Part C.3 of the Project until the 
Borrower has provided the Trustee with evidence of: (i) the execution of the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower and Republika Srpska and Toplana-Banja 
Luka with terms and conditions satisfactory to the Trustee; and (ii) a legal opinion 
Page  8
that said Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and is 
legally binding upon, the parties to it in accordance with the terms of such 
Agreement. 
4.
The Trustee may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for: (a) expenditures for goods and works under 
contracts not exceeding $5,000,000 equivalent each; and (b) contracts for employment 
of consultants and commercial services not exceeding $2,000,000 equivalent each in the 
case of firms, and $100,000 equivalent each in the case of individuals, under such 
terms and conditions as the Trustee shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to restore district heating service by 
reconstructing the district heat supply system and by building internal heating 
installations; (ii) to improve energy security and potentially reduce gas consumption 
by assuring the possibility of fuel switching between gas and fuel oil; (iii) to 
strengthen the sector entity’s institutional capacity; and (iv) to initiate network 
improvements.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Trustee may agree upon from time to time to achieve 
such objectives:
Part A: Reconstruction
1.
Reconstruction and rehabilitation of boilers and boiler-house buildings, 
including the replacement of pipes, pumps, valves, regulators, insulation, wiring and 
electronic equipment and building repair. 
2.
Repair of the pipeline network.
3.
Rehabilitation of about 120 substations.
4.
Installation of a central monitoring and control center.
5.
Reconstruction of damaged internal installations (radiators, thermostatic 
valves, meters and pipe connections) in up to about 50,000 apartments.
6.
Installation of individual heat consumption meters in about 38,000 unmetered 
apartments, replacement or repair of metering installations, and installation of heat 
production metering at all network boilers, substations and at the entrance of all 
heat consuming buildings.
7.
Reconstruction of office facilities and service facilities such as workshops. 
Part B:
Technical Assistance
1.
Provision of technical assistance and training in all aspects of project 
management, including work scheduling, procurement, coordination  and supervision of 
the construction process, monitoring, approval of reconstructed components and 
financial and administrative operations related to project implementation.
2.
Provision of technical assistance and training in the technical aspects of 
planning (including carrying out of engineering surveys and engineering assessments) 
and systems analysis.
3.
Provision of technical assistance and training in financial and commercial 
management, including accounting, and restoring, upgrading and reintroducing an 
efficient billing and collection system.
Part C:
Studies
1.
Carrying out of a tariff study for the district heating system in Sarajevo.
2.
Carrying out of: (a) an engineering survey covering: (i) production and 
distribution of heat and hot water; and (ii) building internal installations; and (b) 
a master plan for the district heating system for Sarajevo.
3.
Carrying out of an engineering survey for the district heating system for Banja 
Page  9
Luka.
Part D:
Emergency Power Project and Emergency Gas Project
1.
Project preparation activities, landmine clearance of project sites, and 
provision of goods and services for an emergency power project.
2.
Project preparation activities, landmine clearance of project sites, and 
provision of goods and services for an emergency gas project.
* *
 
*
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1997.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Service
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and turnkey 
contracts shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
Section II of the Guidelines is modified to provide that: (i) the General 
Procurement Notice (GPN) shall also be published in the local press; (ii) individual 
advertisement for specific contracts shall also be published in the local press; (iii) 
the period allowed for submission of bids shall be four weeks; and (iv) bid and 
payment currency shall be limited to one currency widely used in international trade.
3.
The following provision shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Part B:
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.  
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Limited International Bidding
Goods estimated to cost more than $2,000,000 equivalent but less than $5,000,000 
equivalent per contract, or which the Trustee agrees can only be purchased from a 
limited number of suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the 
Guidelines.  In addition, the list of suppliers shall be derived from, inter alia, the 
expressions of interest received in response to the GPN. Bidding documents may provide 
that the bidders may send their bids by fax, in which case bid security shall not be 
required, subject to the satisfaction of the Trustee that mechanisms to ensure 
confidentiality of bids received by fax are in place.
2.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost $5,000,000 equivalent or less per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines with the following modifications:
(i)
General prequalification will be carried out through advertising 
in the local press. The list of prequalified bidders will be 
updated from time to time as a result of new expression of 
interest and information submitted by qualified contractors;
Page  10
(ii)
prequalified bidders will be allowed a minimum of four (4) weeks 
to submit their bids;
(iii)
bidding documents will follow the formats of the National 
Competitive Bidding documents agreed with the Trustee;
(iv)
if interested, foreign bidders will be allowed to submit bids;
(v)
bids will be submitted in sealed envelopes, and both mailed and 
hand-carried bids will be accepted;
(vi)
all bids will be opened at the same time in public;
(vii)
contracts will be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder; and
(viii)bidders will not be asked, nor allowed to change the substance of 
their bids after the bid closing date, and price negotiations with 
the lowest evaluated bidder will be confined to those cases listed 
in the Guidelines.
3.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost more than $200,000 equivalent but $2,000,000 equivalent 
or less per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 
and 3.6 of the Guidelines and using standard documentation agreed with the Trustee.
4.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or less per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Trustee of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Trustee for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Trustee, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract to be awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I, Parts B, C.1 and C.2 of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants’ services, including commercial services (as such term is defined in 
paragraph 2 (c) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement), services for preparation of the 
studies referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement, and procurement advisory 
services, shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World 
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant 
Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the 
standard form of contract for consultants’ services issued by the Trustee, with such 
modifications as shall have been agreed by the Trustee.  Where no relevant standard 
contract documents have been issued by the Trustee, other standard forms acceptable to 
the Trustee shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Trustee review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
Page  11
contracts shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
each. However, said exceptions to prior Trustee review shall not apply to (a) the 
terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting 
firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Trustee,  
(d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the 
contract value to $2,000,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for 
the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 
equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program 
1.
The Borrower shall relend to Toplane-Sarajevo as a Subsidiary Loan the 
equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to Categories 
(1), (2), (3)(b) and (4) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement and relend to Republika Srpska as a Subsidiary Loan the equivalent of the 
proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to Category (3)(c) of the table set 
forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Trustee, including a repayment term of twenty years, including a 
grace period of five years, and a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum of the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time. Republika Srpska shall make available the proceeds 
of its Subsidiary Loan to Toplana-Banja Luka.
2.
The Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall contain the following Project 
implementation arrangements:
(a)
Toplane-Sarajevo shall maintain a PIU under terms of reference and with 
staffing and other resources acceptable to the Trustee. The PIU of Toplane-Sarajevo 
shall be headed by a director, shall consist of eight district heating experts, a 
procurement advisor satisfactory to the Trustee, three financial assistants and 
several Toplane-Sarajevo experts, all with qualifications and experience satisfactory 
to the Trustee, and shall have overall responsibility for management and coordination 
of Parts A, B and C.2 of the Project.
(b)
Toplane-Sarajevo shall, not later than May 30, 1996, put into effect a 
billing and collection system resulting in collection from consumers of at least 
fifteen percent (15%), fifty percent (50%) and seventy-five percent (75%) of the total 
current operating expenses of Toplane-Sarajevo in calendar year 1996, 1997 and 1998, 
respectively. For purposes of this paragraph, the term "total current operating 
expenses" means all expenses related to operations, including administration, adequate 
maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and provision for depreciation on a 
straight-line basis, or other basis acceptable to the Trustee, but excluding interest 
and other charges on debt.
(c)
Toplane-Sarajevo shall: (a) not later than June 30, 1996 and September 
30, 1996, carry out, in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Trustee, the engineering surveys referred to under Part C.2 (a) (i) and (ii) of the 
Project, respectively; (b) furnish to the Trustee, not later than July 31, 1996 and 
October 31, 1996, respectively, the results and recommendations of said surveys; and 
(c) thereafter, put into effect the recommendations of said surveys as agreed with the 
Trustee.
(d)
Toplane-Sarajevo shall: (a) not later than June 30, 1997, carry out, in 
accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Trustee, the master plan 
referred to under Part C.2 (b) of the Project; (b) furnish to the Trustee, not later 
than July 31, 1997, the results and recommendations of said plan; and (c) thereafter, 
put into effect the recommendations of said plan as agreed with the Trustee.
(e)
Toplana-Banja Luka shall: (i) not later than November 30, 1996, carry out 
the engineering survey referred to under Part C.3 of the Project, in accordance with 
terms of reference satisfactory to the Trustee; (ii) furnish to the Trustee, not later 
than December 31, 1996, the results and recommendations of said studies and master 
plan; and (iii) thereafter, put into effect the recommendations of said studies and 
master plan as agreed with the Trustee.
(f)
Toplane-Sarajevo and Toplana-Banja Luka shall:
(i)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable them to 
Page  12
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with 
indicators satisfactory to the Trustee, the carrying out of their 
respective parts of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(ii)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Trustee, and 
furnish to the Trustee, on or about December 31, 1996, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on 
the progress achieved in the carrying out of said parts of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and 
setting out the measures recommend to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of said parts of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(iii)
review with the Trustee, by February 28, 1997 or such later date 
as the Trustee shall request, the report referred to in paragraph 
(b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required 
to ensure the efficient completion of said parts of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the 
Trustee’s views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) (a), (b), 
(d) and (e) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the amount of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.  
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Trustee has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Trustee a request or requests for a deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Trustee shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Trustee requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Trustee shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Trustee the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Trustee 
from the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
Page  13
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Trustee shall reasonably request, furnish to the Trustee 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Trustee 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Trustee shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Trustee, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Trustee pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Trustee shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Special Account, minus the total amount of any outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Trustee pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Trustee shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Trustee shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Trustee, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee: 
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Trustee may request; or (B) deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Trustee shall so request, refund to the Trustee) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified.  Unless the Trustee shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Trustee into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, 
refund to the Trustee such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Trustee, refund to the Trustee all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Trustee made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
General Conditions 
ARTICLE I
Application to Trust Fund Credit Agreement
Section 1.01.  Application of General Conditions.  Without limitation or 
restriction upon the scope of any other provisions of the Trust Fund Credit Agreement, 
Page  14
these General Conditions set forth certain basic terms and conditions applicable to 
the Trust Fund Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Definitions; Headings
Section 2.01.  Definitions.  The following terms have the following meanings 
wherever used in these General Conditions:
(a)
"Trustee" means the International Development Association acting as 
trustee of the Trust Fund.
(b)
"Association" means the International Development Association.
(c)
"Bank" means the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
(d)
"Trust Fund Credit Agreement" means this Trust Fund Credit Agreement to 
which these General Conditions are made applicable.
(e)
"Credit" means the Credit provided for in the Trust Fund Credit 
Agreement.
(f)
"Borrower" means Bosnia and Herzegovina.
 
(g)
"Currency" of a country means the coin or currency which is legal tender 
for the payment of public and private debts in that country.
(h)
"Dollars" and the sign "$" mean dollars in the currency of the United 
States of America.
(i)
"Credit Account" means the account opened by the Trustee on its books in 
the name of the Borrower to which the amount of the Credit is credited.
(j)
"Project" means the project for which the Credit is granted, as described 
in the Trust Fund Credit Agreement and as the description thereof may be amended from 
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Trustee.
(k)
"External Debt" means any debt which is or may become payable other than 
in the currency of the country which is the Borrower.
(l)
"Effective Date" means the date on which the Trust Fund Credit Agreement 
shall enter into effect as provided in Section 12.03.
(m)
"Taxes" includes imposts, levies, fees and duties of any nature, whether 
in effect at the date of the Trust Fund Credit Agreement or thereafter imposed.
(n)
"Closing Date" means the date specified in the Trust Fund Credit 
Agreement (as it may be extended) after which the Trustee may, by notice to the 
Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to withdraw from the Credit Account.
Section 2.02.  References.  References in these General Conditions to Articles 
or Sections are to Articles or Sections of these General Conditions.
Section 2.03.  Headings.  The headings of the Articles and Sections are inserted 
for convenience of reference only and are not a part of these General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Credit Account; Service Charges; 
Repayment; Place of Payment
Section 3.01.  Credit Account.  The amount of the Credit shall be credited to 
the Credit Account and may be withdrawn therefrom by the Borrower as provided in the 
Trust Fund Credit Agreement and in these General Conditions.
Section 3.02.  Service Charges.  The Borrower shall pay a service charge on the 
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at the rate specified 
in the Trust Fund Credit Agreement.
Section 3.03.  Computation of Service Charges.  Service charges shall be 
computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
Page  15
Section 3.04.  Repayment.  (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account in installments as provided in the Trust 
Fund Credit Agreement.
(b) 
The Borrower shall have the right to repay in advance of maturity all or 
any part of the principal amount of one or more maturities of the Credit specified by 
the Borrower.
Section 3.05.  Place of Payment.  The principal of, and service charges on, the 
Credit shall be paid at such places as the Trustee shall reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Currency Provisions
Section 4.01.  Currencies in which Withdrawals are to be Made.  Except as the 
Borrower and the Trustee shall otherwise agree, withdrawals from the Credit Account 
shall be made in the respective currencies in which the expenditures to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit have been paid or are payable; provided, however, 
that withdrawals in respect of expenditures in the currency of the Borrower shall be 
made in such currency or currencies as the Trustee shall from time to time reasonably 
select.
Section 4.02.  Currencies in which Principal and Service Charges are Payable.  
(a) The Borrower shall pay the principal amount of, and service charges on, the Credit 
in the currency specified in the Trust Fund Credit Agreement for the purposes of this 
Section or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be 
designated or selected pursuant to paragraphs (c) or (e) of this Section.
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section, the term "eligible currency" means the 
currency of any member of the Association which the Trustee from time to time 
determines to be freely convertible or freely exchangeable by the Trustee for 
currencies of other members of the Association for the purposes of its operations.
(c) 
If at any time the Borrower shall desire that, commencing on a given 
future payment date, such principal and service charges shall be payable in an 
eligible currency other than that so specified or than one previously designated 
pursuant to this paragraph (c) or selected pursuant to paragraph (e) below, the 
Borrower shall deliver to the Trustee, not less than three nor more than five months 
prior to such payment date, a notice in writing to that effect and designating such 
other eligible currency.  Upon receipt of such notice and commencing on such payment 
date, the currency so designated shall be the currency in which such principal and 
service charges shall be payable.
(d) 
If at any time the Trustee shall determine that a currency payable 
pursuant to the provisions of this Section is not an eligible currency, the Trustee 
shall so notify the Borrower in writing and furnish the Borrower with a list of 
eligible currencies.
(e) 
Within thirty days from the date of such notice from the Trustee, the 
Borrower shall notify the Trustee in writing of its selection from such list of a 
currency in which payment shall be made, failing which the Trustee shall select a 
currency for such purpose from such list.  Upon such selection in either manner, such 
principal and service charges shall, commencing on the payment date next succeeding 
such thirty\1eday period, be payable in the currency so selected.
Section 4.03. Amount of Repayment.  The principal amount of the Credit repayable 
shall be the equivalent of the value of the currency or currencies withdrawn from the 
Credit Account expressed in terms of dollars as of the respective dates of withdrawal.
Section 4.04.  Purchase of Currency of Withdrawal with Other Currency.  If 
withdrawal shall be made in any currency which the Trustee shall have purchased with 
another currency for the purpose of such withdrawal, the portion of the Credit so 
withdrawn shall be deemed to have been withdrawn from the Credit Account in such other 
currency for the purposes of Section 4.03.
Section 4.05.  Valuation of Currencies.  Whenever it shall be necessary for the 
purposes of the Trust Fund Credit Agreement to determine the value of one currency in 
terms of another, such value shall be as reasonably determined by the Trustee.
Section 4.06.  Manner of Payment.  (a) Any payment required under the Trust Fund 
Page  16
Credit Agreement to be made to the Trustee in the currency of a country shall be made 
in such manner, and in currency acquired in such manner, as shall be permitted under 
the laws of such country for the purpose of making such payment and effecting the 
deposit of such currency to the account of the Trustee with a depository of the 
Trustee in such country.
(b) 
The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be paid 
without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Withdrawal of Proceeds of Credit
Section 5.01.  Withdrawal from the Credit Account.  The Borrower shall be 
entitled to withdraw from the Credit Account amounts expended or, if the Trustee shall 
so agree, amounts to be expended for the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
the Trust Fund Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions.  Except as the 
Borrower and the Trustee shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on 
account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for 
the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such 
payment or import, to the knowledge of the Trustee, is prohibited by a decision of the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations.
Section 5.02.  Special Commitments by the Trustee.  Upon the Borrower's request 
and upon such terms and conditions as shall be agreed upon between the Borrower and 
the Trustee, the Trustee may enter into special commitments in writing to pay amounts 
to the Borrower or others in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit notwithstanding any subsequent suspension or cancellation by 
the Trustee or the Borrower.
Section 5.03.  Applications for Withdrawal or for Special Commitment.  When the 
Borrower shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Credit Account or to request the 
Trustee to enter into a special commitment pursuant to Section 5.02, the Borrower 
shall deliver to the Trustee a written application in such form, and containing such 
statements and agreements, as the Trustee shall reasonably request.  Applications for 
withdrawal, including the documentation required pursuant to this Article, shall be 
made promptly in relation to expenditures for the Project.
Section 5.04.  Reallocation.  Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the 
Credit or the percentages for withdrawal set forth or referred to in the Trust Fund 
Credit Agreement, if the Trustee has reasonably estimated that the amount of the 
Credit then allocated to any withdrawal category set forth in the Trust Fund Credit 
Agreement or added thereto by amendment will be insufficient to finance the agreed 
percentage of all expenditures in that category, the Trustee may, by notice to the 
Borrower:
(a) 
reallocate to such category, to the extent required to meet the estimated 
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another category and 
which in the opinion of the Trustee are not needed to meet other expenditures; and
(b) 
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce 
the percentage for withdrawal then applicable to such expenditures in order that 
further withdrawals under such category may continue until all expenditures thereunder 
shall have been made.
Section 5.05.  Evidence of Authority to Sign Applications for Withdrawal.  The 
Borrower shall furnish to the Trustee evidence of the authority of the person or 
persons authorized to sign applications for withdrawal and the authenticated specimen 
signature of any such person.
Section 5.06.  Supporting Evidence.  The Borrower shall furnish to the Trustee 
such documents and other evidence in support of the application as the Trustee shall 
reasonably request, whether before or after the Trustee shall have permitted any 
withdrawal requested in the application.
Section 5.07.  Sufficiency of Applications and Documents.  Each application and 
the accompanying documents and other evidence must be sufficient in form and substance 
to satisfy the Trustee that the Borrower is entitled to withdraw from the Credit 
Account the amount applied for and that the amount to be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account is to be used only for the purposes specified in the Trust Fund Credit 
Page  17
Agreement.
Section 5.08.  Treatment of Taxes.  It is the policy of the Trustee that no 
proceeds of the Credit shall be withdrawn on account of payments for any taxes levied 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation, 
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof.  To that end, if the amount of any taxes 
levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
decreases or increases, the Trustee may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or 
decrease the percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect of such 
item in the Trust Fund Credit Agreement as required to be consistent with such policy 
of the Trustee.
Section 5.09.  Payment by the Trustee.  The Trustee shall pay the amounts 
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account only to or on the order of the 
Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01.  Cancellation by the Borrower.  The Borrower may, by notice to the 
Trustee, cancel any amount of the Credit which the Borrower shall not have withdrawn, 
except that the Borrower may not so cancel any amount of the Credit in respect of 
which the Trustee shall have entered into a special commitment pursuant to Section 
5.02.
Section 6.02.  Suspension by the Trustee.  (a) If any of the following events of 
suspension shall have occurred and be continuing, the Trustee may, by notice to the 
Borrower, suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account:
(b)
The Borrower shall have failed to perform any other obligation under the 
Trust Fund Credit Agreement.
(c)
The Trustee, the Association or the Bank shall have suspended in whole or 
in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals under any trust fund credit 
agreement with the Trustee, any development credit agreement with the Association or 
any loan agreement with the Bank, because of a failure by the Borrower to perform any 
of its obligations under such agreement.
(d)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Trust 
Fund Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make 
it improbable that the Project can be carried out or that the Borrower will be able to 
perform its obligations under the Trust Fund Credit Agreement.
(e)
The Borrower shall: (i) have been suspended from membership in or ceased 
to be a member of the Bank, or (ii) have ceased to be a member of the International 
Monetary Fund.
(f)
After the date of the Trust Fund Credit Agreement and prior to the 
Effective Date, any event shall have occurred which would have entitled the Trustee to 
suspend the Borrower's right to make withdrawals from the Credit Account if the Trust 
Fund Credit Agreement had been effective on the date such event occurred.
(g)
A representation made by the Borrower, in or pursuant to the Trust Fund 
Credit Agreement, or any statement furnished in connection therewith, and intended to 
be relied upon by the Trustee in making the Credit, shall have been incorrect in any 
material respect.
(h)
Any other event specified in the Trust Fund Credit Agreement for the 
purposes of this Section shall have occurred.
The right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall 
continue to be suspended in whole or in part, as the case may be, until the event or 
events which gave rise to suspension shall have ceased to exist, unless the Trustee 
shall have notified the Borrower that the right to make withdrawals has been restored 
in whole or in part, as the case may be.
Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Trustee.  If (a) the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been suspended with respect to any 
amount of the Credit for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at any time, the 
Trustee determines, after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount of the Credit 
Page  18
will not be required to finance the Project's costs to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit, or (c) at any time, the Trustee determines that the procurement of any 
item is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in the Trust Fund 
Credit Agreement and establishes the amount of the expenditures in respect of such 
item which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, or (d) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Credit shall remain 
unwithdrawn from the Credit Account, the Trustee may, by notice to the Borrower, 
terminate the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount.  
Upon the giving of such notice, such amount of the Credit shall be canceled.  
Section 6.04. Amounts Subject to Special Commitment not Affected by Cancellation 
or Suspension by the Trustee.  No cancellation or suspension by the Trustee shall 
apply to amounts subject to any special commitment entered into by the Trustee 
pursuant to Section 5.02 except as expressly provided in such commitment.
Section 6.05.  Application of Cancellation to Maturities of the Credit.  Except 
as the Borrower and the Trustee shall otherwise agree, any cancellation shall be 
applied pro rata to the several installments of the principal amount of the Credit 
maturing after the date of such cancellation.
Section 6.06. Effectiveness of Provisions after Suspension or Cancellation.  
Notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension, all the provisions of the Trust Fund 
Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and effect except as specifically 
provided in this Article.
ARTICLE VII
Acceleration of Maturity
Section 7.01.  Events of Acceleration.  If any of the following events shall 
occur and shall continue for the period specified below, if any, then at any 
subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Trustee, at its option, may, by 
notice to the Borrower, declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due 
and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon and upon any such 
declaration such principal, together with such charges, shall become due and payable 
immediately:
(a)
A default shall occur in the payment of principal or any other payment 
required under the Trust Fund Credit Agreement and such default shall continue for a 
period of thirty days.
(b)
A default shall occur in the payment by the Borrower of principal or 
interest or any other amount due to the Trustee, the Association or the Bank.
(c)
A default shall occur in the performance of any other substantial 
obligation on the part of the Borrower under the Trust Fund Credit Agreement, and such 
default shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been 
given by the Trustee to the Borrower.
(d)
Any other event specified in the Trust Fund Credit Agreement for the 
purposes of this Section shall have occurred and shall continue for the period, if 
any, specified in the Trust Fund Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VIII
Taxes
Section 8.01.  Taxes.  (a) The principal of, and other charges on, the Credit 
shall be paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes levied by, or in the 
territory of, the Borrower.
(b) 
The Trust Fund Credit Agreement, and any other agreement to which these 
General Conditions apply, shall be free from any taxes levied by, or in the territory 
of, the Borrower on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration 
thereof.
ARTICLE IX
Cooperation and Information; Financial and 
Economic Data; Project Implementation
Page  19
Section 9.01.  Cooperation and Information.  (a) The Borrower and the Trustee 
shall cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished.  
To that end, the Borrower and the Trustee shall:
(i)
from time to time, at the request of any one of them, exchange 
views with regard to the progress of the Project, the purposes of 
the Credit, and the performance of their respective obligations 
under the Trust Fund Credit Agreement; and furnish to the other 
party all such information related thereto as it shall reasonably 
request; and
(ii)
promptly inform each other of any condition which interferes with, 
or threatens to interfere with, the matters referred to in 
paragraph (i) above.
(b) 
The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for representatives 
of the Trustee to visit any site for purposes related to the Credit.
Section 9.02.  Financial and Economic Data.  The Borrower shall furnish to the 
Trustee all such information as the Trustee shall reasonably request with respect to 
its financial and economic conditions in its territory including its balance of 
payments and its external debt as well as that of its political or administrative 
subdivisions and any entity owned or controlled by, or operating for the account or 
benefit of the Borrower or any such subdivision, and any institution performing the 
functions of a central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for 
the Borrower.  
Section 9.03.  Insurance.  The Borrower shall insure or cause to be insured, or 
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation 
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation.  Any indemnity for such 
insurance shall be payable in a freely usable currency to replace or repair such 
goods.
Section 9.04.  Use of Goods and Services.  Except as the Trustee shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit to be used exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 9.05.  Plans and Schedules.  The Borrower shall furnish, or cause to be 
furnished, to the Trustee promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, 
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for the 
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail 
as the Trustee shall reasonably request.
Section 9.06.  Records and Reports.  (a) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain 
records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project 
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the goods and 
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the 
Project; (ii) within its capacity, enable the Trustee's representatives to visit any 
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the goods 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any plants, installations, sites, 
works, buildings, property, equipment, records and documents relevant to the 
performance of the obligations of the Borrower under the Trust Fund Credit Agreement; 
and (iii) furnish to the Trustee at regular intervals all such information as the 
Trustee shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where 
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of 
the Credit and the goods and services f
inanced out of such proceeds.
(b) 
Upon the award of any contract for goods or services to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit, the Trustee may publish a description thereof, the name 
and nationality of the party to which the contract was awarded and the contract price.
(c) 
Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any event not later than 
six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Borrower and the Trustee, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the 
Trustee a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Trustee shall reasonably 
request, on the execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the 
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the 
Trustee of their respective obligations under the Trust Fund Credit Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
Page  20
Section 9.07.  Maintenance.  The Borrower shall at all times operate and 
maintain, or cause to be operated and maintained, any facilities relevant to the 
Project, and promptly as needed, make or cause to be made all necessary repairs and 
renewals thereof.
ARTICLE X
Failure to Exercise Rights; Arbitration
Section 10.01.  Enforceability.  The rights and obligations of the Borrower and 
the Trustee under the Trust Fund Credit Agreement shall be valid and enforceable in 
accordance with their terms notwithstanding the law of any State or political 
subdivision thereof to the contrary.  Neither the Borrower nor the Trustee shall be 
entitled in any proceeding under this Article to assert any claim that any provision 
of these General Conditions or the Trust Fund Credit Agreement is invalid or 
unenforceable because of any provision of the Articles of Agreement of the Trustee or 
any document or instrument constituting the Trust Fund.  
  Section 10.02.  Failure to Exercise Rights.  No delay in exercising, or 
omission to exercise, any right, power or remedy accruing to either party under the 
Trust Fund Credit Agreement upon any default shall impair any such right, power or 
remedy or be construed to be a waiver thereof or an acquiescence in such default.  No 
action of such party in respect of any default, or any acquiescence by it in any 
default, shall affect or impair any right, power or remedy of such party in respect of 
any other or subsequent default.
Section 10.03.  Arbitration.  (a) Any controversy between the parties to the 
Trust Fund Credit Agreement and any claim by either such party against the other 
arising under the Trust Fund Credit Agreement which has not been settled by agreement 
of the parties shall be submitted to arbitration by an Arbitral Tribunal as 
hereinafter provided.
(b) 
The parties to such arbitration shall be the Trustee and the Borrower.
(c) 
The Arbitral Tribunal shall consist of three arbitrators appointed as 
follows: one arbitrator shall be appointed by the Trustee; a second arbitrator shall 
be appointed by the Borrower; and the third arbitrator (hereinafter sometimes called 
the Umpire) shall be appointed by agreement of the parties or, if they shall not 
agree, by the President of the International Court of Justice or, failing appointment 
by said President, by the Secretary\1eGeneral of the United Nations.  If either of the 
parties shall fail to appoint an arbitrator, such arbitrator shall be appointed by the 
Umpire.  In case any arbitrator appointed in accordance with this Section shall 
resign, die or become unable to act, a successor arbitrator shall be appointed in the 
same manner as herein prescribed for the appointment of the original arbitrator and 
such successor shall have all the powers and duties of such original arbitrator.
(e) 
If within sixty days after the notice instituting the arbitration 
proceeding, the parties shall not have agreed upon an Umpire, either party may request 
the appointment of an Umpire as provided in paragraph (c) of this Section.
(f) 
The Arbitral Tribunal shall convene at such time and place as shall be 
fixed by the Umpire.  Thereafter, the Arbitral Tribunal shall determine where and when 
it shall sit.
(g) 
The Arbitral Tribunal shall decide all questions relating to its 
competence and shall, subject to the provisions of this Section and except as the 
parties shall otherwise agree, determine its procedure.  All decisions of the Arbitral 
Tribunal shall be by majority vote.
(h) 
The Arbitral Tribunal shall afford to the parties a fair hearing and 
shall render its award in writing.  Such award may be rendered by default.  An award 
signed by a majority of the Arbitral Tribunal shall constitute the award of such 
Tribunal.  A signed counterpart of the award shall be transmitted to each party.  Any 
such award rendered in accordance with the provisions of this Section shall be final 
and binding upon the parties to the Trust Fund Credit Agreement.  Each party shall 
abide by and comply with any such award rendered by the Arbitral Tribunal in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section.
(i) 
The parties shall fix the amount of the remuneration of the arbitrators 
and such other persons as shall be required for the conduct of the arbitration 
proceedings.  If the parties shall not agree on such amount before the Arbitral 
Tribunal shall convene, the Arbitral Tribunal shall fix such amount as shall be 
Page  21
reasonable under the circumstances.  Each party shall defray its own expenses in the 
arbitration proceedings.  The costs of the Arbitral Tribunal shall be divided between 
and borne equally by the parties.  Any question concerning the division of the costs 
of the Arbitral Tribunal or the procedure for payment of such costs shall be 
determined by the Arbitral Tribunal.
(j) 
The provisions for arbitration set forth in this Section shall be in lieu 
of any other procedure for the settlement of controversies between the parties to the 
Trust Fund Credit Agreement or of any claims by either party against the other party 
arising thereunder.
(k) 
The Trustee shall not be entitled to enter judgment against the Borrower 
upon the award, to enforce the award against the Borrower by execution or to pursue 
any other remedy against the Borrower for the enforcement of the award, except as such 
procedure may be available against the Borrower otherwise than by reason of the 
provisions of this Section.  If, within thirty days after counterparts of the award 
shall have been delivered to the parties, the award shall not be complied with by the 
Trustee, the Borrower may take any such action for the enforcement of the award 
against the Trustee.
(l) 
Service of any notice or process in connection with any proceeding under 
this Section or in connection with any proceeding to enforce any award rendered 
pursuant to this Section may be made in the manner provided in Section 11.01.  The 
parties to the Trust Fund Credit Agreement waive any and all other requirements for 
the service of any such notice or process.
ARTICLE XI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 11.01.  Notices and Requests.  Any notice or request required or 
permitted to be given or made under the Trust Fund Credit Agreement and any other 
agreement between the parties contemplated by the Trust Fund Credit Agreement shall be 
in writing.  Except as otherwise provided in Section 12.03, such notice or request 
shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or 
by mail, telegram, cable or telex to the party to which it is required or permitted to 
be given or made at such party's address specified in the Trust Fund Credit Agreement, 
or at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party 
giving such notice or making such request.
Section 11.02.  Evidence of Authority.  The Borrower shall furnish to the 
Trustee sufficient evidence of the authority of the person or persons who will, on 
behalf of the Borrower, take any action or execute any documents required or permitted 
to be taken or executed by the Borrower under the Trust Fund Credit Agreement, and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 11.03.  Action on Behalf of the Borrower.  Any action required or 
permitted to be taken, and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under 
the Trust Fund Credit Agreement on behalf of the Borrower may be taken or executed by 
the representative of the Borrower designated in the Trust Fund Credit Agreement for 
the purposes of this Section or any person thereunto authorized in writing by such 
representative.  Any modification or amplification of the provisions of the Trust Fund 
Credit Agreement may be agreed to on behalf of the Borrower by written instrument 
executed on behalf of the Borrower by the representative so designated or any person 
thereunto authorized in writing by such representative, provided that, in the opinion 
of such representative, such modification or amplification is reasonable in the 
circumstances and will not substantially increase the obligations of the Borrower 
under the Trust Fund Credit Agreement.  The Trustee may accept the execution by such 
representative or other
 person of any such instrument as conclusive evidence that in the opinion of such 
representative any modification or amplification of the provisions of the Trust Fund 
Credit Agreement effected by such instrument is reasonable in the circumstances and 
will not substantially increase the obligations of the Borrower thereunder.
Section 11.04.  Execution in Counterparts.  The Trust Fund Credit Agreement may 
be executed in several counterparts, each of which shall be an original.
ARTICLE XII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 12.01.  Conditions Precedent to Effectiveness of the Trust Fund Credit 
Page  22
Agreement.  The Trust Fund Credit Agreement shall not become effective until evidence 
satisfactory to the Trustee shall have been furnished to the Trustee that:
(a)
the execution and delivery of the Trust Fund Credit Agreement on behalf 
of the Borrower have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental 
action; and
(b)
the event specified in the Trust Fund Credit Agreement as a condition to 
its effectiveness has occurred.
Section 12.02.  Legal Opinions or Certificates.  As part of the evidence to be 
furnished pursuant to Section 12.01, the Borrower shall furnish to the Trustee an 
opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Trustee of counsel acceptable to the Trustee 
or, if the Trustee so requests, a certificate satisfactory to the Trustee of a 
competent official of the Borrower, showing:
(a)
that the Trust Fund Credit Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and is legally binding upon 
the Borrower in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
such other matters as shall be specified in the Trust Fund Credit 
Agreement or as shall be reasonably requested by the Trustee in connection therewith.
Section 12.03.  Effective Date.  (a) Except as the Borrower and the Trustee 
shall otherwise agree, the Trust Fund Credit Agreement shall enter into effect on the 
date on which the Trustee dispatches to the Borrower notice of its acceptance of the 
evidence required by Section 12.01.
(b)
If, before the Effective Date, any event shall have occurred which would 
have entitled the Trustee to suspend the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account if the Trust Fund Credit Agreement had been effective, the 
Trustee may postpone the dispatch of the notice referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section until such event or events shall have ceased to exist.
Section 12.04.  Termination of the Trust Fund Credit Agreement for Failure to 
Become Effective.  If the Trust Fund Credit Agreement shall not have entered into 
effect by the date specified therein for the purposes of this Section, the Trust Fund 
Credit Agreement and all obligations of the parties thereunder shall terminate, unless 
the Trustee, after consideration of the reasons for the delay, shall establish a later 
date for the purposes of this Section.  The Trustee shall promptly notify the Borrower 
of such later date.
Section 12.05.  Termination of the Trust Fund Credit Agreement on Full Payment.  
If and when the entire principal amount of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit 
Account and all charges which shall have accrued on the Credit shall have been paid, 
the Trust Fund Credit Agreement and all obligations of the parties thereunder shall 
forthwith terminate.
