Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  07/17/2009 
Report No.:  AC4522
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Mexico 
Project ID:  P116965 
Project Name:  Influenza Prevention and Control Project 
Task Team Leader:  Christoph Kurowski 
Estimated Appraisal Date: June 26, 2009 
Estimated Board Date: September 10, 2009 
Managing Unit:  LCSHH 
Lending Instrument:  Emergency Recovery 
Loan 
Sector:  Health (100%) 
Theme:  Other communicable diseases (80%);Health system performance (20%) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
480.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 Borrower 
72.80 
 Financing 
Gap 
0.00
72.80 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [X] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) 
Yes [X] 
No [ ] 
2. Project Objectives 
The objective of the proposed project is to strengthen the capacity of the Mexican health 
system to monitor the spread of influenza viruses and to control epidemic waves. The 
capacity to monitor the spread of influenza viruses rests on the robustness of the National 
Epidemiological Surveillance System, the improvement of which entails developing 
SINAVE into a secure intranet, upgrading the national laboratory network, training staff, 
and strengthening data analysis.  The capacity to control influenza epidemic waves 
depends largely on the available stock of medicines, vaccines and medical supplies; it 
also depends on the treatment capacity of intensive care units throughout the country.  
These two objectives -to improve the capacity of the health system to monitor the spread 
of influenza viruses and to improve its ability to control influenza epidemic waves- 
would form the two components of the proposed project.   
 
3. Project Description 
Component I: Strengthening the capacity to monitor the spread of influenza viruses 
(US$88 million). The proposed objective of Component I is to strengthen the capacity of 
the Mexican health system to monitor influenza activity. The Project would accomplish 
this by improving the National Epidemiological Surveillance System (SINAVE).  
Page  2
Specific activities would include: the development of SINAVE into a secure intranet, the 
upgrading of the national reference laboratory network, the establishment of a unit within 
SINAVE devoted entirely to epidemiologic analysis, the development of research 
programs that assess the relevance and deepen the understanding of collected 
information, and the training of personnel at all levels of the system in the use of 
information technology, laboratory procedures and data analysis.  
 
Component II: Strengthening the capacity to control epidemic waves of influenza 
viruses (US$390.8 million). The proposed objective of Component II is to strengthen the 
capacity of the Mexican health system to control influenza epidemic waves. This would 
be achieved by replenishing and maintaining the health systems strategic reserve of 
medicines, vaccines and medical supplies, strengthening the cold chain for medicines and 
vaccines and expanding the treatment capacity of intensive care units in public hospitals. 
In particular, the Government plans to expand the stock of vaccines such that it will be 
able to vaccinate more than 10 million Mexicans during this fall and winter.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
National   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Gunars H. Platais (LCSEN) 
Ms Maria E. Castro-Munoz (LCSSO) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
X
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
Environment 
 
The proposed Project has potentially adverse environmental impacts that suggest its 
classification as category B; accordingly it would trigger the Bank's environmental 
safeguard policy (OP/BP 4.01).  The proposed upgrading of the national laboratory 
Page  3
network will include the construction of the national reference laboratory and the 
refurbishing of state laboratories as well as increases in bio-security levels requiring 
enhanced capacities to handle bio-hazardous waste.  The proposed purchase of medicines 
and vaccines requires ensuring the appropriate disposal of expired batches and the 
handling of medical waste at the health service facilities.  
 
Upgrading of the National Laboratory Network  
 
The proposed Project would support the construction and equipment of the national 
reference laboratory -
 InDRE (Instituto de Diagnóstico y Referencia Epidemiológica).  
This entails the construction of a large building compound with sections of the structure 
holding high level biosafety laboratories (BSL3). The construction has been identified as 
a
national priority by the Federal Secretariat of Health and the National Health Sector 
Program 2007-12. There are no resettlement concerns with regard to the construction of 
InDRE), however, located in a residential area, effective measures have to be put in place 
to avoid and/or reduce any environmental impact on the surrounding area.  
 
The proposed Project would support the equipment, including refurbishment of state 
laboratories albeit not at the same bio-security level as the National Reference 
Laboratory.  Increasing bio-security competency within the existing infrastructure would 
include: (1) handling of biocontainment; (2) increasing the bio-security competency with 
proper equipment; (3) increasing personnel capacity through training; and (4) designing 
of appropriate management protocols. As for the national reference laboratory, the 
upgrading of state laboratories needs to include effective measure avoid or minimize any 
environmental impact from enhanced bio-safety capacities.  
 
Medicines and Vaccines  
 
The proposed purchase of influenza of medicines and vaccines requires ensuring that 
medical waste -resulting from vaccinating the population as well expiring medicines and 
vaccines- is properly disposed of. Federal legislation provides the appropriate regulatory 
framework. NOM-052-SEMARNAT-2005 provides guidance as to what constitutes 
dangerous residues and NOM-087-ECOL-SSA1-2002 provides a full treatment of what 
constitutes biomedical waste, how it should be managed, stored, transported, treated and 
disposed of.  
 
However, an environmental assessment and continuous supervision efforts under the 
Third Basic Health Care demonstrated weaknesses in implementation. While bio-medical 
waste tends to be properly managed within health facilities, its collection and final 
disposal are commonly outsourced and of varying quality.  Most importantly, expired 
medicines and vaccines need to be disposed of in incinerators and should not be disposed 
of in the sewer system given the potentially negative impact they can have on the 
receiving ecosystem.  
 
Social  
 
Page  4
The experience of prior epidemics (such as the 1918 Spanish Flu) and the first wave of 
A/H1N1 in Mexico indicate that poverty may enable the spread of influenza A 
(Taubenberger & Morens 2006). Factors responsible for this include, among others, the 
absence of basic sanitation, lack of access to health services, and reduced access to 
information.  
 
The proposed Project would address this challenge by improving epidemiological 
surveillance to better target interventions and strengthening the health systems capacity to 
respond to emergencies. Therefore, the proposed Project is expected to have a positive 
social impact and specifically, to improve the Government's capacity to protect poor 
populations from avoidable morbidity and mortality from A/H1N1 influenza, including 
indigenous populations.  
 
The proposed Project capacity-building activities would primarily benefit the Mexican 
population as a whole rather than any particular social group. With access to health 
services almost universal (>99 percent) and sentinel sites being representative of the 
countries population, the strengthening of the surveillance system would benefit all 
Mexicans.  Anti-viral drugs have been distributed to all health services in the country, 
including mobile units servicing most remote areas. Its administration will depend 
exclusively on clinical criteria.  While vaccines will not be available for the total 
population, Mexico will follow guidelines of the World Health Organization in 
prioritizing access.  These recommendations will not be available until September of this 
year.  Most likely, they will suggest concentrating efforts on densely populated areas 
where the virus spreads more easily.  
 
Yet, the Indigenous Peoples social safeguard policy (OP/BP 4.10) would be triggered 
and an Indigenous People Plan (IPP) prepared during supervision (as provided for by 
OP/BP8.00) and not later than December 31, 2009 to ensure that Indigenous People are 
enabled to adequately benefit from the Project in a culturally appropriate manner. 
Analyses underpinning the IPP would build on the findings of the social assessment 
carried out earlier this year for the project in Support of Oportunidades, Mexico's 
conditional cash transfer program that included an analysis of the health of indigenous 
communities under the program. Preliminary analyses have indentified activities to 
enable indigenous peoples to benefit from the Project in a culturally adequate manner. 
More specifically activities would address the constraints that indigenous peoples face to 
access health services and in particular vaccinations. The IPP would lay out a 
comprehensive action plan to be carried out during Project implementation.  
 
The Project would not require any resettlements and therefore would not trigger the 
Bank's involuntary resettlement safeguard policy (OP/BP 4.12).  Construction would be 
limited to the national reference laboratory, which will be constructed on the site of a 
recently demolished hospital.  The land is property of the government.  A site visit 
confirmed that there are no resettlement concerns.   
 
Page  5
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
None are expected.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
Not applicable.   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
Environment  
 
Upgrading of laboratory network  
 
A
comprehensive environmental impact assessment (EIA) has been conducted for the 
construction and equipment of the InDRE. Main findings have been internalized into the 
project. Furthermore, the design of the building incorporates a number of innovative 
environmental features such as recycling air through underground passages thereby 
removing the need for air conditioning, a green roof reducing the overall temperature of 
the structure, and deep penetration of sunlight into the office space. The building also 
includes a series of innovative design features to reduce access of unauthorized personnel 
to restricted areas.  
 
The EIA for the construction of the InDRE took into account that it is being built in a 
residential area and effective measures have taken place to face this challenge. Most 
importantly, the building was designed and will be constructed according to the Center 
for Disease Control's (CDC) Biosafety in Microbiological and Biomedical Laboratories 
and international, national, state and local construction codes, norms and specifications. 
This entails that any impact of bio-safety failure will be minimized following CDC 
standards. Additional measures include the establishment of emergency procedures on 
the job and for the functioning of the laboratory, hazardous waste procedures, waste 
recycling facilities, noise and dust control, parking within the facility in order avoid 
traffic disruption, timing of the delivery of supplies in order minimize any impact on 
surrounding traffic patterns, control of maximum level of vehicle emission, establishment 
of quality parameters for water and other effluents entering the public drainage system in 
accordance with Federal Legislation.  
 
An Environmental Management Framework would be developed for the upgrading of 
state laboratories. This framework would take into account possible refurbishing 
measures and risk factors associated with increased bio-security capacities to provide 
guidance to federal entities as they carry out upgrading state laboratories.  
 
Drawing on the EIA and assessments carried out under the Third Basic Health Care 
Project, the Project's Environmental Action Plan would have three core elements.  It 
would include recommendations of the EIA for the construction of the national reference 
laboratory, the environmental management framework for the refurbishing and handling 
Page  6
of biomedical waste in state laboratories, and capacity building activities to strengthen 
the handling of biomedical waste in state laboratories, storages for medicines and 
vaccines and health facilities as well as during vaccination campaigns.  Furthermore, it 
would specify required budget allocations and roles and responsibilities of the different 
units and divisions in the Federal Secretariat of Health and federal entities in carrying out 
the action plan. The Government would prepare this action plan as part of the Operational 
Manual, satisfactory to the Bank and prior to submission for Board approval.  
 
Medicines and Vaccines  
 
The findings of an environmental audit carried out under the Third Basic Health Care 
Project prompted Government efforts to build state-level capacity and ensure the proper 
disposal of health care waste; these efforts would be sustained under the proposed 
operation after the closing of the loan for the Third Basic Health Care project in 
December 2009. Most importantly, the Government would continue reinforcing the 
appropriate disposal of medicines and vaccines through capacity building measures, for 
example, ongoing initiatives such as the Program for the Collection and Final Disposal of 
Expired Medication carried out by states and supported by the Federal Commission for 
the Protection and Against Sanitary Risks (COFEPRIS).  
 
Social  
 
The Project's IPP would lay out a comprehensive action plan to be carried out during 
Project implementation. The IPP's action plan would expand on the activities 
implemented through an Avian and Human Influenza Facility (AHIF) Grant that aims to 
strengthen the capacity of state health systems to develop and disseminate messages 
promoting behaviors that reduce the risk of influenza A/H1N1 transmission and its health 
impact with a focus on hard-to-reach populations. Based on preliminary analyses, the 
action plan would include the following key elements. Furthermore, it would specify 
required budget allocations and roles and responsibilities of the different units and 
divisions in the Federal Secretariat of Health and federal entities in carrying out the 
action plan. Consultations on a draft IPP are scheduled for September 2009. Based on the 
outcome of this consultation a final IPP would be prepared to be submitted for Bank 
approval not later than December 31, 2009.  
 
-
Representation of indigenous people in the National Committee for Epidemiological 
Surveillance (CONAVE) through the Commission for Indigenous Development to 
provide guidance and ensure that Project activities reflect the needs and characteristics of 
indigenous population.  
 
-
Strengthening of the National System for Epidemiological Surveillance (SINAVE) 
including the disaggregation of data by gender and ethnicity to facilitate the design of 
health policies and programs for both population groups.  
 
-
Disease prevention and health promotion communication strategies, culturally 
adequate for indigenous populations, developed and implemented by state health systems 
and using Oportunidades health promoters.  
Page  7
-
In line with general vaccination policies, the preparation of an influenza A/H1N1 
vaccination plan giving specific attention to indigenous communities.  
 
-
Strengthening and expanding the country's cold chain with priority given to 
disadvantaged federal entities and administrative health units (jurisdicciones sanitarias) 
with specific attention to federal entities with a high percentage of indigenous among its 
population thereby ensuring the prompt and adequate delivery of vaccines to indigenous 
communities.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
Consultations on a draft IPP are scheduled for September 2009, including meetings with 
representatives of the Commission for Indigenous Development and representatives of 
national indigenous organizations. The results of these consultations would be 
incorporated into the draft IPP to be submitted for Bank approval not later than December 
31, 2009.  
 
The EIA for the national reference laboratory and the IPP will be disclosed at the Bank's 
InfoShop and at the website of the Federal Secretariat of Health.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 No 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
07/10/2009 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
08/15/2009 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
08/15/2009 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 No 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
10/31/2009 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
11/30/2009 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
12/15/2009 
 
Pest Management Plan: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Page  8
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
No 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
OP/BP 4.10 - Indigenous Peoples 
 
Has a separate Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework (as 
appropriate) been prepared in consultation with affected Indigenous Peoples? 
No 
If yes, then did the Regional unit responsible for safeguards or Sector 
Manager review the plan? 
No 
If the whole project is designed to benefit IP, has the design been reviewed 
and approved by the Regional Social Development Unit or Sector Manager? 
No 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
No 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
No 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
Page  9
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Christoph Kurowski 
07/14/2009 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Gunars H. Platais 
07/13/2009 
Social Development Specialist 
Ms Maria E. Castro-Munoz 
07/10/2009 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Reidar Kvam 
07/15/2009 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Mr Keith E. Hansen 
07/15/2009 
Comments:   
