                                           Document o f
                                       The World Bank

                                FOR OFFICIAL, USE ONLY

                                                                             Report No: 49367-MX




                               EMERGENCY PROJECT PAPER

                                              ON A

                                       PROPOSED L O A N

                           N
                           I THE AMOUNT OF US$491 M I L L I O N

                                             TO THE

                                 UNITED M E X I C A N STATES

                                             FOR AN

                   INFLUENZA PREVENTION AND CONTROL PROJECT

                                        November 4,2009




Human Development Sector Management Unit
Mexico and Colombia Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance o f their official duties. I t s contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.
                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

              (Exchange Rate Effective November 4,2009)
                    Currency Unit = Mexican Peso (MXN)
                     13.228MXN = U S $ l
                       US$O.O76 = 1 MXN

                             FISCAL YEAR
                        January 1 - December31

               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB        Asian Development Bank
AIDS       Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
BP         Bank Procedure
BSL        Bio-Security Level
CDC        Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
CDI        Commission for Indigenous Development - Comisidn Nacionalpara el
              Desarrollo de 10s Pueblos Zndigenas
CENAVECE   National Center for Epidemiological Surveillance and Disease Control - Centro
              Nacional de Vigilancia Epidemioldgicay Control de Enfermedades
CENSIA     National Center for Child and Adolescent Health - Centro Nacionalpara la Salud
              de la Infancia y la Adolescencia
CLC        Payment Orders - Cuenta por liquidar certificada
COFEPRIS   Federal Commission for the Protection against Sanitary Risks - Comisidn Federal
              para la Proteccidn contra Riesgos Sanitarios
CONAPO     National Population Council - Consejo Nacional de Poblacidn
CONAVE     National Council for Epidemiological Surveillance - Consejo Nacional de
              Vigilancia Epidemioldgica
CPS        Country Partnership Strategy
CQS        Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
CY         Calendar Year
DC         Direct Contracting
DGAE       Adjunct Directorate o f Epidemiology - Direccidn GeneralAdjunta de
              Epidemiologia
DGAPP      Adjunct Directorate o f Preventive Programs - Direccidn GeneralAdjunta de
              Programas Preventivos
DGE        Directorate o f Epidemiology - Direccidn General de Epidemiologia
DO         Directorate o f Operations - Direccibn de Operaciones
EA         Environmental Assessment
EIA        Environmental Impact Assessment
ENIGH      Survey on Income and Household Expenditures - Encuesta de Zngresos y Gastos
              de 10s Hogares
EPR        Epidemic and Pandemic Alert and Response
FA         Financial Agent
FA0        Food and Agriculture Organization
FBS        Fixed Budget Selection
FM         Financial Management
FPGC       Fund for Protection Against Catastrophic Expenditures - Fondo de Proteccidn
              contra Gastos Catastrdjcos
FY         Fiscal Year
                                                                  FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

         GDP              Gross Domestic Product
         GOM              Government o f Mexico
         GPAI             Global Program for Avian and Human Influenza Preparedness
         HCW              Health Care Waste
         HDI              Human Development Index
         HIV              Human Immunodeficiency Virus
         IBRD             International Bank for Reconstructionand Development
         ICB              International Competitive Bidding
         ICR              Implementation Completion Report
         IDA              International Development Association
         IFR              Interim Unaudited Financial Report
         IHR              International Health Regulations
         IMF              International Monetary Fund
         IMSS             Instituto Mexican0 del Seguro Social
         InDRE            Institute for Epidemiological Diagnosis and Reference - Instituto de Diagndstico y
                             Referencia Epidemioldgicos
         INEGI            National Institute for Statistics, Geography and Informatics - Instituto Nacional de
                             Estadistica y GeograJia
         INSP             National Health Institute - Instituto Nacional de Salud Ptiblica
         IPP              Indigenous Peoples Plan
         ISDS             Information Safeguard Data Sheet
         IS0              International Organization for Standardization
         ISSSTE           National Institute for the Social Security o f Government Workers - Instituto de
                             Seguridad y Sewicios Sociales de 10s Trabajadores del Estado
         IT               Information Technology
         LAC              Latin America and the Caribbean Region
         LCS              Least-Cost Selection
         MOU              Memorandum o f Understanding
         NAFIN            National Finance Agent - Nacional Financiera
         NCB              National Competitive Bidding
         NDP              National Development Plan - Plan Nacional de Desarrollo
         OIC              Internal Control Unit - Organo Interno de Control
         OIE              Organization for Animal Health
         OM               Operational Manual
         OP               Operational Policy
         PCU              Project Coordinating Unit
         PDO              Project Development Objective
         PEF              Federal Expenditure Budget - Presupuesto de Egresos de la Federacidn
         PIC              Public Information Center
         PID              Project Information Document
         PPP              Purchasing Power Parity
         PROFEPA          Attorney General o f Environmental Protection - Procuraduria Federal de la
                             Proteccidn a1 Ambiente
         QBS              Quality-Based Selection
         QCBS             Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
         RVP              Regional Vice-president
         SARS             Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome
         SEMARNAT         Environment and Natural Resources Secretariat - Secretaria de Medio Ambiente y
                             Recursos Naturales
         SENASICA         National Agency for Hygiene, Safety and Food Quality -Servicio Nacional de
                             Sanidad, Inocuidad y Calidad Agroalimentaria
         SEPA             System for the Execution o f Procurement Plans - Sistema de Ejecucidn de Planes
                             de Adq uis iciones


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o f
their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed without W o r l d Bank authorization.
SFP        Public Administration Secretariat - Secretaria de la Funcidn Ptiblica
SHCP       Federal Secretariat o f Finance - Secretaria de Hacienda y Cre'dito Ptiblico
SIAFF      National Treasury System - Sistema Integral de Administracidn Financiera
              Federal
SICG       Integrated System o f Governmental Accounting - Sistema de Contabilidad
              Gubernamental
SINAVE     National System for EpidemiologicalSurveillance - Sistema Nacional de
               Vigilancia Epidemioldgica
SIPC       Budgeting and Accounting System - Sistema de Informacidn Presupuestaly
              Contable
SISVEFLU   EpidemiologicalSurveillance System for Influenza- Sistema de Vigilancia
              Epidemioldgica de la Influenza
SOE        Statements o f Expenditures
sss        Single Source Selection
TESOFE     Federal Treasury - Tesoreria de la Federacidn
UNAM       Autonomous National Mexican University - Universidad Nacional Autdnoma de
              Mkxico
UNDP       United Nations Development Program
VSL        Variable-Spread Loan
WHO        World Health Organization




                 Vice President:       Pamela Cox
               Country Director:       Gloria Grandolini
                 Sector Director:      Evangeline Javier
                Sector Manager:        Ke it h Hansen
              Task Team Leader:        Christoph Kurowski
                               MEXICO: Influenza Prevention and Control Project

                                                    TABLE OF CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                           Page
A . Introduction ............................................................................................................................. 1
B. Challenge: Country Context. Recovery Strategy and Rationale for Proposed Bank
   Emergency Project ...................................................................................................................      1
C . Bank Response: The Project ..................................................................................................           11
D. Appraisal o f Project Activities ..............................................................................................          15
E. Implementation Arrangements and Financing Plan ..............................................................                            18
F. Project Risks and Mitigating Measures .................................................................................                  20
G. Terms and Conditions for Project Financing .........................................................................                     21


Annex 1 Country and Sector Background
       :                                           ..............................................................................           23
Annex 2: Detailed Description of Project Components...........................................................                              33
Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring.........................................................................                          40
Annex 4: Summary o f Estimated Project Costs .......................................................................                        45
Annex 5: FinancialManagement and Disbursement Arrangements.....................................                                             46
Annex 6: Procurement Arrangements ......................................................................................                    53
Annex 7: Implementation and Monitoring Arrangements.....................................................                                    58
Annex 8: Project Preparation and Appraisal Team Members...............................................                                      62
Annex 9: Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework ................................................                                     63
Annex 10: Economic and FinancialAnalysis ...........................................................................                        68
Annex 1 : Documents in Project Files ......................................................................................
       1                                                                                                                                    72
Annex 12: Statement o f Loans and Credits ..............................................................................                    75
Annex 13: Country at a Glance .................................................................................................             77
Annex 14: Map IBRD 33447R ...................................................................................................               80
                                           MEXICO

                    INFLUENZA PREVENTION AND CONTROL PROJECT

                                  EMERGENCY PROJECT PAPER

                                 LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN

                                           LCSHH

Date: November 4,2009                         Team Leader: Christoph Kurowski
Country Director: Gloria Grandolini           Sectors: Health (100%)
Sector Managermirector: Keith E. Hansen       Themes: Other communicable diseases (80%);
                                              health systems (20%)
Project ID: P 116965                          Environmental category: B
Lending Instrument: Emergency Recovery        Joint IFC: n/a
Loan                                          Joint Level: n/a




For Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Bank financing (US$):491 million




Development
Total:                                         112.4           426.4           538.8
Borrower:
United Mexican States
ResponsibleAgency:
Federal Secretariat o f Health
Lieja No. 7, Piso 1
Col. Juirez
06696 MCxico, D.F.
Phone: (52-55) 5553-0758
         FY                        2010                      2011                   2012
       Annual                      262.0                     199.0                   30.0
      Cumulative                   262.0                     461 .O                 491 .O

Expected effectiveness date: 12/01/2009
Expected closing date: 06/30/2012
Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?                      [ ]Yes [XINO
Re$ Section Appraisal o Project Activities
                        f
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                     [ ]Yes [ ] N o
Does the project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?
                                                                                 [ ]Yes [XINO
Re$ Section Project Risks and Mitigating Measures
Project Development Objective Re$ Section Bank Response
To strengthen the capacity o f the Mexican health system to monitor the spread o f influenza
viruses and to control epidemic waves.

Project DescriptionRe$ Section Bank Response

Component I (US$64 million) would strengthen the National Epidemiological Surveillance
System (SINAVE), including the development o f SINAVE's I T system, the upgrading o f the
Borrower's national reference laboratory, the establishment o f a unit devoted entirely to
epidemiologic analysis, the development o f research programs that assess the relevance and
deepen the understanding o f collected information, the accreditation and certification o f units
according to international standards, and the training o f personnel in the use o f information
technologies, laboratory procedures, data analysis and evidence-based public health decision
making.

Component I1 (US$426 million) would strengthen the infrastructure to effectively distribute
medicines, vaccines and medical supplies and replenish and expanding the country's strategic
reserves thereof.

Which safeguard policies are triggered, if any?Re$ Section Appraisal o Project Activities
                                                                      f
OP/BP 4.01
OP/BP 4.10
                    MEXICO: Influenza Prevention and Control Project


A. Introduction

1.    This Project Paper seeks the approval o f the Executive Directors to provide a loan in the
amount o f US$491,000,000 to the United Mexican States for an Influenza Prevention and
Control Project (the Project).

2.      The proposed loan would help finance the costs associated with the Mexican
Government's effort to monitor and control the A/HlNl influenza epidemic, which originated
in Mexico in March o f this year and has occasioned more than 350 fatalities in the country.
Given that epidemiologists expect a second wave o f influenza to hit Mexico during the winter,
the Mexican Government (henceforth, the Government) has requested Bank support in
strengthening i t s capacity to monitor the spread o f the virus (and influenza viruses more
generally) and to control influenza epidemic waves. The proposed Project would assist Mexico
in improving i t s National Epidemiological Surveillance System (SINAVE) including the
upgrading o f the Borrower's national reference laboratory for epidemiological surveillance
(henceforth referred to as the Borrower's national reference laboratory), strengthening the
infrastructure to effectively distribute medicines, vaccines and medical supplies and
replenishing and expanding the country's strategic reserves thereof.

B. Challenge: Country Context, Recovery Strategy and Rationale for Proposed Bank
Emergency Project

3.      An influenza pandemic originated in Mexico in mid-March o this year. As the
                                                                             f
country neared the end o f the annual influenza season, officials noticed an unusual increase in
patients presenting flu-like symptoms. Genomic testing revealed that a new strain o f influenza
A/HlNl (henceforth referred to as NHlNl) was responsible for the infections. Little i s s t i l l
known about this new virus, but it may spread more easily among humans than other A/HlNl
strains and have more severe health effects than seasonal influenza A (Federal Secretariat o f
Health 2009). By mid-June, the spread o f A/HlNl around the world-there were 36,000
confirmed cases in 76 countries-led the WHO to declare a Phase 6 Pandemic Alert. The final
phase o f pandemic alert, the declaration o f Phase 6 is, according to the WHO, an indication that
"a global pandemic i s underway" and that "actions should shift from preparedness to response''
(WHO 2009a). By the end o f September, there have been more than 52,000 laboratorally-
confirmed cases causing the death o f more than 350 people in Mexico (Federal Secretariat o f
Health 2009). Moreover, at the end o f the September, health care providers had reported more
than 175,000 clinical cases. Based on these data, the Bank estimates the total number o f
infections to exceed 347,000.




                                                1
     Figure 1 Number of Probable and Observed Influenza Like Illness/Severe Acure Respiratory Disease.
             :
                                                 Mexico 2009
     35000    . I
               - __-     ----
                         I         - --_ - -         -                               - __   I - --   _ __




                                                                                                                                           estimated
                                                                                                                                           reported




I            1 2 3 4 5   6   7 8 9 10 1 1 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 3 1 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 4 1 42
                                                                         Weeks
Source: SMAVE date provided by DGAE and Bank estimates



4.      I n response to the outbreak o the new virus the Government acted quickly to reduce
                                      f
its spread and minimize morbidity and mortality. In accordance with the National Plan for
Preparedness and Response to an Influenza Pandemic (which was developed in view o f World
Health Organization guidelines), the Government heightened epidemiological surveillance,
upgraded laboratories, executed a massive communications campaign encouraging preventive
behaviors, expanded and strengthened the provision o f health services and replenished stocks o f
medicines and vaccines. In an attempt to slow the rate o f spread o f the virus and thus soften the
peak o f the epidemic and avoid overwhelming health service capacity, the G o v e m e n t also
enforced a temporary closure o f schools and businesses.

5.      I n full compliance with International Health Regulations, the Government informed
the public and the World Health Organization about the epidemic, at times to the detriment o  f
its economy and foreign relations. Article 6 o f the International Health Regulations (its 2005
version) requires all states, party to the agreement, to notify the WHO within 24 hours o f "all
events which may constitute a public health emergency o f international concern within i t s
territory in accordance with the decision instrument, as well as any health measure implemented
in response to those events" (WHO 2005). Because reporting o f such events can lead other
countries to impose travel and/or trade restrictions, complying with IHR requirements can
contravene the self-interest o f the reporting country (WHO 2005). Mexico complied despite
these disincentives and some repercussions, a decision which received international recognition
and acclaim at the 62"dWorld Health Assembly and in a recent summit o f health ministers and
W H O officials in Cancun.


                                                                        2
6.      Current macroeconomic and fucal conditions complicate the Government's response
to the M l N l epidemic. In 2009 Mexico will likely experience its sharpest economic
contraction since the 1994-1995 peso crisis: the Federal Secretariat o f Finance in August
projected that GDP will decline 6.8 percent (Camara de Diputados 2009), a sharp drop from the
moderate growth o f the past four years (see Figure 2). The cause o f this contraction i s the
global financial crisis, which has occasioned a large drop in demand for Mexico's exports.
Other mechanisms by which the financial crisis affects Mexico's economy include lower o i l
prices, capital flight (and consequent credit contraction), and a decline in remittances (with
resultant reduction in consumer demand) (Banco de Mexico 2008). The economic contraction
has contributed to a large projected budget deficit for 2009 (perhaps reaching 2.1 percent o f
GDP), which circumscribes the Government's ability to direct resources toward the A/HlNl
response effort (World Bank 2009a).


        Figure 2: Sharpest Contraction Since 1994-1995
        GDP, % Change on Prior Year
   8




  -4                                                                                      \
  -6
                                                                                           \
                                                                                (Projected)    \
        Source: World Bank. Projection estimated 08/2009.
  -8



7.       Reciprocally, the M l N l epidemic further weakens fiscal and macroeconomic
conditions. The Government estimates that direct public expenditures o n i t s response to the first
wave o f A/HlNl have surpassed US$600 million; the Government and the Bank estimate the
macroeconomic impact o f the A/HlNl epidemic to range from 0.3 to 0.8 percent o f GDP
(SHCP 2009; World Bank 2009a). The A/HlNl epidemic will affect the overall economy
primarily through: (1) revenues lost due to reduced demand resulting from social distancing
@e., closing o f businesses and encouraging people to stay at home), particularly in the retail
sector and (2) a severe drop in tourism revenue. In addition to constraining the Government's
ability to respond to the epidemic, the economic downturn may create conditions that facilitate
the spread o f the virus. A s both the experience o f the first wave o f A/HlNl and the experience
o f prior epidemics (such as the 19 18 Spanish Flu) indicate, poverty may enable the spread and
impact o f influenza A (Taubenberger & Morens 2006). Factors responsible for this include the
absence o f basic sanitation, lack o f access to health services, and reduced access to information,


                                                            3
among others. Because poverty i s expected to increase this year as the economy contracts, these
factors may play a role in the development o f the epidemic.

8.      The N l N l epidemic and the economic contraction threaten human development
and specifically health outcomes in Mexico, many o which are already incommensurate with
                                                         f
the country's income level. While Mexico's overall Human Development Index-which
aggregates measures o f l i f e expectancy, literacy, and income-is close to that o f countries with
similar levels o f GDP per capita, some outcomes are closer to those o f countries much poorer
than Mexico. Infant mortality, for example, i s 28 per 1000 live births, above the expected level
for a country with Mexico's US$13,000 GDP per capita (PPP) (World Bank 2008). In addition,
human development outcomes vary across federal entities (3 1 states and the Federal District):
Mexico's overall HDI i s ranked 52nd in the world; were the state o f Chiapas a country, i t s HDI
would be ranked 107th in the world, while the state o f Nuevo Leon would be ranked 43rd
(UNDP 2008). Previous economic crises in Mexico have caused increased mortality among
children and the elderly, largely because both households and the Government ' reduce
investment in health (Cutler et al. 2002).

9.       Characterized by low public expenditures and high levels o fragmentation, Mexico's
                                                                      f
health system is not ideally positioned to confront the twin challenges o the epidemic and the
                                                                          f
recession. The Government spends 2.9 percent o f GDP in the health sector, well below the
regional average o f 3.6 percent for L A C countries. Partly as a consequence o f this, more than
half o f all health expenditures are out-of-pocket, much more than in Colombia, for example,
where out-of-pocket expenditures account for about seven percent o f total expenditures (WHO
2005). Social health insurance programs and national health services operate in parallel with
decentralized state-level health service provision; this fragmentation i s problematic because it
constrains effective planning and sector-wide coordination.

 10.    Epidemiologists expect a second wave o M l N l to affect Mexico during the winter;
                                                 f
by then, the virus may have mutated into a more virulent strain. Influenza typically flourishes
during the winter months. After a short wave in April in the northern hemisphere, it has been
spreading through the Southern Hemisphere and w i l l likely return to the Northern Hemisphere
as the seasons change again. The genetic fragility o f viruses, the current incidence o f A/HlNl
(Le,, the large number o f infections among humans and possible epidemics among animals), and
the co-occurrence with the seasonal influenza and other human influenza viruses (e.g. avian
influenza outbreaks among humans in East Asia) make mutation likely, and an A/HlNl mutant
could be more contagious, more lethal and/or more resistant to treatment. This pattern would be
consistent with that o f past influenza pandemics.

 11.      This risk o a new epidemic, together with the experience o the first wave, led the
                     f                                                f
 Government to identwy two key health policy priorities for the coming months: first, to
further improve capacity to monitor influenza; second, to further improve capacity to respond
 to it. The former requires strengthening SINAVE and involves upgrading information systems
 and the Borrower's national reference laboratory for epidemiological surveillance (the Institute
 for Epidemiological Diagnosis and Reference, or InDRE), training staff, and strengthening data
 analysis, research and evidence-based public health decision making. Strengthening capacity to
 control epidemic waves entails strengthening the infrastructure to effectively distribute
 medicines, vaccines and medical supplies, and replenishing and expanding the strategic reserves

                                                 4
thereof. In September, the President announced that Mexico would vaccinate more than 20
million people against influenza A/HlNl during this fall and winter.

 12.     The Project would accelerate the implementation o influenza epidemic preparedness
                                                                f
activities outlined in the Government's National Epidemiological Surveillance System Plan
2007-2012 and in its National Health Sector Program 2007-2012, focusing on improving
epidemiological surveillance and strengthening the response capacity o health services
                                                                               f
(Figure 3). Conceived at the outset o f the current administration, the Government's five-year
plans for SINAVE and for the health sector emphasize the need for strengthening preparedness
for disease epidemics. The Project would support all o f the seven action areas identified in the
S I N A V E plan; it would also support five o f the ten strategies outlined in the Health Sector
Program. The elements o f the Health Sector Program most directly supported by the Project
include: "strengthen the prevention o f acute respiratory diseases in childhood," "reduce the
incidence o f preventable diseases through vaccination," "mitigate the effects o f epidemiological
emergencies," "consolidate a unified system o f statistical and epidemiological information for
public health decision-making," and "improve infrastructure essential to the prevention and
control o f diseases," among others. The Project would ensure that critical activities would be
implemented in time to prepare for a possible second wave o f influenza A/HlNl and help that
the S I N A V E Plan and the National Health Sector Program would be successfully completed by
20 12 (the last year o f the administration and also the close o f the loan).

 13.                                                           f
         Health service response capacity and other pillars o influenza epidemic preparedness
(that is, those pillars not directly supported by the Project) are reinforced by related Bank
operations; Project activities would not be executed in a vacuum, but rather as part o a   f
comprehensiveplan to strengthen the capacity o the Mexican health system to respond to the
                                                   f
ALHlNl challenge. The Bank's loan supporting the Third Basic Health Care Project helps the
Government achieve the objective o f strengthening health service capacity, expanding access to
and raising the quality o f health services for 22 million (mostly poor) Mexicans. In addition,
the Bank's new loan (under preparation) to support Mexico's social protection system in health
will assist the Government's effort to ensure universal access to quality health services,
especially during the economic crisis. A grant, approved by the Avian and Human Influenza
Facility with the grant agreement shortly to be signed, reinforces prevention pillar o f
preparedness (see Figure 3) by strengthening the communication campaigns o f federal entities.
The grant would ensure the successful production and dissemination o f messages on influenza-
related behavior change, providing for the communication o f those messages to public and in
particular to hard-to-reach groups such as indigenous populations. Together, these related
activities would enhance the potential impact o f the project.




                                                5
                                  Figure 3: Influenza Prevention and Control Framework




                                                            Influenza Prevention and Control
                                                                                            -      - l - -
                                                                                                    i l - _ - . .
                                                                                                           . - - -   "   ~   -   ~        -




                                                                                                                                                               1
                              Epidemic Preparedness & Response




   I




        World Bank




                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                         ruuu    nylI*unu,sl

                                                             rs for Disease Control                                                       Organization 8
                                                                                                                                          Organization for     Ij
       The proposedProjectand the Grant have been prepared in consultation with the Wodd Health Organization




 14.    I n addition to these measures directed toward improving human health (that is, the
Project activities themselves and supporting activities financed through related operations),
the Government is working with other partners to prevent and control the spread o M l N l
                                                                                        f
among animals (Figure 3). Mexico's Federal Secretariat o f Agriculture and i t s National
Agency for Hygiene, Safety and Food Quality (SENASICA) work together to monitor animal
health, collecting and analyzing samples from farms, butchers, packaging centers, and markets.
The Federal Commission for the Protection against Sanitary Risks (COFEPRIS) monitors and
investigates reports o f sanitary threats and acts upon results. These entities work together with
international organizations under a multi-sector plan for animal disease surveillance. The Food
and Agriculture Organization (FAO) o f the United Nations has been closely supporting the
Secretariat o f Agriculture and the COFEPRIS in the surveillance o f influenza among birds and
swine in Mexico since the onset o f the epidemic. The Organization for Animal Health i s also
working with the Government to strengthen influenza surveillance and control programs in
accordance to international experiences and standards.




                                                                                        6
                       Box I:Animal Disease Prevention and Control in Mexico

Animal disease prevention and control is the joint responsibility o the Federal Secretariat o
                                                                           f                            f
Agriculture and the National Agency for Hygiene, Safety and Food Quality (SENASICA). A unit
within the secretariat i s exclusively dedicated to ensure the hygiene, safety, and quality o f meats and
produce; i t s policies and actions aim to protect animals and produce from disease o f human health and
economic importance. The unit coordinates actions in three critical areas o f prevention and control: (1)
The prevention o f entry o f illnesses at ports and borders, in particular, verifying that animals and
produce meet phyto and zoo-sanitary conditions and requirements. (2) The surveillance o f animal health,
including passive methods, for example the reporting o f diseases among animal populations and active
methods, for example, the testing o f farm animals. The national animal health surveillance system rests
on a Borrower's national reference laboratory with bio-security level 3. (3) The control and eradication
o f animal diseases, including quarantine, vaccination and culling. The SENASICA coordinates the
control o f meat products across the country to prevent the spread o f animal diseases to humans.

I n the wake o avian influenza outbreaks around the world, Mexico massively strengthened its avian
              f
disease surveillance, prevention and control systems; it has now started to expand this successful
effort to the surveillance, prevention and control o diseases among swine populations. Efforts to
                                                      f
strengthen the avian disease prevention and control have included capacity building to undertake active
surveillance through routine sampling in domestic and wild birds; first and foremost, the hiring o f
additional and training o f personnel as well as expanding the diagnostic capacity o f the national animal
health reference laboratory. Simultaneously, the Government developed contingency plans for avian
influenza outbreaks. Building on the successful experiences in preventing and controlling avian diseases,
the Government has developed and started the implementation o f plans to expand the capacity to
monitor, prevent and control disease outbreaks among swine populations.

Mexico cooperates closely with international organizations in its effort to strengthen disease
Surveillance, prevention and control, particularly A.HlN1 among its swine population. The Food and
Agriculture Organization (FAO) and the Organization for Animal Health (OIE) provided guidance in the
development o f the plans to strengthen animal disease surveillance, prevention and control first for avian
and now for swine populations. Since the onset o f the epidemic, FA0 has been closely supporting the
Federal Secretariat o f Agriculture and the COFEPRIS in the surveillance o f influenza A/HlNl among
swine populations.


15.     Proposed Project activities would serve not only to monitor the spread o M l N l and
                                                                                   f
mitigate the effects o a potential second wave o M l N l influenza but also to strengthen
                       f                            f
Mexico's health system. Neither epidemiologic surveillance nor epidemic response capacities
are disease-specific; the investments supported in the proposed Project would enable Mexico to
better control other infectious diseases. N o r are the benefits limited to infectious disease: in
allowing the Government to obtain real-time information on the country's epidemiologic
profile, improving surveillance systems would provide critical knowledge for addressing infant
and maternal mortality, chronic illness, and numerous other health challenges.

16.                                                                                    f
         The Project activities, the Bank efforts to strengthen other pillars o influenza
                                                    f
epidemic preparedness, and the national plans o which these efforts form a part, all support
objectives o Mexico's National Development Plan WDP) 2007-2012. One of the five central
             f
axes o f the NDP (Presidencia 2007) i s "equality o f opportunities," in which one o f eight action
areas i s health. Among the goals articulated in the health chapter are: "to strengthen programs o f

                                                    7
protection against public health risks," "integrate disease prevention activities across sectors,"
"to ensure the availability o f human resources, equipment, infrastructure and technology
sufficient to meet the health needs o f the population," "promote health research," and "to
guarantee effective protection against epidemiologic threats." Project activities (described in
detail in the "Project Description" section o f this document) would advance all o f these
objectives. In particular, the upgrading o f information technology systems within S I N A V E
would support "integrat[ion] o f disease prevention activities across sectors," in that these
systems would gather data from and disseminate data to Government officials outside the health
sector. The training o f personnel, building o f infrastructure, establishment o f a central unit for
epidemiological analysis, strengthening o f SINAVE, and building o f stocks o f medicines and
vaccines would all support the N D P health objectives.

Rationale for Bank Involvement

 17.     On April 26, at the Bank and IMF spring meetings, the Government requested
                                                                   f
financial support to help close the gap between the costs o controlling the first wave o          f
 influenza M l N l , improving detection, expanding its response capacity and the budget
 resources available. In response, the Bank and the Government are negotiating the
 reprogramming o f US$25.7 million from the Third Basic Health Care Project to reimburse
 expenditures on laboratory equipment, laboratory supplies, anti-viral medicines and medical
 supplies; in addition, they will shortly enter into a grant agreement for US$1.7 million under the
Avian and Human Influenza Facility to support state health systems in promoting preventive
behaviors. The proposed Project would supplement these resources (World Bank 200 1).

 18.     The rationale for Bank support is two-fold. First, Bank involvement would be
productive in part because o the Bank's two decades o experience in supporting the
                                 f                               f
development o the health sector in Mexico. Since the preparation o f the First Basic Health
                f
Care project in the late 1 9 8 0 Bank projects have supported expanding the reach and impfoving
                                 ~~
the quality o f health services, ensuring the financial sustainability o f social health insurance
programs, expanding non-contributory health insurance coverage o f the poor, and developing o f
institutional capacity in the health sector. In analytic work, too, the Bank has engaged with the
health sector in Mexico; a current analytical and advisory activity assesses the challenges o f
fragmentation among social health insurance programs and the national health services system
and explores potential solutions. Health sector-specific support is complemented by operations
in social protection and in education. For example, more recently, the Bank has started to
collaborate with Mexico in strengthening the conditional cash transfer program Oportunidades
to, among other objectives, increase health service utilization among the poor (World Bank
2009b). See Box 2 for more detail o n Bank experience in Mexico.




                                                 8
 Box 2: More than 20 Years o Successful Cooperation in Health System Strengthening
                            f

 For more than 20 years, Mexico and the Bank have been working jointly to strengthen the health
                                                f
 system and improve health. One focal point o this cooperation has been expanding basic health
 services for thepoor. The Government identified this as a policy priority in the 1990s, at which time
 the First Basic Health Care Project initiated Bank support for this objective. The First and Second
 Basic Health Care Projects together supported the Government in expanding coverage to
 approximately 10 million people in rural and remote areas. Access to basic services i s now almost
 universal, an achievement to which Bank operations made a major contribution. In this tradition, the
 Third Basic Health Care Project has further improved access to quality basic and hospital care for 22
 million poor Mexicans.

 I n addition to expanding access to basic health services, the Bank has supported the Government in
 its effort to improve the efficiency o contributory social health insurance programs. When it
                                        f
 became clear, in the 1 9 9 0 ~ ~ the financial sustainability o f Government insurance programs was
                              that
 threatened, the Bank worked with the Government to design and implement critical policy changes.
 An adjustment loan combined with a technical assistance loan supported the Government in
 developing a sound, long-term strategy to manage liabilities, introduced increasingly choice o f users
 and competition, developed purchasing mechanisms and strengthened the health service delivery
 networks.

 Strengthening health insurance programs for the poor is another area in which the Bank has
 worked closely with the Government. With the establishment o f the non-contributory health insurance
 program Seguro Popular in 2002, the Government began working toward universal coverage,
 enrolling more than 18 million poor Mexicans by the end o f December 2008. The Bank's Third Basic
 Health Care Project has supported this program by improving enrollees' access to services included in
 the Seguro Popular benefit package and by facilitating organizational and institutional reforms that
 strengthen the capacity o f federal entities to manage the program. A project under preparation will
 provide an additional US$1 billion to finance the expansion and strengthening o f insurance schemes
 for the poor during the economic crisis. AAA work has also supported the health insurance system,
 providing monitoring o f organizational and institutional reforms and analysis o f possibilities to
 integrate the insurance schemes for the poor with the contributory social health insurance programs
 for formal-sector workers.

                                                    f
  The proposed Project constitutes an extension o this decades-long dialogue, complementing and
 being complemented by other non-health sector Bank operations. As described in the main text, the
 proposed Project will not only improve epidemiological surveillance, but in the traditions o f the Basic
 Health Care Projects strengthen health service capacity. It i s complemented by a US$1-7 million
 grant for public health communication campaigns. Together with other Bank-supported programs
 such as Oportundidades, a conditional cash transfer program which has been shown to stimulate
 demand for health services or various support mechanisms for the Alianza para la Calidad en
 Educacion, a comprehensive Government and teacher union program to improve education quality
 including school health, the Project forms part o f a far-reaching set o f activities aimed at improving
 the health o f the Mexican population.




19.     Second, the Bank has extensive experience supporting governments across the globe
in preparing for and responding to influenza epidemics, in controlling other infectious
diseases, and in strengthening national epidemiological surveillance systems (see Box 3).

                                                   9
Established in 2005, the Global Program on Avian Influenza has financed 59 projects around
the world. The Bank also supported governments in responding to the SARS epidemic and has
worked extensively with governments in Latin America and the Caribbean on controlling the
spread o f HIV/AIDS. T w o projects in Latin America were devoted entirely t o strengthening
national epidemiological surveillance systems: the Bank worked with the governments o f Brazil
and Argentina t o build laboratory capacity, train surveillance system personnel, improve
information systems, and evaluate the surveillance systems in their respective countries.

 Box 3: Lessons Learned from Related Bank Operations

 One lesson that has emerged from projects addressing Avian Influenza is that a clear, well-
 designed national strategy for preparedness and response to influenza is essential, as is ensuring
 that all relevant actors understand the strategy. While many countries had an influenza strategy
 document, many o f them were underdeveloped or unfamiliar to key officials. The project design
 assimilates this lesson by ensuring that project activities correspond, where possible, to actions laid
 out in Mexico's National Plan for Preparedness and Response to an Influenza Pandemic. This plan,
 developed as it was with the participation o f representatives from numerous government agencies and
 with guidance from WHO, i s already familiar to most relevant actors and i s more complete than that
 o f any other L A C country except Chile (Mensua et al. 2009). The Project would reinforce these
 strengths, facilitating further dissemination, use, and improvement o f the plan. I t would also enhance
 the flexibility built in to the plan, the importance o f which was highlighted at a recent summit o f
 health ministers and W H O officials in Cancun.

 From past projects focused on strengthening epidemiologic surveillance, we have learned that
 ensuring the cooperation and compliance o sub-national actors is complicated and difficult.
                                                  f
 Epidemiologic surveillance projects in Brazil and Argentina, for example, struggled to ensure timely
 execution o f procurement and other activities at the state and district levels. Given the public health
 emergency, the design o f this project incorporates this lesson by centralizing the execution o f
 activities to the extent possible. As described in detail i n the "implementation arrangements" section,
 the central office o f the Federal Secretariat o f Health will execute all project activities. As for
 complementary activities (outside the scope o f the project) that do require action at various levels o f
 government, the Federal Secretariat o f Health would sign coordination agreements with each state.
 Moreover, the Project would improve coordination capacity by streamlining information-flow
 processes, upgrading communication technology, and training personnel at all levels.

                                                                            f
 The experience o related projects also emphasizes the importance o planning evaluation efforts
                        f
 ahead o time. Without prior planning, ICRs caution, it i s impossible to obtain the detailed
          f
 information necessary for assessing response to a disease epidemic. Even such basic data as
 sequencing o f Government response activities, direct expenditure on epidemic response, and
 organization o f implementation among various agencies can be difficult to recover after the fact. The
 present project responds to this lesson by supporting the Government's effort to contract and
 coordinate evaluation activities well in advance, during project preparation. The Government will
 arrange for several separate evaluations: one o f its response to the first wave o f A/HlNl influenza, a
 second o f the epidemiologic surveillance system in general, and a third o f its response to a second
 wave o f A / H l N l .




                                                   10
C. Bank Response: The Project

20.     As explained above, the proposed Project would complement and expand upon the
Bank's support to Mexico in addressing the m l N 1 epidemic. A restructuring o f the Third
Basic Health Care Project i s being negotiated to provide $25.7 million for expenditures on
laboratory equipment, laboratory supplies, anti-viral medicines and medical supplies. In
addition, grant funding (US$1.7 million) was approved by the Avian and Human Influenza
Facility to support health systems o f federal entities in promoting preventive behaviors; the
Government and the Bank will shortly sign the grant agreement. The proposed loan would
complement and expand upon this support, enabling the Government to carry out activities it
has identified as essential to preparing for a potential second wave o f A/HlNl influenza.
Together with the restructuring, the grant, and the Government's self-financed activities
(described above), the Project would form part o f a comprehensive response to the A/HlNl
epidemic.

Project Development Objectives

2 1.    The objective o the proposed Project is to strengthen the capacity o the Mexican
                        f                                                       f
health system to monitor the spread o influenza viruses and to control epidemic waves. The
                                      f
capacity to monitor the spread o f influenza viruses rests on the robustness o f the National
Epidemiological Surveillance System (SINAVE), the improvement o f which entails developing
SINAVE's IT system, upgrading the Borrower's national reference laboratory, training staff,
and strengthening data analysis, research and evidence-based public health decision making.
The capacity to control influenza epidemic waves depends largely o n the infrastructure to
effectively distribute medicines, vaccines and medical supplies and the strategic reserves
thereof. These two objectives-to improve the capacity o f the health system to monitor the
spread o f influenza viruses and to improve its ability to control influenza epidemic waves-
would form the two components o f the proposed Project.

 22.     The Government selected the proposed action areas in light o the experience o the
                                                                        f                 f
first wave o the influenza M l N l epidemic and to prepare for a potential second wave o
             f                                                                                 f
 the epidemic. The experience o f the first wave o f N H l N 1 influenza (described in detail in
 Annex 1) led the Government to identify areas in which its capacity to monitor the spread o f
 influenza viruses and respond to influenza epidemic waves can be further strengthened. Given
that epidemiologists expect a second wave o f N H l N 1 to affect Mexico during the winter, the
 Government selected priority activities for the coming months.

Summary o f Project Components

23.     Component I: Strengthening the capacity to monitor the spread o influenza viruses
                                                                              f
(US$64 million). The proposed objective o f Component Iis to strengthen the capacity o f the
Mexican health system to monitor influenza activity. The Project would accomplish this by (i)
strengthening the management and technical quality o f the S I N A V E through developing
SINAVE's I T system and upgrading the Borrower's national reference laboratory for
epidemiological surveillance, including construction and equipping; (ii)    ensuring the quality,
relevance and timeliness o f epidemiologic information through organizational reforms in the
Federal Secretariat o f Health including the establishment o f a central analysis unit and mobile

                                              11
units, setting up epidemiological research programs to assess the relevance and deepen the
understanding the information collected, and ceitifying SINAVE according to international
standards; and (iii)improving SINAVE's human resource capacity through training the
S I N A V E staff in new processes, management schemes and bio-security in laboratories,
applying new information technologies and platforms, carrying out knowledge events
promoting a culture o f analysis, research and dissemination o f information for policy making.

24.                   1
        Component 1 : Strengthening the capacity to control epidemic waves o influenza
                                                                                   f
viruses (US$426 million). The proposed objective o f Component I1 is to strengthen the capacity
o f the Mexican health system to control influenza epidemic waves. This would be achieved by
strengthening the infrastructure to effectively distribute medicines, vaccines and medical
supplies, replenishing and expanding the country's strategic reserves thereof. In particular, the
Government plans to vaccinate as soon as a vaccine becomes available more than 20 million
Mexicans against A/HlN1 during this winter.

25.                                                                    1
       Meeting eligibility criteria under Project Components I and 1 , the proposed loan
would reimburse Government expenditures incurred during the first wave o influenza
                                                                                 f
M l N l . These expenditures would include the purchase o f medicines, vaccines, and medical
supplies on or after April 23,2009.

Eligibility f o r Processing under OP/BP 8.00

26.     The proposed operation would contribute to an effective emergency response by
providing resources the Government needs to preserve human capital, restore economic
activity, and prepare and mitigate the effects o potential future health emergencies. By
                                                 f
strengthening the Government's ability to monitor and control influenza epidemics, the Project
supports these three o f the eligible objectives defined in OP 8.00. The Bank and the
Government considered and obtained financing from sources other than this operation,
including (as described above) funds from an existing health project directed to the epidemic
response and a grant from the Avian and Human Influenza Facility.

27.     Following consultations with senior management, the Bank task team did not choose
to prepare the proposed loan under the Global Program for Avian and Human Influenza
Preparedness (GPAI). The G P A I was established in 2006 in response to the specter o f an avian
influenza pandemic. A Board-approved adaptable program loan o f US$500 million facilitates
the Bank's rapid response to support countries in preparing for avian or human influenza
epidemics. The adaptable program loan allows for processing country-specific loans under
O P B P 8.00'. By mid-May 2009 and one month before the closing o f the program, out o f the
US$500 million available, US$320 million o f the adaptable program loan had been committed.
In response to the unfolding A/HlNl pandemic, the Board approved o n June 2, 2009 the
extension o f the program to June 30, 2010, an increase in the amount o f the adaptable program
loan to US$l,OOO million, and the eligibility o f preparing development policy loans under the
program. Because o f the loan size, senior management suggested the proposed Project not be
prepared under the program. First, the loan size would largely exhaust the program's resources

I
  The only exception i s that OP8.00 allows for retroactive financing up to 40 percent, while the adaptable program
loan specifies a threshold o f 20 percent.

                                                        12
and, second, preparing the loan outside the program would allow for a full Board presentation
(compared to the GPAI procedure, which i s similar to the one for subsequent phases o f APL,
with Regional Vice-president approval effective 10 days after circulation o f the project to the
Board).

Consistency with Country Partnership Strategy

 28.                           f
         The flexible design o the World Bank Group's Country Partnership Strategy 2008-
 2013 (Report No. 4 2 8 6 4 - M ) discussed by the Executive Directors on April 8, 2008 has
facilitated a timely and effective Bank response to Mexico's changing borrowing and
 development needs in the face o the deteriorating global financial and economic
                                       f
 environment. The framework for moving forward agreed with the Government includes major
 effort to alleviate the expected human consequences o f the economic downturn as well as the
 gradual reactivation o f the economy. As the proposed operation i s being processed under OP
 8.00'(Response to Crises and Emergencies), an update on the implementation o f the CPS will be
 presented with the next operation prepared under regular procedures2.

29.                                                                             f
         The proposed Project is in line with the principles and objectives o the Country
Partnership Strategy. The CPS identifies several principles o f engagement, including
flexibility, fast response and selectivity in addressing developing challenges. The proposed
emergency operation demonstrates the Bank's flexibility and fast response capacity to Mexico's
changing financing and development needs. It i s closely aligned with two o f the development
challenges identified in the CPS: sustainable growth through investment in human capital and
strengthening institutions. Toward the former, the proposed Project would strengthen the
Government's capacity to protect the health and lives o f i t s citizens. Toward the latter, the
proposed Project would improve the management and organization o f an essential component o f
the health system-the surveillance system.

Expected Outcomes

30.     The proposed Project would strengthen the capacity o the Mexican health system to
                                                                f
monitor influenza epidemics. This objective would be achieved by strengthening the National
Epidemiological Surveillance System (SINA W). Strengthening this system would be
achieved through the development o f SINAVE's I T system, upgrading the Borrower's national
reference laboratory, establishing a unit entirely devoted to data analysis, developing research
programs that assess the relevance and deepen the understanding o f collected information,
accrediting and certifying units, and the training o f personnel in the use o f information
technologies, laboratory procedures, data analysis and evidence-based public health decision
making.

3 1.                                                           f
        The proposed Project would strengthen the capacity o the Mixican health system to
control epidemic waves. This objective would be achieved by replenishing and maintaining the
country's strategic reserve o f medicines, vaccines and medical supplies, strengthening the cold
chain for medicines and vaccines.



 The most recent CPS update was presentedto the Board with the Support to Oportunidades Project in April 2009.

                                                     13
32.    Key outcome indicators include:

           S I N A V E performance index
           SISVEFLU index
           Percentage o f population vaccinated against A/H 1N 1
           Number o f anti-viral treatments stockpiled in the strategic reserve

 3 3.    Both indices are composite measures o the quality, timeliness and representativeness
                                                  f
 o information produced by each o the SINAVE and SISVEFLU systems at the health
  f                                    f
facility or laboratory level in all federal entities. The SINAVE index comprises measures for
 three of its four sub-systems. Examples o f these measures are: the percentage o f medical
 centers reporting cases in a timely manner, the number o f consecutive weeks o f reporting, the
number o f notified cases o f specific diseases among children under 15 years o f age, the
percentage o f samples drawn according to standards, and the percentage o f probable cases
tested in a timely manner. The SISVEFLU index includes seven indicators measuring the
performance o f health facilities and laboratories in all federal entities; these are the timely
notification o f probable cases, the timely investigation o f cases, the adequacy o f sample
collection, the timeliness o f shipment o f samples, the concordance between samples, the
compliance with case identification goals, and the follow-up o f diagnosed and notified cases.

34.    Key output indicators include:

           Central epidemiological analysis unit established
           Percentage o f state andjurisdiccibn epidemiological offices fully equipped and

       .   connected to new information technology platform
           Percentage o f sentinel health facilities with staff trained in the use o f the new

       .   information technology platform
           Number o f federal entities with appropriately sized cold chambers and 80 percent o f
           administrative health units (jurisdicciones) with complete cold chain equipment

 3 5.   Project monitoring would use primarily country systems.              Progress towards
 strengthening the capacity to monitor influenza epidemics would be monitored using indicators
and data collection systems o f the Advancing to Excellence program (Caminando a la
Excelencia) and National Epidemiological Surveillance System Plan. Advancing to Excellence
aims to improve public health programs, including surveillance. The program links the
performance o f federal entities with federal financing and support. Progress towards
strengthening the health system's capacity to control waves o f influenza epidemics would use
country indicators and data collection systems to monitor vaccination coverage as well as the
strategic reserve and the capacity o f the country's cold chain. The purchase o f vaccines and
anti-viral medicines to replenish and maintain the strategic reserve would be monitored using
the procurement system o f the Directorate o f Operations within the Under-secretariat for
Prevention and Promotion in the Federal Secretariat o f Health.




                                                14
D. Appraisal o f Project Activities

Economic and Financial

36.     The economic evaluation weighs the Project costs against its likely benefit. The
analyses has been organized according to the two components o f the Project-or, equivalently,
into two scenarios: in the first scenario, the Project activities geared toward monitoring the
spread o f influenza viruses succeed in averting a second wave o f the A/HlNl epidemic; in the
second scenario, a second wave occurs, and the activities geared toward controlling epidemic
waves succeed in minimizing morbidity and mortality. For the second scenario, the analysis
estimates a model that uses various inputs to project number o f years o f life lost under nine
distinct sets o f circumstances (various infection rates, mortality rates, etc.). In all circumstances,
as stated above, benefits exceed costs.

37.      This analysis, presented in detail in Annex 10, concludes that the benefits o the     f
Project exceed the costs, in some scenarios by a factor o 55. If the economic impact o f a
                                                               f
second wave o f the epidemic were to reach the Bank's estimate o f 0.8 percent o f GDP, for
example, this would constitute US$7.2 billion, about 112 times the US$64 million cost o f the
activities geared toward averting the second wave. Even if the economic impact o f a second
wave o f the epidemic were only to reach 0.3 percent o f GDP, the lower bound o f the
Government's estimate o f the impact o f the first wave, benefits would exceed costs by a factor
o f 42. Turning to the human rather than economic costs, the net present value o f the lives saved
through the activities o f this Project (we use a standard method for assigning a dollar value to a
life-year lost) exceeds the costs o f strengthening response capacity by a factor o f 2.5 even in the
most optimistic (i-e., most limited spread o f the virus) scenario. More detailed presentations o f
these ratios can be found in Annex 10.

Technical

38.     A vast body o literature asserts that activities such as those o the proposed Project
                      f                                                  f
are valuable in monitoring and responding to influenza epidemics. Strengthening o f
surveillance systems i s critical (Nsubuga et al. 2006; Fleming et al. 2003) and European and
North American experiences point to the importance o f computerized systems with the capacity
o f automatic data analysis and alert systems (Van der Velden 2006). According to Bank
experiences, for example a project in Brazil, it is critical to train staff in the use o f new
information technology and data analysis (World Bank 2004). Strategic reserves of vaccines,
medicines and medical supplies are critical for epidemic control and vaccination i s probably the
most cost-effective intervention to reduce the spread o f the influenza viruses and reduce their
morbidity and mortality.(WHO 2009; Fleming et al. 2003).

39.     National and international public health agencies supported the Government in the
selection o priority activitiesjinanced under this Project. Among these public health agencies
           f
are the Mexican National Institute o f Public Health, the U S Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention, the Public Health Agency o f Canada, and the World Health Organization.




                                                  15
Institutional

40.      The coordination and implementation o Project activities would be governed by two
                                                f
highly visible and technically sound national plans. The activities o f Project component I
would constitute core elements o f the National Epidemiological Surveillance System Plan and
o f the National Plan for Preparedness and Response to an Influenza Pandemic; the activities o f
Project component I1 would fall within the National Plan for Preparedness and Response to an
Influenza Pandemic.

 4 1.    Project activities would be coordinated and implemented using structures and staff o     f
 the Federal Secretariat o Health, specifically the Under-secretariat o Prevention and
                              f                                                f
 Promotion in Health, which demonstrated strong technical and managerial skills during the
first wave o the influenza M l N l epidemic. The Adjunct Directorate o f Epidemiology
              f
 (DGAE) would serve as the Project Coordination Unit responsible for overall project
 coordination and monitoring as well as the implementation o f Component I and the IPP.
 Learning from the experiences o f the past months, specifically the importance o f
 epidemiological data analysis, the Federal Secretariat o f Health is currently finalizing plans to
 further strengthen the DGAE and upgrade it into a General Directorate for Epidemiology with
 additional staff and a new central epidemiological analysis unit. The Adjunct Directorate o f
 Preventive Programs (DGAPP) and the National Center for Child and Adolescent Health
 (CENSIA, a deconcentrated unit within the Federal Secretariat o f Health) would be responsible
                                          1
 for the implementation o f Component 1 ; DGAPP for replenishing and maintaining the strategic
 reserve, and both DGAPP and CENSIA for strengthening the cold chain. All three entities
 would receive administrative support (financial management and procurement) from the
 Directorate o f Operations (also within the Under-secretariat for Prevention and Promotion) and,
 in turn, the Directorate o f Operations from NAFIN (National Financiers), a public financial
 agent. All four entities draw on strong technical and managerial teams. However, as the
Directorate o f Operations would support for the first time the implementation o f a Bank-
 financed project, the Government and the Bank agreed to reinforce i t s staff with a financial
management and a procurement specialist that have experience with Bank operations.

Fiduciary

 42.     Project activities would be implemented at the national level, with procurement and
financial management functions carried out by the Directorate o Operations with support
                                                                        f
from NAFIN. The risk inherent to procurement is moderate, taking into account previous
 experience with Federal Secretariat o f Health-executed, Bank-financed projects; Project
 characteristics, including the central acquisition o f works, goods and services; and a
 procurement capacity assessment o f the Directorate o f Operations (as described in Annex 6).
 The main limitation is that the Directorate o f Operations has no previous experience with
 implementing Bank-financed projects. This circumstance is compounded by the emergency
 nature o f the Project. The Government and the Bank therefore agreed on several risk-mitigating
 measures, including the hiring o f an additional procurement specialist with experience in Bank-
 financed projects at least during the first year o f implementation, an intensive training program
 for procurement staff in the Directorate o f Operations and the review o f all procurement
processes by NAFIN. Hence, the residual risk, i.e. as mitigated by the agreed actions, i s also
moderate.

                                                16
43.     The Project would be implemented using mainly the country'sfinancial management
systems, including budgeting, accounting, treasury, internal control and auditing. The
inherent financial management risk i s moderate, taking into account previous experience with
Federal Secretariat o f Health-executed, Bank-financed projects, as well as the proposed project
characteristics, including centralized acquisition o f works, goods and services. A number o f
Project-specific mitigating controls, as described in Annex 5, are also in place. Hence, the
residual FM risk, i.e. the inherent risk as mitigated by existing controls, is also moderate.

Environment

44.      The proposed Project has potentially adverse environmental impacts that suggest
its classification as category B; accordingly it would trigger the Bank's environmental
safeguard policy (OP 4.01). The proposed upgrading o f the Borrower's national reference
laboratory will include i t s construction and equipping and require enhanced capacities to handle
biohazardous materials and waste. The proposed replenishment and maintenance o f the
strategic reserve would require ensuring the adequate disposal o f bio-medical waste, i.e. expired
medicines, vaccines as well as medical waste resulting from vaccination efforts in health
facilities. Federal legislation provides appropriate guidance on bio-medical waste management;
however, implementation needs to be strerigthened.

45.      The Project would use assessment instruments and other measures to avoid o r
mitigate any adverse environmental impacts. The Government conducted a comprehensive
environmental impact assessment (EIA) in preparation for phase Io f the construction o f the
Borrower's national reference laboratory for epidemiological surveillance. The Bank reviewed
the assessment and confirmed compliance with safeguard policies. Subsequently, the
Government submitted to the Bank, the Project Environmental Action Plan including
recommendations o f the EIA for the construction o f phase I o f the Borrower's national
reference laboratory and capacity building activities to strengthen the handling o f bio-medical
waste in the said laboratory, in storages for medicines and vaccines, in health facilities an
during vaccination campaigns. The plan was reviewed and compliance with Bank safeguard
policies confirmed. In addition, a comprehensive environmental impact assessment will
precede phase I1 o f the construction, including the assessment o f site-specific aspects and the
handling o f biohazardous material. The assessment as well as the recommended environmental
provisions will be submitted by the Government to the Bank for i t s approval prior to initiating
the bidding process. Building on efforts carried out in support o f the Third Basic Health Care
project, the Government would continue reinforcing the appropriate disposal o f medicines and
vaccines through capacity building measures, for example, ongoing initiatives such as the
Program for the Collection and Final Disposal o f Expired Medicines carried out by federal
entities with the support o f the Federal Commission for the Protection Against Sanitary Risks.

Social

46.    The proposed Project is expected to have a positive social impact and, specifically, to
improve the Government's capacity to protect the poorest populations from avoidable
morbidity and mortality from AMlNl influenza, including the indigenous population. The
experience o f prior epidemics (such as the 1918 Spanish Flu) and the first wave o f A/HlNl in
Mexico indicate that poverty may enable the spread and compound the severity o f influenza

                                               17
    infections (Taubenberger & Morens 2006). Factors responsible for this include, among others,
    the absence o f basic sanitation, lack o f access to health services, and reduced access to
    information. The proposed Project would address this challenge by strengthening SINAVE to
    better target interventions and strengthening the health system's capacity to respond to
    emergencies.

    47.     Focusing on capacity building, the proposed Project activities would benefit the
    Mexican population as a whole rather than any particular social group, yet, the indigenous
    peoples social safeguard policy (OPZBP 4.1 0) would be triggered and an Indigenous Peoples
    Plan (IPP) prepared during supervision (as provided for by OPZBP8.00) to ensure that
    indigenous peoples benefit from the Project in an culturally appropriate manner. Preliminary
    analyses suggest that the IPP, in accordance with consultations on a draft that are scheduled for
    December 2009/January 2010, would include the following key elements and be prepared to be
    submitted for Bank approval not later than February 28, 2010: (1) The Center for the
    Development o f Indigenous Communities participates as a member o f the National Commission
    for Epidemiological Surveillance and the National Council for Vaccination providing guidance
    in the design o f culturally appropriate activities and policies. (2) Strengthening o f elements o f
    the SINAVE would include the disaggregation o f data by gender and ethnicity to facilitate the
    design o f policies and activities for these population groups. (3) Federal entities would develop
    and implement disease prevention and health promotion strategies that are culturally appropriate
    for indigenous and would be disseminated, among other platforms, by Oportunidades health
.   promoters. (4) In line with general vaccination policies, the preparation o f a national influenza
    M I N I vaccination plan would give specific attention to indigenous communities. (5)
    Strengthening and expanding the country's cold chain would give priority to disadvantaged
    federal entities and administrative health units (jurisdicciones) with particular attention to
    federal entities with a high percentage o f indigenous peoples among their population.

    48.    The Project would not require any resettlements and therefore would not trigger the
    Bank's involuntary resettlement safeguard policy (OPZBP 4.12).              The financing o f
    constructions would be limited to the Borrower's national reference laboratory, which will be
    constructed on the site o f a recently demolished hospital. The land i s property o f the
    Government. A site visit confirmed that there are no resettlement concerns.


    E. ImplementationArrangements and Financing Plan

    49.    Project activities would be coordinated and implemented using organizational
    structures and staff o the Federal Secretariat o Health. Relevant organizational structures
                          f                           f
    operate exclusively under the oversight o f the Under-Secretariat for Prevention and Promotion
    in Health. Within the Under-secretariat, the National Center for Epidemiological Surveillance
    and Disease Control (CENAVECE), the National Center for Child and Adolescent Health
    (CENSIA) and the Directorate o f Operations would have lead roles, and within CENAVECE,
    the Adjunct Directorate for Epidemiology (DGAE), the Adjunct Directorate for Preventive
    Programs (DGAPP). On fiduciary matters, all units and in particular the Directorate o f
    Operations would be supported by Nacional Financiera (NAFIN), a public financial agent with
    ample experience in supporting the implementation o f Bank-financed projects.


                                                    18
50.      The Adjunct Directorate for Epidemiology would serve as the Project Coordination
Unit (PCU) and lead the implementation o component I. Under the supervision o f its Adjunct
                                            f
Director serving as the head o f the PCU, the DGAE would ensure that all legal requirements are
met, coordinate the preparation o f operational and procurement plans, ensure the seamless
cooperation with federal entities under Cooperation Agreements, facilitate Project supervision,
assess regularly implementation progress, respond to Project-related external inquiries, and
implement component I O n all technical and strategic matters, the DGAE would seek guidance
                         .
from a twelve-member advisory committee to be established not later than 2 months after
effectiveness and comprising Directors o f other General Directorates and Centers within the
Federal Secretariat o f Health as well as the Chairman o f the National Commission on Social
Protection in Health and Directors o f the National Institute for Public Health and the National
Autonomous University.

5 1.     I n close collaboration with DGAE, the Adjunct Directorate for Preventive Programs
(DGAPP) and the National Center for Child and Adolescent Health (CENSU) would jointly
implement Component 1 o the Project. DGAPP would be responsible for carrying out
                            1 f
activities to replenish and maintain the strategic reserve o f influenza vaccines, medicines and
medical supplies. DGAPP and CENSIA would be responsible for carrying out activities to
strengthen the country's cold chain.

 52.     The Directorate o Operations would support DGAE, DGAPP and CENSIA in all
                             f
fiduciary tasks. Under the oversight o f i t s Director, the Directorate would prepare and update
 the Project's operational manual; prepare and update the Project's procurement plans, carry out
 the procurement o f goods, works and services, prepare ex-post procurement reviews, prepare
 non-audited Interim Financial Reports, prepare Project Financial Statements and Statements o f
 Expenditures (SOEs), Records and Summary Sheets and prepare for and facilitate Project
 audits. In these tasks, the Directorate o f Operations would be supported by National Finance.
 Considering the emergency nature o f the Project and that the Directorate o f Operations has no
 experience in the execution o f Bank-financed projects, the support o f National Finance would
 include the review o f all procurement processes.

53.      The Project would be implemented at the national level, including the central
acquisition o all works, goods and services. Yet, the impact o f the Project will depend o n
              f
complementary activities carried out by federal entities. Therefore, the DGAE will ensure that
these activities are incorporated into Cooperation Agreements into which the Federal Secretariat
o f Health enters with federal entities. These Cooperation Agreements will include the obligation
o f the federal entities to assist in the procurement process, to carry out complementary
activities, for the distribution o f medicines and vaccines and to comply with the project's
safeguard requirements.

54.    Disbursement arrangements would follow standard procedures. Eligible expenditures
would be reimbursed o n the basis o f supporting documentation. If requested by Nacional
Financiera (NAFIN) and approved by the Bank, eligible activities would also be directly paid.
Eligible expenditures paid for between April 23, 2009 (the date when the new influenza
M l N 1 strain was identified) and loan signing date would be reimbursed up to an amount not
to exceed 40 percent o f the loan amount.


                                               19
55.     Given the urgent need to prepare for a second wave o influenza AMlNl expectedfor
                                                               f
                                                                                      2
the winter, more than halfof loan resources would be disbursed within thefirst 1 months o         f
project execution. Remaining resources would finance strategic, multi-annual investment both
component Iand 1 , for example, the upgrading o f SINAVE's information technology platform,
                   1
the construction o f the Borrower's national reference laboratory and the financing o f vaccines.


F. Project R i s k s and Mitigating Measures

56.      Mexico may face challenges in preparing for a second wave o the AMlNl influenza
                                                                        f
epidemic; in particular, its response capacity may be insufficient to control a second wave.
Global production o f AiHIN1 vaccine (when it i s developed) i s likely to be insufficient to meet
global demand in the short-term, the national vaccination program may not have the capacity to        ,


vaccinate large groups o f the population against A/HINI, and Mexico's stock o f anti-viral
drugs would be insufficient to respond to a second wave o f influenza A/HlNl with an attack
rate o f more than one percent. The Government i s already taking steps to mitigate these risks:
the strategic reserve o f vaccines will be stocked to inoculate more than 20 million Mexicans,
thus reducing the probability o f high attack rates; Mexico, in partnership with a leading
pharmaceutical company, i s developing domestic vaccine production capacity to take effect in
spring 20 11 and, under the same public-private partnership, has preferential access to 20 million
doses as an A/HINl vaccine as soon as it becomes available; and while the national vaccination
program has the capacity to vaccinate large groups o f the population, for example, every year
close to 20 million people against seasonal influenza, the Government, with financial support
from the loan, will heavily invest in strengthening the country's cold chain as the most likely
bottleneck for a further scaling up o f the program.

 57.      The AMlNl vaccine currently being developed may cause adverse health events more
frequently and o more severe nature than anticipated and tolerable. As for any new vaccine,
                   f
 this risk will be higher compared with well-established vaccines because the vaccine will have
 only been tested in clinical trials with some o f the potential target populations. The risk o f
 intolerable side-effects will be largely mitigated by closely monitoring adverse health events
 and, if necessary, changes to vaccination protocols. Mexico has a comprehensive system for the
 surveillance o f vaccine associated events. A first sub-system o f SINAVE captures clinical
 manifestations o f vaccine associated side-effects more generally. A second sub-system was
 developed to monitor poliomyelitis during the eradication phase. More recently, the system has
been adapted to capture other paralytic syndromes, such as Guillain-Barre, that may occur in
 adults as a vaccine associated adverse event. Staff o f health facilities and participating in
vaccination campaigns have been trained to notify possible vaccine adverse events and
 investigate causalities.

5 8.    Implementation capacity constraints may hamper the timely, execution o Project
                                                                                    f
activities and investment in information technology may not be sustainable. There are three
main risks related to implementation capacity and sustainability: that human resources at the
Under-secretariat for Prevention and Promotion in Health are already taxed with responding to
the epidemic and therefore have limited time and resources to manage the Project, that large
investments in information technology require corresponding investments in information
technology maintenance capacity, and that these information technology investments (and the

                                               20
consequent computerization o f SINAVE) will require a challenging cultural shift (toward real-
time analysis and effective dissemination o f epidemiologic intelligence). These risks will
largely be mitigated by, respectively: the planned upgrading o f the DGAE into a General
Directorate with additional staff, the hiring o f procurement and financial management
specialists into the Directorate o f Operations, and the availability o f temporary support from
staff in other under-secretariats, the probable outsourcing o f information technology support
services and the possibility o f leasing rather than purchasing hardware, and the significant
investments in training o f SINAVE staff to facilitate the necessary cultural change.

59.      Reductions in fiscal space expected as a consequence o the economic crisis may
                                                                   f
reduce the Government budget for Project activities. While the Government i s highly
committed to the Project, the severe economic downturn will produce a sharp contraction in
fiscal space and thereby force difficult trade-offs. The Government has already taken steps that
mitigate this risk: President Calderon publicly committed himself to some o f the Project
objectives, he personally intervened to reduce cuts in the budget o f the Federal Secretariat o f
Health, the Federal Secretariats o f Finance and Health have engaged in a constructive dialogue
about additional budget allocations for N H l N 1 preparedness and response activities in 2009,
and the Government may be able to draw on resources from the Trust Fund for Catastrophic
Health Expenditures. In addition, the Bank loan financing w i l l facilitate prioritizing Project
activities within the budget.

G. Terms and Conditions for Project Financing

Financial terms

     .   The borrower chose a U S Dollar denominated commitment-linked IBRD Flexible Loan
         with a variable spread, with a single bullet repayment payable in18 years and with all
         conversion options. The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower will be equal to 0.25%
         o f the loan amount.

Conditions for Effectiveness

         The Borrower, through i t s Federal Secretariat o f Finance and its Federal Secretariat o f
         Health, enters into a contract (Contrato de Mandato) with NAFIN, satisfactory to the
         Bank whereby, inter alia, NAFIN agrees to act as financial agent with regard to the loan
 '
         and the Federal Secretariat o f Health agrees to fully cooperate with NAFIN to ensure
         that it i s able to comply with all o f i t s obligations.

     .   The Borrower, through i t s Federal Secretariat o f Finance and i t s Federal Secretariat o f
         Health, and NAFIN (each in i t s own separate legal opinion satisfactory to the Bank,
         issued by counsel acceptable to the Bank), indicate that the Contrato de Mandato has
         been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the
         Borrower and NAFIN and i s legally binding upon the Borrower and NAFIN in
         accordance with i t s terms.




                                                  21
Covenants Applicable to Project Implementation

   .   The Borrower would carry out the Project in accordance with the Operational Manual.

   .   The Borrower shall maintain, within DGAE, an implementation team to coordinate and
       monitor the carrying out o f the Project.

   .   The Borrower shall maintain, within DO, a team to handle fiduciary matters o f the
       Project.

       The Borrower, through the Federal Secretariat o f Health, would not later than two
       months after the effectiveness date create and thereafter maintain a federal advisory
       committee to advise and guide DGAE in carrying out the Project.

   .   The Borrower, through the Federal Secretariat o f Health, would not later than February
       28, 2010, furnish to the Bank for i t s approval an Indigenous Peoples Plan setting forth
       the procedures to be followed and actions to be taken to enable indigenous peoples'
       access to the Project's benefits in a culturally appropriate manner, and thereafter
       incorporate the IPP into the Operational Manual and carry it out in accordance with i t s
       terms.

   .   The Borrower, through the Federal Secretariat o f Health, would prior to bidding the
       Phase 2 Construction o f the Borrower's national reference laboratory for
       epidemiological surveillance furnish to the Bank for i t s approval the environmental
       provisions applicable thereto.

   .   The Borrower, through the Federal Secretariat o f Health, would prior to issuing bidding
       documents for activities aimed to benefit and/or be implemented by a Federal Entity
       Federal Entity, enter into a Cooperation Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with that
       Federal Entity for it to assist the Borrower in the carrying out o f the Project.

   .   The Borrower, through SHCP, shall enter into a contract among the Borrower, through
       SHCP and the Federal Secretariat o f Health, and NAFIN, whereby NAFIN agrees to act
       as financial agent o f the Borrower with regard to the Loan.




                                              22
                                Annex 1: Country and Sector Background
                        MEXICO Influenza Prevention and Control Project


1. The objective o this Annex is to describe the socioeconomic, epidemiologic, and health
                   f
sector context in which the proposed Project would take place. The Annex proceeds as
follows: Section I describes current socioeconomic conditions in Mexico; Section I T
summarizes the evolution o f the present influenza epidemic; Section I11 presents the
Government's response to the epidemic; Section I V describes the interaction between the
epidemic, the Government's fiscal position, and the macroeconomic situation; and Section V
discusses preparations for a potential second wave o f the influenza epidemic.

 .
I Current Socioeconomic Conditions

2. I n 2009 Mexico will likely experience its sharpest economic contraction since the 1994-
1995 peso crisis. The Federal Secretariat o f Finance in August projected that GDP will decline
6.8 percent, a sharp drop from the moderate growth o f the past four years (3.3 percent, on
average, between 2004 and 2008; see Figure 4) (Camara de Diputados 2009). The cause o f this
contraction is the global financial crisis, which has occasioned a large drop in demand for
Mexico's exports; exports to the U.S., for example, which constitute one-fifth o f Mexico's
GDP, dropped 36 percent between April 2008 and April 2009 (INEGI 2009). Other mechanisms
by which the financial crisis affects Mexico's economy include lower o i l prices (oil accounts for
about ten percent o f GDP), capital flight (as foreign f i r m s extract capital needed in their home
countries) and consequent credit contraction, and a decline in remittances (with consequent
reduction in consumer demand) (World Bank 2009b).


                Figure 4: Sharpest Contraction Since 1994-1995
                GDP, % Change on Prior Year

          8




          4v\,/4
          6




          2
            A                             I




          o *     *    e    .


              1991                            1997           2000   2003   2006             2009
         -2

         -4

         -6
                  Source World Bank Projection estimated 08/2009
                                                                              (Projected)    \
         -8




                                                             23
3, Mexico's Human Development I n d e x - a n index which aggregates measures o life         f
expectancy, literacy, and income-is very close to that o countries with similar levels o GDP
                                                         f                                f
per capita, though it remains far below that o other OECD countries. This index masks
                                                 f
substantial variation: there are many indicators that are indeed commensurate with Mexico's
income level (such as literacy); others remain unusually high or l o w (such as gross school
enrollment ratios). Moreover, human development outcomes vary across federal entities:
Mexico's overall HDI i s ranked 52nd in the world; were the state o f Chiapas a country, i t s HDI
would be ranked 107th in the world, while the state o f Nuevo Leon would be ranked 43rd
(UNDP 2008).

4. Among health outcomes in particular, many are similar to those o other middle-income
                                                                         f
countries, while some remain at levels closer to those in countries much poorer than Mexico.
Stunting o f children under five years old, for example, i s about 15.5 percent, close to the
average for middle-income countries (WHO 2 0 0 9 ~ )while infant mortality i s 28 per 1000,
                                                          ~
significantly above the expected level for a country o f Mexico's income (World Bank 2008). As
with other human development outcomes, health outcomes vary across federal entities: in
Chiapas, infant mortality was 21.71 per 1,000 births in 2007; in Nuevo Leon, it was 10.98 per
1,000 (CONAPO n.d.).

5. The health system that produced these outcomesfaces numerous challenges: low levels o         f
public expenditure, high levels o out-of-pocket expenditure, and fragmentation into
                                       f
numerous sub-systems. In 2005, the Government spent 2.9 percent o f GDP in the health sector,
well below the regional average o f 3.6 percent for L A C countries. In part as a consequence o f
this, more than half o f all health expenditures are out-of-pocket, much more than in Colombia,
for example, where out-of-pocket expenditures are just seven percent o f health expenditures
(WHO 2005). Health service provision i s fragmented among various sub-systems, the largest
among them being the system that serves workers formally employed in the private-sector, the
system that serves public-sector employees, and the system that serves the informally employed
and the poor. This fragmentation i s problematic because it limits risk pooling and constrains the
Government's ability to engage in meaningful health planning (World Bank 2008).

6. The current economic downturn may have negative effects on human development
outcomes, in particular on health outcomes. Researchers have found that mortality among
children and the elderly increased in the Mexican crises o f 1976, 1982, 1986, and 1994 (Cutler
et al. 2002). They suggest that the mechanisms through which financial crises affected mortality
may include: declining household income (and consequent drop in investment in health),
declining public sector investment in health, and the effect o f caregivers being forced to seek
work outside the household. Further, rising unemployment and the consequent decline in social
security coverage may endanger health service utilization.

 1
1 . The A/HlN1 Epidemic

7. I n mid-March health service providers in Mexico observed an unusual increase in
patients presenting influenza-like symptoms. Incidence o f the seasonal flu usually peaks in
mid-January; rising incidence and an increased number o f local outbreaks o f seasonal influenza
in late February and March as well as clusters o f severe pneumonia in young adults
compounded suspicions and led health officials to investigate the outbreaks. On April 16, the

                                               24
Federal Secretariat o f Health published a press release announcing that there had been a n
unusual increase in seasonal flu cases and advising people to wash their hands frequently and
avoid sharp temperature changes (Federal Secretariat o f Health 2009).

 8. Genetic analysis revealed that a new strain o influenza sub-type M l N l was responsible
                                                  f
for the illness (henceforth, "influenza A/'HINl" is used to refer to "the new strain o           f
 influenza A//HINl"). In transmission pattern, case fatality rate, and a number o f other
 characteristics, A/HlNl appears similar to the seasonal influenza A virus; however, the new
 strain o f A/HlNl may well be more virulent (in other words, it may be more contagious and/or
 have more severe health effects). Another distinguishing characteristic o f A/HlNl i s the
 affected population: while the seasonal flu primarily affects infants and the elderly, the A/HlNl
 has disproportionately affected young adults. Moreover, the fact that A/HlNl virus emerged
 mainly after peak flu season indicates that it may be less predictable than seasonal influenza A
 (Federal Secretariat o f Health 2009).

9. Since the outbreak, health service in Mexico confirmed over 52,000 cases o influenza
                                                                                   f
M l N l and more than 350 related fatalities. In particular the numbers o f the confirmed cases
are a gross underestimate o f the epidemic's magnitude. Initially, the diagnostic capacity was
limited; later, disease protocols changed and suggested diagnosing the infection based on
clinical symptoms rather than laboratory tests. Hence, observed clinical cases as well as
estimates provide a more likely picture o f the scale o f the epidemic. At the end o f the
September, health care providers had reported more than 175,000 cases. Based on these data,
the Bank estimates the total number o f infections to exceed 347,000.


I

I    Figure 5: Number of Probable and Observed Influenza Like Illness/Severe Acure Respiratory Disease.
I
I                                                  Mexico 2009
     35000                                                                 -_I




I
     30000
             I                         ...     ___       ....         __


                                                        __________
`P           j
:z           I
IB   20000                                                      ........                 --
                                                                                                                                                            estimated
                                                                                                                                                        8   recorded




     10000                                 ...............             ....
                                                                      .....

             ~




                                                             ...
                                                             ....           ..
                                                                           ...
~     5000
I



I
        0
I
                 1 2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 3 1 32 33 34 35 36 37 30 39 40 4 1 42
                                                                                      Weeks
Source: SMAVE date provided by DGAE and Bank estimates


                                                                                  25
10. The spread o m l N 1 around the world-by mid-June, there were 27,000 confirmed
                  f
cases-led the WHO to declare, on June 11, a Phase 6 Pandemic Alert. The final phase o f
pandemic alert, Phase 6 i s characterized by human-to-human spread o f the virus into at least
two countries in one WHO region and into at least one country in a different WHO region. The
declaration o f Phase 6 is, according to the WHO, "an [indication] that a global pandemic i s
underway" (WHO 2009a). In addition to the 350 deaths in Mexico, over 605 deaths have
occurred in East Asia, 465 in Western Pacific and 111 in Europe (as o f October 25, 2009)
(WHO 2009b).

 1.
1 1 Government Response to the N H l N 1 Epidemic

11. On April 23, the day that laboratories in Canada and the United States confirmed that
M l N l was responsible for several influenza cases in Mexico, the Government began
                             f
implementation o a series o activities aimed at containing the spread and mitigating the
                 f
health impact o the epidemic. Schools, restaurants, museums, and other venues in Mexico City
               f
were shut down for 10 days; nonessential businesses were closed for five. The Secretaries o f
Health and Education issued a joint statement saying that the school closing was "a preventive
measure" and that everyone should "avoid popular or crowded places except when absolutely
necessary" (Presidencia 2009). On April 25, the General Health Council issued a decree
authorizing the Secretary o f Health to carry out extraordinary prevention, detection, and
response measures (Presidencia 2009).

 12. The four pillars o AAWlNl prevention and control presented in Figure 6 provide a
                        f
framework for understanding the Government's response to the first wave o the epidemic.
                                                                               f
 These four pillars are: (1) planning, coordination and communication, (2) epidemiological
 surveillance, (3) public health interventions, and (4) health services response. The activities
 implemented by the Government under each o f these four pillars during the current epidemic
 are as follows (DGE 2006):

    a. Planning, Coordination and Communication: The Government had developed a
       National Plan for Preparedness and Response to an Influenza Pandemic (henceforth,
        "National Plan'? in 2006 which provided a framework for response to the epidemic.
       The National Plan i s organized around six Action Areas and helps guide the national
       response in a coordinated manned across the country. The National Plan specifies how
       each Action Area would take effect in each successive phase o f an influenza pandemic.
       In order to maximize learning for further planning and coordination activities, the
       Government plans to conduct an evaluation o f parts o f i t s response to the first wave o f
       the influenza epidemic. The evaluation w i l l assess various aspects o f the response,
       including the communications strategy and the efforts to encourage social distancing
       (such as closing schools and businesses). The evaluation will also consider the
       epidemiological surveillance system in general, focusing on simplicity, acceptability,
       sensitivity, representativeness,timeliness and predictive value.

    b. Epidemiological Surveillance: The National Epidemiological Surveillance System
       ( S I N A W ) moved from passive to active surveillance and the Government quickly
       increased laboratory diagnostic capacity. Active surveillance entails sending SINAVE
       medical teams to conduct field examinations in targeted communities, rather than testing

                                               26
   only those who seek care at clinics or hospitals. Intensified surveillance activity also
   included mandatory reporting o f cases with influenza-like symptoms. Initially, most
   cases were reported from the social security hospitals (IMSS and ISSSTE) but over the
   first couple o f days cases were reported from all systems. Diagnosis o f NHINI requires
   specific protocols, reagents and Biosafety Level 2 capacity (CDC 1999). Mexico
   originally had three laboratories equipped and certified as Biosafety Level 2, but these
   lacked the necessary protocols and reagents for the diagnosis o f the new sub-type o f
   influenza AiHlNl. Approximately one week after confirmation o f the initial cases,
   Mexico-with technical support from the Public Health Agency o f Canada and the
   CDC-had equipped these three laboratories with reagents and established diagnostic
   capacity in five additional laboratories around the country (Federal Secretariat o f Health
   2009).

c. Public H e a l t h Interventions: The Government implemented massive communications
   campaigns to promote public health interventions. The Secretary o f Health held press
   conferences once or twice daily; these were broadcast through national television and
   radio, constantly providing updates on the development o f the epidemic, measures to be
   taken, and health promotion messages. The Government implemented radio and
   television campaigns promoting prevention measures such as hand washing, social
   distancing (e.g., maintaining physical distance from others), and timely care-seeking in
   case o f fever or influenza-like symptoms. Posters promoting prevention and care-
   seeking behaviors were also distributed through public transport in cities across the
   country. The Federal Secretariat o f Health webpage was updated daily and a f i e e
   information hotline was established.

d. H e a l t h Services Response: The Government undertook numerous measures to
   expand health services provision. The Secretary o f Health coordinated with clinics and
   hospitals across health sector sub-systems in order to ensure that they would extend
   working hours and receive patients regardless o f health insurance affiliation. The
   Government also worked to expand the strategic reserve o f medicines and medical
   supplies. At the onset o f the epidemic the Government had strategic reserves o f 1.2
   million antiviral treatments and approximately 9 mil1io.n seasonal influenza vaccines (at
   the time regarded as a possible preventive intervention for M l N l ) ; these were
   distributed to health service providers. Throughout the epidemic, the Government has
   replenished this reserve. Funding for these purchases was provided through the Fund for
   Protection Against Catastrophic Expenditures (Federal Secretariat o f Health 2009)
   Drawing on the strategic reserve o f medicines, the Government attempted to make anti-
   viral treatment available free o f charge for all Mexicans, including equipping mobile
   units with anti-viral drugs to serve remote population. In addition, health teams were
   deployed across the country to promote prevention and care seeking (Federal Secretariat
   o f Health 2009).




                                           27
                               Figure 6: Influenza Prevention and Control Framework




                           Epidemic Preparedness & Response                                                   Prevention and
                                                                                                             Control Measures




                             Communication

   i
                                                                    --                                                          I
                                                                                                              Influenza
                                                                                                           Prevenbon and




   *me proposed Projed and the Grant have been prepared in consultationmth the World Health Organization




 13, The Government responded in full compliance with the International Health Regulations
informing the public and the World Health Organization about the epidemic-at times to the
detriment o its economy and foreign relations. Article 6 o f the International Health
             f
Regulations (in i t s 2005 version) requires all states party to the agreement, to notify the WHO
within 24 hours o f "all events which may constitute a public health emergency o f international
concern within i t s territory in accordance with the decision instrument, as well as any health
measure implemented in response to those events" (WHO 2005). Because reporting o f such
events can lead other countries to impose travel and/or trade restrictions, complying with IHR
requirements can contravene the self-interest o f the reporting country (WHO 2005). Mexico
complied despite these disincentives and some repercussions, a decision which received
international recognition and acclaim at the 62"d World Health Assembly and in a recent summit
o f health ministers and WHO officials in Cancun.




                                                                                    28
IV. Fiscal and Economic Impact o f the Epidemic

14. As a consequence o the epidemic, the Federal Secretariat o Finance has estimated that
                         f                                        f
the budget deficit will rise from 1.8 to 2.1 percent o GDP. Total Government expenditures on
                                                      f
A/HlNl response measures are likely to surpass US$600 million, about 0.3 percent o f the
annual budget; the Federal Secretariat o f Finance also estimated that lost tax revenue from the
partial shutdown in late April and early May was approximately US$750 million.

15. Allocating funds to AMlNl response was possible in part because o the flexibility
                                                                             f
granted by a contingency fund called the Fund for Protection Against Catastrophic
Expenditures (FPGC). The FPGC was established in 2003 with the original purpose o f
financing high-cost health care for the poor or uninsured. On April 25, 2009, the Secretary o f
Finance in Mexico established an N H l N 1 contingency fund o f US$450 million under the
FPGC (Presidencia 2009). These funds have been utilized to purchase and distribute anti-viral
drugs. Critically, the FPGC has no fiscal year limitations and i s exempt from lengthy
congressional budgetary processes, allowing the Government to make immediate use o f the
resources (Federal Secretariat o f Health 2005).

16. The Federal Secretariat o Finance expects the macroeconomic impact o the ABlNl
                                f                                                    f
epidemic to reach 0.3-0.5 percent o GDP in 2009; the Bank estimates a contraction o 0.8
                                      f                                                        f
percent o GDP (World Bank 2009a). The NHlNl epidemic w i l l affect the overall economy
          f
primarily through: (1) revenue lost during the closure o f businesses in early May (the National
Chamber o f Commerce estimated that businesses lost about US$50 million per day) and (2) a
severe drop in tourism revenue (potentially US$4 billion o f the annual US$13 billion, according
to the Secretariat o f Tourism (Presidencia n.d.)). This i s consistent with the experiences o f East
and Southeast Asia during the SARS epidemic in 2003; the Asian Development Bank estimated
at the time that the epidemic reduced regional GDP by 0.5 percent that year (ADB 2003). The
mechanisms by which SARS affected East and Southeast Asian economies are similar to those
by which A/HlNl i s anticipated to affect Mexico: through social distancing (that is, the
avoidance o f public spaces in an attempt to prevent infection) and through a collapse in tourism
(Fan 2003).

17. The M l N l epidemic was one o the factors that led the Federal Secretariat o Finance
                                    f                                                   f
to revise its GDPgrowth projection down from -3.7percent in May to -7.5percent in October
(Banco de Mexico 2009). The other major factor was the announcement, in late May, that the
economy had contracted at an 8.2 percent annualized rate in the first quarter o f 2009. There may
well be a reciprocal, damaging relationship between the A/HlNl epidemic and the overall
macroeconomic situation: the epidemic aggravates the economic downturn, and the economic
downturn constrains the Government's ability to respond to the epidemic.

18. I n addition to constraining the Government's ability to respond to the epidemic, the
economic downturn may create conditions that facilitate the spread o the virus. As both the
                                                                          f
experience o f the first wave o f A/HlNl and the experience o f prior epidemics (such as the 1918
Spanish Flu) indicate, poverty may enable the spread and compound the severity o f influenza
infections. Factors responsible for this include the absence o f basic sanitation, lack o f access to
health services, and reduced access to information, among others. Because poverty i s expected


                                                 29
to increase this year as the economy contracts, these factors may play a role in the development
o f the epidemic.

V. Future Challenges

19. Epidemiologists expect a second wave o m l N 1 to affect Mexico during the winter.
                                             f
Influenza typically flourishes during the winter months. After a short wave in April in the
Northern hemisphere, it has been spreading through the Southern Hemisphere and will likely
return to the Northern Hemisphere as the seasons change again. This pattern would be
consistent with that o f past influenza pandemics, such as the Spanish Flu o f 1918. That
pandemic affected the Northern Hemisphere in three waves: the first from March through June,
the second from October through December, the third from February through April o f the
following year (Taubenberger & Morens 2006).

20. AMlNl may mutate into a more virulent strain. The genetic fragility o f viruses and the
current incidence o f A/HlNl (i.e., the large number o f infections) make mutation very likely. A
mutant o f N H l N 1 could be more contagious and/or more resistant to treatment. This would
also be consistent with the 1918 Spanish Flu experience, in which (scholars think) the virus
mutated as the pandemic developed. The second wave o f the Spanish Flu was by far the most
fatal; death rates reached 2.4 percent in the United Kingdom (that is, 24 o f every 1,000 people
died o f the influenza) (Taubenberger & Morens 2006).

 21. This risk o a second wave, together with the experience gained in A p r i M a y o the first
                 f                                                                     f
 wave, led the Government to identifv two key health policy priorities for the coming months:
first, to further improve capacity to detect influenza; second, to further improve capacity to
 respond to it. The former requires strengthening S I N A V E and involves upgrading information
 systems as well as constructing the Borrower's national reference laboratory for
 epidemiological surveillance, training staff and strengthening data analysis, research and
 evidence-based public health decision making.            The latter entails strengthening the
 infrastructure to effectively distribute medicines, vaccines and medical supplies, replenishing
 and expanding the strategic reserves thereof. In particular, in September, the President
 announced that Mexico would vaccinate more than 20 million people against influenza A/HlNl
 during this fall and winter.

22. The Project would accelerate the implementation o influenza epidemic preparedness
                                                             f
activities outlined in the Government's National Epidemiological Surveillance System Plan
2007-2012 and in its National Health Sector Program 2007-2012, focusing on improving
epidemiological surveillance and strengthening the response capacity o health services
                                                                               f
(Figure 6). Conceived at the outset o f the current administration, the Government's five-year
plans for SINAVE and for the health sector emphasize the need for strengthening preparedness
for disease epidemics. The Project would support all o f the seven action areas identified in the
S I N A V E plan; it would also support five o f the ten strategies outlined in the Health Sector
Program. The elements o f the Health Sector Program most directly supported by the Project
include: "strengthen the prevention o f acute respiratory diseases in childhood," "reduce the
incidence o f preventable diseases through vaccination," "mitigate the effects o f epidemiological
emergencies," "consolidate a unified system o f statistical and epidemiological information for
public health decision-making," and "improve infrastructure essential to the prevention and

                                               30
control o f diseases," among others. The Project would ensure that the majority o f these would
be implemented in time to prepare for a possible second wave o f influenza A/HlNl, ensuring
that the SINAVE Plan and the National Health Sector Program would be successfully
completed by 2012 (the last year o f the administration and also the close o f the Project).

23. Health service response capacity and other pillars o influenza epidemic preparedness
                                                               f
(that is, those pillars not directly supported by the Project) are reinforced by related Bank
operations; Project activities would not be executed in a vacuum, but rather as part o a          f
comprehensiveplan to strengthen the capacity o the Mexican health system to respond to the
                                                     f
AHlNl challenge. The Bank's loan supporting the Third Basic Health Care Project helps the
Government achieve the objective o f strengthening health service capacity, expanding access to
and raising the quality o f health services for 22 million (mostly poor) Mexicans. In addition, the
Bank's new loan (under preparation) to support Mexico's social protection system in health w i l l
assist the Government's effort to ensure universal access to quality health services, especially
during the economic crisis. A grant approved by the Avian and Human Influenza Facility with
the grant agreement shortly to be signed w i l l reinforce the prevention pillar o f preparedness (see
Figure 6) by strengthening the communication campaigns o f federal entities. The grant would
ensure the successful production and dissemination o f messages on influenza-related behavior
change, providing for the communication o f those messages to public and in particular to hard-
to-reach groups such as indigenous populations. Together, these related activities' would
enhance the potential impact o f the Project.

24. I n addition to these measures directed toward improving human health (that is, the
Project activities themselves and supporting activities financed through related operations),
the Government is working with other partners to prevent and control the spread o M l N l
                                                                                        f
among animals (Figure 6). Mexico's Federal Secretariat o f Agriculture and i t s National
Agency for Hygiene, Safety and Food Quality (SENASICA) work together to monitor animal
health, collecting and analyzing samples from farms, butchers, packaging centers, and markets.
The Federal Commission for the Protection against Sanitary Risks (COFEPRIS) monitors,
investigates reports o f sanitary threats and acts upon results. These entities work together with
international organizations under a multi-sector plan for animal disease surveillance. The Food
and Agriculture Organization (FAO) o f the United Nations has been closely supporting the
Secretariat o f Agriculture and the COFEPRIS in the surveillance o f influenza among birds and
swine in Mexico since the onset o f the epidemic. The Organization for Animal Health i s also
working with the Government to strengthen influenza surveillance and control programs in
accordance to international experiences and standards.

25. These activities will serve not only to monitor the epidemic and mitigate the effects o a
                                                                                           f
potential second wave o M l N l influenza but also to strengthen Mexico's health system.
                          f
Neither epidemiologic surveillance nor epidemic response capacities are disease-specific; the
investments supported in the proposed Project would enable Mexico to better control other
infectious diseases. Nor are the benefits limited to infectious disease: in allowing the
Government to obtain real-time information on the country's epidemiologic profile, improving
surveillance systems would provide critical knowledge for addressing infant and maternal
mortality, chronic illness, and numerous other health challenges.



                                                 31
26. The Project activities, the Bank efforts to strengthen other pillars o influenza epidemic
                                                                            f
preparedness, and the national plans o which these efforts form a part all support objectives
                                        f
o Mexico's National Development Plan (NDP) 2007-2012. One o f the five central axes o f the
 f
NDP (Presidencia 2007) i s "equality o f opportunities," in which one o f eight action areas i s
health. Among the goals articulated in the health chapter are: "to strengthen programs o f
protection against public health risks," "integrate disease prevention activities across sectors,"
"to ensure the availability o f human resources, equipment, infrastructure and technology
sufficient to meet the health needs o f the population," "promote health research," and "to
guarantee effective protection against epidemiologic threats." Project activities (described in
detail in the "Project Description" section o f this document) would advance all o f these
objectives. In particular, the upgrading o f informatipn technology systems within SINAVE
would support "integration" o f disease prevention activities across sectors," in that these
systems would gather data fiom and disseminate data to Government officials outside the health
sector. The training o f personnel, building o f infrastructure, establishment o f a central unit for
epidemiological analysis, strengthening o f SINAVE, and building o f stocks o f medicines and
vaccines would all support the NDP health objectives.




                                                 32
                   Annex 2: Detailed Description o f Project Components
                    MEXICO Influenza Prevention and Control Project


1. The objective o the proposed Project is to strengthen the capacity o the Mexican health
                   f                                                         f
system to monitor the spread o influenza viruses and to control influenza epidemic waves.
                                 f
The capacity to monitor the spread o f influenza viruses rests o n the robustness o f the National
Epidemiological Surveillance System (SINAVE), the improvement o f which entails the
upgrading o f the national laboratory network. The capacity to control influenza epidemic waves
depends largely on the infrastructure to effectively distribute medicines, vaccines and medical
supplies and the country's strategic reserve thereof and the capacity o f health services to treat
influenza infections. These two objectives-to improve the capacity o f the health system to
monitor the spread o f influenza viruses and to improve i t s ability to control influenza epidemic
waves-form the two components o f the proposed Project.

2. The Government prioritized these action areas in light o the experience o the first wave
                                                               f                  f
                                                                              f
o the influenza epidemic and to prepare for a potential second wave o the epidemic this
 f
winter. The experience o f the first wave o f A/HlNl influenza (described in detail in Annex 1)
led the Government to identify areas in which its capacity to monitor the spread o f A/HlNl and
respond to an influenza epidemic wave can be further strengthened. Given that epidemiologists
expect a second wave o f A/HlNl to affect Mexico during the winter, the Government selected
priority activities for the coming months. The Project is designed to support these activities.

3. While the proposed Project is geared towards monitoring the spread o influenza AHlNl
                                                                       f
and controlling an influenza epidemic wave, the supported activities would also strengthen
Mexico's health system. Neither epidemiologic surveillance nor health emergency response
capacities are disease-specific. The investments supported in the proposed Project would allow
the Government to obtain real-time information on the population's epidemiologic profile and
enable it to better control a wide range o f diseases, including non-communicable ones.
Similarly, building stocks o f medicines and medical supplies and strengthening the capacity o f
the country's cold chain will strengthen the health systems capacity to respond not only to the
A/HlNl epidemic but to other health threats as well.

4. The Project would accelerate the implementation o influenza epidemic preparedness
                                                             f
activities outlined in the Government's National Epidemiological Surveillance System Plan
2007-2012 and in its National Health Sector Program 2007-2012, focusing on improving
epidemiological surveillance and strengthening the response capacity o health services.
                                                                               f
Conceived at the outset o f the current administration, the Government's five-year plans for
S I N A V E and for the health sector emphasize the need for strengthening preparedness for
disease epidemics. The Project would support all o f the seven action areas identified in the
S I N A V E plan; it would also support five o f the ten strategies outlined in the Health Sector
Program. The elements o f the Health Sector Program most directly supported by the Project
include: "strengthen the prevention o f acute respiratory diseases in childhood," "reduce the
incidence o f preventable diseases through vaccination," "mitigate the effects o f epidemiological
emergencies," "consolidate a unified system o f statistical and epidemiological information for
public health decision-making," and "improve infrastructure essential to the prevention and
control o f diseases," among others. The Project would ensure that critical activities would be
                                                33
implemented in time to prepare for a possible second wave o f influenza A/HlNl and help that
the SINAVE Plan and the National Health Sector Program would be successfully completed by
2012 (the last year o f the administration and also the close o f the loan).

5 . The Project activities, the Bank efforts to strengthen other pillars o influenza epidemic
                                                                               f
preparedness, and the national plans o which these efforts form a part, all support objectives
                                          f
o Mexico's National Development Plan (NDP) 2007-2012. One o f the five central axes o f the
 f
NDP (Presidencia 2007) i s "equality o f opportunities," in which one o f eight action areas i s
health. Among the goals articulated in the health chapter are: "to strengthen programs o f
protection against public health risks," "integrate disease prevention activities across sectors,"
"to ensure the availability o f human resources, equipment, infrastructure and technology
sufficient to meet the health needs o f the population," "promote health research," and "to
guarantee effective protection against epidemiologic threats." Project activities would advance
all o f these objectives. In particular, the upgrading o f information technology systems within
S I N A V E would support the "integrat[ion] o f disease prevention activities across sectors," in
that these systems would gather data from and disseminate data to Government officials outside
the health sector. The training o f personnel, building o f infrastructure, establishment o f a central
unit for epidemiological analysis, strengthening o f SINAVE, and building o f stocks o f
medicines and vaccines would all support the N D P health objectives.

6. On April 26, at the Bank and IMF spring meetings, the Government requestedfinancial
support to help close the gap between the costs o controlling the first wave o influenza
                                                      f                             f
AMlNl, improving detection, expanding its response capacity and the budget resources
available. In response, the Bank and the Government are negotiating the reprogramming o f
US$25.7 million from the Third Basic Health Care Project to reimburse expenditures on
laboratory equipment, laboratory supplies, anti-viral medicines and medical supplies; in
addition, they will shortly enter into a grant agreement for US$l.7 million under the Avian and
Human Influenza Facility to support state health systems in promoting preventive behaviors.
The proposed Project would supplement these resources (World Bank 2001).

7. The rationale for Bank support is two-fold. First, Bank involvement would be productive
in part because o the Bank's two decades o experience in supporting the development o the
                  f                           f                                              f
health sector in Mexico. Since the preparation o f the First Basic Health Care project in the late
1980s, Bank projects have supported expanding the reach and improving the quality o f health
services, ensuring the financial sustainability o f social health insurance programs, expanding
non-contributory health insurance coverage o f the poor, and developing o f institutional capacity
in the health sector. In analytic work, too, the Bank has engaged with the health sector in
Mexico; a current analytical and advisory activity assesses the challenges o f fragmentation
among social health insurance programs and the national health services system and explores
potential solutions. Health sector-specific support i s complemented by operations in social
protection and in education. For example, more recently, the Bank has started to collaborate
with Mexico in strengthening the conditional cash transfer program Oportunidades to, among
other objectives, increase health service utilization among the poor (World Bank 2009b). See
B o x 4 for more detail on Bank experience in Mexico.




                                                  34
Box 4: More than 20 Years o Successful Cooperation in Health System Strengthening
                           f

For more than 20 years, Mexico and the Bank have been working jointly to strengthen the health
                                                f
system and improve health. One focal point o this cooperation has been expanding basic health
services for the poor. The Government identified this as a policy priority in the 199Os, at which time
the First Basic Health Care Project. initiated Bank support for this objective. The First and Second
Basic Health Care Projects together supported the Government in expanding coverage to
approximately 10 million people in rural and remote areas. Access to basic services i s now almost
universal, an achievement to which Bank operations made a major contribution. In this tradition, the
Third Basic Health Care Project has further improved access to quality basic and hospital care for 22
million poor Mexicans.

I n addition to expanding access to basic health services, the Bank has supported the Government in
its effort to improve the efficiency o contributory social health insurance programs. When it
                                       f
became clear, in the 199Os, that the financial sustainability o f Government insurance programs was
threatened, the Bank worked with the Government to design and implement critical policy changes.
An adjustment loan combined with a technical assistance loan supported the Government in
developing a sound, long-term strategy to manage liabilities, introduced increasingly choice o f users
and competition, developed purchasing mechanisms and strengthened the health service delivery
networks.

Strengthening health insurance programs for the poor is another area in which the Bank has
worked closely with the Government. With the establishment o f the non-contributory health insurance
program Seguro Popular in 2002, the Government began working toward universal coverage,
enrolling more than 18 million poor Mexicans by the end o f December 2008. The Bank's Third Basic
Health Care Project has supported this program by improving enrollees' access to services included in
the Seguro Popular benefit package and by facilitating organizational and institutional reforms that
strengthen the capacity o f federal entities to manage the program. A project under preparation will
provide an additional US$l billion to finance the expansion and strengthening o f insurance schemes
for the poor during the economic crisis. AAA work has also supported the health insurance system,
providing monitoring o f organizational and institutional reforms and analysis o f possibilities to
integrate the insurance schemes for the poor with the contributory social health insurance programs
for formal-sector workers.

                                                  f
The proposed Project constitutes an extension o this decades-long dialogue, complementing and
being complemented by other non-health sector Bank operations. As described in the main text, the
proposed Project will not only improve epidemiological surveillance, but in the traditions o f the Basic
Health Care Projects strengthen health service capacity. It i s complemented by a US$1.7 million
grant for public health communication campaigns. Together with other Bank-supported programs
such as Oportundidades, a conditional cash transfer program which has been shown to stimulate
demand for health services or various support mechanisms for the Alianza para la Calidad en
Educacion, a comprehensive Government and teacher union program to improve education quality
including school health, the Project forms part o f a far-reaching set o f activities aimed at improving
the health o f the Mexican population.




                                                  35
8. Second, the Bank has extensive experience supporting governments across the globe in
preparing for and responding to influenza epidemics, in controlling other infectious diseases,
and in strengthening national epidemiological surveillance systems (see Box 5). Established
in 2005, the Global Program o n Avian Influenza has financed 59 projects around the world.
The Bank also supported governments in responding to the SARS epidemic and has worked
extensively with governments in Latin America and the Caribbean o n controlling the spread o f
HIV/AIDS. Two projects in Latin America were devoted entirely to strengthening national
epidemiological surveillance systems: the Bank worked with the governments o f Brazil and
Argentina to build laboratory capacity, train surveillance system personnel, improve
information systems, and evaluate the surveillance systems in their respective countries.

 Box 5: Lessons Learnedfrom Related Bank Operations

  One lesson that has emerged from projects addressing Avian Influenza is that a clear, well-
  designed national strategy for preparedness and response to influenza is essential, as is ensuring
  that all relevant actors understand the strategy. While many countries had an influenza strategy
  document, many o f them were underdeveloped or unfamiliar to key officials. The project design
  assimilates this lesson by ensuring that project activities correspond, where possible, to actions laid
  out in Mexico's National Plan for Preparedness and Response to an Influenza Pandemic. This plan,
  developed as it was with the participation o f representatives from numerous government agencies and
  with guidance from WHO, i s already familiar to most relevant actors and i s more complete than that
  o f any other LAC country except Chile (Mensua et al. 2009). The Project would reinforce these
  strengths, facilitating further dissemination, use, and improvement o f the plan. It would also enhance
  the flexibility built in to the plan, the importance o f which was highlighted at a recent summit o f
  health ministers and WHO officials in Cancun.

  From past projects focused on strengthening epidemiologic surveillance, we have learned that
  ensuring the cooperation and compliance o sub-national actors is complicated and dijjficult.
                                                   f
  Epidemiologic surveillance projects in Brazil and Argentina, for example, struggled to ensure timely
  execution o f procurement and other activities at the state and district levels. Given the public health
  emergency, the design o f this project incorporates this lesson by centralizing the execution o f
  activities to the extent possible. As described in detail in the "implementation arrangements" section,
  the central office o f the Federal Secretariat o f Health will execute all project activities. As for
  complementary activities (outside the scope o f the project) that do require action at various levels o f
  government, the Federal Secretariat o f Health would sign coordination agreements with each state.
  Moreover, the Project would improve coordination capacity by streamlining information-flow
  processes, upgrading communication technology, and training personnel at all levels.

                    f                                                        f
  The experience o related projects also emphasizes the importance o planning evaluation efforts
  ahead o time. Without prior planning, ICRs caution, it i s impossible to obtain the detailed
           f
  information necessary for assessing response to a disease epidemic. Even such basic data as
  sequencing o f Government response activities, direct expenditure on epidemic response, and
  organization o f implementation among various agencies can be difficult to recover after the fact. The
  present project responds to this lesson by supporting the Government's effort to contract and
  coordinate evaluation activities well in advance, during project preparation. The Government will
  arrange for several separate evaluations: one o f its response to the first wave o f A/HlNl influenza, a
  second o f the epidemiologic surveillance system in general, and a third o f i t s response to a second
  wave o f A/HlNl,



                                                    36
9. As explained above, the proposed Project would complement and expand upon the Bank's
existing support to Mexico in addressing the M l N l epidemic. A restructuring o f the Third
Basic Health Care Project i s being negotiated to provide $25.7 million for expenditures on
laboratory equipment, laboratory supplies, anti-viral medicines and medical supplies. In
addition, grant funding (US$1.7 million) was approved by the Avian and Human Influenza
Facility to support health systems o f federal entities in promoting preventive behaviors; the
Government and the Bank will shortly sign the grant agreement. The proposed loan would
complement and expand upon this support, enabling the Government to carry out activities it
has identified as essential to preparing for a potential second wave o f A/HlNl influenza.
Together with the restructuring funds, the grant, and the Government's self-financed activities
(described above), the Project would form part o f a comprehensive response to the m l N 1
epidemic.

10. The following paragraphs o this Annex define the Project Development Objective,
                                f
describe the Project components, and explain the choice o lending instrument.
                                                         f

11. Proiect Development Obiective: T o strengthen the capacity o f the Mexican health
system to monitor the spread o f influenza viruses and control influenza epidemic waves.

12. Component I:Strengthening the capacity to monitor the spread o f influenza viruses
(US$64 million).

13. The proposed objective o Component I is to strengthen the capacity o the Mexican
                               f                                                 f
health system to monitor the spread o influenza viruses. The project would accomplish this
                                       f
by improving the National Epidemiological Surveillance System (SINAVE) (Federal
Secretariat o f Health 2007a). Officially constituted in 1995, SINAVE i s a system that allows
Mexico to gather, analyze, interpret, and disseminate information about the country's
epidemiologic profile. Nearly all public and many private health service providers-1 9,175
units in all-report on notifiable diseases, related deaths and deaths in general. A nationwide
network o f "sentinel health facilities," complemented by a network o f state laboratories,
constantly provides information on epidemiological patterns. Information from the health units
and laboratories is aggregated at the level o f the jurisdiccidn, the state, and the nation. The
Adjunct Directorate o f Epidemiology (DGAE) within the Federal Secretariat o f Health manages
SINAVE, analyses trends and promotes the use o f epidemiologic information.

 14. The Government's five-year plan for strengthening SINA VE, the National Epidemiologic
Surveillance System Plan 2007-2012, builds on several years o significant improvements and
                                                                f
addresses critical challenges o the system. Between 2000 and 2006, the regulatory framework
                               f
for surveillance was updated, many sub-systems o f SINAVE - including SISVEFLU, the sub-
system that monitors and reports on influenza-overhauled and expanded, and a performance
evaluation system for the S I N A V E developed and implemented (Federal Secretariat o f Health
2007). However, the transformation o f the SINAVE remains work in progress. Prime
challenges are the computerization o f the system, the development o f information technology
platforms that connect sub-systems, and the strengthening o f the laboratory network, including
the Borrower's national reference laboratory, the development o f competencies o f SINAVE
personnel including those necessary for analysis and evidence-based public health decision
making.

                                              37
15. I n line with The Government's 2007-2012 plan for improving SINAVE identifies four
specific objectives (Federal Secretariat o f Health 2007a):

       a. strengthening management and technical quality,
       b. ensuring the relevance and timeliness o f information,
       c. improving the technical capacities o f S I N A V E staff, and
       d. strengthening the dissemination o f epidemiological information.

Each o f these specific objectives i s complemented by a set o f strategies and action areas.

 16. Component I of the Project would finance priority actions to accelerate progress
towards the first three specific objectives o f the Government's plan for improving
SINAVE. The Government identified these priorities based on the challenges it faced during
the first wave o f the N H l N 1 epidemic and in light o f a likely second wave starting in the fall.
Organized according to the specific objectives o f the Government's plan, the priority actions are
described below.

   a. Strengthening the management and technical quality o f SINAVE entails evaluating
      the current information technology system and adopting new information and
      communication technologies and platforms, which in turn will involve equipping all
      levels o f the surveillance system (sentinel sites, administrative health units
      (jhrisdicciones), federal entities, and the federal office) with hardware (computers and
      servers) and software, as well as developing and maintaining an intranet system.
      Furthermore, it will require integrating SINAVE's upgraded information platforms
      across SINAVE's sub-systems. In addition, it necessitates upgrading o f the Borrower's
      national reference laboratory, including the construction and equipping o f a new
      building to house the laboratory; the purchase and installation o f laboratory and bio-
      security equipment; the development o f protocols, operational manuals and management
      models; and the adoption o f information technologies to facilitate internal processes.

    b. Ensuring the quality, relevance and timeliness o f epidemiologic information will
       require organizational reforms, including the establishment o f a central analysis unit.
       This unit will have to be appropriately staffed and equipped; proper equipment will
       include software that constantly analyzes incoming information and sends automated
       alerts. I t will also be critical to establish mobile units that carry out spot checks.
       Furthermore, the central analysis unit will establish epidemiological research programs
       that assess the relevance and deepen the understanding o f the information collected;
       these programs will also screen for and assess epidemiological developments in the
       country that are not captured by the SINAVE. Finally, units have to be certified
       according to international standards such as I S 0 9000/9001.

    c. Improving human resource capacities i s critical for the overall functioning and
       development o f the SINAVE. This will require training personnel at all levels o f the
       SINAVE, in particular in new processes, management schemes and bio-security in
       laboratories including the application o f new information technologies and platforms at
       all levels o f the SINAVE, and knowledge events that promote a culture o f analysis,
       research and dissemination o f information for policy making.

                                                 38
                  1
17. ComDonent 1 : Strengthening the capacity to control influenza epidemic waves
(US$426 million).

                                               1
18. The proposed objective o Component 1 is to strengthen the capacity o the Mexican
                              f                                              f
health system to control influenza epidemic waves. This would be achieved by strengthening
the infiastructure to distribute medicines, vaccines and medical supplies, replenishing and
expanding the country's strategic reserve thereof.

19. I n particular the planned massive vaccination campaign requires the strengthening o the
                                                                                          f
infrastructure to distribute medicines, vaccines and medical supplies, most importantly the
country's temperature-controlled supply chain. More specifically, the strengthening o f the
cold chain will ensure the effective and timely distribution o f the temperature sensitive
influenza vaccines while avoiding the crowding out o f other life-saving medicines and vaccines
from the supply system.

20. Established in 2005, the strategic reserve o medicines, vaccines and medical supplies
                                                   f
                     f
consists o a stock o pharmaceuticals such as anti-viral medicines and antibiotics, vaccines
          f
as well as medical supplies such as masks, gowns, gloves, and disinfectants. Medicines,
vaccines and medical supplies are critical in a health emergency, the former to protect and treat
the population and the latter to protect health staff and quarantine patients. At the onset o f the
influenza epidemic, the strategic reserve contained several million doses o f the seasonal
influenza vaccine and 1.2 million treatments o f anti-viral drugs. In September, Mexico's
President announced that the Government plans to vaccinate as soon as a vaccine becomes
available more than 20 million Mexicans against A/HlNl during this fall and winter. This
would require developing a stock o f influenza NHlN1 vaccines in the strategic reserve. In
addition, the Government plans to replenish and expand the stock o f antiviral drugs to 2.15
million treatments.

2 1. To strengthen the infrastructure to distribute medicines, vaccines and medical supplies, to
replenish and expand the strategic reserve thereoJ: This component would finance goods to
strengthen the cold chain, including cold chambers, refrigerators, vehicles equipped with
cooling systems, generators, and temperature control systems, seasonal influenza and A/H 1 1N
vaccines, anti-viral drugs, antibiotics and medical supplies.

Retroactive Financing

                                                                 1
22. Meeting eligibility criteria under Project Components I and 1 , the proposed loan would
reimburse Government expenditures incurred during the first wave o influenza A/HINl.
                                                                       f
These expenditures would include the medicines, vaccines, and medical supplies on or after
April 23,2009.




                                               39
                              Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring
                       MEXICO Influenza Prevention and Control Project

                                           Results Framework



the Mexican health system                                         o f the SINAVE. State-specific information
to monitor the spread o f                                         would allow identifying the geographical
influenza viruses.            SISVEFLU index**                    focus for intensified supervision and
                                                                  support.
Strengthen the capacity o f   Percentage o f population           Monitor the timely and effective use o f the
the Mexican health system     vaccinated against influenza        strategic reserve o f vaccines.
to control epidemic waves     AMlNI
o f influenza.                Number o f antiviral treatments     Monitor the strategic reserve.
                              stockpiled

In         ate Outcomes          Intermediate Outcome
                                       Indicators                                  Monitoring
                              Evaluation o f the SINAVE
                              information technology platform
                              carried out
                              Percentage o f sentinel health
                              facilities that are fully equipped
                              and connected to new
Strengthening the
                              information technology platform Monitor the management and technical
management and technical
                              Percentage o f federal entity and quality o f SINAVE
quality o f SINAVE
                              administrative health unit
                              (jurisdiction) epidemiological
                              offices that are fully equipped
                              and connected to new
                              information technology platform
                              SINAVE intranet developed
                              Central epidemiological analysis
                              unit established    ~




                              Models for automated analysis
                              developed
                              System o f automated analysis
Ensuring the relevance and
                              established and in use               Monitor the relevance and timeliness o f
timeliness o f
                              Analysis o f case studies o f first  epidemiologic information
epidemiologic information
                              A M l N l epidemic wave
                              completed
                              Number o f new epidemiological
                              knowledge products for policy
                              decision making
                              Percentage o f sentinel health
                              facilities with staff trained in the
Improving human resource      use o f the new information          Monitor the improvement in human
capacities                    technology platform (reporting       resource capacities
                              and analysis)



                                                      40
                                    Intermediate Outcome
                                            Indicators
                                Percentage o f federal entity and
                                administrative health unit
                                (jurisdiccion) epidemiological
                                offices with staff trained in the
                                use o f the new information
                                technology platform (reporting
                                and analysis)
                                Percentage o f federal entity and
                                administrative health unit
                                (jurisdiccion) epidemiological
                                offices with staff trained in the
                                use o f the fully integrated
                                information technology system
                                (analysis)

                                Number o f federal entities with
                                appropriately sized cold
                                                                     Monitor progress in strengthening cold
Strengthen the capacity o f     chambers3 and 80 percent o f
                                                                     chain as a prerequisite for effective vaccine
the national cold chain.        administrative health units
                                                                     distribution and administration
                                (jurisdicciones) with complete4
                                cold chain equipment
                                Number o f A/H 1N1 vaccines
Strengthenthe strategic
                                purchased                            Monitor the strategic reserve o f medicines
reserve o f medicines and
                                Number o f Oseltamivir               and.vaccines
vaccines
                                treatments stockpiled


 *The SINAVE index comprises measures for three o its fours sub-systems including nine
                                                           f
different elements. These elements are: (1) the system for the weekly notification o f reportable
diseases, (2) the sentinel health facility surveillance system, (3) the surveillance system for
acute flaccid paralysis, (4) the surveillance system for acute febrile illness, (5)the surveillance
system for HIV/AIDS, (6) the surveillance system for diabetes, (7) the surveillance system for
neural tube defects, (8) the registry system for malignant neoplasms, and (9) the surveillance
system for addictions. Examples o f indicators for these elements are: the percentage o f medical
centers reporting cases in a timely manner, the number o f consecutive weeks o f reporting, the
number o f notified cases o f specific diseases among children, the percentage o f samples drawn
according to standards and the percentage o f probable cases tested in a timely manner. Data for
these indicators is provided by health facilities, sentinel sites and laboratories across the country
and is consolidated by the SINAVE at the federal level. The index is calculated at the state level
and the federal level once yearly through the "Caminando a la Excelencia" program.




  Depending on federal entity need (based on population size and composition) hrbished with cold chambers
capable of safely storing medicines and vaccines for a period o f 4 to 6 months.
  Depending on the administrative health unit (jurisdiccion) need (based on population size and composition)
h i s h e d with cold chamber and fiont chamber capable o f safely storing medicines and vaccines for a period of 2
to 4 months

                                                         41
**The SISVEFLU index comprises measures for the timeliness and quality o sample          f
processing, and the use and the representativeness o generated information. Specific
                                                             f
measures include: timely notification o f probable cases, timely investigation o f cases, adequacy
o f sample collection, timeliness o f shipment o f samples, concordance o f samples, compliance
with case identification goals and follow-up o f diagnosed and notified cases. Data for this index
is provided by the national laboratory network and consolidated annually by the federal
"Caminando a la Excelencia" program.




                                                42
     u
     P
     0
23   f
     'CI
     8
            2   4
            0
            n   3


                0
                Y


                B
                E
                g%J
                r)

                h
                3



3
3
0
    -
    B
    *
    W
    a
N
    g
    u


s
0
N




        -
        U
        3
        W

Q
N       E
        8

            0




I
                  Annex 4: Summary o f Estimated Project Costs
               MEXICO Influenza Prevention and Control Project


               Table 1: Project Cost by Components and/or Activity

                                                     Local          Foreign        Total
Component and/or Activity                             US$            US$            US$
                                                     million        million        million

Component I   Strengtheningthe capacity to            63.700          0.300         64.000
detect an influenza outbreak


Component I1Strengthening the capacity to        I   . 36.775   1    389.000   I   425.775
respond to an epidemic
                                                 I              I              I

                         Total Baseline Cost         100.475         389.300       489.775
                                Front-end Fee                          1.225         1.225
                           Price contineencies   I    11.OOO    I     36.000 1      47.000
                  Interest during construction         0.800                         0.800
                  Total Financing Required           112.275         426.525       538.800




                                          45
             Annex 5: Financial Management and DisbursementArrangements
                     MEXICO Influenza Prevention and Control Project


1. This annex documents the updating o the Financial Management (Fly, Assessment o
                                           f                                              f
the Federal Secretariat o Health which will be the implementing entity for the Project. The
                         f
assessment was conducted by Bank staff in accordance with O P B P 10.02 and "Guidelines for
Assessment o f Financial Management Arrangements in World Bank-Financed Projects." It also
takes into account the considerable experience o f the Mexican Government development bank
Nacional Financiera (NAFIN) as financial agent o f the Bank's resources.

2. The Project FM arrangements, as described herein, are consistent with Bank policy. The
agreed actions are: (i) preparation o f the Project Operational Manual, which includes a
                       the
specific FM section; and (ii) hiring o f an additional FM specialist within the Directorate o f
                            the
Operations within the Undersecretary o f Prevention and Promotion in Health to support project
implementation.

Description and Assessment o f Project FM arrangements

3. Country issues relevant to the Project. In general, public financial management in the
Mexican Federal Administration relies on strong budgeting, treasury, accounting and control
systems. These FM country systems apply to the Project, because the Federal Secretariat o f
Health will be the implementing entity through the national budget.

4. Implementing entity. Project activities would be coordinated and implemented using
structures and staff o f the Federal Secretariat o f Health, specifically the Under-secretariat o f
Prevention and Promotion in Health. The Adjunct Directorate o f Epidemiology (DGAE) would
serve as the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) responsible for overall project coordination. The
Directorate o f Operations (DO) in the Under-Secretariat o f Prevention and Promotion in Health
would be in charge o f the fiduciary aspects, in close coordination with DGAE. In that regard, i t s
functions will include processing o f payments and financial reporting, among other tasks.
However, as opposed to other Federal Secretariat o f Health areas, DGAE and DO have no
experience with managing Bank-financed projects. The FM team o f the Bank recommended
contracting an additional FM specialist to the DO, with multilateral financing experience, to
support the project-specific FM activities.

5. Financial administration. NAFIN would act as financial agent o f the Borrower with regard
to the Loan. In that capacity, NAFIN would manage loan disbursement processes and provide
other implementation support and oversight, based on i t s many years o f experience with Bank-
financed projects.




                                                46
6. Budgeting arrangements. Project funds would be allocated into the Federal Expenditure
Budget (PEF). Thus, i t s operation would be subject to provisions o f the annual PEF Law, the
Federal Budget and Fiscal Responsibility Law, the General Government Accounting Law, the
Guidelines on Budget Procedures, and others. This set o f legal and regulatory arrangements,
together with i t s implementation system, provides for sound budget formulation, execution and
control arrangements. As per usual practice in Mexico for operations implemented at the
national level, the Government would pre-finance the Project and the Bank would subsequently
reimburse eligible expenditures recorded under budgetary lines earmarked for the Project (digit0
2).
7. Accounting system. The Federal Secretariat o f Health, through DGAE and DO, would
maintain records and accounts adequate to document the Project. The Federal Secretariat o f
Health has implemented a Budgeting and Accounting System (SIPC) which maintains project
records in accordance with accounting practices acceptable to the Bank and in compliance with
national requirements established by the Federal Secretariat o f Finance (Integrated System o f
Governmental Accounting - SICG). Some Bank-specific data, such as SOEs, IFRs and Records
and Summary Sheets (see below) would be extracted from the institutional systems and
arranged in spreadsheets for presentational (not record-keeping) purposes. The Federal
Secretariat o f Health, through the DO, would be responsible for keeping files o f all supporting
documentation for expenditures made. Loan withdrawals would also be included in NAFIN's
pertinent accounts and w i l l be incorporated in Project financial statements.

8. Internal control and internal auditing. In addition to the budget regulations and
procedures mentioned above, the operation would be subject to the Federal Public
Administration Internal Control Standards issued by the Public Administration Ministry (SFP),
which as a whole provide for sound internal control arrangements for the program. The internal
auditing function would be carried out by the Federal Secretariat o f Health's Internal Control
Unit (OIC), which reports to SFP and must follow the Public Audit Standards and Guidelines
issued by this Ministry. The latter also approves the OIC's annual work programs, oversees i t s
operation, and receives i t s audit reports. Good systems are in place for timely follow-up to
internal audit observations and implementation o f recommendations.

9. General flow of funds. The general arrangements are described in the following chart and
explained below:




                                              47
          Chart 1: General Flow o f Funds: ReimbursementMethod



                                      Reimbursement method




                     I
          (rw) Reports + InforMon
                     I




                                         I     Health Social
                                             Protection System
                                                Trust Fund



          FA. = FinancialAgent
          PEF = Federal Expenditure Budget
          CLC = P$xm*&@orders
          SIAFF= National Treasury System
                                                         i Consultantsan
                                                                 94RR!k&



a.   The Federal Secretariat o f Health would finance project expenditures from the
     national budget (PEF).
b.   As expenditures are incurred, Federal Secretariat o f Health would issue payment
     orders (Cuenta por liquidar certzjkada, CLC) to the Federal Treasury (TESOFE)
     and Cartas de Instruccidn to the Health Social Protection System Trust Fund.
c.   TESOFE and the Trust Fund would issue the payments to providers o f goods and
     services.
d.   The Federal Secretariat o f Health, through DGAE and DO, would filter those
     expenditures that are eligible for Bank financing, would aggregate and summarize
     the data in a draft Statement o f Expenditures (SOE) or Records and Summary Sheets
     and would submit them to NAFIN.
e.   NAFIN would review the SOE or Records and Summary Sheets and submit them
     formally, together with a loan withdrawal application, to the Bank.
f.   The Bank would reimburse the eligible expenditures into a bank account managed
     by NAFIN. As an option, NAFIN would have access to World Bank advances to a
     DesignatedAccount (see below).
5    NAFIN would reimburse TESOFE.




                                       48
                      Chart 2: General Flow o f Funds: Advance Method



                                          Advance method


        The Work! Ban




                                                                      Secretariat
                                     (#G)Repo$ + Infortnabon



                                                               CLC



                                               Health Social

                                                Trust Fund



       FA. = FinancialAgent
       PEF = FederalExpenditure Budget
       CLC = P a m t orders
       SIAFF- National Treasury System




a. The Bank advances the authorized amount into DA, administered by NAFIN.
b. NAFIN advances funds to TESOFE, who finances national budget expenditures (PEF) for
   the federal administration.
c. The Federal Secretariat o f Health would finance project expenditures from the national
   budget (PEF).
d. As expenditures are incurred, Federal Secretariat o f Health would issue payment orders
   (Cuenta por liquidar certificada, CLC) to the Federal Treasury (TESOFE) and Cartas de
   Instruccidn to the Health Social Protection System Trust Fund.
e. TESOFE and the Trust Fund would issue the payments to providers o f goods and services.
f. The Federal Secretariat o f Health, through DGAE and DO, would filter those expenditures
   that are eligible for Bank financing, would aggregate and summarize the data in a draft
   Statement o f Expenditures (SOE) or Records and Summary Sheets and would submit them
   to NAFIN.
g. NAFIN would review the SOE or Records and Summary Sheets and submit them formally,
   together with a loan withdrawal application, to the Bank in documentation o f the advance to
   the DA.
h. The Bank will refund the DA.


                                                49
Disbursement arrangements. The loan disbursement arrangements' are summarized thus:

         Disbursement method           Reimbursement of eligible expenditures (pre-financed by the
                                         government) into a bank account in USD designated by NAFIN. The
                                         minimum application size for reimbursement and direct payment
                                         requests would be US$ 1,000,000.
                                       Advance to a segregated designated account in US$ managed by
                                         NAFIN, in a bank to be determined, with a ceiling ofUS$70 million for
                                         outstandin advances.
      Supporting documentation       SOEs , Records and Summary Sheets. Thresholds will be specified in the .
                                      disbursement letter.
     i   Retroactive expenditures     Eligible payments
                                       Are paid between April 23, 2009 and the date ofloan signing;
                                       Do not exceed 40 percent of the loan amount; and
                                       Are subject to the same systems, controls and eligibility filters described
                                      above, includin the re ular ro'ect external audit (see below). 

         Other procedures 
           Other disbursement procedures are not expected to be required; however,
     !
                                      upon request from NAFIN and subject to Bank's approval, direct payments
                                      may be made for eligible expenditures to a third party (supplier or
                                    . consultant).



                                         Table 2: Disbursement Table


                                                      Amount of the Loan                 Percentage of
                                                          Allocated                   Expenditures to be
                         Category
                                                        (expressed in                       financed
                                                        USD million)                  (inclusive of Taxes)
         (1) Goods, non-consultants services,                64.00                            100% 

             works, consultants' services, 

             Training and Operating Costs for 

             Component I of the Project 

         (2) Goods, non-consultants' services,                 425.77                         100% 

             consultants' services, Training and 

                                                                                                                   I
             Operating Costs for Component II
             ofthe Project                                                                                         i

         (3) Front-end Fee                                       1.23                         100%
         (4) Premia for Interest Rate Caps and                   0
             Interest Rate Collars
         TOTAL AMOUNT                                          491.00                         100%


1.

I For details, please see the Disbursement Handbook for World Bank Clients. 

2 The Borrower through the Federal Secretariat of Health shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 

receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the respective components of the Project until at least 

the later of: (i) one year after the Bank has received the audited Financial Statements covering the period during 

which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made; and (ii) two years after the closing date. The 

Borrower and the Federal Secretariat of Health shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records. 


                                                          50 

Interim Unaudited Financial Reports (IFRs) for the Project covering each semester, in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank. These reports would be based o n the formats o f the annual
financial statements, established in the general framework for the audit o f all national-level
Bank-financed projects (the technical M O U on auditing), which have been agreed between the
Government and the Bank. The IFR format would also be based on the financial report that
should be sent by the Federal Secretariat o f Health to i t s OIC on a quarterly basis. After loan
effectiveness, the financial reports would be presented by the Federal Secretariat o f Health to
NAFIN for further submission to the Bank, as follows:

                              Table 3: Financial Reports Schedule

                  Report                                            Due Date
    Semi-annual unaudited project IFRs       Within 45 days after the end o f each calendar
                                             semester.
    Annual audit report on project financial Within six months after the end o f each calendar year
    statements and eligibility o f           of loan disbursements (or other period agreed with the
    exPenditures                             Bank).


 11. External audit. Annual audits on Project financial statements and eligibility o f expenditures
would be performed in accordance with Bank policy, as reflected in the audit terms o f reference
and memorandum o f understanding agreed between the Bank and SFP. The OIC o f the Federal
Secretariat o f Health, as designated by SFP, would conduct the Project audits. The audit report
would be furnished to the Bank, through NAFIN, as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end o f each audited yeadperiod. Regarding the project currently under
implementation by the Federal Secretariat o f Health (Third Basic Health Care Project -
P066321), the same auditors issued unqualified (clean) opinion for the CY08 financial
statements and found the internal control system to be satisfactory.

12. Written procedures. Project FM procedures have been documented in the Operational
Manual that defines the roles and responsibilities o f the Federal secretariat o f Health, including
DGAE and DO. The O M includes, among other financial procedures: (i)        accounting, budgeting
and internal control policies and procedures; (ii)    formats o f the IFRs; (iii)   records, project
management, and (vi) audit arrangements.

13. Risk assessment. O n the basis o f the Bank's Project FM assessment, the overall FM
residual risk i s considered modest, as explained in the following table:




                                                  51
                                               Table 4: FM Risk




Non-standard
conditions
Bank F M                    The Federal Secretariat o f Health has prepared and submitted, through
supervision                 NAFIN, for the Bank's no objection the Project Operations Manual.

                            At least one full F M supervision mission per year, which will look into the
                            operation o f the control systems and arrangements described in this annex,
                            will be performed. Desk reviews o f IFRs and audit reports will also be
                            carried out.
Residual risk        M                                                                                        M



  The FM inherent risk i s that which arises from the environment in which the project i s situated. The FM control
risk i s the risk that the project's F M system i s inadequate to ensure project finds are used economically and
efficiently and for the purpose intended. The overall FM risk i s the combination o f the inherent and control risks
as mitigated by the client control f?ameworks. The residual FM risk i s the overall'FM risk as mitigated by the
Bank supervision effort.

                                                        52
                                   Annex 6: Procurement Arrangements
                          MEXICO Influenza Prevention and Control Project

A.        General

1. Procurementfor the proposed Project would be carried out in accordance with the World
Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004,
and revised in October 2006; and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment o Consultants by
                                                                             f
World Bank Borrowers" dated May 2004 and revised in October 2006, and the provisions
stipulated in the Loan Agreement following streamlined procedures as provided for by
OP8.00. The various items financed by the loan are described below. For each contract to be
financed by the loan, the different procurement or consultant selection methods, the need for
prequalification, estimated costs, prior review requirements, and time frames would be agreed
between the Borrower and the Bank in the Procurement Plan. The Procurement Plan would be
updated at least every 12 to 18 months or as required to reflect Project implementation and
capacity needs.

2. Procurement o f Works: The loan would finance the construction and equipment o f the
Borrower's national reference laboratory for epidemiological surveillance. Turnkey contracts
for the construction o f this laboratory (phase 1 and 2) are being considered; final agreements
would be reflected in the Procurement Plan. The contracts would be procured following I C B
procedures.

3. Procurement o f Goods: The loan would finance goods including information systems
(hardware and software), laboratory and bio-security equipment, vehicles, medicines10,
vaccines, medical supplies, cold chambers, vehicles with cooling equipment, and refrigerators.
These goods would be procured in accordance with the methods defined in the Table 6. Given
the urgency to prepare the country for the wave o f influenza expected to affect Mexico in
December 2009 and facing fiscal pressures resulting from the recession, the Government has
requested that loan proceeds would be used to finance (retroactively) contracts awarded using
the direct contracting method to purchase Oseltamivir (Tamiflu) and influenza vaccines. The
Government initiated the contracting process with L a Roche for the procurement o f Tamiflu
prior to Loan negotiations. With only sporadic cases o f resistance reported, Tamiflu is the
standard medicine for the anti-viral treatment o f influenza. The purchases o f Tamiflu would
maintain Mexico's stock o f anti-viral medicines in the short term. The request for financing o f
direct contracting for procurement o f Tamiflu from Roche is justified due to proprietary nature
o f the antiviral medicine. In addition, given the global shortage o f influenza vaccines, and the
emergency, Government also requested that retroactive financing under existing umbrella
agreement for procurement o f vaccines. The Bank i s currently reviewing this arrangement to
ensure that the procedures followed as well as the contracts are acceptable to the Bank.

4. Procurement o f Non-consultant Services: The loan would finance non-consultant services
including printing, reproducing, publicizing and disseminating information materials.



loThese   include antibiotics and anti-viral medicines.

                                                          53
5 . Selection o f Consultants: Both components o f the Project would entail o f the financing o f
consultant services. These services would be required for the evaluation and the development o f
SINAVE's information technology system, epidemiological research and quality control, data
analysis and training. Short lists o f consultants for services estimated to cost less than
US$500,000 equivalent per contract may be composed entirely o f national consultants as
provided for by paragraph 2.7 o f the Selection o f Consultant Guidelines. Individual consultants
would be hired according to Section V o f the Guidelines.

6. Operational Costs and Training: The loan would finance reasonable expenditures on
recurrent costs for the carrying out o f the Project (excluding salaries but including
transportation and lodging costs, per diems) using the Federal Secretariat o f Health's
administrative procedures. The loan would finance reasonable expenditures (other than those
for consultants' services) incurred by the Borrower for the purposes o f the Project and directly
related to training activities described in the Project, including, inter alia, costs related to
workshops, seminars, conferences, study tours, training registration fees, facility and equipment
rentals, and travel costs andper diems for the Borrower's staff or consultants.

7. Retroactive financing i s expected for goods described in paragraph 3, above.

B.     Assessment o f Capacity and Risk to Implement Procurement

8. Project activities would be coordinated and implemented using structures and staff o f the
Federal Secretariat o f Health, specifically the Under-secretariat o f Prevention and Promotion in
Health. The Adjunct Directorate o f Epidemiology (DGAE) would serve as the Project
Coordination Unit responsible for overall project coordination. Administrative support,
including procurement, will be provided by the Directorate o f Operations (also within the
Under-secretariat for Prevention and Promotion). Given that these u n i t s have not had previous
experience in Bank operations, their staff would be trained in the use o f Bank Guidelines.

9. An assessment o f the capacity o f the Implementing Agency to carry out procurement
processes has been carried out in June 2009. The assessment reviewed the organizational
structure for implementing the Project and the skills and experience o f procurement staff.

10. Key issues and risks have been identified and include the lack o f experience o f staff in the
D O in carrying out procurement processes in accordance with the Bank Guidelines. This risk is
compounded by the emergency nature o f the Project. Therefore, the overall Project risk for
procurement i s considered substantial; furthermore, the Government and the Bank agreed on
several risk mitigating measures including training o f staff and the hiring o f a procurement
specialist to the DO with ample experience in Bank projects. In addition, NAFIN would serve
as the financial agent for the Project; NAFIN has a well-trained procurement team and would
review procurement processes not subject to prior review by the Bank. The main mitigations
measures are summarized below:


 Issue                                                     Responsible          Target Date
 Procurement training for staff carrying out                   Bank          December 3 1,2009
 procurement activities within DO.

                                               54
 Issue                                                       Responsible          Target Date
 SEPA training for technical and administrative staff.          Bank           December 3 1,2009

 Recruitment o f a procurement specialist                   Implementing       January 3 1,20 10
                                                              Agency

C. Procurement Plan

11. At appraisal, the Borrower presented a simplified Procurement Plan which provides the
basis for Project implementation during the first six months. This plan was further developed
and approved by the Bank on July 24, 2009. The plan will be available in SEPA, in the
Project's database and in the Bank's external website. It would be updated in agreement with
the Bank at least every 12 to 18 month or as required to reflect the implementation and
institutional capacity needs.

D. Frequency o f Procurement Supervision Missions

12. In addition to the prior-review o f procurement processes, annual supervision missions would
assess the procurement capacity o f the Implementing Agency and carry out the ex-post review.

E. Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review

13. The thresholds for the use o f the procurement method specified in the Procurement Plan as
well as thresholds for prior review are summarized in Table 6 below.

        Table 6: Thresholds for procurement methods and prior review (000 USD)


                       Contract Value
   Expenditure                                                                 Contracts Subject to
                        (Thresholds)                Procurement Method
    Category                                                                      Prior Review
                       US$ thousands




 Services
 3.a Firms                  >500                       QCBS, QBS                       All
                            >IO0                      FBS, LCS, CQS                    All
                                                           sss                         All
                                              According to Chapter V o f the
 3.b Individuals                                      Guidelines                 A l l sole-source




                                               55
  Note:               ICB = International Competitive Bidding
                      NCB = National Competitive Bidding
                      D C = Direct Contracting
                      QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
                      QBS = Quality-Based Selection
                      FBS = Fixed Budget Selection
                      LCS = Least-Cost Selection
                      CQS = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
                      SSS: Single Source Selection


F. Details o f the Procurement Arrangements Involving International Competition and
Direct Contracting

1. Works, Goods and Non-ConsultingServices

                 2                     3                        4                  5                   6          7
                                                                                                             Expected
                                                                                                Review
                                                                                                               Bid-
          Contracting               Contract            Estimated         Procurement           by Bank
                                                                                                             Opening
             unit                 (Description)           cost              Method              (Prior I
                                                                                                               Date
                                                                                                 Post)
             Secretariat    Construction and         US$60,000,000                ICB            Prior            43
             o f Health     equipment o f a new
                            building to house the
                            Borrower's national
                            reference laboratory
             Secretariat    600 thousand             US$24,200,000           Direct               Prior           43
             o f Health     treatments o f                                 contracting
                            Oseltamivir (Tamiflu
                            @I
             Secretariat    NHlNlheasonal                   TBD               TBD                 Prior           43
             o f Health     influenza vaccines
                            (multiple contracts)

             Secretariat    Anti-viral medicines            TBD               TBD                 Prior           Q3
             o f Health     (multiple contracts)




2. Consulting Services

a. L i s t o f consulting assignments with short-list o f international firms.

      1                2,                 3             4                5                  6                 7
                                      Estimated     Selection          Bank            Exp. Date o f
                Description o f
  Ref' No'                           cost (US$)                       Review            Proposals          Comments
                 Assignment
                                     Thousands      Method          (PriorPost)        Submission
      1        TBD                                  QCBS               Prior                Q
      2        TBD                                  QCBS               Prior                Q



                                                            56
b. Consultant services (firms) costing above US$500,000 will be subject to prior review by the
   Bank. Consultant services (individuals) costing above US$lOO,OOO will be subject to prior
   review by the Bank. All single-source selection o f consultants will be subject to prior
   review by the Bank.




                                              57
                  Annex 7: Implementationand Monitoring Arrangements
                    MEXICO Influenza Prevention and Control Project


1 . The coordination and implementation o Project activities would be governed by two
                                              f
highly visible and technically sound national plans. Activities o f Project component Iwould
constitute core elements o f the National Epidemiologic Surveillance System Plan and activities
o f Project component I1 would fall within the National Plan for Preparedness and Response to
an Influenza Pandemic.

2. Project activities would be coordinated and implemented using organizational structures
and staff o the Secretariat o Health. Relevant organizational structures operate exclusively
           f                  f
under the oversight o f the Under-secretariat for Prevention and Promotion in Health. Within the
Under-secretariat, the National Center for Epidemiological Surveillance and Disease Control
(CENAVECE), the National Center for Child and Adolescent Health (CENSIA), and the
Directorate o f Operations would have lead roles, as would the Adjunct Directorate for
Epidemiology (DGAE), the Adjunct Directorate for Preventive Programs (DGAPP) within
CENAVECE. DGAE would serve at the Project Coordination Unit (PCU). On all technical
and strategic matters, DGAE would be guided by a federal advisory committee with broad
representation o f public stakeholders. On fiduciary matters, all units and in particular the
Directorate o f Operations would be supported by Nucionul Financiera (NAFIN), a public
financial agent with ample experience in supporting the implementation o f Bank-financed
projects.

3. Before explaining their specific roles in the implementation o the Project, this annex
                                                                     f
describes each agency and its general role within the health sector:

4. The Under-secretariat for Prevention and Promotion in Health is responsible for the
development, implementation and monitoring o policies to prevent diseases and promote the
                                                   f
health o all Mexicans. I t s mandate includes epidemiological surveillance, prevention o f
         f
communicable diseases (e.g. influenza), prevention o f non-communicable diseases (e.g.
diabetes), prevention o f accidents, promotion o f healthy lifestyles, and promotion o f community
health, including social participation.

5. The National Center for Epidemiological Surveillance and Disease Control
(CENAKECE) is responsiblefor epidemiological surveillance, epidemiological research and
the development and implementation o federal programs to prevent diseases and promote
                                          f
health. It i s a deconcentrated but not legally separate agency o f the Secretariat o f Health and
operates under the oversight o f the Under-secretariat for Prevention and Promotion.

6. Within CENAWCE, the Adjunct Directorate o Epidemiology (DGAE) is responsiblefor
                                                     f
epidemiological surveillance policies and strategies to ensure the timely availability o      f
information for decision making in public health. I t s responsibilities include the management
and development o f the National Epidemiological Surveillance System (SINAVE), which
entails the coordination o f surveillance activities among segments o f the health system (Le.
social health insurance programs and national health services), and the 32 federal entities. In
this role, DGAE serves as the technical secretariat for the National Committee for

                                               58
Epidemiological Surveillance (CONAVE), which brings together representatives from all
federal health sector agencies to standardize surveillance procedures and data outputs. Its
responsibilities also include the development and implementation o f quality control strategies
and epidemiological research and development. W h i l e DGAE i s currently an Adjunct
Directorate o f CENAVECE, the Secretariat o f Health i s finalizing plans to further strengthen
the DGAE and upgrade it into a General Directorate for Epidemiology with additional staff and
a central epidemiological analysis unit.

7. Within CENAWCE, the Adjunct Directorate for Preventive Programs (DGAPP) is
responsible for federal programs o disease prevention and control. This entails the
                                         f
development and oversight o f the programs. For most programs, implementation i s the
responsibility o f the federal entities (31 States and one Federal District). In these cases, roles
and responsibilities are defined in annual coordination agreements (in Spanish convenios de
coordinacibn) that govern the cooperation between the Federal Secretariat o f Health and the
federal entities in all matters related to health, including the transfer o f resources. DGAPP is
also responsible for the implementation o f a few programs and activities, for example, the
management o f the strategic reserve for public health emergencies. Like DGAE, DGAPP is an
adjunct office o f CENAVECE.

8. The National Center for Child and Adolescent Health is responsiblefor the development,
implementation and monitoring o policies on child and adolescent health, including
                                    f
vaccinations. Like CENAVECE, it i s a deconcentrated but not legally separate agency o f the
Federal Secretariat o f Health that operates under the oversight o f the Under-secretariat for
Prevention and Promotion.

9. The Directorate o Operations is responsible for the management o the human, financial
                       f                                                f
and material resources o the Under-secretariatfor Prevention and Promotion. I t s roles and
                          f
functions encompass the coordination o f planning and budgeting processes and the monitoring
o f resources, including budget execution. The Directorate o f Operations directly reports to the
office o f the Under-Secretary o f Prevention and Promotion in Health.


Roles and Responsibilitiesin the Implementation o f the Project

  10. The Under-secretariatfor Prevention and Promotion would have the overall responsibility
                                                                  f
for Project implementation with the Adjunct Directorate o Epidemiology serving as the
Project Coordination Unit (PCU) and implementing component I o the Project. Under the
                                                                        f
 leadership o f i t s Adjunct Director serving as the head o f the PCU, DGAE would maintain a
 team with organization, functions, responsibilities and staff in numbers and with experience and
 qualifications acceptable to the Bank to, among other tasks:

       ensure that all legal requirements are met, including compliance with the Bank's
       environmental safeguard policies, timely reporting to the Bank and the audit o f the
       Project;

       coordinate the preparation and monitor the implementation o f operational and
       procurement plans;

                                               59
       ensure that roles and responsibilities o f federal entities in carrying out activities
       supporting the Project are established in Cooperation Agreements between the Federal
       Secretariat o f Health and federal entities prior to issuing bidding documents for Project
       activities aimed to benefit and/or be implemented by a state;

       facilitate the supervision o f the Project, including the monitoring o f Project indicators;

       regularly assess progress in Project implementation, including the identification o f
       bottlenecks and strategies to resolve them;

       liaise with Government agencies including COFEPRIS and S E M A R N A T and federal
       entities; and,

       implement component I f the Project.
                            o


11. The Cooperation Agreements established between the Federal Secretariat o Health and
                                                                               f
the federal entities will include the obligation o the federal entities to assist in the
                                                    f
procurement process, to carry out complementary activities and distribution o medicines and
                                                                             f
vaccines and to comply with the project's safeguard requirements.

12. On all strategic and technical issues, the DGAE would be guided by a twelve-member
advisory committee (Comitk Asesor Federal). This advisory committee would be established
not later than two months after Project effectiveness and thereafter maintained. Its advisory
function would include the review o f operational plans for the Project. The Committee would
have the following members: the Undersecretary Prevention and Promotion in Health, the
Chairman o f the National Commission for Social Protection in Health, the Director o f the
National Center for Epidemiological Surveillance and Disease Control, the Director o f the
Center for Child and Adolescent Health, the Director o f the National Center for the Prevention
o f Accidents, the Director o f the National Center for AIDS Control and Prevention, the Director
o f the Center for Gender Equity and Reproductive Health, the Technical Secretary o f the
National Council for Addiction Control, the General Director for Health Information, the
General Director for National Health Institutes and High Specialty Hospitals, the Director o f the
National Health Institute (INSP), and the Dean o f the Faculty o f Medicine o f the Mexican
National Autonomous University (UNAM).

13. The Adjunct Directorate for Preventive Programs (DGAPP) and the National Center for
Child and Adolescent Health would jointly with DGAE implement component II o the            f
Project. DGAPP would be responsible for carrying out activities to replenish and maintain the
strategic reserve o f influenza vaccines, medicines and medical supplies. CENSIA would be
responsible for carrying out activities to strengthen the country's cold chain. More specifically,
DGAPP and CENSIA would, among other Project-related tasks:

       support the preparation o f operational and procurement plans, including the preparation
                                      1
       o f draft plans for component 1 ;



                                                 60
    .   contribute to procurement processes, including the preparation o f terms o f reference and
        requests for proposals,

    .   support Project monitoring, including the collection o f relevant information; and

    .   facilitate the collaboration with federal entities.

 14. The Directorate o Operations (DO) would support DGAE, DGAPP and CENSIA in all
                       f
fiduciary tasks. Under the leadership o f i t s Director, the Directorate would maintain a team with
 organization, functions, responsibilities and staff in numbers and with experience and
 qualifications acceptable to the Bank to, among other tasks:
        .
        .   prepare and, as necessary, update the Project's operational manual;

        .
        .
            prepare and update the Project's procurement plans;
            carry out the procurement o f goods, works and services;
            prepare for and facilitate ex-post procurement reviews;

        .
        .
            prepare non-audited Interim Financial Reports;
            prepare Project Financial Statements and Statements, o f Expenditures (SOEs); and
            prepare for and facilitate Project audits.

15. On fiduciary matters, all units and in particular the Directorate o Operations would be
                                                                        f
supported by Nacional Financiera (NAFIN), a public financial agent with ample experience
in supporting the implementation o Bank-financed projects. The cooperation with NAFIN
                                      f
would be governed by a contract (Contrato de Mandato) into which the Federal Secretariat of
Finance, the Federal Secretariat o f Health and NAFIN would enter prior effectiveness.

 16. The processes and procedures governing Project implementation have been further
specified in the Project Operational Manual (OM). The Federal Secretariat o f Health has
prepared an Operational Manual which includes detailed arrangements for procurement,
financial management, disbursement, reporting and auditing requirements, key performance
indicators, roles and responsibilities o f different administrative units and divisions within the
Federal Secretariat o f Health, and the Environmental Action Plan. This Operational Manual has
been reviewed and approved by the Bank. The IPP would be prepared, approved by the Bank
and its action plan incorporated into the Operational Manual prior to February 28, 2010. The
environmental provisions for phase 2 o f the construction o f the Borrower's national reference
laboratory for epidemiological surveillance would be prepared, approved by the Bank and
incorporated into the Operational Manual prior to the bidding process. Additional information
on implementation arrangements for Project monitoring, financial management and
procurement are provided in annexes 3,5 and 6.




                                                  61
                 Annex 8: Project Preparation and Appraisal Team Members
                      MEXICO Influenza Prevention and Control Project

                                                  Planned                          Actual
Decision Meeting                                July 6,2009                     July 6,2009
P I D to PIC                                   July 13,2009                    July 17,2009
ISDS to PIC                                    July 13,2009                    July 17,2009
Negotiations                                   July 20,2009                   October 30, 2009
Board/RVP approval                          November 24,2009
Planned date o f effectiveness              December 01,2009
Planned date o f mid-term review             December 1,20 10
Planned closing date                          June 30,20 12

Key institutions responsible for preparation o f the project:
    Federal Secretariat o f Health

Bank staff and consultants who worked on the Project included:

Christoph Kurowski                       Task Team and HD Sector Leader
Alejandra Gonzdlez                       Program Assistant
Christina Novinskey                      Extended-Term Consultant
Claudia Macias                           Operations Officer
Dmitri Gourfinkel                        Financial Management Analyst
Dorothy Kronick                          Junior Professional Associate
Gabriel Peiialoza                        Procurement Analyst
Gunars Platais                           Senior Environmental Economist
Jose Janeiro                             Sr. Finance Offier
Manuel Vargas                            Senior Financial Management Specialist
Manuela Villar Uribe                     Extended-Term Consultant
Maria Elena Castro                       Senior Social Development Specialist
Mariangeles Sabella                      Senior Counsel
Marta Molares-Halberg                    Lead Counsel
Miguel Oliveira                          Finance Officer
Ruben Fernandez                          Intern
Tomas Socias                             Sr. Procurement Specialist
Veronica Jarrin                          Sr. Program: Assistant


Bank funds expended to date on Project preparation:
    1. Bank resources up to FY 10:                  US$78,517
    2. Trust funds:                                N/A

Estimated Approval and Supervision costs:              US$ 103,000
     1. Remaining costs to approval:                   US$ 3,000
     2. Estimated annual supervision cost:             US$ 100,000 (including fixed and variable costs)




                                                 62
                Annex 9: Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework
                    MEXICO Influenza Prevention and Control Project


1 . The objective o the proposed Project is to strengthen the capacity o the Mexican health
                   f                                                   f
system to monitor the spread o influenza viruses and control epidemic waves.
                              f

2. The proposed objective o Component I is to strengthen the capacity o the Mexican
                               f                                                   f
health system to monitor influenza activity. The Project would accomplish this by improving
the National Epidemiologic Surveillance System (SINAVE). Specific activities would include
the development o f SINAVE's IT system, the upgrading o f the Borrower's national reference
laboratory, the establishment o f a unit within SINAVE devoted entirely to epidemiologic
analysis, the development o f research programs that assess the relevance and deepen the
understanding o f collected information, the accreditation and certification o f units according to
international standards, and the training o f personnel in laboratory procedures, data analysis and
evidence-based public health decision making.

3 . The proposed objective o Component 1 is to strengthen the capacity o the Mexican
                             f                1                            f
health system to control influenza epidemic waves. This would be achieved by strengthening
the infrastructure to effectively distribute medicines, vaccines and medical supplies,
replenishing and expanding the country's strategic reserves thereof.

Environment

4. The proposed Project has potentially adverse environmental impacts that suggest its
classification as category B; accordingly it would trigger the Bank's environmental safeguard
policy (OPBP 4.01). The proposed upgrading of the national laboratory network will include
the construction and equipping o f the Borrower's national reference laboratory for
epidemiological surveillance as well as an improvement in bio-security levels requiring
enhanced capacities to handle bio-hazardous waste. The proposed purchase o f medicines and
vaccines raises concerns about the appropriate disposal o f expired batches and the handling o f
medical waste in health service facilities.

5 . There are two ministries with jurisdiction over the environmental challenges facing
Project activities. The Secretariat o f Health has the responsibility for the response to the
influenza epidemic. Within the Ministry, COFEPRIS (Comision Federal para la Proteccion
contra Riesgos Sanitarios) i s responsible for monitoring biomedical and hazardous waste
management. The Environment and Natural Resources Secretariat (SEMARNAT) through
PROFEPA (Procuraduria Federal de la Protection a1 Ambiente) i s responsible for enforcing
National Environmental Legislation.




                                               63
           f
Upgrading o the Borrower 's national reference laboratory

6. The proposed Project would support the construction and equipment o the Borrower's
                                                                              f
national reference laboratory for epidemiological surveillance - I n D R E (Instituto de
Diagndstico y Referencia Epidemioldgica). The construction will entail a first phase for an
administrative building and a second phase for the laboratory building, including high level
biosafety laboratories (BSL3). The construction has been identified as a national priority by the
Federal Secretariat o f Health and the National Health Sector Program 2007-2012. The building
was designed and will be constructed according to the Centers for Disease Control's (CDC)
Biosafety in Microbiological and Biomedical Laboratories and international, national, state and
local construction codes, norms and specifications.

7. A comprehensive environmental impact assessment (EM) has been conductedfor thefirst
                       f
construction phase o the national reference laboratory for epidemiological surveillance.
Recoinmendations, some o f them incorporated into the Project, include measures o f noise and
dust control, waste recycling facilities, parking within the facility in order avoid traffic
disruptions, timing o f the delivery o f supplies in order minimize any impact on surrounding
traffic patterns, control o f maximum level o f vehicle emissions, establishment o f quality
parameters for water and other effluents entering the public drainage system in accordance with
federal legislation. Furthermore, the design o f the building incorporates a number o f innovative
environmental features such as recycling air through underground passages thereby removing
the need for air conditioning, a green roof reducing the overall temperature o f the structure, and
deep penetration o f sunlight into the office space. The building also includes a series o f
innovative design features to reduce access o f unauthorized personnel to restricted areas.

8. A comprehensive environmental impact assessment will be conducted for the second
                      f
construction phase o the Borrower's national reference laboratory prior to initiating bidding
on the civil works contracts. Anticipated recommendations include minimizing any impact o f
bio-safety failure following CDC standards, including the establishment o f emergency
procedures on the job and for the functioning o f the laboratory and hazardous waste procedures.
The environmental assessment will be carried out once the detailed feasibility study (proyecto
ejecutivo) i s concluded and prior to initiating the bidding process, probably by mid-20 10.

Site Sensitivity Screening

9. There are no resettlement concerns with regard to the construction o the Borrower's
                                                                                 f
national reference laboratory for epidemiological surveillance (see below), however, located
in a residential area, effective measures have to be put in place to avoid and)/or reduce any
environmental impact on the surrounding area. The EIA for the second construction phase
will assess these potential impacts and issue corresponding recommendations, drawing on a
previously established system and procedures that ensure compliance with national and
international bio-security norms, including the yearly training o f laboratory staff by the CDC.

Medicines and Vaccines

10. The proposed purchase o influenza medicines and vaccines requires ensuring that
                           f
                -
medical waste resulting from vaccinating the population as well expiring medicines and

                                               64
 vaccines - is properly disposed oJ: Federal legislation provides the appropriate regulatory
framework. NOM-052-SEMARNAT-2005 provides guidance as to what constitutes dangerous
 residues and NOM-087-ECOL-SSA1-2002 provides a full treatment o f what constitutes
 biomedical waste, how it should be managed, stored, transported, treated and disposed of.

11. However, an environmental assessment and continuous supervision efforts under the
Third Basic Health Care demonstrated weaknesses in implementation and prompted
Government efforts to build state-level capacity; these efforts would be sustained under the
proposed operation after the closing o the loan for the Third Basic Health Care project in
                                         f
December 2009. While bio-medical waste tends to be properly managed within health facilities,
i t s collection and final disposal i s commonly outsourced and o f varying quality. Most
importantly, expired pharmaceuticals need to be disposed o f in incinerators and should not be
disposed o f in the sewer system given the potentially negative impact they can have on the
receiving ecosystem. The proposed Project would support the reinforcement o f the appropriate
disposal o f medicines and vaccines through capacity building and ongoing initiatives such as
the Program for the Collection and Final Disposition o f Expired Medication, at the State level,
supported by COFEPRIS.

Project Environmental Category, Required EA Work and EnvironmentalAction Plan

12. The Project is classified as Category B due to the need o the EUs for the Borrower's
                                                             f
national reference laboratory o epidemiological surveillance and the need to appropriately
                                f
dispose o bio-medical waste.
         f

13. Exhaustive Environmental Impact Assessments for the two phases o construction o the
                                                                             f                f
Borrower's national reference laboratory have been (phase I ) and will be @base II)
undertaken.       The assessment for phase two will not only evaluate potential site-specific
impacts o f the infrastructure but also those o f biohazardous to be handled by the laboratory. The
main elements that each EIA will cover are summarized in Table 7 below.

   Table 7: Required Content o f Environmental Assessment for the Borrower's national
   reference laboratory
   0 Describes the proposed project, indicating the specific locations and approximate surface area
     of all complementary facilities needed for project construction, such as construction camps,
      storage yards, parking lots, borrow pits, and waste disposal sites.
   0 Describes relevant legislative and regulatory considerations, including air, water, and solid
      waste pollution control standards.
   0 Examines potential positive and negative environmental impacts, including HCW impacts
      (phase I1only), and other indirect and induced impacts.
   0 Compares impacts with those o f feasible alternatives, including the "without project"
      alternative.
   0 Includes, as part of the EA, the appropriate measures to manage HCW (phase I1 only).
   0 Assesses institutional capacity and identified needs for implementing EA recommendations,
      including for the management of pests (if necessary) and HCW (only phase 11).
   0 Develops a monitoringplan.
   0 Complies with the Bank's consultation requirements and documents the results.

                                                   65
14. Drawing on the EL4 for phase I o the construction and assessments carried out under
                                    f
the Third Basic Health Care Project, the Project's Environmental Action Plan has two core
elements. It includes recommendations o f the EIA for the construction o f phase 1 o f the
Borrower's national reference laboratory and capacity building activities to strengthen the
handling o f biomedical waste in the Borrower's national reference laboratory, storages for
medicines and vaccines and health facilities as well as during vaccination campaigns.
Furthermore, it specifies required budget allocations and roles and responsibilities o f the
different u n i t s and divisions in the Federal Secretariat o f Health and federal entities in carrying
out the environmental action plan. The Government has prepared this action plan as part o f the
Operational Manual.

 15. A comprehensive environmental impact assessment will also be carried out for phase 1 o1f
the construction o the Borrower's national reference laboratory. In addition to the elements
                  f
o f the assessment for the first phase o f the construction, it will evaluate potential adverse
impacts o f handling biohazardous material and make recommendations o n how to minimize
them, including the impact o f bio-safety failures following CDC standards, for example,
emergency procedures on the j o b and for the functioning o f the laboratory. The assessment as
well as the recommended environmental provisions will be submitted by the Government to the
Bank for its approval prior to initiating the bidding process.

Social

16. The experience o prior epidemics (such as the 1918 Spanish Flu) and the first wave o
                     f                                                                        f
N l N l in Mexico indicate that poverty may enable the spread and compound the severity o     f
influenza infections (Taubenberger & Morens 2006). Factors responsible for this include,
among others, the absence o f basic sanitation, lack o f access to health services, and reduced
access to information.

17. The proposed Project would address this challenge by improving epidemiological
surveillance to better target interventions and strengthening the health systems capacity to
respond to emergencies. Therefore, the proposed Project i s expected to have a positive social
impact and specifically, to improve the Government's capacity to protect poor populations from
avoidable morbidity and mortality from A/H IN1 influenza, including indigenous populations.

 18. The proposed Project capacity-building activities would primarily benefit the Mexican
population as a whole rather than any particular social group. With access to health services
almost universal (>99 percent) and sentinel sites being representative o f the country's
population, the strengthening o f the surveillance system would benefit all Mexicans. Anti-viral
drugs have been distributed to all health services in the country, including mobile units
servicing most remote areas. I t s administration will depend exclusively on clinical criteria.
While vaccines will not be available for the total population, Mexico will follow guidelines o f
the World Health Organization in prioritizing access that suggest concentrating efforts on
densely populated areas where the virus spreads more easily.

19. Yet, the indigenous peoples social safeguard policy (OPBP 4.10) would be triggered and
an Indigenous Peoples Plan (IPP) prepared during supervision (as provided for by
OPBP8.00) and not later than February 28, 2010 to ensure that indigenous peoples benefit

                                                  66
adequately from the Project. Analyses underpinning the IPP would build on the findings o f the
social assessment carried out earlier this year for the project in Support o f Oportunidades,
Mexico's conditional cash transfer program that included an analysis o f the health o f indigenous
communities under the program. It will focus on the Project's potential positive and adverse
effects o n indigenous peoples, in particular, the constraints that indigenous peoples face to
access health services and in particular vaccinations.

20. The IPP would lay out an action plan to be carried out during Project implementation.
The IPP's action plan would expand on the activities implemented through an Avian and
Human Influenza Facility (AHIF) Grant that aims to strengthen the capacity o f state health
systems to develop and disseminate messages promoting behaviors that reduce the risk o f
influenza A/HlNl transmission and its health impact with a focus on hard-to-reach populations.
Based on preliminary analyses, the action plan would include the following key elements.
Furthermore, it would specify required budget allocations and roles and responsibilities o f the
different units and divisions in the Federal Secretariat o f Health and federal entities in carrying
out the action plan. Consultations on a draft IPP are scheduled for December 2009. Based o n
the outcome o f this consultation a final IPP would be prepared to be submitted for Bank
approval not later than February 28,20 10.

      Representation o f indigenous peoples in the C O N A V E (Comisibn Nacional de Vigilancia
      Epidemiolbgica) through the Commission for Indigenous Development and the National
      Council for Vaccination to provide guidance and ensure that Project activities reflect the
      needs and characteristics o f indigenous population.

  .   Strengthening o f the National System for Epidemiological Surveillance (SINAVE)
      including the disaggregation o f data by gender and ethnicity to facilitate the design o f
      health policies and programs for both population groups.

  .   Disease prevention and health promotion communication strategies, culturally adequate to
      reach indigenous populations, developed and implemented by state health systems and
      using Oportunidades health promoters.

  .   In line with general vaccination policies, the preparation o f an influenza A/HlNl
      vaccination plan giving specific attention to indigenous communities.

      Strengthening and expanding the country's cold chain with priority given to disadvantaged
      federal entities and administrative health units fiurisdicciones) with specific attention to
      federal entities with a high percentage o f indigenous among its population thereby ensuring
      the prompt and adequate delivery o f vaccines to indigenous communities.

21. The Project would not require any resettlements and therefore would not trigger the
Bank's involuntary resettlement safeguard policy (OPBP 4.12). Construction would be
limited to the Borrower's national reference laboratory, which will be constructed o n the site o f
a recently demolished hospital. The land i s property o f the Government. A site visit confirmed
that there are no resettlement concerns.




                                                67
                           Annex 10: Economic and Financial Analysis
                      MEXICO Influenza Prevention and Control Project


 1. This annex weighs the costs and benefits o strengthening the capacity o the Mexican
                                                         f                               f
health system to monitor the spread o influenza viruses and to control epidemic waves. While
                                        f
this type o f project does not readily lend i t s e l f to straightforward cost-benefit calculations, the
analysis makes some attempt to estimate economic and social benefits and compare them to a
realistic projection o f costs. The analysis i s organized according to the two components o f the
project--or, equivalently, into two scenarios: in the first scenario, the project activities geared
toward monitoring the spread o f influenza viruses succeed in averting a second wave o f the
A/HlNl epidemic; in the second scenario, a second wave occurs, and the activities geared
toward controlling epidemic waves succeed in minimizing morbidity and mortality.

2. This analysis concludes that the benefits o the project exceed the costs, in some scenarios
                                                f
by a factor o 113. If the economic impact o f a second wave o f the epidemic were to reach the
             f
Bank's estimate o f 0.8 percent o f GDP (World Bank 2009a), for example, this would constitute
US$7.2 billion, about 113 times the US$64 million cost o f the activities geared toward averting
the second wave. Even if the economic impact o f a second wave o f the epidemic were only to
reach 0.3 percent o f GDP, the lower bound o f the Government's estimate o f the impact o f the
first wave, benefits would exceed costs by a factor o f 42 (SHCP 2009). Turning to the human
rather than economic costs, the net present value o f the lives saved through the activities o f this
project (we use a standard method for assigning a dollar value to a life-year) exceeds the costs
o f strengthening response capacity by a factor o f 2.5 even in the most optimistic (Le., most
limited spread o f the virus) scenario. More detailed presentations o f these ratios follow.

3. I n the first scenario, as stated above, the project activities that strengthen the capacity of
                                                       f
the Mexican health system to monitor the spread o influenza viruses succeed in completely
averting a second wave o the A/HINI epidemic. These activities consist mainly o f
                              f
strengthening the National Epidemiologic Surveillance System (SINAVE) through upgrading
laboratory capacity, improving information and communication systems, and training personnel
(refer to the Project Description section for a detailed explanation). A stronger S I N A V E would
allow the Government to quickly and accurately detect outbreaks, thereby informing response
policy and potentially averting a second wave o f the A/HlN1 epidemic.

4. I n this scenario, the avoidance o a second wave o the epidemic entails significant
                                          f                    f
benefits for the Mexican economy. As explained in Annex 1, the Government and the Bank
estimate that the first wave o f the N H l N 1 epidemic will likely cost Mexico 0.3 to 0.8 percent
o f GDP (SHCP 2009; World Bank 2009a). This cost will come through (1) revenues lost due to
the reduced demand resulting from social distancing (Le., the closure o f businesses), particularly
in the retail sector and (2) a severe drop in tourism revenue. A second wave o f the epidemic
would likely have similar economic effects.

5 . Assuming, then, that the benefit o avoiding a second wave o the epidemic is between 0.3
                                       f                            f
and 0.8 percent o Mexico's GDP, and taking into account that the cost o strengthening
                    f                                                            f
S I N A V E is estimated at US$64 million, benefit-cost ratios for this scenario indicate that the


                                                  68
benefits far outweigh the costs. Table 8 presents the benefit-cost ratios for three different
economic impact scenarios; these ratios range from 3 1:1 to 83 :1.



                Table 8: Cost-Benefit Analysis for Scenario 1: Strengthening the
                            EpidemiologicalSurveillance System

                                                                   N e t Benefits =
                                                                      Benefits -       Benefit-
                                                                         costs        Cost Ratio


          I    Demandshock
              (Derived Costs):
                                 I   2.7 billion   I   64million     2.6 billion         42
                0.3 Y GDP
                     o
                 Negative
                                                                   I
                                                                   1 I
                                                                     4.4 billion         70
                0.5 % GDP
                 Negative
                                                                   1
                                                                   I I
                                                                     7.1 billion         113
          I   . 0.8%GDP`         I                 I
              Source: Own estimations using (INEGI 2009; SHCP 2009; World Bank 2009a).



6. I n the second scenario, as stated above, a second wave o the M l N l epidemic occurs,
                                                            f
and the activities aimed at strengthening the capacity o the Mexican health system to control
                                                        f
epidemic waves succeed in minimizing morbidity and mortality. In other words, building
stocks o f medicines, vaccines, and other medical supplies in Mexico's strategic reserve enables
the Government to successfully contain the spread and mitigate the health impact o f the
A/HlNl virus.

7. I n order to consider the beneflt o controlling a second wave o the M l N l epidemic, the
                                      f                           f
                                                                              f
analysis estimates a model that uses various inputs to project number o years o life lost
                                                                                       f
under various sets o circumstances. The inputs for this model are: attack rate &e., percent o f
                     f
population infected with NHlNl), mortality rate (Le., percent o f population that dies f i o m
A/HlNl), number o f required vaccination doses per person, vaccine efficiency, deadweight due
to inefficiency, Oseltamivir (Tamiflu) coverage, discount rate, and required vaccine dosage. The
model held constant required vaccination doses per person, vaccine deadweight due to
inefficiency (at 20%), vaccine efficiency (at 70%), and the discount rate (at 3%); the attack and
mortality rates were varied in order to create nine different scenarios.

8. According to this model, total years o life lost in an unmitigated second wave o the
                                           f                                               f
M l N l epidemic range from 26,000 to 918,000; the net present value o these years o life
                                                                           f               f
rangesfrom US$571 million to US$12.7 billion. In order to arrive at these estimates, the model
considered three different attack rates and three different sets o f mortality rates. The three
attack rates are 5%, 15%, and 30%; though the attack rate in the first wave o f the epidemic was
only 0.1%, the experience o f past influenza epidemics suggests that, without government

                                                       69
intervention, the attack rate would be much higher (Kuri-Morales 2008). The first o f the three
sets o f mortality rates (presented in Table 9 ) i s simply the documented mortality rate for
seasonal influenza; the other two are escalations based o n the possibility that A/HlN1 (andor
future mutations o f it) could be more fatal than the seasonal flu. The model also considered
various response strategies (Le., combinations o f vaccination programs and Oseltamivir
coverage, subject to the overall resource constraint).




                                          M1= S I            M 2=SI              M3=SI
                                          Mortality          Mortality           Mortality




I

Source: (Kuri-Morales 2008) and own assumptions



9. The high-risk population includes: elderly people diagnosed with illnesses known to
complicate A/HlNl, non-elderly people diagnosed with illnesses known to complicate
A/HlNl, and healthy elderly people.

10. The netpresent value o each year o life was calculated based on theformula:
                         f           f



                                GDP
                   T
    LifespmPMV =   C                         * (No. o f casualties due to illness)
                   T 4       (1+ 6)'


where 6 is the standard discount rate used in health cost-effectiveness analysis and T is the
expected remaining life years (cite).


11. The direct cost o strengthening the Government's capacity to control epidemic waves is
                     f
US$426.million. This cost includes the purchase o f vaccines (approximately 20 million
vaccines, at about US$6.75 per vaccine, the price negotiated by the Mexican Government with




                                              70
vaccine providers) and the purchase o f Oseltamivir treatment (a conservative estimate o f 2.15
million treatments, at about US$27 per treatment)' Table 10 presents these costs.          ',
                                                                        -
               Table 10: Costs for Component 2 Building stocks of medicines and vaccines




                    Source: Own estimations using (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) 2009)


12. Under the assumption that the benefit o strengthening capacity to control epidemic waves
                                               f
is equal to the (avoided) cost o an unmitigated wave o the M l N l epidemic, the benefit-cost
                                 f                       f
ratio for this component o the project ranges from 2.5 to 55. Table 11 presents the benefit-
                              f
cost ratios for the nine different scenarios considered.


                            Mortality Rates 1                       I               Mortality Rate       2            I            Mortality Rates 3
                                I                 I                 I                  I                              I             I            I


                                                                    +
   Scenarios       AR5%         AR15%        AR30%                          AR5%        AR15%             AR30%           AR5%          AR15%        AR30%

     c os t of
  Intervention    229 million       229 million       229 million       229 million        229 million
     Deaths
    Averted         1,003             2,310             4,504               2,506               5,776        11,260       5,013         I1,551         22,519
    Cost per
      Death
    Averted        228,593            99,199           50,883                                                20,353       45,719        19,840         10,177
    Present
    Monetary
    Value of
     Deaths
    Averted       571m'llion        1328 million 2533 millior                                            6333 million 2859 nillion 6644 million 12,667 mllio
    Avoided
  Years of life
       lost        26,303             59,274           109,535
  Net Benefits    342million        1099 million 2304 nillion
    Benefit-
   Cost Ratio        2.5                6                11                                                   28           12            29             55
    Internal
     Rate of
     Return         45%                34%              108%                34%                 33%          33%          33%           33%            33%




l1 The Government has set i t s target for this year's stock o f antiviral treatments at approximately 2.15 million;
although conservative estimates are used in this analysis, similar ratios o f increasing returns are expected with
increasing numbers o f available medicines.

                                                                                  71
                            Annex 11: Documents in Project Files
                    MEXICO Influenza Prevention and Control Project


1. ADB, 2003. News Release: SARS to Further Reduce GDP Forecasts for East and Southeast
     Asia.

2. Banco de Mexico, 2008. Informe sobre la Injlacidn: Julio-Septiembre 2008, Banco de
      Mexico.

3. Banco de Mexico, 2009. Informe sobre la Inj7acidn: Julio-Septiembre 2009. Banco de
      Mexico.

4. Camara de diputados. 2009. Los Criterios Generales de Politica Economica y lapropuesta
     de Ley de Ingresos. Available at:
     http://www.aplicaciones.hacienda.g;ob.mx/ucs/20O9/index.html[Accessed August 25,
     20091

5. CDC, 1999. Biosafety in Microbiological and Biomedical Laboratories (BMBL) Fourth
     Edition., Washington: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and National
     Institutes o f Health. Available at:
     http://www.cdc.gov/od/ohs/biosfty/bmbl4/bmbl4toc.htm [Accessed June 26,20091.

6. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), 2009. Vaccines: VFC/CDC Vaccine
      Price List. Available at: http://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/programs/vfc/cdc-vac-price-
      list.htm#adflu [Accessed June 29,20091.

7. CONAPO, Consejo Nacional de Poblacibn (CONAP0)- Indicadores demograficos bhsicos
     1990-2030. Available at:
     http://www.conapo.gob.mx/index.php?option=com~content&view=article&id=125&Ite
     mid=193 [Accessed June 26,20091.

8. Cutler, D.M. et al., 2002. Financial crisis, health outcomes and ageing: Mexico in the 1980s
      and 1990s. Journal o Public Economics, 84(2), 279-303.
                            f

9. DGE, 2006..Plan Nacional de Preparacih y Respuesta ante una Pandemia de Influenza.

10. Fan, E., 2003. SARS: Economic Impacts and Implications. ERD Policy BriefNo. 15.

11. Fleming, D.M., Van der Velden, J. & Paget, W.J., 2003. The evolution o f influenza
       surveillance in Europe and prospects for the next 10 years. Vaccine, 2 1(16), 1749-1753.

12. Harmp, A., 2009. PIB de Mexico cae 8,2% en e l primer trimestre, preve contraccion de
       5 3 % para 2009 - WSJ.com. The Wall Street Journal. Available at:
       http://online.wsj .com/article/SB124284940917840417.html [Accessed June 29,20091.

13. INEGI, 2009. Banco de Informacih Econ6mica (BIE), Sistema Nacional de Informacidn
       Estadisitica y Geografia.

                                              72
14. Kuri-Morales, P., 2008. Influenza Pandemica: Posibles Escenarios en Mexico. CENAVECE.

15. Mensua, A., Mounier-Jack, S. & Coker, R., 2009. Pandemic influenza preparednessin Latin
       America: analysis o f national strategic plans. Health Policy and Planning.

16. Nsubuga, P. et al., 2006. Public health surveillance: a tool for targeting and monitoring
       interventions. Book: Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries - Oxford
       University Press and the World Bank, 2,997- 1015.

17. Presidencia, 2009. DECRETO por e l que se ordenan diversas acciones e n materia de
       salubridad general, para prevenir, controlar y combatir
       la existencia y transmisi6n del virus de influenza estacional epiddmica.

18. Presidencia, 2007. Plan Nacional de Desarrollo 2007-2012 - PND. Available at:
       http://pnd.presidencia.gob.mx/ [Accessed June 25,20091,

19. Presidencia, Sala de Prensa del Gobierno Federal. Available at:
       http://www.presidencia.gob.mx/prensa/?pagina=9&fecha_desde_dia=26&fecha_desde-
       mes=4&fecha-desde-year=2009&fecha-hasta-dia=3         1&fecha-hasta-mes=5&fecha-has
       ta_year=2009&palabras=INFLUENZA [Accessed June 26,20091,

20. SHCP, 2009. El Gobierno Federal anuncia apoyos econdmicos emergentes para enfrentar e l
      brote de influenza. Comunicado de Prensa 023/2009.

21. Federal Secretariat o f Health. 2009. Situaci6n Actual de la Epidemia: Octubre 28,2009.
       Available at: http://portal.salud.gob.mx/contenidos/noticias/influenza/estadisticas.html
       [Accessed October 30,20091

22. Federal Secretariat o f Health, Boletines de Prensa -Secretaria de Salud, MCxico. Available
       at: http://portal.salud.gob.mx/contenidos/salaqrensa/salaqrensaqrensa/
       salaqrensa-boletines.htm1 [Accessed June 26,20091.

23. Federal Secretariat o f Health, 2007. Caminando a la excelencia - Evaluaci6n 2007.

24. Federal Secretariat o f Health, 2009. Defunciones: Descripcibn Preliminar

25. Federal Secretariat o f Health, 2007a. Programa de Acci6n Especifico 2007-2012 - Sistema
       Nacional de Vigilancia Epidemiologica.

26. Federal Secretariat o f Health, 2007b. Programa Sectorial de Salud 2007-20 12 - Por un
       MCxico sano:construyendo alianzas para una mejor salud.

27. Federal Secretariat o f Health, 2009. Se exhorta a la poblaci6n a tomar medidas para evitar
       contagio de influenza estacional- (Comunicado de Prensa No. 126).

28. Federal Secretariat o f Health, 2005. Sistema de Protecci6n Social en Salud. Elementos
       conceptuales, financieros y operativos.


                                               73
29. Taubenberger, J. & Morens, D., 2006. 1918 Influenza: The Mother o f All Pandemics.
       Armed Forces Institute o Pathology, Rockville, Maryland, USA; and ?National
                                f
       Institutes o Health, Bethesda, Maryland, USA. Available at:
                   f
       http://www.cdc.gov/ncidod/eid/voll2no01/05-0979.htm [Accessed June 25,20091.

30. UNDP, 2008. Human Development Report 2007/2008 - Country Fact Sheets - Mexico.
      Available at:
      http://hdrstats.undp.org/en/countries/country_fact_sheets/cty-fs-MEX.html [Accessed
      June 25,20091.

3 1. Van der Velden, J., 2006. Influenza surveillance: Why? Vaccine, 24(44-46), 6770-6775.

32. WHO, 2009a. Current WHO phase o f pandemic alert. Available at: http://www.who.int/
      csr/disease/avian-influenza/phase/en/print.html [Accessed June 25,20091,

33. WHO, 2009b. Pandemic (HlN1)-update 72. Available at:
      http://www.who.int/csr/don/20O9~10~3O/en/index.html[Accessed October 30,20091,

34. WHO, 2009c. Global Database on Child Growth and Malnutrition. Available at:
      http://www.who.int/nutgrowthdb/en/ [Accessed June 25,20091,

3 5. WHO, 2005. International Health Regulations Second Edition. World Health Organization.

36. WHO, 2009. Pandemic Influenza Preparedness and Response; A WHO Guidance
      Document.

37. WHO, 2005. WHOSIS: WHO Statistical Information System. Available at:
      http://apps.who.int/whosis/data/Search.jsp?countries=%5bLocation%5d.Members
      [Accessed June 25,20091.

38. World Bank, 2008, Country Partnership Strategy, Washington D.C., The World Bank -
      (Report No. 42864-MX).

39. World Bank, 2004. Disease Surveillance and Control Project (VIGISUS I - Washington
                                                                         )
      D.C. - The World Bank - (Implementation Completion Report: Report No. 29779).

40. World Bank, 2008. Mexico Health: Towards greater equality and efficiency through
      functional integration - Concept Note . The World Bank.

41. World Bank, 2009a. Mexico: Economic Impact o f A HlNl Flu-Issues      and Uncertainty.

42. World Bank, 2009b. Support to Oportunidades Project - Washington D.C. - The World
      Bank - (Project Appraisal Document; Report No. 4682 1-MX).

43. World Bank, 2001. Third Basic Health Care Project (PROCEDES) - Washington D.C. - The
      World Bank - (Project Appraisal Document; Report No. 22186-ME).

44. World Bank, 2008. World Development Indicators 2008, World Bank Publications.

                                             74
                                          Annex 12: Statement o f Loans and Credits
                                   MEXICO Influenza Prevention and Control Project

                                                                                                                                   Difference Between
                                                                             Original Amount in US%Millions                        Expected and Actual
                                                                                                                                     Disbursements
Project ID   FY     Project Name                                   IBRD           IDA     SF       GEF        Cancel.   .Undisb.   Orig.     Frm Rev'd

P115608      2010   M X Framework for Green Growth DPL            1503.75         0.00   0.00      0.00        0.00     1503.75     0.00       0.00
P114271      2009   M X Customs Institutional Strengthening         10.03         0.00   0.00      0.00        0.00      10.03      0.06       0.00
P106589      2009   MX I T Industry Development Project            80.00          0.00   0.00      0.00        0.00      80.00      25.28      0.00
                    M X Priv Housing Finance Markets
P112258      2009   Strngth                                       1010.00         0.00   0.00      0.00        0.00       7.48     -33.13      0.00
P106528      2009   MX Results-based Mgmt. and Bugdeting            17.24         0.00   0.00      0.00        0.00      17.24      6.02       0.00
P115067      2009   M X Support to Oportunidades Project          1503.76         0.00   0.00      0.00        0.00     1050.00    -453.76     0.00
P106261      2009   M X Sustainable Rural Development              50.00          0.00   0.00      0.00        0.00      50.00      0.00       0.00
PO88996      2008   M X (CRL2) Integrated Energy Services           15.00         0.00   0.00      0.00        0.00      15.00      6.67       0.00
PO85593      2006   M X (APL I Tertiary Educ Student Ass
                              )                                    180.00         0.00   0.00      0.00        0.00      97.59      84.25      0.00
                    M X (APL1) School-BasedManagement
PO88728      2006   Prog                                           240.00         0.00   0.00      0.00        0.00       2.21      2.21       0.00
PO88732      2006   M X Access to Land for Young Farmers           100.00         0.00   0.00      0.00        0.75      46.61      47.36      0.00
PO87038      2006   M X Environmental Services Project             45.00          0.00   0.00      0.00        0.00      17.82      9.41       0.00
                    M X Modernization Water & Sanit Sector
PO91695      2006   TA                                             25.00          0.00   0.00      0.00        0.19       5.50      5.68      -0.06
PO74755      2005   M X State Judicial ModernizationProject        30.00          0.00   0.00      0.00        16.50     13.50      30.00      0.00
PO89865      2005   MX-(APL1) Innov. for Competitiveness           250.00         0.00   0.00      0.00        0.00      41.05     20.46       0.00
                    h4X (CRL1)Savings & Rurl
PO87152      2004   Finance(BANSEF1)                               154.50         0.00   0.00      0.00        0.38      41.02     -37.60     31.23
                    M X Savings & Credit Sector
PO70108      2003   Strengthening                                  85.60'         0.00   0.00      0.00        0.00      14.94      -6.06      5.27
                                                         Total:   5,299.88        0.00   0.00      0.00       18.12     3,094.76   -296.75    37.03




                                                                             75
                                                               MEXICO
                                                        STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                      Held and Disbursed Portfolio
                                                       In Millions o f U S Dollars

                                                          COMMITTED                                                   DISBURSED
                                             -                   -       - --                          ~             -          --
Commit          Institution         LN        ET       QL+QE      GT       RM         All     All          LN        ET      QL+QE     GT      RM
Fiscal Year     Short Name         Crntd-    Cmtd-     Cmtd-     Cmtd     Cmtd-      Cmtd-   Cmtd-         Out-      Out-    Out-IFC   Out-    Out-
                                    IFC       IFC       IFC      -1FC      IFC        IFC
                                                                                     - Part                IFC       IFC               IFC     IFC
2008            Agrofinanzas         0 00       I67       0 00    0 00      0 00        1 67  0 00          0 00      0 00      0 00    0 00    0 00
2008            Alta Growth Fund     0 00     20 00       0 00    0 00        0 00    20 00     0 00         0 00     1 82      0 00    0 00    0 00
20071 2008      Banco Amigo          0 00      2 22       0 00    0 00        0 00     2 22     0 00         0 00     2 22      0 00    0 00    0 00
20061 20081     Banco del Bajio      0 00     49 96       0 00    0 00        0 00    49 96     0 00         0 00    49 47      0 00    0 00    0 00
2009
20031 20051     Banorte (Mex)       67 70    150 00       0 00    0 00        0 00   217 70     0 00        67 70     0 00      0 00    0 00    0 00
2010
19951 19961     Baring MexFnd        0 00      170        0 00    0 00        0 00     1 70     0 00         0 00     170       0 00    0 00    0 00
19981 1999
2008            Bioparques           7 00      0 00       5 00    0 00        0 00    12 00     0 00         7 00     0 00      5 00    0 00    0 00
20051 20081     CMPDH               34 49      0 00       4 00    0 00        110     39 59     0 00        26 49     0 00      0 00    0 00    0 00
2009
2006            Carlyle Mexico       0 00      3 83       0 00    0 00        0 00      3 83    0 00         0 00     3 33      0 00    0 00    0 00
2009            City Express Hol    12 68      0 00       5 07    0 00        0 00    17 76     0 00         0 00     0 00      0 00    0 00    0 00
2004            DTM                  2 13      0 00       0 00    0 00        0 00      2 13    0 00         2 13     0 00      0 00    0 00    0 00
2002            Ecomex               2 40      0IO        0 08    0 00        0 00      2 57    0 00         2 40     0 10      0 08    0 00    0 00
20051 2007      FINEM               23 41      0 76       0 00    0 00        0 00    24 17     0 00        14 06     0 76      0 00    0 00    0 00
20051 20061     GMAC                 0 18      0 00       0 00   10 34        0 00    I O 52    0 00         0 18     0 00      0 00   10 34    0 00
2009/2010       Financiera
1998120041      Grupo Calidra       49 23      0 00       0 00    0 00        3 00    52 23     0 00        49 23     0 00      0 00    0 00    1 86
2008
19921 19931     Grupo Posadas        0 00      0 00      10 00    0 00        1 60    I 1 60    0 00         0 00     0 00     10 00    0 00    0 00
199612000
20061 2009      Grupo Su Casita      0 00     20 23       0 00    0 00        0 00    20 23     0 00          0 00   20 23      0 00    0 00    0 00
20081 2009      Hipotec Vertice     21 02      6 53       0 00    0 00        0 00    27 55     0 00        13 88     6 26      0 00    0 00    0 00
2007            Infiainvest          0 00     50 00       0 00    0 00        0 00    50 00     0 00          0 00    0 00      0 00    0 00    0 00
                Interoyal            0 00      0 01       0 00    0 00        0 00     0 01     0 00          0 00    0 01      0 00    0 00    0 00
2007            Irapuato              0 00     0 00       0 00    9 20        0 00      9 20    0 00          0 00    0 00      0 00    9 20    0 00
19981 1999      Merida 1 1
                         1          I 9 96     0 00       0 00    0 00        0 00    I 9 96   31 64        I 9 96    0 00      0 00    0 00    0 00
19951 19971     Mexplus Puertos       0 00     0 80       0 00    0 00        0 00      0 80    0 00          0 00    0 80      0 00    0 00    0 00
1999
20071 2009      MicroCred            0 00      0 59       0 00    0 00        0 00     0 59     0 00         0 00     0 59      0 00    0 00    0 00
                Mexico
200712009       Monex Financiera     0 00      0 00       0 00    1 00        0 00     1 00     0 00         0 00     0 00      0 00   100      0 00
2009            Nasofi               0 00      8 00       0 00   0 00         0 00     8 00     0 00         0 00     0 00      0 00   0 00     0 00
2007                    1
                Nexxus 1 1Fund       0 00     20 00       0 00   0 00         0 00    20 00     0 00         0 00     9 58      0 00   0 00     0 00
2003            OccidentalMex       15 00      0 00       0 00   0 00         0 00    15 00    20 00        15 00     0 00      0 00   0 00     0 00
                Occihol              0 00      7 50       0 00   0 00         0 00     7 50     0 00         0 00     7 50      0 00   0 00     0 00
20001 20041     PanAmericanSilv      0 00      4 37       0 00   0 00         0 00     4 37     0 00         0 00     4 37      0 00   0 00     0 00
2008
2007            Petstar              7 86      0 00       5 35   0 00         0 45    13 67    10 76         7 86     0 00      5 35   0 00    0 41
2009            Progresemos          3 02      0 00       0 00   0 00         0 00     3 02     0 00         151      0 00      0 00   0 00    0 00
2002            Puertas Finas        4 88      0 00       0 00   0 00         0 00     4 88     0 00         4 88     0 00      0 00   0 00    0 00
                Savoy                0 00      0 00       0 00   0 00         0 00     0 00     0 00         0 00     0 00      0 00   0 00    0 00
                Sierra Nevada        7 03      0 00       0 00   0 00         0 00     7 03     0 00         7 03     0 00      0 00   0 00    0 00
2 0 0 u 20021   Su Casita          160 51      0 00      0 00    0 00         0 00   160 51     0 00       160 51     0 00      0 00   0 00    0 00
20041 20051
20061 2007
1997            TMA                  0 59      0 00      3 92    0 00         0 00     4 51     2 06        0 59      0 00      3 92   0 00    0 00
2008            Vinte               10 23      7 06      0 00    0 00         0 00    17 29     0 00        4 73      7 06      0 00   0 00    0 00
2006            Vuela              40 00       0 00      0 00    0 00         0 00    40 00     0 00       25 82      0 00      0 00   0 00    0 00
2002            ZN Mexico I
                          I         0 00       2 84      0 00    0 00         0 00     2 84     0 00        0 00      2 74      0 00   0 00    0 00
199912000       ZN Mxc Eqty         0 00       0 80      0 00    0 00         0 00     0 80     0 00        0 00      0 80      0 00   0 00    0 00




                                                                         76
                                                       Annex 13: Country at a Glance
                                  MEXICO Influenza Prevention and Control Project
 Mexico a t a glance                                                                                                                                                               7R0/09

                                                                                           Latin           Upper
Key Development I n d i c a t o r s                                                     Amenca            middle
                                                                                                                               Age distribution, 2007
                                                                          Mexico        & Canb           income
(2007)                                                                                                                                             Male                             Female
                                                                                                                                601
Population, mid-year (millions)                                             106.4            563            823
                                                                                                                               70-74
Surface area (thousand sq. km)                                              1,964         20,421         41,497
                                                                                                                               60-64
Population growth (%)                                                          1.o            12             06
Urban population (% of total population)                                       77                                              5c-54
                                                                                              78             75
                                                                                                                               40 44

GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                           990.1              3,118        5,750               30-34

GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                                         9,400              5,540        6,987               20 24

GNI per capita (PPP, international $)                                     12.580              9.320       11.868               10-14
                                                                                                                                 0-4

GDP growth (Oh)                                                               13                57            58                       15         10        5        0         5       10    15
GDP per capita growth (%)                                                     03                45            51                                                   percent

(most recent estimate, 2000-2007)

Poverty headcount ratio at $1.25 a day (PPP. O h )                                                6
                                                                                                                               Jnder-5 mortality rate (per 1,000)
Poverty headcount ratio at $2.00 a day (PPP, %)                                                 18
Life expectancy at biVt (years)                                                74               73            70
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                                       29               22            22               60 1

Child malnutrition(% of children under 5)                                       3                5

Adult literacy, male (% of ages 15 and older)                                 93                91            94
Adult literacy, female (% of ages 15 and older)                               90                69            92
Gross primary enrollment. male (% of age group)                              114               120           112
Gross primary enrollment,female (%of age group)                              111               116           109

Access to an improved water source (% of population)                           95               91            95
                                                                                                                                              1990          1995         ZOW        2W6
Access lo improved sanitation facilities (% of population)                     81               78            83

                                                                                                                                        Memo 0 iasn America &me Canbbean


N e t A i d Flows                                              1980         I990              2000         2007

(US%millions)
Net ODA and official aid                                         55          156               -56          247                Growth of GDP and GDP per capita ("h)
Top 3 donOK (in 2006):
 United States                                                    9            23               24           154
 Germany                                                         15             9               15            26
 France                                                          15            51              -11            22

Aid (% of GNI)                                                   00           01                00           00
Aid per capita (US$)                                              1            2                 1            2


Long-Term Economic Trends                                      1980         1990              2000         2008
                                                                                                                                       90              95                00

Consumer prices (annual O change)
                          h                                     263          267                95           51
GDP implicit deflator (annual O change)
                              h                                 334          281               12 1          66            I       -GDP                         - per capita
                                                                                                                                                                 GDP

Exchange rate (annual average, iocal per US$)                   0.0          28                 95          112
Terms of trade index (2000 = 100)                               194          106               100          116
                                                                                                                                 1980-90 1990-2000        2000-08
                                                                                                                                      (average annual gmwth %)
Population, mid-year (millions)                                 67 6       83.2            980            1064                              2.1                    1.6                1.o
GDP (US$ millions)                                           194,357    262,710         581.426       1,085.951                             1.1                    3.1                2.7
                                                                             ( % o f GDP)
Agnculture                                                      9.0          78            42                38                             0.8                    1.5                2.1
Industry                                                       33.6         28 4          280               371                             1.1                    3.8                1.9
  Manufacturing                                                22.3         20 8          203               188                             1.5                    4.3                1.8
Services                                                       57.4         63 7          678               591                             1.4                    2.9                3.1

Household finel consumptionexpenditure                         65.1         69 6              670           655                              1.4                   2.3                3.8
General gov`t final consumplion expenditure                    10.0          64               11 1          10 3                             2.4                   18                 0.4
Gross capital formation                                        27.2         23 1              239           264                             -3.3                   4.7                1.5

Exports of goods and services                                  10.7         18 6              309           283                             7.0                 14.6                  5.7
Imports of goods and services                                  13.0         19 7              329           305                             10                  12.3                  6.3
Gross savings                                                  22.0         20 3              205           249


Nota: Figures in italics are for years other than those specified 2008 data are preliminary    . indicates data are not available.
a. Aid data are for2006.

Development Economics, Development Data Group (DECDG)


                                                                                     77
                                                                                                                                            Mexico

Balance of Payments and Trade                           2000      2008

(US$ millions)
Total merchandise exports (fob)                       166,455 291,807
Total merchandise imports (ci9                        174,456 308,645
Net trade in goods and services                       -10,661 -23,844

Current account balance                               -18,684   -15,527
 as a % of GDP                                           -3.2      -1.4


Workers' remittances                                   6,573    25,145

Reserves, including gold                              35,565    95,302

Central Government Finance
(% of GDP)
Current revenue (including grants)                      19.7      23.6
  Tax revenue                                            9.7       6.2
Current expenditure                                     18.3      19.3
                                                                                  Technology and Infrastructure                     2000      2007
Overall surplusldeficit (PSBR)                           -3.5      -2.7
                                                                                  Paved roads (% of total)                           32.8      37.0
Highest marginal tax rate (%)                                                     Fixed line and mobile phone
 Individual                                               40        28              subscribers (per 100 people)                      27        84
 Corporate                                                35        28            High technology exports
                                                                                    (% of manufactured exports)                      22.4      18.9
External Debt and Resource Flows                        2000      2007
                                                                                  Environment
(US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                  150,313 172,966             Agricultural land (% of land area)                  55        55
Total debt service                                     58,473 42,705              Forest area (% of land area)                       33.7      33.0
Debt relief (HIPC, MDRI)                                   -         -            Nationally protected areas (% of land area)          ..       5.1

Total debt (% of GDP)                                   25.9       16.9           Freshwater resources per capita (cu. meters)         ..     3,967
Total debt service (% of exports)                       30.4       14.3           Freshwaterwithdrawal (% of internal resources)     19.1
                                                       2000       2008
Foreign direct investment (net inflows)               17,773    18,589            C 0 2 emissions per capita (mt)                     4.3       4.3
Portfolio equity (net inflows)                          447      3,981
                                                                                  GDP per unit of energy use
                                                                                   (2005 PPP $ per kg of oil equivalent)              7.1       6.6
                                       Other multi.                               Energy use per capita (kg of oil equivalent)      1,534     1,712




                                                                                   (US$ millions)

                                                                                   IBRD
                                                                                    Total debt outstanding and disbursed           11,444    5,769
                                                                                    Disbursements                                   1,748    1,940
                                                                                    Principal repayments                            1,330     600
                                                                                    Interest payments                                890      200
                               Privale,'154,487
  US$ millions                                                                     IDA
                                                                                    Total debt outstanding and disbursed               -         0
                                                                                    Disbursements                                      -         0
Private Sector Development                             2000      2008               Total debt service                                 -         0

Time required to start a business (days)                  -        28             IFC (fiscal year)                                             b%
Cost to start a business (% of GNI per capita)            -       12.5             Total disbursed and outstanding portfolio        1,234    1,184
Time required to register property (days)                 -        74                of which IFC own account
                                                                                   Disbursementsfor iFC own account
                                                                                                                                     723
                                                                                                                                     179
                                                                                                                                              798
                                                                                                                                              209
Ranked as a major constraint to business               2000      2007              Portfolio sales, prepayments and
 (% of managers surveyed who agreed)                                                 repayments for IFC own account                   66       134
  Anticompetitive or informal practices                    ..     19.0
   Corruption                                              ..     17.8            MIGA
                                                                                   Gross exposure                                      -         -
Stock market capitalization (% of GDP)                  21.5      38.8
Bank capital to asset ratio (%)                          9.6      13.2


Note: Figures in italics are for years other than those specified. 2008 data are preliminary                                                7/20/09
.. indicates data are not available. -indicates observation is not applicable.
Development Economics, Development Data Group (DECDG).
                                                                          'I8
Millennium Development Goals                                                                                                                             Mexico


With selected targets to achieve between 7990 and 2015
(estimateclosest to dale shown, +/- 2 years)

Goal 1 halve the rates for extreme poverty and malnutrition
       :                                                                                                  1990           1995            2000              2007
 Poverty headcount ratio at $1.25 a day (PPP, O h of population)
 Poverty headcount ratio at national poverty line ( h of population)
                                                  O                                                                                      24.2               17.6
 Share of income or consumption to the poorest qunitile (%)                                                3.2             4.3            3.9                4.3
 Prevalence of malnutrition (% of children under 5)                                                       13.9                            6.0                3.4

Goal 2: ensure that children are able to complete primary schooling
 Primary school enrollment (net, %)                                                                        98                              97                96
 Primary completion rate (% of relevant age group)                                                         86              95              99               104
 Secondary school enrollment (gross, %)                                                                    53                              72                87
 Youth literacy rate (% of people ages 15-24)                                                              95              96              97                98

Goal 3: eliminate gender disparity in education and empower women
 Ratio of girls to boys in primary and secondary education (%)                                             97                              99                99
 Women employed in the nonagricultural sector (% of nonagriculturalemployment)                             37              36              37                39
 Proportion of seats held by women in national parliament (%)                                              12              14              18                23

Goal 4: reduce under-5 mortality by two-thirds
 Under-5 mortality rate (per 1,000)                                                                        53              45              39                35
 infant mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)                                                             42              36              32                29
 Measles immuniza!ion (proportion of one-year olds immunized, %)                                           75              90              96                96

Goal 5: reduce maternal mortality by three-fourths
 Maternal mortality ratio (modeled estimate, per 100,000 live births)                                                                                        60
 Births attended by skilled health staff (% of total)                                                                      86                                83
 Contraceptiveprevalence (% of women ages 15-49)                                                                           67              70                71

Goal 6: halt and begin to reverse the spread of HlVlAlDS and other major diseases
 Prevalence of HIV (% of population ages 15-49)                                                                                            0.3              0.3
 Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 people)                                                            61              44              32                21
 Tuberculosis cases detected under DOTS (%)                                                                                16              78               118

Goal 7: halve the propottion of people without sustainable access to basic needs
 Access to an improvedwater source (% of population)                                                       60              90              93                 95
 Access to improved sanitation facilities (YOof population)                                                56              66             76                  81
 Forest area (% of total land area)                                                                       35.5                           33.7               33.0
 Nationally protectedareas (% of total land area)                                                                                                            5.1
 C 0 2 emissions (metric tons per capita)                                                                  5.0            4.4             4.3                4.3
 GDP per unit of energy use (constant 2005 PPP $ per kg of oil equivalent)                                 6.1            6.2             7.1                6.6

Goal 8: develop a global partnership for development
 Telephone mainlines (per 100 people)                                                                      6.4            9.7            12.6               16.8
 Mobile phone subscribers (per 100 people)                                                                 0.1            0.8            14.4               64.6
 internet users (per 100 people)                                                                           0.0            0.1             5.2               21.7
 Personal computers (per 100 people)                                                                       0.6            2.6             5.8               14.4


   Education Indicators (%)                                 Aeasles lmmunlzation (% of 1-year olds)              ICT indicators (per 100 people)




          2000         2002        2004         2006

                                                                       1990    1995    2000    2006
       *Primary          net enrollment ratio
                                                                                                                          0 Fixed + mobile subscribers
       -0-       Ratio of girls to boys in primary 8           0 M e m I 0 Latin Amenca 8 the Canbbean
                 secondary education



Note: Figures in italics are for years other than those specified. ., indicates data are not available.                                                  3/26/09

Development Economics, Development Data Group (DECDG).
                                                                                79
MAP SECTION
                      To
                  Los Angeles            115W                                       110W                                                  105W                                           100W                                        95W                                90W                                     85W
                                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                        Albuquerque
                                                                                                                                       To
                                                                      To                                                               Alamogordo
                                                                   Gila Bend
                 Tijuana
                            Mexicali                                                                                                                               UNIT ED STAT ES O F A MER I CA
                 Ensanada
                                                    Sonoita
                                     San                                                                                       Ciudad Jurez                              To
                                   Felipe                                                                                                                                 Midland
                                                                    Nogales                                                    Ri o




                                                                                                                                  Rio rav
                                                                                          Agua
                                BAJA




                                                                                                                                    oG
                                                                                          Prieta                                            ra n                                                                                                                            MEXICO                                           30N




                                                                                                                                      Br
                                                                                                                                       o           d                             To




                                                                                                                                         a
                30N         CALIFORNIA                                                                                                                                          San Antonio




                                                                                                                                                   e
                                                    Gu

                                                                         SONORA
                                                                                                            CHIHUAHUA




                                                                                          Yaqui
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          To
                                                       lf


                                                                                                                                       Ojinaga                                                                            San Antonio
                                                               Hermosillo                                                                                                                                                   To
                                                          of




                                                                                 S
                                                                                 Si
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Houston


                                                                                   e
                                                                                   er
                                                                                                             Chihuahua                                                         Sal
                                                              C




                                                                                                                                                                                   a
                                                                                     ra
                                                                                     r




                                                                                                                                                                         Sie
                                                                          Guaymas
                                                                al




                                                                                                                                                                                   d
                                                                                                                                                                                   do
                                                         Santa




                                                                                                                                                                           e
                                                                   if




                                                        Rosalia




                                                                                                                                                                          rra
                                                                                          M                              Con
                                                                                                                             chos
                                                                     or




                                                                                            ad




                                                                                                                                                                            a
                                                                                                                                                                                             Laredo
                                                  BAJA                         Navojoa
                                                                                             d                                                                     COAHUILA
                                                                        ni




                                                                                                  r
                                                                                                  re
                                                                                                            Fue
                                               CALIFORNIA                                                       r   te                                                                 Frontera
                                                                           a




                                                                                                                                                                               Ma
                                                   SUR




                                                                                                                                                                                a
                                                                                                                                                                                          NUEVO
                                                                                                   O
                                                                                                   O
                                                               Loreto




                                                                                                                                                                                dre
                                                                                                       cc

                                                                                                                                                                                           LEON                                                   Gu l f of M e xi co




                                                                                                                                                                                 r
                                                                                                        c

                                                                                Los Mochis                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   25N
                                                                                                       id

                                                                                                                                                                                                  Monterrey                Matamoros
                                                                                                        d

                25N                                                                                                                                   Torren
                                                                                                        e
                                                                                                        en

                                                                                                                                                                           Saltllo
                                                                                                             ta SI
                                                                                                              a ll N




                                                                                                                                                                                        Or
                                                                                                                                                                                        Or
                                                                                                  Culiacn
                                                                                                                               DURANGO
                           PAC IF IC                                           La Paz                                                                                                                   TAMAULIPAS




                                                                                                                                                                                         ie
                                                                                                                     A
                                                                                                                     A



                                                                                                                                  Durango




                                                                                                                                                                                           nt
                                                                                                                         LO
                                                                                                                         LO




                           OCEAN                                                                                                                                ZACATECAS




                                                                                                                                                                                            t
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Ciudad




                                                                                                                                                                                             a ll
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Victria
                                                                                                                          A
                                                                                                                          A




                                                                                                            Mazatln
                                                               Cabo San Lucas
                                                                                                                                                             Zacatecas             SAN LUIS
                                                                                      AGUASCALIENTES                                                                                POTOSI                               Tampico
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        QUERTARO
                                                                                                                                                                                          San Luis
                 This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                               NAYARIT Aguascalientes                                     Potos
                 The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      YUCATAN             Cancun
                                                                                                                                                       Ler




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VERACRUZ
                                                                                                                                                        em




                 shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                        Tepic              a                                                                                                                           Merida
                 Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                   GUANAJUATO                                                                          Guanajuato                                        HIDALGO
                 endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                    110W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Cozumel
                                                                                                                Puerto Vallarta                                    Guadalajara                    Quertaro                                  DISTRITO FEDERAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Pachuca                      TLAXCALA                  Campeche
                                                                                              20N                                            JALISCO                                                                                                                                                   QUINTANA
                                                                                                                                                                                             MEXICO
                                MEXI C O                                                                MEXICO                                                            Morelia                                                   Jalapa          Bay of Campeche
                                                                                                                                                                                                CITY                                                                                                      ROO
                                                                                                                                                                                           Toluca                        Tlaxcala         Veracruz                                                             Chetumal
                                                                                                                                                   Colima                                                                      Citlaltpetl (5,747 m)
                                                                                                                                                                                          Cuernavaca
                                                                                                                                            COLIMA                 MICHOACAN                                        Puebla                                                      CAMPECHE
                                     SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                                                      PUEBLA                                TABASCO
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Balsas                                                          Villahermosa                                       Gulf of
                                     STATE CAPITALS                                                                                                                                    GUERRERO              Chilpancingo                                                      Us
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BELIZE   Honduras
                                     NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                             um
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Sie                Oaxaca                                   CHIAPAS           ac
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        in
                                     RIVERS                                                                                                                                             Acapulco              rra               OAXACA                           Tuxtla
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Mad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           re de                                 Gutierrez
                                     MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                                                                                  l S u r Tehuantepec
                                                                                                                                                                                        MORELOS                          Puerto
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             15N
                                     RAILROADS                                                                      0      100          200             300 Kilometers                                               Escondido                       Gulf of                 GUATEMALA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              HONDURAS
NOVEMBER 2008




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Tehuantepec




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IBRD 33447R
                                                                                              15N                                                                                                                                                              Tapachula
                                     STATE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              San Salvador
                                                                                                                    0     50          100     150        200 Miles
                                     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EL
                                                                                                                                       105W                                                   100W                                               95W                                                  SALVADOR
