                                       Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                             Report No: 28833-CHA

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                   (TF-21374 CPL-37810)

                                          ON A

                                          LOAN

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$110 MILLION

                                         TO THE

                               PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                         FOR A

                            LIAONING ENVIRONMENT PROJECT




                                       June 22, 2004




Urban Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2003)

                            Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
                                   Y 1.00 = US$ 0.12
                                   US$ 1 = Y 8.3

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1    December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AIDAB     -  Australian International Development Assistance Bureau
Angang    -  Anshan Iron and Steel Company
Bengang   -  Benxi Iron and Steel Company
CAS       -  Country Assistance Strategy
EIA       -  Environmental Impact Assessment
EPB       -  Environmental Protection Bureau
ERR       -  Economic Rate of Return
GOC       -  Government of China
ICB       -  International Competitive Bidding
ICR       -  Implementation Completion Report
JGF       -  Japan Grant Facility
LEP       -  Liaoning Environment Project
LEPB      -  Liaoning Environmental Protection Bureau
LP        -  Liaoning Province
LPG       -  Liaoning Provincial Government
LRBP      -  Liao River Basin Project
LUCRPO    -  Liaoning Urban Construction and Renewal Project Office
NCB       -  National Competitive Bidding
PMO       -  Project Management Office
RAP       -  Resettlement Action Plan
SAR       -  Staff Appraisal Report
SEPA      -  State Environmental Protection Agency
tpd       -  tons per day
UNDP      -  United Nations Development Programme
WWTP      -  Wastewater Treatment Plant




                           Vice President:   Mr. Jemal-ud-din Kassum
                       Country Director:     Mr. Yukon Huang, EACIF
                         Sector Director:    Mr. Keshav Varma, EASUR
                      Task Team Leader:      Mr. Raja Iyer, EASUR

                             PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
                         LIAONING ENVIRONMENT PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   2
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
9. Partner Comments                                                              17
10. Additional Information                                                       19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             29
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                30
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            31
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR                                      32

Project ID: P003598                                             Project Name: LIAONING ENVIRONMENT
                                                                PROJECT
Team Leader: Raja Iyer                                          TL Unit: EASUR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                              Report Date: June 22, 2004


1. Project Data
                 Name: LIAONING ENVIRONMENT PROJECT                          L/C/TF Number: TF-21374; CPL-37810
   Country/Department: CHINA                                                         Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                             Region

       Sector/subsector: General water, sanitation and flood protection sector (69%); Mining
                         and other extractive (16%); District heating and energy efficiency
                         services (7%); Sub-national government administration (7%); Other
                         social services (1%)
                Theme: Water resource management (P); Environmental policies and
                         institutions (P); Pollution management and environmental health
                         (P); Access to urban services for the poor (P); Climate change (S)


  KEY DATES                                                            Original             Revised/Actual
          PCD: 03/20/1990                                  Effective:                       01/20/1995
     Appraisal: 09/25/1993                                     MTR:
     Approval: 07/26/1994                                   Closing: 06/30/2001             12/31/2003



   Borrower/Implementing Agency:       People's Republic of China/Liaoning Province (LP) and the Municipalities of
                                       Anshan; People's Republic of China/Benxi; People's Republic of China/Dalian;
                                       People's Republic of China/Fushun; People's Republic of China/Jinxi and Jinzhou
                   Other Partners:     None

STAFF                       Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:             Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Gautam Kaji
Country Director:           Yukon Huang                                    Nicholas Hope
Sector Manager:             Keshav Varma                                   Katherine Sierra
Team Leader at ICR:         Raja Iyer                                      Geoffrey Read
ICR Primary Author:         Herbert Boehm

2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         HS
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The objectives of the Liaoning Environment Project (LEP) were to: (a) protect the main water
resources in Liaoning Province including the Hun-Taizi River Basin to allow their sustained
economic and safe use for drinking, industrial, and agricultural purposes; (b) strengthen pricing
policies and institutional arrangements for environment protection, water pollution control,
wastewater and municipal solid waste management; and (c) institute measures for air pollution
control and cultural heritage asset management.

Assessment of Objectives

The overall objective of supporting urban environmental improvements in Liaoning was
appropriate. Liaoning Province (Liaoning) in north-eastern China faced growing stress on its
limited water resources from industrial, agricultural and domestic use. This was particularly true
in the Hun-Taizi Basin that supports about 15 million people and is the location of major
industries of national significance. Liaoning also suffered from serious air pollution, especially in
the city of Benxi, a center of iron, steel and cement production. Waste management in many
Liaoning cities did not meet accepted standards, prompting serious concerns about its effects on
groundwater.

Project objectives were established based on the results of studies carried out by Liaoning with
the assistance of the Australian International Development Assistance Bureau (AIDAB), UNDP,
and the World Bank, which developed long-term plans and identified priority investments for a
period of about 15 years. The Liaoning Urban Infrastructure Project (Cr. 2219-CHA)
represented the first phase support for this plan, while LEP was the second phase. The objectives
of LEP tied in seamlessly with Liaoning's long-term economic and environmental plans, built on
the Liaoning Urban Infrastructure Project, and addressed the highest priority needs of Liaoning.

While pollution affected virtually the entire province, the project focused on the highest priority
areas determined as a result of a series of studies by environmental experts, and after developing
long-term plans and priority investments for the province. The selected project area included the
five cities of Anshan, Benxi, Dalian, Fushun and Jinzhou, with a combined population of over



                                                           - 2 -

eight million. From the outset, it was understood that this project could not resolve all
environmental problems in the five cities, but that it would be part of a development program for
Liaoning Province to improve environmental conditions and management over the long term.

The objectives were fully consistent with the policies and economic development plans of the
Government of China (GOC), as well as the Bank's 1993 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS),
which highlighted the need to support economic reform while assisting environmentally
responsive infrastructure modernization. The objectives clearly and realistically stated that the
project could only make an important contribution towards solving some of the most urgent
environmental problems in the five project cities. In particular, the project set cautious policy and
institutional improvement goals, promising only to "strengthen" pricing policies and institutional
arrangements, thus recognizing the inherent difficulties in making dramatic changes in these areas.
The project's complexity stemmed from the fact that Liaoning's priority environmental problems
were multifaceted, covering a range of sectors (water, wastewater, solid waste management, air
pollution) and cities.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objectives remained valid throughout the project implementation period, and no
revision was necessary.

3.3 Original Components:
The project was to provide physical works and technical assistance for institutional development
in water supply, wastewater treatment, air pollution control, waste management, water
conservation and process improvements, and environmental rehabilitation and reconstruction. A
summary description of the components follows.

Wastewater Management in Anshan and Fushun ($92.8 million), comprising sewers, pump
stations, wastewater treatment, and effluent reuse facilities.

Wastewater and Air Quality Management in Benxi ($112.1 million), comprising sewers,
pump stations, and primary wastewater treatment facilities; an air quality management program,
including equipment and facilities to reduce emissions from two blast furnaces and three coke
ovens, and increase their energy efficiency; and district heating to serve some 20,000 households
over an area of some 300 hectares.

Wastewater, Municipal Solid Waste and Water Conservation Management in Dalian
($78.7 million), comprising investments in sewers, secondary wastewater treatment (new plant
and existing plant upgrading) and effluent reuse facilities; a pilot water conservation and clean
technology program; and solid waste management investments comprising modernization of the
municipal collection, transfer and transportation systems (1,200 tons per day-tpd), upgrading of
the existing disposal facility to sanitary landfill standards (capacity of 2,550 tpd of municipal and
industrial solid waste, construction debris and sludge), and providing for future landfill gas
utilization.

Water Supply System Enhancement and Protection in Jinzhou ($38.7), comprising
groundwater development and trunk supply, treatment plant upgrading and distribution system



                                                    - 3 -

strengthening, supported by a major pollution reduction and water conservation program at the
nearby Jincheng Paper Mill.

Environmental Rehabilitation and Reconstruction ($2.2 million), comprising the recording,
rehabilitation, conservation, protection, restoration and presentation of prioritized cultural
heritage assets, including the Liaoning Great Wall at Jiumenkou, archeological sites at Niuheliang
and Jieshi Gong, and the Shenyang Provincial Museum.

Liaoning Environmental Fund ($4.0 million) to provide short-term finance of high
environmental impact investments of in-plant clean technology process change, supporting the
core investments in air and wastewater management.

Institutional Strengthening through Technical Assistance and Training ($9.6 million), for
supporting and strengthening environmental, financial and utility management and performance
monitoring, training, feasibility studies, and future project preparation.

Assessment of Project Design

As discussed earlier, LEP represents the second phase of a long-term program to address
environmental issues in Liaoning. Anshan, Fushun, Benxi, Dalian and Jinzhou suffered the most
from environmental degradation and their inclusion in LEP was well founded. Liaoning's capital
city of Shenyang, another worthwhile candidate, decided not to participate in the project as it had
identified other sources of finance for its environmental programs. The physical components were
well designed and remained valid during the project implementation period; however, several
components had to undergo modifications for a number of valid reasons. For example, national
wastewater treatment regulations were upgraded, capacity levels were re-assessed, and technical
modifications became necessary; such design modifications are considered normal and do not
lower the quality of the original design. However, the design of the institutional development and
policy strengthening components could have been more realistic, as pricing and institutional issues
in the wastewater sector were very much in their infancy in China. Another weakness of project
design was overestimation of costs, which is a problem affecting virtually all urban projects in
China.

3.4 Revised Components:
All eleven project components remained intact over the implementation period. However, as
described below, some changes were made, which enhanced project benefits and facilitated
attainment of project objectives.

Fushun Wastewater. The original primary treatment of the Sanbaotun wastewater treatment
facility in Fushun was upgraded to secondary treatment in accordance with revised State
Environmental Protection Agency (SEPA) requirements. As a result, the original pilot plant for
testing secondary treatment technology was abandoned. Furthermore, in order to avoid resettling
188 households, the interceptor sewer was rerouted and extended by 1.3 km.

Benxi Wastewater. As in the case of Fushun, the original primary treatment process for the



                                                  - 4 -

Linjiawaizi wastewater treatment facility was also upgraded to secondary treatment. In addition,
the plant's design capacity was reduced from the original appraisal capacity of 300,000 m3/d to
225,000 m3/d, based on a recomputation of the quantity of wastewater to be treated.

Benxi Air Quality Management. Substantial changes were made in the air quality improvement
works originally proposed for the Benxi Iron and Steel Company (Bengang) when the company
replaced, using its own funds, the obsolete blast furnaces Nos.1 & 2 and coke ovens Nos. 1 & 4
with new facilities which fully met applicable air quality standards. In 2002, the Bank accepted a
request to finance the installation of equipment to reduce dust emission from the electric furnaces.


Dalian Wastewater. The capacity of the Chunliu wastewater treatment plant was increased from
60,000 to 80,000 m3/d by improving the activated sludge treatment process. A change to a
state-of-the-art biofilter at the Malan wastewater treatment facility substantially reduced the
footprint of the plant and had a positive impact on the surrounding neighborhood.

Dalian Municipal Solid Waste Management. The scope of this component was substantially
reduced as the original plans to develop a transfer capability from the city center to the landfill site
was dropped.

Jincheng Paper Mill Pollution Management. The small sub-component for white water
recovery and fuelwood production was deferred to the follow-on Liao River Basin Project.


3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry was satisfactory. Preparation and support for this project was fully consistent
with Government priorities and the Bank's CAS. The project was complex, but was well
prepared by national and international consultants, under the leadership of the Liaoning Urban
Construction and Renewal Project Office (LUCRPO). In particular the quality at entry of the
water supply and wastewater components was highly satisfactory. The significant changes to the
Benxi air quality component could not have been anticipated. However, the changes to the Dalian
solid waste component could perhaps have been avoided through a better dialogue during project
preparation about alternative approaches. Nevertheless, the relatively small number of changes
overall during implementation reflects favorably on the quality of project preparation.

In order to monitor project impact, indicators for the monitoring and evaluation of project
progress were developed, together with an extensive list of key financial and operating indicators.
At the start of implementation, institutional arrangements were in place and about 20 percent of
the bid documentation was prepared. The three main packages for the institutional development
and training component were fully prepared, and consultant assignments were readied before loan
approval. Cost estimates were high across the board, in spite of the efforts of the design review
consultants; as discussed in more detail later, this is a generic problem in China urban projects.

The project's objectives responded directly to the Bank's safeguard policies as it attempted to
mitigate the adverse impact of industrial water and air pollution. The project was rated category
"A" in terms of the World Bank's Operational Directives on Environmental Impact Assessment


                                                 - 5 -

(EIA). A comprehensive EIA was prepared, reviewed by the Bank and approved by SEPA. Prior
to Negotiations, the Liaoning Provincial Government (LPG) submitted and updated an acceptable
land acquisition and resettlement plan, under which 273 households would be relocated and 1,036
farmers would be shifted to nonagricultural employment.

Quality at entry was also helped by the experience gained from the successful implementation of
the preceding project, the Liaoning Urban Infrastructure Project. The four key lessons from the
first urban project in Liaoning--need for early implementation of institutional development
programs; inclusion of price escalation clauses in contracts greater then one year; raising the ICB
contract ceiling; and strengthening project management of the provincial government--were fully
incorporated into the design of LEP.

Risk Assessment

The staff appraisal report identified a number of risks which potentially could jeopardize the
project's outcome, including: (a) weak management and sustainability; (b) commercial
uncertainties; (c) reluctance of governments to implement and maintain adequate tariffs; (d)
possible failures to make the necessary follow-on investments beyond the project's scope; and (e)
inefficiencies in operating the individual components.

In hindsight, the project assessed most risks realistically, and made adequate provisions to
mitigate against these risks. The rapidly growing Chinese economy eliminated virtually all
commercial risks from the project, although during project implementation there were periods of
downturn affecting the heavy industry in Liaoning and consequently the industry-based
components in the project, e.g., Benxi air pollution. Project financial covenants were not
adequate to overcome the reluctance of the project municipalities and the provincial government
to increase wastewater tariffs to the required levels. Technological changes in the steel industry
affecting the project and the adoption of more stringent environmental regulations requiring
secondary wastewater treatment could not reasonably be anticipated and addressed.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall objectives of the project were achieved in a satisfactory manner, in particular the
water and air protection objectives. The achieved outcome substantially improved environmental
conditions in Liaoning. Official statistics show that over four million people have benefited from
the environmental improvements of the project in terms of air quality, cleaner water and proper
wastewater removal. Especially the poorer segment of the population benefited from the
collection and treatment of sewage in the project cities.

The project contributed, as promised, to the protection of Liaoning's water resources, including
the Hun-Taizi River Basin. In Jinzhou, the water treatment plant has been operating satisfactorily
since 2001, and residents have a 24-hour supply. In Anshan, Fushun, and Dalian, the wastewater
collection and treatment facilities are operational, and have contributed to marked reductions in
river pollution; similarly, the wastewater facility in Benxi, commissioned in early 2004, is expected
to be operationally successful. Project investments in the Jincheng Paper Mill have improved the



                                                  - 6 -

local water bodies and the underground aquifer. The pilot water conservation interventions in
Dalian, and the reuse of treated wastewater in Dalian and in Anshan, contributed to conserving
Liaoning's scarce water resources. The solid waste component in Dalian contributed to improved
sanitation in the city.

Even though reduced in scope, the Benxi air quality component nevertheless made a significant
contribution to the dramatic improvement in air quality in Benxi. The small cultural heritage
component also fully met its objectives by raising the level of awareness for conservation of
Liaoning's heritage.

Most of the contemplated institutional arrangements for environmental protection, water pollution
control, wastewater and municipal solid waste management have been set up successfully under
the project. The companies and agencies responsible for operating the facilities erected under the
project are fully aware of the future managerial and technical requirements, including the need for
systematic maintenance and equipment replacement. All environmental concerns raised in the
project's Environmental Impact Assessment (see SAR Annex 8, Table 4) were adequately
addressed during project implementation. This included the resettlement of 313 households, or 40
more than anticipated in the 1994 resettlement action plan. All families received appropriate
compensation.

While there is a clear appreciation of the importance of cost recovery pricing at the provincial
level, demonstrated through the issue of decrees, the municipalities have not so far approved
wastewater tariffs required to meet financial covenants in full. Follow-up action is required
during implementation of the follow-on project (Liao River Basin Project, LRBP, Loan
4617-CHA) to confirm the financial viability of some of the wastewater companies established
under the project.

Further details of component outputs for achieving the three project objectives are provided in
section 4.2 below. Additional information is given in Annex 1, which provides the latest estimates
on the project's performance indicators.


4.2 Outputs by components:
Project output was satisfactory; see paragraphs below for details of output by component.
Construction and installation quality was, by and large, satisfactory as this was carefully
supervised and monitored by the municipal project management offices (PMOs) and LUCRPO,
with the assistance of Chinese and international consultants.

The Anshan Wastewater component's output is rated satisfactory, with the percentage of
wastewater treated exceeding the 37 percent indicated in the SAR. The intended output of
220,000 m3/d of treated effluent is being provided for reuse in the Anshan Iron and Steel
Company (Angang). The quality of treated wastewater is consistent with Class II discharge
standard (the Chinese Environmental Standards for Surface Water comprise five use
classifications, with Class I being the highest and Class V the lowest).

The output of the Fushun Wastewater component is rated highly satisfactory. The wastewater


                                                 - 7 -

treatment plant not only meets the design capacity of 250,000 m3/d, but uses an upgraded
secondary treatment process to meet current SEPA standards (and exceeds SAR expectations).
The plant serves an area of 68 km2 with a population of 643,000 south of the Hun river. The
sludge is co-disposed with municipal wastes. These investments will result in a one-class
improvement in the quality of the Hun river downstream.


The output of the Benxi Wastewater component, although reduced from 300,000 to 225,000 m3
per day, is rated satisfactory. The treatment process for the Linjiawaizi wastewater treatment
plant was also upgraded as in Fushun. The component will serve an area of 70 km2 with a total
population of over 700,000. When fully commissioned in 2004, the new treatment process is
expected to have a significant positive effect on the Taizi River, which is highly toxic and
contaminated with heavy metals.

The output of the Dalian Wastewater component is rated highly satisfactory with the increase in
treatment capacity to 200,000 m3/d through the refurbishment of the Chunliu plant (increased
from 60,000 to 80,000 m3/d) and the construction of the Malan plant (120,000 m3/d). The
facility at Chunliu serves an area of 50 km2 with 250,000 people; that at Malan, an area of 48
km2 with 300,000 people. Tertiary treatment of treated wastewater recovery provides 40,000
m3/d for industrial reuse. Sludge from both plants is properly disposed at the Maoyinji landfill.
The component also included a successful pilot water conservation initiative comprising reduction
of unaccounted-for-water, retrofitting existing water supply facilities, and source control and
recycling. All works under this component are functioning at or above expected levels. The
environmental improvements in this coastal city have been dramatic, providing excellent quality of
living conditions for its population.

The output of the Jinzhou Water Supply component is rated highly satisfactory. The
component provides an additional 100,000 m3/d drinking water for about 670,000 people in the
formerly water-scarce city of Jinzhou; the service level in the city has increased from three hours a
day to 24 hours a day.

The output of the Dalian Solid Waste component is rated satisfactory. Although the scope of
solid waste handling and disposal was substantially changed and the Bank's funding reduced to
the procurement of some landfill equipment, the design change benefited from the Bank's
dialogue and refocus on the management of the landfill. This led to a significant increase in the
effective service life of the landfill and a remarkable improvement in sanitary conditions in the city
of Dalian.

The output of the Jincheng Paper Mill Pollution Management component is rated satisfactory
despite the fact that a small part of the component, i.e., white water recovery and fuelwood
production, was delayed and moved to the follow-on project (Liao River Basin Project; LRBP).
The major part of the project, i.e., the red liquor treatment works, was completed in 2001 and has
led to a 70 percent reduction of pollutant discharge into the Daling River.

The output of the Benxi Air Quality Management and District Heating component is rated as
satisfactory, even though the component as defined in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) was


                                                  - 8 -

significantly down-sized and modified. The district heating part has provided domestic and public
area heating supply for a 1.1 m2 million serving area. Air quality improvement works for
Bengang were substantially revised and reduced during project implementation, as the company
replaced some of its obsolete blast furnaces and coke ovens with new equipment (using own
funds), thus eliminating the need for some of the Bank financed pollution control equipment
envisaged in the SAR. Bank financing was used for installation of automatic charging car
facilities with emission controls for Bengang Coke Oven No. 2, and the output is satisfactory.
Dust emission control equipment installed at the electric furnaces under an additional
sub-component contributed to a further improvement in air quality.

The output of the Environmental Rehabilitation and Reconstruction component is rated
satisfactory. Although quite small in size, the component had a significant impact by raising
general awareness and management of cultural heritage in Liaoning.

The performance of the Liaoning Environment Fund is rated satisfactory with reservation. The
Fund's allocation from the loan was increased from $4 million to $6 million due to greater
demand, and the Fund made 36 sub-loans. These sub-loans, with only one exception, have led to
considerable environmental improvements in air quality and wastewater discharges. However,
about 25 percent of the sub-loans are serviced by the municipal Environmental Protection
Bureaus (EPBs), as the borrowing enterprises are in a weak financial position. The main
underlying problem was that the institutional arrangements to identify, appraise, monitor and
administer sub-projects, which were established during the implementation of LEP, were not fully
effective.

The outputs of the three technical assistance packages under the Institutional Strengthening
component were satisfactory overall, although the results were mixed. The effectiveness of the
financial management services and training package (Package A) was limited, as consultants
completed their work before the wastewater utilities began functioning as independent entities.
The technical management services and training package (Package B) was especially effective in
assisting LUCRPO on procurement matters and construction management support, including
quality assurance, as well as liaison between the LUCRPO and the Bank. The environmental
quality management, monitoring and control package (Package C) was effective and achieved its
capacity building objectives.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
An overall economic rate of return for the project was not calculated at appraisal; economic rates
of return were only calculated for those components where appropriate data for preparing
economic benefit streams could be gathered, e.g., Jinzhou water supply, Jincheng Paper Mill.
Least cost approaches were used for the wastewater components in Benxi, Dalian, and Fushun, as
well as the Dalian solid waste component. For the Anshan wastewater component an economic
rate of return could be calculated since there is a market for recycled wastewater because of the
water shortages in the city.

Table 1 in Annex 3 compares the economic rates of return at appraisal and current estimates. The



                                                 - 9 -

economic rate of return for the Jinzhou water supply component is estimated at 9 percent,
compared to the 12 percent at appraisal, due to higher-than-appraised capital costs and lower
water revenues. The actual water tariff has exceeded the appraisal estimate and the company has
been profitable since 1998. However, due to the economic slowdown in the late 90s, it has taken
longer than expected at appraisal for water production to reach full operating level.

The economic rate of return for the red liquor scheme at the Jincheng Paper Mill is estimated to
be 16 percent, almost double the SAR estimate of 9 percent, as the net income from the scheme
has almost doubled.

As discussed in Annex 3, appropriate least cost solutions were used in the case of the other
components.


4.4 Financial rate of return:
A financial rate of return was not prepared at appraisal. Essential financial aspects of the utilities
and enterprises operating under this project are discussed in the Sustainability Section.


4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project had a substantial impact on institutional development in the five project cities and to a
certain degree in Liaoning overall. LUCRPO, the provincial project office, improved on its
existing capacity (developed during the earlier Bank project) to prepare and implement Bank
projects. The municipal level project offices in Anshan, Benxi, Dalian, Fushun, and Jinzhou also
gained valuable experience in implementing a Bank urban environmental project.

Under the project, five new public utilities were created: wastewater utilities in Anshan, Benxi,
Dalian and Fushun; and a district heating enterprise in Benxi. The Anshan wastewater company
was later incorporated into the Angang steel plant operation as the steel plant reuses the entire
treated effluent of the wastewater company. The Benxi District Heating Company was merged
into the larger Benxi General Heating Company. Both of these mergers made organizational and
economic sense and were approved by the Bank. The establishment of autonomous wastewater
utilities in Benxi, Dalian, and Fushun, operating on commercial principles, will have significant
impact in the overall development of the sector. As discussed earlier, these wastewater
companies are in their infancy, and their development would need to be monitored during the
implementation of LRBP.

Considering its small size (less than $2 million), the environmental rehabilitation and
reconstruction component had an exceedingly positive impact on Liaoning as it supported four
initiatives for museums and site conservation.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Global Economic Slowdown. The general economic slowdown in China during most of the early
phase of the project and especially during the financial and economic crisis in Southeast Asia in


                                                     - 10 -

1997/1998 had an overall dilatory effect on Liaoning. Virtually all project cities encountered
some problems in providing counterpart funds for LEP. The situation was exacerbated because
the Bank financed only 20 percent of civil works.

The steel plant in Benxi encountered severe financial problems just at the time when the main
contracting phase of the Benxi Air Quality component was poised to be carried out, and
consequently the component was delayed. During this period, the company determined that it
would be technically and financially more desirable to replace two of its obsolete blast furnaces
and two of its coke ovens.

Flood. Severe flooding in the summer of 1996 caused major damage to a large area of Liaoning.
The component worst affected was the Fushun wastewater component, where the Hun River
penetrated the excavation site of the downstream section of the interceptor causing construction
delays and a loss of about $400,000.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Impact of New Regulations. SEPA's 1997 Integrated Wastewater Discharge Standard required
the wastewater treatment process in Benxi and Fushun to be upgraded from a primary to a
secondary treatment process. The required modifications had a beneficial environmental effect
and enhanced achievement of project objectives; however, they also caused implementation delays
and affected component costs.

Counterpart Funding. The global economic slowdown, cited above as one of the external
factors, severely affected Liaoning's industry-based economy in the late 90s, and presented LPG
with difficult choices of priority and affected counterpart funding. This led to considerable delays
in construction activities and resulted in the Bank downgrading the project to "unsatisfactory" in
1998.

Procurement Processing. In addition to the procurement procedures agreed at appraisal, the
State government required that all ICB contracts for imported plant and equipment should be
approved by the State Mechanical & Electrical Import Review Office in Beijing prior to their
submission to the Bank for review and issue of No Objection. As noted by Liaoning, this
additional layer of review led to significant delays in project implementation.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Low Contract Pricing. Consistent with the experience of almost all Bank-funded urban projects
in China during the last ten years, LEP contract bid prices, on average, came in about 60 percent
below appraised estimates. Some of the contributing factors were: (a) use of standard Bank
physical and price contingency factors, even though the "base" costs provided by the design
institutes already incorporated physical contingencies (5 percent) and price contingencies (8
percent); (b) the incentives for the design institutes to overestimate costs, as their fees were based
on a percentage of estimated capital costs; (c) the margin built in to the cost estimates to allow for
late payments to contractors; (d) inaccurate schedules of rates provided by the Provincial
Construction Commission; (e) recent contract prices not being factored into the schedule of rates;
and (f) low bidding by contractors with the express intention of recouping some of the shortfall


                                                    - 11 -

through increases in measured quantities and variation orders.

LUCRPO and some municipal implementing agencies have expressed concern that exceptionally
low bids may jeopardize the contractor's cash flow and performance, and lead to defaults and
delays. (See Annex 8, Borrower Contribution to the ICR.). The Bank needs to provide better
guidance on handling such issues, as and when they arise.

Construction quality. By and large, construction quality was satisfactory. In a few cases,
however, it was below expected standards, e..g, civil works for the Fushun wastewater treatment
plant, where the work was done in great haste to complete it before the onset of winter, and avoid
a five month delay. In general, construction periods specified in bid documents tended to be
exceedingly tight, affecting construction quality.

Lack of quality in workmanship and materials was occasionally observed in non-Bank financed
contracts. It appears that in such cases project agencies relaxed design standards and
construction supervision, resulting in poor concrete work, use of corroding materials, lack of
corrosion protection, and poor quality of doors and electrical fittings.

These shortcomings are, however, not expected to have a substantial impact on either future
maintenance and replacement requirements or long-term sustainability.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Project costs at completion amounted to $221.8 million, compared to the appraised amount of
$350.8 million, representing a 37 percent savings from the original estimate. As indicated in
Section 3.4, the scope of work for the Dalian solid waste management component and the Benxi
air quality component was reduced drastically; this resulted in only 27.1 and 19.3 percent,
respectively, of the appraised expenditures for these components being incurred. The higher
expenditures in the case of the Benxi and Fushun wastewater components were due to the higher
level of treatment. (See Annex 2 for details of cost comparisons.) Project output overall
exceeded appraisal expectations. This remarkable achievement - lower costs than estimated with
higher output than expected - clearly sets LEP apart from most urban infrastructure projects.

Liaoning Provincial Government, the five municipal governments, and the project enterprises
(primarily the Benxi Iron and Steel Company and the Angang steel complex) contributed about 56
percent of project costs, and IBRD financed the remaining 44 percent. The SAR envisaged that
69 percent would be financed from counterpart funds and 31 percent by IBRD. Of the Bank
Loan of $110 million, $8.8 million in accumulated loan savings was cancelled at the Borrower's
request.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is rated likely with some reservations.

Despite the economic difficulties in the second half of the nineties, all levels of government -



                                                - 12 -

State, provincial and municipal - maintained their strong commitment to reverse the serious
environmental deterioration of air and water quality in Liaoning by providing the necessary policy
as well as financial support to LEP. In light of the current heightened awareness of environmental
issues in Liaoning, the institutions supported by LEP, as well as the facilities constructed under
LEP, would most likely continue to receive government and public support.

At the time of Loan closing, all components of the project had been completed and were
operational; the Benxi wastewater treatment plant is operational since early 2004. Institutional
arrangements are in place for on-going operations and maintenance. A number of components,
e.g., the Benxi air quality and district heating components, the Jinzhou water supply, the Anshan
wastewater, and the Jincheng paper mill, are operating under existing agencies. Autonomous
companies were established for the wastewater operations in Benxi, Dalian and Fushun; the
Dalian wastewater system has already been in operation for three years, while the Fushun system
has been in operation for over a year.

As discussed in Section 4.1, there is strong government commitment at the provincial level to the
objective of financial sustainability of water and wastewater utilities. The Jinzhou water utility is
already financially viable. The project wastewater companies would meet LEP financial
covenants when the municipalities implement wastewater tariffs as provided under the recent
provincial decree. Liaoning authorities, in particular the Liaoning Finance Bureau, indicate that
the municipal governments would make the necessary wastewater tariff revisions in the near
future. The Bank is well placed to monitor progress on a continuing basis, in view of its on-going
dialogue with Liaoning in the context of the follow-on Liao River Basin Project.

The Jincheng paper mill and the Anshan wastewater components can be considered fully
sustainable in an institutional, operational and financial sense, as they are part of large existing
organizations. The Benxi district heating component also needs to increase collection fee rates to
be financially viable. It is expected to do so in 2004.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
See 6.1 above for the institutional arrangements for regular operation. Several components have been
under operation for a number of years and are functioning effectively. It is anticipated that this
will be the case with the recently completed components as well, i.e., Fushun and Benxi
wastewater components. Liaoning credits Bank-funded training programs for enabling a
successful transition to regular operation. (See Annex 8.)

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance during the identification, preparation, and appraisal of LEP is rated as
highly satisfactory.

Identification. LEP identification was based on a logical and systematic approach to address
Liaoning's high priority needs in the most polluted cities of the province. As indicated earlier in
Section 3.1, the project emanated from a 1986 survey, which identified the major urban
environmental problems in Liaoning, and subsequently led to the development of long-term


                                                   - 13 -

infrastructure plans for a period of 15 years. LEP represents the second phase of implementing
these plans, following the Liaoning Urban Infrastructure Project, which constituted the first phase.
The project was initially proposed to the Bank during the appraisal of the Liaoning Infrastructure
Project in August/September 1989. The project was fully consistent with the Bank's 1993 CAS.

Preparation. The Bank preparation team comprised experts who had prepared and implemented
the Liaoning Urban Infrastructure Project, and were thus well versed in Liaoning's environmental
issues and requirements. LEP preparation benefited greatly from having LUCRPO, which was
established prior to the first urban project, as a focal agency in Liaoning. Grant funds from the
Japanese PHRD Fund, Norway, Australia, Canada, UNDP, and the Bank enabled a high quality
project to be prepared with assistance from international and Chinese experts.

The State and Liaoning governments, as well as the Bank, persuaded the municipal government of
Fushun to participate in LEP, even though it was initially reluctant to do so because of the
financial commitments required for counterpart funds, and subsequently for debt servicing. In
contrast, a carefully prepared component for the capital city of Shenyang was dropped from the
project as the city was able to obtain financing from other sources.

Appraisal. A strong and well-balanced Bank team, comprised of experts in key fields, appraised
LEP and the resultant project emerged closely along the lines of the Final Executive Project
Summary. Implementing agencies' capacities were assessed accurately, and an appropriate set of
institutional development and technical assistance packages was included in the project. The risk
assessment was accurate, and appropriate mitigtion measures were included. In particular, the
authorities' reluctance to implement the required wastewater tariffs was recognized. Several
Bank reviewers also sounded a note of warning in this regard. The Bank team appraised the draft
EIA and the provincial resettlement action plan (RAP). The final EIA and the final provincial and
municipal level RAPs were provided at negotiations.

At negotiations, Government confirmed the scope of the appraised project and the details of the
components, but proposed that the loan amount be reduced from $150 million to $110 million.
The Bank agreed to this request, and as a result the disbursement ratio for civil works was
reduced to only 20 percent, a level which caused some problems during implementation.

7.2 Supervision:
The supervision performance of the Bank is rated highly satisfactory, in particular because the
team that identified, appraised and negotiated the project carried out project supervision
effectively and consistently for over seven years. This team also supervised the Liaoning Urban
Infrastructure Project until its closing in March 1997, and oversaw the preparation of the Liao
River Basin Project. The team leadership was handed over to another HQ staff in a seamless
manner for the final two years of the project. With LUCRPO in charge of all three projects, there
was frequent contact and coordination between the Bank and Liaoning. The schedule of formal
supervision missions does not fully reflect the Bank's support for LEP, as many issues were
concurrently addressed during various missions to Liaoning. The task teams prepared good
quality reports, although some reports were not always be filed in a timely manner because of the
pressures of preparation and appraisal of the new Liaoning project.



                                                  - 14 -

Safeguards. The supervision team monitored the Borrower's compliance with safeguards, in
particular land acquisition and resettlement. Supervision confirmed that project agencies were
addressing these matters in accordance with the agreed resettlement programs. Municipal EPBs
monitored implementation of the Environmental Management Plan during construction and will
continue to monitor environmental parameters on a regular basis during operations of the
completed assets. LUCRPO's 2003 report on land acquisition and resettlement indicated that the
livelihood of about 313 resettled households and about 3,300 workers of relocated enterprises
improved, and that the affected persons were satisfied with the resettlement arrangements. (The
1994 Land Acquisition and Resettlement Plan had predicted that 273 households would have to
be resettled and that about 3,400 workers would have alternative work locations because
enterprises had to be relocated.)


7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance is rated highly satisfactory due the inputs of a highly motivated
and skilled task team, comprising sanitary engineers, environmental experts, financial analysts, and
cultural heritage specialists during a period of over 15 years from project identification to project
closing. Liaoning has also rated the Bank's contribution to be highly satisfactory (see Annex 8).

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance during the preparation phase of the project is rated satisfactory.
The preparatory phase progressed very well because of LUCRPO, which provided the link
between State Government, Liaoning, municipal governments and other agencies. State,
Liaoning, and municipal governments compensated for their limited knowledge of large-scale
wastewater operations and air pollution abatement measures by making effective use of the work
of international and Chinese experts on the various technical, economic, environmental, financial
and social aspects. As a result, the project was well prepared and consequently moved smoothly
into the implementation phase.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government's implementation performance was satisfactory. LEP was a complex project,
involving five municipalities, different levels of government (State, provincial, municipal) and
agencies, e.g., SEPA and provincial and municipal EPBs, and dealt with water and air pollution as
well as heritage conservation. Government did a creditable job of ensuring that there was good
coordination between these various actors, facilitating effective project implementation. The
extensions required to complete the project were reasonable, given the complexity of the project
and the economic downswings (which affected the availability of counterpart funds).
Government, especially Liaoning, also made a commendable effort at putting in place institutional
and financial arrangements for sustained wastewater management, based on commercially and
institutionally independent wastewater companies with the right to levy adequate tariffs and
charges as well as effective billing and collection systems. However, these efforts started only in
the later stages of the project, and more work is required to ensure that the institutional and tariff
reforms are implemented at municipal and wastewater company levels.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the principal implementing agency, LUCRPO, is rated highly satisfactory, in


                                                 - 15 -

particular for its ability to coordinate the implementation of a multitude of project components in
different sectors with municipal and other agencies. LUCRPO, using inputs from the
municipal-level project units, and with the assistance of consultants, provided excellent quarterly
progress reports over the entire implementation period. These reports regularly described the
project's progress in terms of the key physical and financial indicators established during appraisal.
The Bank's supervision missions routinely confirmed the accuracy of these reports. LUCRPO,
however, did not provide information on the monitoring indicators for the operation phase of the
project. This issue will be followed up during the supervision of LRBP. In July 2003, LUCRPO
submitted a "Completion Report of Resettlement Action for the Liaoning Project" which was
reviewed by the Bank's resettlement unit in Beijing and found to be satisfactory. Annual audit
reports were furnished in a timely manner.

The participating project municipalities also maintained project offices with competent staff in
adequate numbers to facilitate implementation. All project units interacted well with the technical,
institutional, and environmental consultants. Implementing agencies did their best to overcome
delays caused by the lack of timely availability of counterpart funds. The failure to fully achieve
institutional and financial reforms is considered to be the responsibility of Liaoning and the
municipal governments, and not of the implementing agencies.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower's overall performance is rated satisfactory. The central and provincial
governments, as well as the five municipalities, exhibited strong commitment to the project
throughout its preparation and implementation phases. All agencies performed well in
implementing the physical aspects of the project components. In spite of the extension of the
closing date by two and a half years, the Borrower would have deserved a "highly satisfactory"
rating had there been greater progress in implementing agreed institutional and financial reforms
in the wastewater sector.


8. Lessons Learned

Five important lessons emerged from the preparation and implementation of LEP, as discussed
below. Lessons (a)-(d) have general applicability. Lesson (e) aims primarily at follow-on projects
in Liaoning.

(a)      Disbursement ratio of 20 percent for the civil works category, agreed during
negotiations, was too low. At one level, project agencies had difficulty coming up with 80
percent in counterpart funds. At another level, project agencies felt that the low disbursement
percentage was not sufficiently attractive to overcome their reluctance in working with Bank
procurement guidelines, with which they were not familiar. The former delayed project
implementation, and the latter sometimes resulted in poor quality construction. In future projects,
disbursement percentages should not drop to unworkable levels, say, below 40 percent. Further,
if there is a need to reduce the loan amount, it would be better to reduce the scope of the project
by dropping a component or sub-component, instead of reducing disbursement percentages.

(b)      Cost estimation needs to be improved, as on average contract prices were only about 60



                                                  - 16 -

percent of appraisal estimates. This issue is not specific to LEP, but is generic to China urban
projects. A study should be carried out to analyze methods used by Chinese design institutes to
estimate costs, and in consultation with the Ministry of Construction, develop revised
methodologies to ensure that in the estimation of project costs (a) physical and price contingency
factors are not applied twice, and (b) the schedule of rates is based on current market prices,
rather than on norms. In addition, the practice of excessively low bids, and attempting to recoup
some of the costs through variation orders, should be reviewed with a view to disqualifying such
bids, as permitted under Bank guidelines.

(c)      Institutional Development assistance would not have the intended benefit, if it is
provided before the agencies have the capacity to absorb it, as was the case with the institutional
development package for wastewater companies (under Package A). Annex 8 (Borrower
contribution) confirms that training for financial management took place prematurely. In addition,
the issue of on-going training in wastewater operations, after Loan closing, needs to be addressed.
With dozens of large wastewater treatment plants (financed under Bank, other donor, and Chinese
national and provincial funding) coming on stream in China, the Bank should engage in a dialogue
with Chinese authorities regarding the establishment of a specialized facility for training in
wastewater operations.

(d)      Successful implementation of financial covenants for cost recovery requires on-going
dialogue with provincial and municipal governments throughout the project cycle, and should not
be left to the later stages of project implementation.

(e)      The Liaoning Environmental Fund was only partially successful, even though the loan
allocation was increased from $4 million to $6 million. A sound organizational structure to
identify, appraise, monitor and administer sub-projects was not established, resulting in the
municipal EPBs having to repay the sub-loans on behalf of defaulting enterprises in some 25
percent of the cases. The procedures for administering the fund have been strengthened in the
follow-on Liao River Basin Project, which has a $10 million allocation. Liaoning has obtained
additional funds from the European Union for such activities. A comprehensive review of the
operation of such funds should be carried out at the end of LRBP, including the limits on the size
of individual sub-loans, as the LEP ceiling amount of $300,000 per sub-loan appears too low.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
LUCPRO on behalf of the Borrower has submitted its own excellent and comprehensive
Implementation Completion Report which is given in Annex 8.

After review of the Bank's final draft ICR, the Borrower wrote on June 21, 2004:

"Thank you for sending us the final draft of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) of the
Liaoning Environment Project (LEP). We have reviewed the draft report and are pleased to see
that it incorporates the comments that we had provided on the earlier draft.

We find the final draft ICR to be a comprehensive and balanced assessment of the implementation
of LEP. We concur with the main ratings in terms of implementation and sustainability. We


                                                - 17 -

appreciate the positive assessment made of LUCRPO. This gives us confidence and
encouragement to continue our work on the current and, we hope, future Bank projects."



(b) Cofinanciers:

n.a.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

n.a.

10. Additional Information


Detailed financial records by project component have been prepared for all entities supported by the
project. These records provide information about production and sales volumes, operating expenses and
revenues, net income, average tariffs, and operational and financial ratios for the year 2001. This
information is available in the project files.




                                                   - 18 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                 1
               Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                     Actual/Latest Estimate
a) Protection of wellfield and Enhance
drinking water quality in Jinzhou:
 Indicator: Water supply available per h/d     24 /d                                     24 h/d
% of city population reached:                  100 percent                               100 percent
b) Reduction of total pollution load in                                                  Exceeded SAR estimate through advanced
provincial surface water:                                                                technology in wastewater treatment. Exact
 Indicator: % reduction of pollutants          35 percent in 2001                        figures not yet available.
c) Improve Dalian municipal solid waste
management:
 Indicator: % landfill new usage service       100 percent                               100 percent
d) Improve air quality in Benxi:               Component was substantially changed from  Air quality objectives of SAR exceeded by
 Indicator: % reduction of SO2 and TSP         SAR.                                      replacement of blast furnaces and coke
                                                                                         ovens; small Bank component had positive
                                                                                         contributory impact.
e) Improve air pollution and create coal
savings in Benxi District Heating:
 Indicator: Tons of particulates removed
            Particulates                       25,500 t/a                                Not available
            SO2 discharge                      8,500 t/a                                 3,162 t/a
            Coal savings                       Not given                                 98,332 t/a
            Boiler slag discharge reduced      Not given                                 38.124 t/a
            Dust removal                       Not given                                 1,145 t/a
f) Pollution reduction and resource recovery
through Environment Fund:
 Indicator: Number of effective sub-projects   14 totaling $4.0 million                  32 totaling $6.3 million
g) Improve Jinzhou Paper Mill pollution:
 Indicator: Reduction in groundwater usage     40,000 m3/d                               To be determined
            Reduction of pollution load        2 million p.a.                            To be determined
            COD removal                        Not estimated                             50,348 t/a
            SS removal                         Not estimated                             55,749 t/a
            Reduced wastewater discharge       Not estimated                             5,040,000 m3/a
h) Support training, feasibility studies, and
future investment project preparation:
 Indicator: % Achievement of Action Plan       100 percent                               Broadly met with some changes in scope.
i) Improve municipal, environmental and utility                                          Partial compliance; tariff increases need to
management and finances:                                                                 be monitored.
 Indicator: % Financial performance criteria   Compliance with all financial covenants.




                                                                 - 19 -

Output Indicators:
                                                                  1
               Indicator/Matrix               Projected in last PSR              Actual/Latest Estimate
Jinzhou Water Supply:
 Water Production (million m3/a):      121                             102
 Water Sales (million m3/a):           108                             71
 Average Tariff (RMB/m3):              1.63                            1.73


Anshan Wastewater:
 Wastewater Volume (million m3/a):     80                              56
 Wastewater Collected (million m3/a    80                              56
 Sewer Connections (number):           1560                            n.a.
 Average Tariff (RMB/m3):              1.49                            0.70


Benxi Wastewater:
 Wastewater Volume (million m3/a):     82                              80
 Wastewater Collected (million m3/a    82                              60
 Sewer Connections (number):           1445                            approx. 1970
 Average Tariff (RMB/m3):              0.91                            0.35


Dalian Wastewater:
 Wastewater Volume (million m3/a):     66                              80
 Wastewater Collected (million m3/a    66                              80
 Sewer Connections (number):           2,890                           7,600
 Average Tariff (RMB/m3):              1.95                            0.25


Fushun Wastewater:
 Wastewater Volume (million m3/a):     91                              336
 Wastewater Collected (million m3/a)   91                              122
 Sewer Connections (number):           605                             n.a.
 Average Tariff (RMB/m3):              0.88                            0.42


Benxi District Heating:
 Heating Area ('000 m2):               1,000                           1,100
 Coverage (in percent):                100                             100
 Average Tariff (RMB/m2):              40.40                           24.00


Dalian Solid Waste
 Waste to Landfill ('000 m3):          790                             860
 Billable Waste ('000 m3):             603                             860
 Average Tariff (RMB/m3):              51.5                            10.00


1End of project




                                                    - 20 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                 Appraisal        Actual/Latest      Percentage of
                                                                  Estimate          Estimate            Appraisal
                          Component                             US$ million        US$ million
Water Supply Jinzhou                                                18.10               20.50                  113
Water Conservation Dalian                                            1.60                2.30                  144
Wastewater Treatment
Anshan                                                              33.70               22.80                   68
Benxi                                                               28.10               34.40                  122
Dalian                                                              44.50               41.90                   94
Fushun                                                              35.70               49.60                  139
Jinzhou (Jincheng Paper Mill)                                       13.90               12.90                   93
Solid Waste Management Dalian                                       13.30                3.60                   27
Air Quality Management Benxi                                        36.30                7.00                   19
District Central Heating Benxi                                      18.40               12.50                   68
Environmental Fund                                                   4.00                6.30                  158
Environmental Rehabilitation & Reconstruction                        1.70                1.70                  100
Institutional Development and Training                               7.40                6.30                   85

Total Baseline Cost                                               256.70               221.80
 Physical Contingencies                                             35.00
 Price Contingencies                                                46.40
                             Total Project Costs                  338.10               221.80
                               Interest during construction         12.70


                      Total Financing Required                    350.80               221.80
Note: An additional amount of $7.5 million was expected to be expended prior to Loan Closing bringing the total
actual project cost to $229.3 million.




                                                     - 21 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                               1
                                                      Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB                NCB                     2          N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                           Other
1. Works                               51.50             69.10               0.00             19.70            140.30
                                      (10.30)           (13.80)             (0.00)           (0.00)            (24.10)
2. Goods                              103.00              2.00               0.60             28.80            134.40
                                      (68.80)            (0.90)             (0.40)           (0.00)            (70.10)
3. Services                            0.00               0.00               5.10             35.00             40.10
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)             (4.10)           (0.00)             (4.10)
4. Environmental Fund                  0.00               0.00               4.00             0.00              4.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)             (4.00)           (0.00)             (4.00)
5. Land Acquisition                    0.00               0.00               0.00             9.70              9.70
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)
6. Institutional                       0.00               0.00               9.60             0.00              9.60
Development and Training              (0.00)             (0.00)             (7.70)           (0.00)             (7.70)
   Total                              154.50             71.10              19.30             93.20            338.10
                                      (79.10)           (14.70)            (16.20)           (0.00)           (110.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                               1
                                                     Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                           Other
1. Works                               6.80              33.90              0.00             52.40            93.10
                                      (1.40)             (1.90)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (3.30)
2. Goods                               87.80              0.20              3.40             3.90             95.30
                                      (85.40)              ()              (0.00)            (0.00)           (85.40)
3. Services                            0.00               0.00              2.60             14.00            16.60
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
4. Environmental Fund                  0.00               0.00              6.30                               6.30
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (6.10)              ()             (6.10)
5. Land Acquisition                    0.00               0.00              0.00             11.70            11.70
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
6. Institutional                       0.00               0.00              6.30             0.00              6.30
Development and Training              (0.00)             (0.00)            (6.30)            (0.00)           (6.30)
   Total                               94.60             34.10             18.60             82.00            229.30
                                      (86.80)            (1.90)           (12.40)            (0.00)          (101.10)

1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
  of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
  managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                      - 22 -

Project Financing Plan (Appraisal Estimate/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                        Appraisal Estimate                 Actual/Latest Estimate
                                  Local Foreign     Total    %      Local Foreign     Total    %

Liaoning Provincial Government,
Municipal Governments, and        159.1     81.7    240.8    68.6     97.8      30.3  128.1     55.9
Enterprises

IBRD                                       110.0    110.0    31.4             101.2   101.2     44.1

Total Financing                   159.1    191.7    350.8   100.0     97.8    131.5   229.3   100.0




                                              - 23 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

An overall economic rate of return for the whole project was not calculated at appraisal.
Individual economic rates of return were only calculated for those components where appropriate
data for preparing economic benefit streams could be gathered. For several of the components,
however, particularly for wastewater treatment, information was not readily available and
therefore the economic benefits were not quantified.

The economic analysis for the waste treatment plants in Fushun and Benxi contained in the
project uses the "least-cost" approach of alternative treatment strategies. This analysis was sound
and its review as part of this report does not warrant any modifications as virtually all physical,
technical and environmental parameters remained unchanged.

A least-cost approach was also used for the Anshan wastewater component. However, an
economic rate of return for the water resale could be calculated since the plant's entire production
of treated water, amounting to 220,000 m /d, is sold to the Angang steel plant. As construction
                                            3


costs for this component came in at only 66 percent of the appraisal costs and operating costs are
assumed to be approximately the same as appraised, the recalculated economic rate of return
increases to 30 percent from the 23 percent appraisal estimate. These high returns stem from the
fact that only the secondary and tertiary treatment is included in the calculation since the primary
treatment would have taken place in any case.

Both wastewater plants in Dalian were determined as least-cost alternatives. For the Chunliu
and the Malan wastewater plants, some measurable economic benefits are also derived from the
sale of treated water. Since actual investment costs amounted to only 90 percent of the appraisal
estimates (RMB 345 versus 387 million), and all other parameters can be assumed to be close to
the values at appraisal, the ICR economic benefit would exceed the SAR estimate. Because
Chunliu is a plant expansion, it has the added advantage of substantial sunken costs, allowing it to
operate at net incremental treatment costs per ton of wastewater below that of Chunliu.

At appraisal, the Jinzhou water supply component showed a 12 percent economic rate of return
for an incremental production of 100,000 m /d. Due to higher than appraised capital costs (RMB
                                              3


170 versus RMB 158 million, respectively) and lower water revenues (RMB 71.32 versus RMB
108.00 million, respectively), the net economic rate of return is now estimated at approximately 9
percent. The actual water tariff slightly exceeded the appraisal estimate (RMB 1.73 versus RMB
1.63 per m ) and the company has been profitable since 1998. However, it has taken longer than
            3


expected at appraisal for water production to reach full operating levels.

No economic rate of return analysis was prepared for the Dalian solid waste component. The
landfill site, which was already in use at appraisal, was reassessed and found to be the least costly
and least environmentally vulnerable of all studied alternatives. The initially proposed scheme
using 5-ton trucks in combination with a permanent three-level transfer station was replaced by a
transport scheme using a fleet of 8-ton trucks that was determined to be economically superior to
the transfer station scheme. In addition, the useful life of the landfill was substantially extended,
which reconfirmed the economic value of the landfill selection decision.



                                                 - 24 -

The SAR estimated the white-water recovery at the Jincheng Paper Mill to have an economic
rate of return of 37 percent. No recalculation was done for the ICR since this part of the project
was deferred to the Liao River Basin Project. The red liquor extraction and binder production
scheme was estimated to have a 9 percent economic rate of return. The economic benefit for the
red liquor extraction would primarily come from binder sales, water savings and from cost
avoidance from not having to treat the effluent. As net income of the operation is now expected
to be almost double appraised assumptions, the economic return for the red liquor scheme is
estimated at about 16 percent.

The Borrower has stated that the World Bank investment allowed the Jincheng Paper Mill to
avoid suspension of its operation or closure as the company was able to adhere to the stricter
current environmental regulations. The Borrower thus credits the project with preventing an
otherwise certain economic downturn of the local economy which depends heavily on the paper
mill.

For the Benxi Air Quality component, the appraisal mainly used a least-cost justification. No
economic rate of return was presented for the component as a whole. However, a 6 percent rate
was calculated for the refitting of blast furnaces No.1 and No.2. As indicated earlier, the
company decided to replace these obsolete furnaces without Bank assistance. Since the rest of
the component was also substantially redesigned, with the Bank financing low-level dust emission
measures from the electric furnaces, a direct comparison of the original design with the revised
scope would not be meaningful.

For the district heating sub-component also no economic benefit analysis was prepared at
appraisal because central heating costs were entirely borne by building owners and were not
passed on to the renters.

Table 1. Comparative Economic Rate of Return: SAR Estimates vs. ICR/Actual Estimates

                        Component               SAR Estimate      ICR/Actual Estimate


             Anshan Wastewater                        23%                   30%

             Jinzhou Wastewater                       12%                   9%

             Jincheng Paper Mill
                Red Liquor                             9%                   16%
                White Liquor                          37%                 Deferred


             Air Pollution
                Refitting 2 Blast Furnaces             6%          Blast Furnaces replaced




                                                 - 25 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                    (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                  Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              Appraisal:             14     SANITARY ENGINEERS
              November 1993                 (2); STEEL INDUSTRY
                                            SPECIALIST (1); PROG-
                                            RAM ASSISTANT (1);
                                            CULTURAL HERITAGE
                                            SPECIALIST (1); WATER
                                            CONSERVATION SPE-
                                            CIALISTS (2); COST CON-
                                            SULTANT (1); FINANCIAL
                                            ANALYST (1); STEEL
                                            INDUSTRY ECONO-
                                            MIST (1); SOLID WASTE
                                            SPECIALIST (1); ENVI-
                                            RONMENTAL ENGINEER
                                            (1); INSTITUTIONAL
                                            SPECIALIST (1)

              Negotiations             7    ENGINEERS (2); LAWYER (1);
                                            DISBURSEMENT OFFICER
                                            (1); ECONOMIST (1);
                                            ENVIRONMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)

 Supervision

              10/14/1994               4    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                            FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                            WASTE MGMT ENGINEER
                                            (1); SOLID WASTE
                                            SPECIALIST (1)
              05/10/1995               1
                                            ENGINEER (1)
              04/29/1996               3    PLANNER, CULTURAL SPEC           S               S
                                            (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST
                                            (1); ENGINEER
                                            (ENVIRONMENT) (1)
              07/31/1997               4
                                            ENGINEER (1); ENVIRON-
                                            MENTAL ENGINEER (1);
                                            FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1);
                                            CULTURAL HERITAGE
                                            SPECIALIST (1)

              01/30/1998               3    SOLID WASTE & SANI. EN           S               U
                                            (1); CULTURAL HERITAGE
                                            SPEC (1); FINANCIAL


                                             - 26 -

                                                  ANALYST (1)

              03/31/1998                      4
                                                  ENGINEER (1); FINANCIAL
                                                  ANALYST (1); INDUSTRIAL
                                                  ENVIRONMENTALIST (1);
                                                  INSTITUTIONAL EXPERT (1)


              07/28/1998                      4   URBAN ECONOMIST (1);                    S              U
                                                  FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1);
                                                  ENVIRONMENTAL
                                                  ENGINEER (1); PROJECT
                                                  ASSISTANT (1)
              02/13/1999                      2
                                                  ENVIRONMENTAL
                                                  ENGINEER (1); FINANCIAL
              07/23/1999                      4   ANALYST (1)

                                                  URBAN ECONOMIST (1);
                                                  ENVIRONMENTAL
                                                  SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                                  SPECIALIST (1); TEAM
                                                  ASSISTANT

              04/04/2000                      3   MUNICIPAL ENG, TTL (1);                 S              S
                                                  ENGINEER (1); FINANCIAL
                                                  SPECIALIST (1)

              06/21/2001                      3   ENGINEER (1); WATER
                                                  CONSERVATION SPECIALIST
                                                  (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)

              01/23/2002                      5   TEAM LEADER (1);                        S              S
                                                  ENGINEER (1); SOCIAL
                                                  SCIENTIST (1); SR. URBAN
                                                  PLANNER (1); FINANCIAL
                                                  ANALYST (1)

 ICR
              September 2003                 4     INSTITUTIONAL                                         S
                                                   SPECIALIST & TEAM
                                                   LEADER (1); ENGINEER
                                                   (1); FINANCIAL
                                                   ANALYST (1);
                                                   RESETTLEMENT
                                                   SPECIALIST (1)

Note: Missions without specific performance ratings were generally carried out in conjunction with other
project work.

Identification and preparation work was carried out in conjunction with the supervision of the then ongoing
Liaoning Urban Infrastructure Project.




                                                   - 27 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                        Actual/Latest Estimate
                                         No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Appraisal/Negotiation                         45.5                          207.3
  Supervision                                   45.5                          584.7
  ICR                                           23.0                           53.0
  Total                                        309.2                        1,281.4
Regional direct to full costs mark-up is 25% for fiscal years prior to FY00.




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Staff Appraisal Report: Liaoning Environment Project, dated July 7, 1994, Report No.: 12708-CHA
2. Borrower's Implementation Completion Report, dated December 2003
3. Quarterly Progress Reports by Liaoning Urban Construction and Renewal Office
4. Liaoning Environment Fund Assessment Report, dated March 1998
5. ICR Aide-Memoire, dated October 30, 2003
6. Revised Implementation Completion Note on Land Acquisition and Resettlement, dated September
2003.




                                                - 31 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR

                BORROWER'S IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                            LIAONING ENVIRONMENT PROJECT


     ASSESSMENT OF DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE & DESIGN AND OF QUALITY AT
 ENTRY
     Original Objective
        Full details are provided in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR); Report No 12708-CHA
        dated July 7, 1994. The stated project objectives were to: (a) protect the main water
        resources in Liaoning Province including the Hun-Taizi River Basin to allow their
        sustained economic and safe use for drinking, industrial, and agricultural purposes;
        (b) strengthen pricing policies and institutional arrangements for environment
        protection, water pollution control, wastewater and municipal solid waste
        management; and (c) institute measures for air pollution control and cultural heritage
        asset management.

     Revised Objective
        There has been no material change in the main Project objectives during
        implementation.

     Original Components
        The project investment program comprised the following components: (a)
        wastewater management in Anshan and Fushun; (b) wastewater and air quality
        management in Benxi; (c) wastewater, municipal solid waste and water conservation
        management investments in Dalian; (d) water supply system enhancement and
        protection in Jinzhou; (e) environmental rehabilitation and construction in priority
        sites; (f) Liaoning Environment Fund; and (g) institutional strengthening through
        technical assistance and training.

     Revised Components
        No project components were deleted or added during implementation. There were,
        however, several changes in the design of some project components as summarised
        below. There were also some changes made in the detailed scope of the institutional
        development and training to reflect changing circumstances. These changes were
        all discussed with the World Bank (WB) during supervision missions and the agreed
        revisions were recorded in the mission Aide Memoires.

     Fushun Wastewater
        To meet revised the requirements of the State Environmental Protection Agency
        (SEPA), the originally proposed primary treatment process for the Sanbaotun
        treatment plant was revised to include secondary treatment using a continuous
        sequential batch reactor (SBR) process and the proposed secondary treatment pilot
        plant was abandoned. During implementation, the proposed course of the
        interceptor was changed and extended by 1.3km to avoid the demolition of 188
        households and reduce resettlement costs.




                                            - 32 -

 Benxi Wastewater
    To meet revised SEPA requirements, the originally proposed primary treatment
    process for the Linjiawaizi treatment plant was revised to include secondary
    treatment using a continuous SBR process and the design capacity of the plant was
    reduced from 300,000 to 225,000 m3/d following a re-assessment of expected
    loads. It was found during implementation that the demolition of 29 households in
    Linjia street of Xihu district affecting 99 people was necessary.          The original
    resettlement plan was to move affected people into newly built houses north of the
    proposed wastewater treatment plant. But, in consideration of WB resettlement
    policy, it was decided to resettle all affected people in procured commercial housing
    in Caisheng street of Xihu district where there would be better amenities. This
    resulted in a slight increase in resettlement costs.

 Benxi Air Quality Management
    The originally proposed air quality improvement works in Benxi Iron and Steel
    Corporation (BENGANG) were substantially revised during implementation.              The
    sub-component for control of polluting wastewater discharges and energy recovery
    from the utilisation of gases from Blast Furnaces Nos 1 & 2 was cancelled in 1998
    when the company decided to replace these obsolete blast furnaces. Work on
    supply and installation of automatic charging car facilities with emission controls for
    Coke Oven No 2 was satisfactorily completed. However, the proposed works for
    Coke Oven Nos 1 & 4 were cancelled at the time of the mid-term review when
    BENGANG had decided to replace these ovens with new facilities which would meet
    the project objectives. To further improve air quality, BENGANG proposed a new
    sub-component to reduce dust from electric furnaces in 2002, and the WB financed
    equipment supply and installation contract is nearing completion. The WB financed
    investments are less than originally proposed but have nevertheless contributed to
    the comprehensive program of pollution reduction undertaken by BENGANG and
    the project objectives have been achieved by alternative means.

 Dalian Wastewater
    This component comprised works on the Chunliu and Malan systems. The proposed
    works of the Chunliu sub-component were all completed as planned but the capacity
    of the rehabilitated treatment works was increased from 60,000 to 80,000 m3/d by
    including improvements in the activated sludge treatment process. Similarly, the
    Malan sub-component was completed as planned but the originally proposed
    oxidation ditch treatment process at the new Malan treatment plant was replaced by
    a very new `biofilter' process. This revision substantially reduced the `footprint' of the
    treatment plant limiting the amount of land required and reducing the impact on the
    surrounding neighbourhood that has been redeveloped into a high quality living
    environment. It was found during implementation that the necessary resettlement
    action was greater than expected at appraisal, especially within the Malan
    sub-component where 17 businesses were relocated and 125 households
    comprising 387 persons were re-housed in 3 apartment blocks. This resulted in a
    significant increase in resettlement costs.

 Dalian Solid Waste
    This component originally comprised the procurement of 5 tonne capacity sealed
    collection vehicles, construction of a 1,500 t/d transfer station and the development



                                         - 33 -

    of the existing Maoyingzi landfill to provide a sanitary landfill capacity of about 2,550
    t/d. However, the availability of new and cheaper 8 tonne capacity self-compacting
    vehicles made direct haul to the landfill more economical and, in 1998, the scope of
    the component was revised. The transfer station was cancelled, WB funds were
    used only for the procurement of mechanical plant for the landfill and the Dalian
    municipality procured the new collection vehicles.

 Jincheng Paper Mill
    This component, to reduce water consumption and to protect the water supply
    system of Jinzhou, originally included large sub-components for red liquor extraction
    and evaporation and two smaller sub-components for white water recovery and
    fuelwood production. These last two small sub-components were deferred and will
    be addressed within the subsequent WB financed Liao River Basin Project.

 Environmental Rehabilitation and Construction
    Minor changes were made during implementation of the Niuheliang, Jiumenkou
    Great Wall and Jieshi Gong sub-components.             These were mainly revisions to
    procurement arrangements that were not fully developed at appraisal, including the
    use of the "Force account" procedure.

 Quality at Entry
    Project preparation at appraisal has been proved to have been largely satisfactory,
    although SAR cost estimates proved excessive, and the economic appraisal was
    incomplete, as admitted in the SAR itself. None of the revisions to components
    described above amounted to a restructuring of the project.           No changes were
    necessary to achieve WB policies or strategies although, as stated above, the
    addition of secondary treatment in Benxi and Fushun related directly to a
    Government policy change.


 ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVE AND OUTPUTS
 Outcome / Achievement of Objective
    The project has contributed significantly to protecting the water resources in
    Liaoning Province, including in the Hun - Taizi River Basin.            The wastewater
    components in Anshan, Dalian and Fushun are already functioning to capacity, thus
    reducing the pollution levels in the watercourses. Indeed the project has achieved
    greater pollution control than originally envisaged through the adoption of secondary
    treatment in Benxi and Fushun. Process modifications in the Jincheng Paper Mill
    have reduced pollution loads in the local water bodies.           The successful water
    conservation initiatives in Dalian, and the re-use of treated wastewater in Anshan
    and Dalian contribute to conserving Liaoning's scarce water resources. The Dalian
    solid waste component, despite its reduced scope, has contributed a sanitary landfill
    that is functioning satisfactorily. The management procedures implemented through
    the project have substantially increased the effective life of the landfill and improved
    the local environment. The Benxi air quality sub-component has contributed to the
    significant reduction in the level of air pollution in Benxi, once considered the most
    polluted urban area in China. The small cultural heritage management component
    has been successfully implemented, and Liaoning agencies fully appreciate that
    cultural heritage conservation is an important element of the broader concept of



                                         - 34 -

     environmental protection. Access to the sites has been improved as LPG undertook
     to do at Appraisal and the Provincial Museum has been relocated to new premises.

  Output by Components
  Anshan Wastewater (RMB293 million SAR; RMB190 million September 2003)
     Satisfactorily implemented as appraised between 1996 and 1999. Now producing
     up to 220,000 m3/d of treated effluent for reuse in the Anshan Iron and Steel
     Company complex.

  Fushun Wastewater (RMB311 million SAR; RMB412 million September 2003)
     Satisfactorily implemented between 1994 and 2002.         Now providing secondary
     treatment (an upgrade over the primary treatment agreed at appraisal) to SEPA
     requirements for an influent of 230,000 m3/d from a population of 643,000 within an
     area of 68 km2.

  Benxi Wastewater (RMB245 million SAR; RMB285 million September 2003)
     Construction of interceptors started in 1996 and the secondary treatment plant
     (upgraded to SEPA requirements from the primary treatment agreed at appraisal) is
     completed and will be fully commissioned shortly. It will treat a design influent of
     225,000 m3/d from a population of 750,000 within an area of 70 km2.

  Benxi District Heating (RMB160 million SAR; RMB104 million September 2003)
     Satisfactorily implemented as appraised between 1994 and 1998. Now providing
     about 1.1 million m2 of residential and public area heating supply in the Dongfen
     and Caitun districts of the city.

  Benxi Air Quality Management (RMB316 million SAR; RMB58 million September
2003)
     Significantly reduced in scope since appraisal; see section 1.4 (c) above.       The
     provision of automatic charging car facilities with emission controls for Coke Oven
     No 2 was satisfactorily completed between 1997 and 2000. A new sub-component
     for the supply and installation of equipment to reduce dust from electric furnaces is
     nearing completion.

  Dalian Solid Waste (RMB116 million SAR; RMB30 million September 2003)
     Significantly reduced in scope since appraisal; see section 1.4 (e) above.       The
     provision of mechanical plant for the landfill was satisfactorily completed in 2000 /
     2001.

  Dalian Wastewater (RMB387 million SAR; RMB348 million September 2003)
     Satisfactorily implemented between 1996 and 2002. The Chunliu sub-component
     now provides secondary treatment for an influent of 80,000 m3/d from a population
     of 250,000 within an area of 50 km2.         The compact and modern secondary
     treatment plant at Malan now treats an influent of 120,000 m3/d from a population of
     300,000 within an area of 48 km2.

  Dalian Water Conservation (RMB14 million SAR; RMB19 million September 2003)
     Satisfactorily implemented as appraised between 1997 and 1999.




                                         - 35 -

  Jinzhou Water Supply (RMB158 million SAR; RMB170 million September 2003)
     Satisfactorily implemented as appraised between 1993 and 2001. A population of
     670,000 now enjoys a continuous water supply with the additional 100,000 m3/d
     provided by the new treatment plant and system.

  Jincheng Paper Mill (RMB121 million SAR; RMB107 million September 2003)
     Satisfactorily implemented between 1998 and 2000. The red liquor treatment works
     have reduced the company's pollution discharge to the Daling River by about 70%
     and have produced up to 150,000 t/year of commercially valuable binder.

  Environmental Rehabilitation and Construction (RMB15 million SAR; RMB14 million
September 2003)
     Satisfactorily implemented between 1997 and 2003.

  Liaoning Environment Fund (RMB35 million SAR; RMB52 million September 2003)
     Since June 1996, the Fund has satisfactorily provided 32 sub-loans to support clean
     technology process changes providing considerable environmental improvements in
     air quality and wastewater discharges and some water conservation. The record of
     loan repayment to date is fully satisfactory.

  Institutional Development and Training (RMB64 million SAR; RMB52 million
September 2003)
     Satisfactorily implemented in three packages between 1994 and 2003.            This
     component is further discussed in paragraph 2.5 below.

  Net Present Value / Economic Rate of Return
     No NPVs were calculated at appraisal. The SAR estimates ERRs of 23% for the
     Anshan Wastewater component, 37% & 9% for two processes within the Jincheng
     Paper Mill component, 12% for the Jinzhou Water Supply component and 6% for the
     Blast Furnaces part of the Benxi Air Quality component that was cancelled.
     However these were not genuine ERR calculations and the Loan and Project
     Summary within the SAR (on page -iv-) records "Not applicable" under the
     Economic Rate of Return sub-heading. There is insufficient data for an ERR to be
     estimated for either the complete Project or individual components and in any event,
     given the approach taken to ERR derivation during project preparations, any such
     comparison would be largely meaningless.

  Financial Rate of Return
     The financial returns projected in the SAR have generally not been achieved.
     Notable exceptions to this being the Jinzhou water supply and the Jincheng paper
     mill components, both of which have met or exceeded most financial indicators and
     are considered fully sustainable from a financial perspective.

  Institutional Development Impact
     The project involved creating 6 new public utility entities, being wastewater
     enterprises in Anshan, Benxi, Dalian and Fushun, a District Heating Enterprise in
     Benxi, and a Municipal Solid Waste Enterprise in Dalian. With the exception of the
     Dalian Solid Waste Enterprise, these were all set up as envisaged. Subsequently
     the Anshan Wastewater Company has been taken over by the Angang Iron & Steel



                                         - 36 -

    Company, its sole customer for its treated wastewater, and the Benxi District Heating
    Company has been merged into the larger Benxi General Heating Company. Both
    of these institutional developments are considered to improve the prospects of
    sustainability for the components concerned.

    Institutional capacity building and training was provided in three TA packages being:
- Financial management services and training ("Package A")
- Technical management services and training ("Package B")
- Environmental management training and equipment ("Package C")

    The implementing agencies for these packages were Liaoning Finance Bureau,
    LUCRPO and Liaoning Environmental Protection Bureau (LEPB) respectively.
    Package C was specifically targeted at LEPB but the other two packages offered
    support to all implementing agencies.        Package A made computerised financial
    management systems available to the implementing agencies and gave training in
    computing, financial management and accounting, and business planning and
    performance assessment. However the effectiveness of this package was limited
    due to the Consultants being mobilised immediately upon loan effectiveness and
    before the new utilities were fully operational as enterprise companies. Package B,
    whilst designed as a broadly based technical support package, has focused primarily
    on procurement and construction management support to LUCRPO and local
    Project Management Offices with associated training.          This was necessary to
    facilitate the effective processing of bid documents and also as a result of
    implementation delays and changes in the physical scope of some components.
    The package has been helpful in ensuring procurement under the project has fully
    met Bank guidelines and has contributed to the satisfactory physical implementation
    of the project. The training and capacity building objectives of Package C were also
    achieved as intended with training being given in environmental planning, monitoring
    and control.

 Poverty Alleviation and Social Improvements
    Whilst the objectives of the Project were essentially environmental in nature there
    have been important social side benefits. Over 1,000 permanent jobs have been
    created in the newly formed public utility companies. The construction added many
    more temporary jobs during a difficult period for the local economy. Over 4 million
    people are now benefiting from the environmental improvements resulting from the
    project and the increase in sewerage system connections has had a particularly
    beneficial effect on poorer parts of the local communities. The improvements in river
    water quality downstream of the project cities will benefit poorer rural residents in
    terms of health and hygiene. Living conditions in Benxi, once the most polluted
    urban area in China have improved dramatically and must impact beneficially on
    future life expectancy in the city.       The increased water supply coverage and
    reliability in Jinzhou especially benefits poorer areas previously without reliable
    supplies.


 MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOME
 Factors Outside the Control of Government or Implementing Agency
    Parts of Liaoning Province were affected by severe flooding in the summer of 1996.



                                         - 37 -

        Construction of a downstream section of the Fushun municipal interceptor was
        halted due to this flooding on 26 July 1996 when the adjacent Hun River
        overwhelmed the site. The excavation for the interceptor was filled with water and
        mud and the estimated loss was about RMB3 million.

   Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
        The wastewater treatment process for the proposed plants at Fushun and Benxi was
        changed from primary to secondary during implementation of the project. The issue
        by SEPA, in 1997, of the Integrated Wastewater Discharge Standard (GB8978-96)
        initiated this change which substantially affected the completion date and final costs
        of the project.

        Procurement documents for all ICB contracts involving the importation of plant and
        equipment had to be approved by the State Mechanical & Electrical Import Review
        Office in Beijing.  This requirement resulted in considerable, and unpredictable,
        delays in project implementation.

   Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control
   Civil Works Disbursement Percentage
        The civil works disbursement percentage was reduced to 20% at appraisal and this
        became a significant disincentive to the implementing agencies.          This had the
        following impacts:-
   Counterpart funding was very high at 80% of expenditures;
   There was a tendency to split civil works contracts as appraised into works and goods
contracts to take advantage of the larger disbursement percentages available for materials
and equipment contracts;
   Some civil works contracts were delayed due to a shortage of counterpart funding in
the early years of the project; and
   Changes were made to the procurement arrangements agreed at appraisal when
implementing agencies subsequently decided to finance civil works with their own funds to
expedite delayed components, especially when State Bond funds became available.

   Low Bid Prices
        Where there were few changes between appraisal and bidding, it was found that
        lowest bid prices were about 60% of the SAR cost estimates. Final civil works
        contract costs, however, were frequently much higher due to variations and claims.

   Costs and Financing
   Costs
        A breakdown of project cost by component is provided in Annex 1 where final
        expected costs are contrasted with those provided at appraisal on page -iii- of the
        SAR. A breakdown by procurement arrangements is provided in Annex 2 where
        expected final arrangements are contrasted with those provided at appraisal in
        Table 3.3 of the SAR. Total project cost, including interest during construction, is
        currently estimated at RMB1,904 million which is about 62% of the estimated project
        cost at appraisal; US$350.8 million.      The project cost is significantly below the
        appraisal estimate for two main reasons:-
   it is considered that the appraisal estimate was over-stated, particularly with regard to
contingencies; and



                                            - 38 -

   the physical project as implemented incorporated a number of reductions in project
scope and also some increases; see section 1.4 above. This makes direct           comparisons
of actual with estimated costs less than straight-forward.

   Financing
       Annex 3 contrasts the expected final financing plan with that provided at appraisal in
       Table 3.2 of the SAR. This recognises the reduction in the project scope and the
       amount of loan cancellation in December 2002. The original and revised allocation
       of the Loan is tabulated below:-
                                                    Original Disbursement basis Revision

                            Category                US$ M                            US$ M
          1  Civil Works                                              20%               8.0
                                                       23.0
          2  Materials & Equipment                          100% foreign; 65% local    80.0
                                                       68.0
          3  Consultants' Services & Training                    100% foreign           6.3
                                                       11.0
          4  Industrial Pollution Control Sub Loans                   95%               6.0
                                                        4.0
          5  Unallocated                                                                0.9
                                                        4.0
                               Total                                                  101.2
                                                      110.0


       The necessary counterpart funds were provided through a mixture of additional local
       borrowing, provincial grants and the own resources of the implementing agencies
       and the final financing split is expected to be Loan 43% : Government 57%,
       compared to the appraisal split of Loan 31% : Government 69%.


   SUSTAINABILITY
   Rationale for Sustainability Rating
       In overall terms the project can be considered sustainable although there are, and
       will continue to be, some transitional issues and problems particularly in respect of
       local tariffs and in the collection of these user fees. Sustainability needs to be
       viewed in terms of (i) the ability of staff to operate and maintain the facilities, (ii) the
       institutional arrangements put in place, and (iii) adequate financing arrangements for
       financial sustainability.

       The Jinzhou Water Supply, Jincheng Paper Mill and Anshan Wastewater
       components can be considered fully sustainable in the institutional, operational and
       financial context.      The Fushun, Benxi and Dalian wastewater components are
       sustainable in the institutional and operational context but are not currently
       financially sustainable, if reliant solely on users fees for their financing. The issues
       in these cases are both the level of tariff and the effectiveness of income collection
       arrangements. The effectiveness of income collection is the key issue for the Benxi
       District heating component.       The economic strength of BENGANG is not as strong
       as had been hoped for at the time of project appraisal and the finances of this
       company determine the sustainability of that component from the financial



                                              - 39 -

    perspective. The scaled down investment and restricted scope of the Dalian solid
    waste component suggests this is not material to overall project sustainability.

    In order to promote, and ultimately achieve, financial sustainability in the wastewater
    companies the Liaoning Provincial Government has pressed local municipal
    governments to introduce residential wastewater tariffs and for these and other tariff
    categories to be progressively increased.          All the project cities have introduced
    residential tariffs and there have been several increases during project
    implementation. LPG is continuing to press for higher tariffs to be implemented and
    revised guidelines with increased tariff levels are expected to be issued shortly.
    However, municipal governments, where responsibility for tariff setting rests, have
    been reluctant to implement the LPG guidance in full on grounds of perceived
    affordability and unpopularity of such increases. Public awareness of wastewater
    services and the cost of these services is also a factor as these charges are new in
    China and will take time to be accepted by local politicians and the public alike. At
    the time of writing this report further tariff increases are under active consideration in
    all of the LEP project cities.

    Customer acceptance and the enforceability of wastewater charges are the main
    factors influencing income collection levels. Particular problems exist in relation to
    collections from industries using their own supplies of groundwater. Regulations and
    penalties are generally inadequate to enforce the charges. This is a national, and
    not just a provincial or project problem, and is recognised as such by national
    Government.      The problem is being actively worked on at a national level and
    national level guidance and model regulations can be anticipated in the relatively
    near future. It is not sensible or feasible for local governments to act in advance of
    this national guidance. However, recognition of the problem, and the fact it is being
    attended to at national level, suggests the problem is a transitional one.          Thus
    sustainability in the medium to longer term is reasonably well assured.

 Transition Arrangements to Regular Operation
    All the main components have been successfully commissioned and are operating
    effectively.  Some initial operational problems at Fushun Wastewater Treatment
    Plant and the Dalian solid waste landfill, as identified during earlier Bank supervisory
    missions, have been resolved.         Bank funded technical assistance and training
    support has proved valuable in making the successful transition to regular operation.


 BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE
 Bank
    The WB's performance during the identification, preparation and appraisal phases of
    the project is considered to be highly satisfactory and the diligence of WB staff was
    much appreciated by all the implementing agencies. The Provincial Finance Bureau
    particularly appreciated that, during the lending phase, all procurement was
    subjected to prior review despite the stated prior review limits specified in the legal
    agreements. This obviously added to the WB's workload and did occasionally lead
    to bidding delays. Implementation of the project was much assisted by the WB's
    flexible and supportive role during supervision.




                                         - 40 -

   Borrower
       The national and provincial government's commitment to the project remained strong
       and supportive during all phases of the project.              Participating municipalities
       experienced problems during implementation that differed in nature and magnitude.
       Initial problems of project 'buy in' on the part of Dalian had to be overcome, delaying
       the implementation of subsidiary loans agreements. Benxi and Fushun experienced
       counterpart funding difficulties which they worked hard to resolve and, in the end,
       did so successfully. Raising wastewater tariffs to covenanted levels remains an
       issue of non-performance in Dalian, Benxi and Fushun. All municipalities performed
       well in their project management of the construction work.


   LESSONS LEARNED
       The LEP implementation has been a valuable experience for all the agencies
       involved. Lessons have been learned in respect of physical implementation and in
       the process of institutional and financial reform undertaken to facilitate project
       sustainability. Only some of the main points can be documented here:

- Significant capacity building in Bank procurement, contract and project management and,
  to a lesser extent, financial management have been achieved.
- The Liaoning Environment Fund has been made effective, despite design changes in its
  financing and mode of operation proving necessary. It now operates successfully.
- Project physical and financial contingencies at Appraisal were excessive, resulting in
  large scale loan savings. Levels of contingencies should be reviewed for future projects
  as a similar situation is emerging in relation to the Liao River Basin Project.
- The timing of capacity building assistance needs to take account of the readiness and
  capability of the targeted recipients to absorb and utilise new skills and technology. In
  the case of LEP, the financial management capacity building effort took place
  prematurely.
- Some covenanted requirements were unduly optimistic relative to what could be
  achieved in the timescale set in the loan documents. This particularly applied to
  re-building the financial strength of industrial enterprises, the timescale for introduction of
  residential wastewater tariffs and the achievement full cost recovery from tariffs.
- The civil works disbursement percentage of 20% was too low and became a significant
  disincentive to the implementing agencies leading to delays in implementation.




                                             - 41 -

Additional Annex 9.




                       - 42 -

- 43 -

