.
Do=mt of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Reort No. 12708-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
LIAONING ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
JUJLY 7, 1994
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:         12708 CHA
Type: SAP
Environment and Urban Development Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This documeut has a restricted distribution and may be used bv rcipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents mas not otherwise be disdosed witut World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of January 1, 1994)
Currency     = Renminbi
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
Y 1.00       =  lOOfen
y 1.00       = $0.11
$1.00        =  Y 8.7
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
WEIGIHS AND MEASURES
I mill .:cter (mm) = 0.0394 inch (in)
I centimeter (cm) = 0.3937 inch (in)
I meter (m) = 3.2808 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km) = 0.6214 mile (mi)
I square meter (m2) = 10.- 539 square feet (at)
I square kilometer (knii) = 0.3861 square mile (mi)
I cubic meter (m') = 35.3147 cubic feet (ft')
cubic meter (m') or ton of water = 284 US gallons
I h3ctare (ha) = 2.4711 acres (ac)
1 liter (1) = 0.2642 US gallon (gal)
liter per cap.ta per day (1/c/d) = 0.2642 US gallon per capita-day
cubic meter p!r second (m'lsec) = 35.3145  l'lsec
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS ANr ACRONYM USED
AIDAB    - Australian International Development Assistance Bureau
ANGANG  - Anshan kan and Steel Company
AWC       - Anshan Wastewater Company
BENGANG - Benxi Iron and Stee Company
BEPB      -Benxi Environmental Protection Bureau
BGC       - Benxi Gas Company
BDHC      - Benxi District Heating Company
BMG       - Benxi Municipal Government
BWC        - Benxi Wastewater Company
CZIB      - China Ivestment Bank
CMC       - China Machinery Corporation
DC         - Direct Contracting
DSWC       - Dalian Solid Waste Company
DWC        - Dalian Wastewater Company
EA        - Environmental Assessment
EPB        - Environmental Protection Bureau
ERR       - Economic Rate of Return
FEPB       - Fushun Environmental Protection Bureau
FMG       - Fushun Municipal Government
FWC       - Fushun Wastewater Company
ICa       - International Competitive Bidding
ICC        - Industrial Commercial Company
JGF        - Japan Grant Facility
JGPM       - lincheng Genral Paper Mill
JWSC       - Jinzhou Water Supply Company
LCB        - Local Competitive Bidding
LEF       - Liaoning Environment Fund
LEP        - Laoning Environment Project
LEPB       - Liaoning Environmental Protection Bureau
LFB        - Liaoning Finance Bureau
LP        -Liaoning Province
LPCRD    -Uaoning Provincial Culural Heritage Department
LPG        - Liaoning Provincial Government
LUCRPO   - Liaoning Urban Construction and Renewal Project Office
MFMD    - Municipal Facilities Management Division
NEPA       - National Environmental Protection Agency
QA         - Quality Assurance
SAA       - State Audit Administration
SEPC       - State Environmental Protecon Commission
SMMEEC  - Shenyang Machinety and Electric Equipment Tendering Company
SOE        - Statement of Expenditure
UCB        - Urban Construction Bureau
UNDP       - United Nations Development Programme



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LIAONNG ENVONMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:         People's Republic of China
Bieneficiaries:   1Liaoning Province (LP) and the Municipalities of Anshan, Bertxi,
Dalian, Fushun, Jinxi and Jinzhou.
Arovnt:            $110 million equivalent
Terms             20 years including 5 years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.
Onlending Terms:  From the Government of China to LP for 15 years including
5 years of grace at 70 percent of the Bank's standard variable
interest rate, and a commitment charge of 0.75 percent. The
foreign exchange risk would be borne by LP. From LP to the
Municipalities: on the same terms and a commitment charge of
0.75 percent. From the Municipalities to implementing public
utilities: 15 years, including 5 years of grace, at a rate equal to the
Bank's standard variable interest rate and a commitment charge of
0.75 percent, the utilities bearing the foreign exchange risk.
From  the Municipalities to iadustrial enterprises:  10 years
including 3 years of grace at a rate equal to the Bank's standard
variable interest rate plus a spread of 1.5 percent per annum and a
commitment charge of 0.75 percent, the enterprises bearing the
foreign exchange risk.
From LP to the Liaoning Environment Fund (LEF): 15 years
including 5 years of grace at the Bank's standard variable interest
rate and a commitment charge of 0.75 percent, LEF bearing the
foreign exchange risk.
From LEF for eligible pollution control subprojects: from three to
five years, including one to two years of grace, at a rate equal to
the Bank's standard variable interest rate plus a spread of 1.5
percent per annum on foreign currency subloans and a commitment
charge of 0.75 percent, the enterprises bearing the foreign exchange
risk.
Tis document has a restried distibon and may be us w  reipin   ol in the p 
oicial duties Its contents m  not othise be disld  ith  Wor Ban uotLon.



Project Description: The project would support a sustainable environmental setting for
the long-term economic and social development of the Province,
through the provision of urban infrastructure, services and
management improvements. The project would assist in financing
an investment program addressing: (a) deficiencies in wastewater
treatment in Anshan, Benxi, Dalian and Fushun; (b) improvements
in solid waste collection and disposal and water conservation
management in Dalian; (c) air pollution mitigation measures in
enterprises, including improvements in district heating, in Benxi;
(d) the shortages and poor quality of water supply in Jinzhou and
the pollution load emanating from the Jincheng General Paper Mill
in Jmzhou; (e) environmental rehabilitation and reconstruction of
the Liaoning Provincial Museum in Shenyang, and of historic sites
in Niuheliang, Jieshi and Jiumenkou. The project would include an
environmental protection fund to assist in funding eligible pollution
control subprojects of industrial enterprises, and enhance
institutional development through technical assistance and training.
3Beneft:          The proposed project would significantly mitigate environmental
degradation and result in both economic and social benefits for
Liaoning Province, an area of serious and concentrated water and
air pollution, largely of industrial origin. Project components have
been designed to achieve both pollution reduction and improvements
in operational efficiency through technological upgrading, waste
minimization and reuse. Water pollution control at industrial sites
would translate into reduced costs for water treatment and urban
water supply. Health benefits would accrue from the reduction of
waterborne diseases while reduced emissions of toxic gases into the
atmosphere would decrease respiratory ailments and cancer and
reduce corrosive damage to buildings. The project would also
improve operational efficiency in solid waste collection and
disposal. Finally, the project would contribute to the sustainability
of environmental management in the Province through the
demonstration of cost-effective pollution control measures,
strengthening of local capabilities in the monitoring and
enforcement of environmental regulations, corporatization of the
sewerage utilities and the establishment of a sound cost recovery
policy for these pollution abatement services.
Risks:             Project risks include insufficient commitment of the Liaoning
Provincial Government (LPG) and the participating municipal
governments to pursue the pricing policy reforms and institutional
changes required, and to provide the necessary counterpart funds
for implementing the project. Project design has been structred to
minimize these risks. Measures include technical assistance to meet
economic and financial objectives, and assurances from LPG for the
timely provision of counterpart funds.



-Iii-
Estimated Costs:/a                                Lca1   EQFvien  IT
--    ($ million)
Jinzhou                                            9.4       8.7   18.1
Water Cnservation
Dalian                                             0.9       0.7    1.6
Wastewater Treatment
Anshan                                            12.5      21.2   33.7
Benxi                                             13.4      14.7   28.1
Dalian                                            21.4      23.1   44.5
Fushun                                            16.8      18.9   35.7
J'ihou (rmcheng Paper Mill)                        4.0       9.9   13.9
Solid W3Vgemfln
Dalian                                             3.9       9.4   13.3
=QOalir 1MaamQnr
Benim                                             12.0      24.3   36.3
District Centrai Heating
Benxi                                              8.3      10.1   18.4
Environment Eund                                    0.8       3.2    4.0
En!ronmental Rehabihtation &Reconstrction           1.0       0.7    1.7
IstistiituoalW Development & Training               1.5       5.9    7.4
Total Base Cos lb                             .I=L              a U
Physical Contingencies                             14.4      20.6   35.0
Price Contingencies                                38.8       7.6   46.4
Total Pro3ect Cot                                =}      ,
Interest during construction Lc                     0.0       12.7   12.7
Total Financing Reuired                                  12L7 .   2J
Financing Plan:
Liaoning Prov. Govemment, Municipal Governments,
and Enterprises                                  159.1      81.7  240.8
IBRD                                                0.0      110.0  110.0
TS                              J2&}    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~12LI.
La Project-financed goods are exempt from import duties and taxes.
Lb Includes cost of lanei ($9.7 million equivalent).
& Interest during construction (IDC) is based on onlending rates for projected
disbursements of loan proceeds, and payment of commitment charges.



- iv -
_eDisur              :
Bank                     122Y  t996   1997   I!2   1222   20         2Q01
---($  millior)
Annual                     11.9   19.8   27.5   24.5   19.2    6.1    1.0
Cumulative                 11.9   31.7   59.2   83.7  102.9  109.0  110.0
Poverty Category:  Not applicable
Economic Rate of
Retu:            Not applicable
Maps:             IBRD No. 25608
TBRD No. 25609
EBRD No. 25610



. v -
CONTENTS
1   IThe Environena  Sector           ............................           1
A.  Environmental Conditions in China ........ ..1.......... 
B.   InstitutionalFramework ...... .......... .                          2
C.  Environment Sector Issues and Problems ............ .                3
D. GovernmentStrategy . .                                                4
E. Bank Group Operations in theSector        .        .5 
F.   Bank Group Role and Sector Lending Strategy ........... .           6
2 ProJect Background ...................                                     8
A.  Project Bacl ground  .............................                   8
B.   Project Area .................;                                     9
C.  Existing Environmental Situation .....................               9
D.  Project Formulation ...... .......................                  11
3   TheProposed Project ...............................                     13
A.  Project Objectives ..............................                   13
B.  Project Description ..............................                  13
C.  Project Cost Estimates ............................                 16
D.  Financing Plan ................................                     18
E.   Procurement ..................................                     19
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited China in November
1993. Project team members included Messrs./Mmes. Geoffrey Read (Senior Sanitary
Engineer and Task Manager), Roger Heath (Steel Industry Specialist), Linda Mih (Program
Assistant), June Taboroff (Cultural Heritage Specialist), Lee Travers (Economist), Saul
Arlosoroff (Water Conservation Consultant), Christopher Bros (Cost Consultant), Anders
Essen (Water Conservation Advisor), Terry Hall (Sanitary Engineering Consultant), Patrick
McCarthy (Financial Consultant), Maurice Meunier (Steel Industry Economist, Consultant),
Tore Semb (Solid Waste Consultant), George Taylor (Environmental Engineering
Consultant), and Zhang Zhun (Institutional Consultant). Assistance was also provided by
Miss Chen Tianshu (Interpreter). Peer reviewers for the project were Messrs./Mmes. Jack
Fritz (ASTEN); Bernardo Gomez (EClIV); George Plant (EA2EU); and Selina Shum
(EC3IV). The Division Chief is Ms. Katherine Sierra and the Department Director is Mr.
Nicholas C. Hope.



vi -
F.  Disbursement   .................................                 21
G.  Lard Acquisition and Resettlement      ....................      22
H.  Envirnmental Impact Assessment         ....................      23
I.   Project Monitoring, Reporting and Supervision  .... ........    24
4   Project  nagementad mplementation ...................                26
A.  Proect Management .............................                  26
B.  Implementation Responsibilities ........... ...........          27
C.  Status of Engineering ...........      .................         30
5 Fnance  ..31
A. Financial Management    ..31
B. Accounting   ..31
C. Audits   ..32
D. Provincial Finance.                                               32
E. Municipal Finance    ..33
F. Public Utilities    ..33
G. Enterprises   ..39
H. Environmental Rehabilitation    ..41
6   Economie, Social and Environmental Considerations ....    .......    42
A.  Project Justification  .............................             42
B. Ptoject Benefits                     ..                           42
C.  Economic Analysis .      .........................               44
D.  Environmental Impact .........................                   47
E.  Affordability ........ .........................    48
F.   Risks     .............              .............              48
7 Agreements Reached and Recomendation .50
ANNE=F
1.  Organization of Environment Protecdon in Chin a .55
2. Background to Liaoning Province and Project Cities .56
3. Detail Project Description .66
4. Detaled Project Cost Estimates .87
5. Schedule of Contract Packages .101
6. Schedule of Disbursements .105
7. Land Acquisition and Resettlement Plan .106
8. E iironmental Assessment Summary .112
9. Project Implementation Schedule .131
10. OrganizationofLiaoningProvince       ..............   132



- vii -
11. Liaoning Environment Fund (LEF)               ........................            134
1 M. Municipal Finances  .................................                            143
13. FinancialAnalysis Assumptions                ..........................           146
14. Project Justification and Economic Analysis  ...... ..            ..........      156
15. Proposed Supervision Plan .............................                           183
16. Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File .... .....              184
TABLES IN TElx
3.1 Summary Cost Estimates ..............................                              17
3.2 Financing Plan  ....................................                               18
3.3 PrcurementArangements  ..............                      ..............          20
4.1 ImplementingAgencies                              ..                               27
5.1 Wastewater, Heating and Solid Waste Tariffs  ..................                    34
5.2 Key Water Supply Financial and Operating Indicators ....             ........      35
5.3 Key Wastewater Financial and Operating Indicators  .............                   36
5.4 Key Distnct Heating Financial and Operating Indicators ....           .......      37
5.5 Key Solid Vaste Financial and Operating Indicators  ....            .........      38
5.6 Key Financial and Operating Indicators-BENGANG   ....                ........      40
5.7 Key Financa and Operating Indicators-JGPM  ................                        41
6.1 Project BenefitSummary ...............................                             43
Maps: IBRD 25608
IBRD 25609
IBRD 25610



1.               ONMENAL SECTOR 1
A. ENVRowP4wTAL CONDmTIONS IN CEINA
1.1        Chinese cities have been undergoing remarkable growth and transformation
since the early 1980s, reflecting trends in the economy at large. After two decades of
stagnation, urban population and incomes have been incraing along with industrial
production. The urban population has grown by about 5 percent a year during the 1980s,
and now represents about 30 percent of the total poulation of China. However, the
growing urban population and industrialization are causing widespread pollution in China,
and envimnmental problems have become 4 central issue in Chinese cities. Water
pollution poses the most severe problem and directly affects human health. Many
importnt water resources, which are already scarce in most regions, have been seriously
threatened. Further, few countries are as dependent on coal as China, with annual
consumption of about 1 billion tons. The combustion of bituminous coal is causing serious
atmospheric pollution from airorne particulate and sulfur dioxide emissions in many
industrial areas. Moreover, growing toxic/hazardous wastes are not effectively controlled
and are emerging as a major environmental problem. In the absence of adequate
environmental management progrms, increasingly adverse environmental degradation has
had serious rAmifications, including health hazards and undermining of sustainable
development in the longer run.
1.2        The Chinese authorities are aware of the need to address environmental
problems and recent official policy calls for economic development to proceed in tandem
withi envronmental protectior. The Government's good intentions notwithshtnding, there
remains considerable scope for improvements in integrating environmental management
effectively into macroeconomic policies and economic development plans. In this
connection, there are ample opportunities for economic and enterprise reforms as well as
sound investments that meet both environmental and economic objectives, as exemplifed
by the proposed project. However, there are also inporthnt instances in which economic
and environmental objectives conflict to some extent. In particular, increased energy and
raw mateial production are both a corollary of economic growth and a major cause of
pollution. Further, some of the priority cleanup programs are, by nature, financially
unproductive. As a result, environmental protection objectdves are often compromised by
the scarcity of natural and financial resources. Thus, the Chinese authonties are ficed
with the challenge of formulating a coherent development strategy that would strike an
I/  For a detailed discunion, plem seo 'Chi: EnvironmtW Strateg Pper  ot No. 9669-CH,
Apri 1992).



- 2 -
appropriate balance between the two often-conflicting objectives of economic development
and environmental protection.
B. lISTUTnmONAL FRAMEWORK
1.3        Environmental   gement Arrangements. The institutional framework
for environmental management in China provides a solid foundation for designing
approaches for dealing with environmental and ecological problems.  The State
Environmental Protection Commission (SEPC), under the State Council, includes the heads
of aU relevant ministries and agencies and is at the apex of decision-making on
environmental policy in China. SEPC provides policy direction and resolves interagency
differences, but meets only quarterly so relies heavily on its secretariat, the National
Environmental Protection Agency (NEPA), for day-to-day environmental pcicy
development and implementation. NEPA, which was established in 1979, shares authority
with other agencies for specific natural resotxces. NEPA hlaises with the environmental
protecdon units witiin most of the ministries and state entexprises, and sets the overall
policies and regulatons governing provincial and municipal environmental protecti,n
bureus (EPBs). Annex 1 presents the institutional framework for environmental
potection in China.
1.4        Enviromental Policies.  Most environmental protecdon polcies are
implnemented at the subnational level. Provinces are responsible for implementing national
policies and are authorzed to act in the absence of preemptive national standards; where
warranted by local conditions, they may also impose more stringent standards than those
required by the national government. In all provinces and municipalities and in most
counties around the country, EPBs have been established under local environmental
commissions headed by a deputy governor or deputy mayor. The municipal, urban distict
and county EPBs are the basic units responsible for ensurng compliance with
environmental regulations and standards within their respective jurisdictions. They also
collect pollution charges from enterpnses, except those owned by the Provincial or Central
Govements, from which the pollution charges are collected and used by the provincial-
level EPBs.
1.5        Several Central Government ministries are concerned with water quality and
water pollution control, amid they support NEPA in carrying out its environmental
protection work. As an example, the Nfinistry of Water Conservancy is responsible for
determining policies on the allocation and management of surface water resources in the
country. Its policies are implemented through river basin commissions, provincial water
conservancy departments and water conservancy bureaus at various local government
levels. The Ministry of Geology and Minerals and the corresponding local government
departments and bureaus are responsible fe. allocation and management of groundwater.
The Ministry of Construction is responsible for urban and regional planning, and
infrastructure development planning at the national level. It provides guidance to the
provinces on land use planning and infrastructure development, including urban water
supply and sewerage. The Ministry of Public Health is responsible for providing guidance
to local public health bureaus on drining water quality regulations.



-3 -
C. ENVmoNEwr SECOR ISSuEs AND PROLEMs
1.6        Issues In Environmental Management. China subscribes to the 'polluter-
paysu principle of environmental management. As is common in other countries, a
combination of administrative sanctions and economic incentives is used to induce desired
behavior. However, China has consistently underpriced water supplies and wastewater
treatment. Evidence of that comes from analysis of water and wastewater company
finances and from studies, including those in Liaoning Province, that have shown industrial
wastewater streans to be highly dilute compared to those from similar industries elsewhere
in the world. Underpricing leads not only to excess demand and needlessly large water
and wastewater streams, but also to reduced removal efficiencies experienced when treating
dilute wastewaters. LPG has now recognized these problems and vigorously supports
municipal efforts to raise water supply and wastewater user fees to better reflect economic
costs.
1.7         The national govemment has moved aggressively to ensure that new projects
meet pollution control standards. Specific compliance measures include environmental
impact assessments (EAs) and the requirement that project designs include measures to
mitigate identified impacts, and incorporate either produiction processes or end-of-pipe
treatment that holds emissions within standards. The latter requirement does not provide
direct incentives for enterprises to choose process modification or product design solutions
over end-of-pipe treatment to minimize pollution, and the former approaches often remain
unexploited. A weakness of the current EA system is the lack of a requirement to present
and analyze altenatives to the proposed project. This leaves open the possibility that
superior locations or processes have been overlooked at the design stage.
1.8         Existing enterprises are required to meet the same discharge standards as
new enterprises; however, an altemative to discharge reduction has been the option of
temporarily paying a fee for overstandard discharges. Because the present fee is set
considerably below the marginal cost of tffluent treatment for the bulk of affected
enterpnses, those enterprises would often pay the fee rather than invest in treatment
facilities or cleaner production technologies. Even if technological upgrading has been
identified as the preferred solution, credit constraints may impede implementation. Indeed,
for exisdng polluters, credi* constraints and lack of access to low-waste technologies have
been identified as major hindrances to accelerating the pace of pollution abatement.
1.9         The fee payments for overstandard discharges are the major source of funds
for the environmental protection system. Local EPBs retain approximately 20 percent of
the levy to cover operating costs and make the remaining funds available to polluting
enterprises to finance abatement. These funds are either granted or made available on
concessional loan terms, and the demand for them far exceeds the amounts avaiale at
current levels of fee charging and collection.
1.10        The Government recognizes the need to emphasize clean technologies in
preference to end-of-pipe treatment for pollution abatement. They also recognize that
enhanced formulation, monitoring and enforcement of the pollution levy system would



- 4 -
provide important economic incentives for abatement. In the latter connection, NEPA is
undeaking a review of the levy system, assisted by international consultants funded by
the Bank-supported Environmental Technical Assistance Project (Credit 2522-CHA).
1.11       Design Parameters for Future Policy and Investment lIitiatives. Much
needs to be done to improve the environment, but financing constraints would probably
impede pollution control for at least a decade. Therefore, the real issues are: (a) how to
increase mobilization of resources for the sector; (b) how to utilize the scarce resources
efficiently and effectively to address priority problems; and (c) how to improve
(i) environmental policy, (ii) the economic system and (iii) the government bureaucracy
to maximize pollution prevention and exert greater control.
D. GOVERNMENT STRATEGY
1.12       In recent years, the Central Government and local authorities have taken
greater initiatives to improve the environment.  Since 1979, China has enacted a
comprehensive set of environmental laws, regulations and standards. The framework
established through the Environmental Protection Act of 1979 and subsequent regulations
provides for environmental quality standards for different types of areas, pollution
discharge standards and levies for effluent exceeding the standards, and environmental
impact assessments and permits for most investment projects. Water and air pollution
control regulations were introduced in China in 1979 and 1988, respectively; the Chinese
standards for water and air quality are contained in the Project File. Solid waste
legislation is still in the draft stage, while legislation pertaining to industrial and hazardous
waste management is incomplete and too recent to be effectively enforced.
1.13       The Chinese Environmental Protection Law and ancillary regulations
emphasize "prevention first" (including requirements for environmental assessments-EAs
on new projects) and "polluter pays principle" (including fees, fines and compensation
payments). With a view to achieving its environmental goals, the country has adopted an
eclectic assortment of command-and-control and incentive methods. Command-and-control
approaches include EAs; integration of environmental protection measures at project
design, construction and operational stages (the "three simultaneous actions" system);
relocation of industry away from densely populated urban areas; requirements for low-
polluting technologies in selected industries; centralized treatment of wastes; vehicle
inspection programs; and a system of responsibility contracts (with both voluntary and
binding agreements with industrial enterprises and municipalities to achieve environmental
targets). Economic incentive approaches include a pollution levy system (the principal
method); taxes on polluting inputs; and tax incentives. In addition, a system of standards
and permits is the basis for the pollution monitoring and control program.
1.14       Recent urban growth and industrialition are a direct reflection of the
econonic and institutional reforms being pursued by China. Recognizing environmental
improvement as an essential part of economic development, the Government has
established decentralized institutional and financial frameworks and sanctioned large
investments in the sector. While public revenues consist predominantly of general tax



- 5 -
revenues shared between the cental and local govemments, the Government recently
introduced several new taxes and charges that local govemments can fully use for
environmental investment and operations, and has also been encouraging increases in user
charges and other means of financing environmentally-conscious urban services.
1.15       Under the current decentralized system, the Central Government limits its
role largely to guidance and interregional coordination, giving local governments great
latitude to manage local affairs.  Subject to tax-sharing arrangements and annual
consultation, the local governments are largely free to allocate resources according to their
priorities. NEPA and the Ministry of Construction provide policy and technical guidance
for local governments on infrastructure and environmental issues and sanction major
investment projects. Even on technical and regulatory matters, the central agencies no
longer set ngid norms but allow local agencies to adapt guidelines and standards to local
circumstances. The Central Government, in fact, encourages thiem to take initiatives and
experiment with new technical and managerial solutions, not only to allow local adaptation
of national guidelines but also to find 'best practices through diverse experimentation and
disseminate them in other parts of the country. The reforms and experiments promoted
include increases in public service tariffs, and loan financing for pollution reduction
investments.  Various innovations and large-scale investments for environmental
improvement have been pursued most actively in coastal areas, consistent with the Central
Government's development strategy that identifies these areas as the forefront of economic
growth and interaction with the rest of the world.
E. BANK GROUP OPERATIoNS iN T   SEOR
1.16       The Beijing Environmental Project (Credit 2312-C/Loan 3415-CHA) and
the Ship Waste Disposal Project (Credit 2391-CHA/Global Environmental Facility, Grant
No. TF28613) were the first two free-standing environmental operations in China. The
Bank Group is currently mvolved in eight projects in the water supply/sanitation sectors
in China that also bear on pollution control. These projects, which are now being
implemented satisfactorily, are the: (a) Shanghai Sewerage Project (Credit 1779-CHA/
Loan 2794-CHA); (b) Medium-sized Cities Development Project (Credit 2201-H/Loan
3286-CHA); (c) Liaoning Urban Infastruct   Project (Credit 2219-CHA); (d) Tianjin
Urban Development and Environment Project (Credit 2387-CHA); (e) Changchun Water
Supply and Environmental Project (Credit 2457-CHA); (f) Rural Water Supply and
Sanitation Project (Credit 2336-CHA); (g) Southern liangsu Environmental Protection
Project (Loan 3582-CHA); and (h) the Zhejiang Multicities Development Project (Credit
2475-CHA). Despite the complexity of these ongoing projects, and the initial unfmiliart
of project officials with some Bank Group procedures, implementation has proceeded
satisfactorily; the recently-approved Environmental Technical Assistance Project (Credit
2522-CHA) would assist in strengthening central environmental management capacity. The
Shanghai Environment Project, which would support environmental protection intiatives
by the Shanghai Municipality, was approved by the Board in March 1994; other similar
projects are currently under preparation in Hubei and Zhejiang Provinces and under
discussion in Yunnan Province, as is a follow-up sewerage project in Shanghai. Our
ongoing dialogue in this sector is expected to remain productive and open.



-6-
1.17       Ihe ongoing Liaonini, Urban Infrastructure Project is being implemented
successfully. Tbough behind schedule, the project infrastructure investment is being
satisfactorily managed and constructed.   Although delays were experienced in
implementing project financial improvements, including increases in water tariffs, however,
these difficulties have now been largely resolved and the Liaoning Provincial Government
(LPG) has demonstrated commitment to active financial improvements.
1.18       The common elements of good practices learned under the above-mentioned
projects include: (a) commitment of the concerned municipal authorities to implement the
projects; (b) strong project management offices, with adequate staff to provide the requisite.
coordination among multiple agencies; (c) thorough project preparation based on detailed
feasibility studies prepared by competent agencies and consultants; and (d) well-prepared
bidding documenits and technical specifications. On the negative side, the Bank has noted
a tendency for China and its local governments to postpone the implementation of effective
cost recovery policies, and for the need to adopt long-tern plans for the provision of
essential urban environment services. The proposed project would address these issues.
F. BANK GROP ROLE MD SECTOR LENDIG STRATWY
1.19       The Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy, presented to the Board in
August 1993, highlighted the need to support economic reform while assisting
infrastructure modernization in an environmentally responsive manner. The Environmental
Stra   Paper (Report 9669-CHA, April 1992) concluded that Bank environmental
assistance to China should focus on long-term protection and resource conservafion
programs, strengthening sector management and supporting financially efficient least-cost
environmental investments. It found that most environmental and pollution problems are
best aodressed at the municipal and regional level because individual sources of
environmental degradation and, therefore, appropriate solutions, would vary. These levels
of government correspond to the principal centers of economic investment decisions and
the focal points of China's environmental policies and institutions. Thus, it is at the
municipal and regional levels that the Barnk's comparative advantage can be used most
effectively. As industry is by far the main source of pollution in the country, the Chinese
authorities have accorded the highest priority to environmental protection in targeted
industrialized cities and regions, including in the major cities of Liaoning Province (LP),
where the proposed project is located.
1.20       Environment-related sector work carried out by the Bank has included:
(a) an urban sector survey in Liaoning Province in 1985, in cooperation with the United
Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the Australian International Development
Assistance Bureau (AIDAB); (b) an urban sector study in Zhejiang Province (Report No.
6612-CHA), August 3, 1987; (c) a study of the efficiency and environmental impact of
coal use in China (Report No. 8915-CHA), March 20, 1991; and (d) the Environmental
Strategy Paper for China (Report No. 9669-CHA), April 1992. That paper identified
major environmental issues and their underlying causes, assessed China's policies and
institutional capabilities for addressing them, recommended areas for improvement, and
proposed a multiyear program of environmental assistance. The latter included a series



- 7 -
of environmental operations, including the proposed project. Work is almost complete,
with Norwegian Government assistance and in collaboration with the central and the Hubei
and Yunnan provincial authorities, on an urban environmental services sector study, which
would strengthen our sectoral understanding and underpin future lending.
1.21       In addition, various environmental studies are in progress: (a) three studies
under the Global Environmental Facility related to (i) the reduction of greenhouse gas
emissions; (ii) loss of biodiversity in China; and (iii) ozone-depleting substances; (b) five
national studies under the Japanese Government-financed technical assistance program to
NEPA, covering (i) the environmental impact assessment process; (ii) waste minimization
and pollution control in rural industries; (iii) hazardous/toxic waste management;
(iv) economic/financial mechanisms for environmental management (para. 1.9); and
(v) environmental information management systems; and (c) a major Japanese Government-
assisted, World Bank-managed study of environmental issues in the Hangzhou Bay and
adjacent Zhoushan fishing grounds is being undertaken jointly by Zhejiang and Shanghai,
supported by international and local consultants, in coordination with NEPA. In addition,
under the Metropolitan Environmental Improvement Program financed by UNDP and the
World Bank, Beijing Municipality regularly exchanges information on environmental
management and technology with four other Asian member cities.
1.22       Bank participation in the environment sector in China would continue to
focus on: (a) developing appropriate strategies for improving and maintaining the quality
of the environment (these would seek to optimize total benefits, including those from
opportunities to improve the efficiency of industrial production and the use of natuial
resources); (b) prioritizing the measures needed for environmental improvement,
identification and preparation of plans for the most cost-effective investments; (c) financing
high priority investments that would produce environmental benefits in the short term; (d)
strengthening the institutions responsible for enforcing environmental protection
regulations, as well as those that operate community systems for environmental pollution
abatement; and (e) promoting sound financial and cost recovery policies to sustain the
operation of pollution abatement services.



- 8 -
2. PROJECT BACKGROUND
A. PROJEcr BACKGROUND
2.1         In 1986 a survey of conditions in cities in the northeast C-hirnese Province
of Liaoning was conducted under the joint effort of the AIDAB, the UNDP RAS 81/001
Project and the World Bank. The survey identified water supply, wastewater management,
water and air pollution control, and urban transport as major problem areas. Further work
was then carried out by LPG, assisted by consultants financed under an A$4 million grant
from AIDAB to formulate strategic plans for water resource development, water and
wastewater management, water pollution control and urban transport improvement for
cities in the basins of the Hun and Taizi Rivers, which contain the heaviest urban and
industrial concentration in the Province.l/ The cities included Shenyang (the capital,
with a population of 3.25 million), Anshan (1.09 million), Benxi (0.68 million), Fushun
(1.08 million), Liaoyang (0.43 million), and Yingkou (0.36 million). The execution of this
work was supervised by the World Bank Group under a memorandum of understanding
with AIDAB. In addition, LPG also concurrently conducted water supply and pollution
control studies for Fuxin (population of 0.55 million) and Dandong (0.45 million), two
additional important provincial cities located in the Daling and Yalu River basins,
respectively.
2.2         Through the above efforts, long-term plans have been developed and priority
investments identified for the Province at about Y 4.5 billion (in 1988 prices), or about
$1 billion (at the then prevailing rate of exchange) for water supply, sewerage, and water
pollution control works; and Y 1.25 billion, or $0.27 billion, for urban transport works,
as well as institutional development work needed to strengthen these subsectors. Because
of the size of the plans, and the time needed by the Province to plan and implement the
required investments, the works would be implemented over a period of about 15 years.
The Liaoning Urban Infastructure Project (para. 1.17) represents the first investment
phase. It consists of the most urgent works and institutional measures for the improvement
of water supply in the cities of Shenyang, Fuxin and Yingbou, and urban transport
investments in Shenyang. The project also initiates efforts to address industrial water
pollution problems. Project implementation is scheduled to be completed by December
1995. The proposed project represents the second phase of identified priority investments,
building on the experience of the first phase to achieve the long-term development goals
of the Province.
J/ The Hun-Tain River basins cover about 20 percent of the Province's land area, and house about
60 percent of its urban population. About 60 percent of Liaoning's industrial output is conacentd
in six major cities in these basins. Six other cities share another 20 percent of this indial output.



- 9 -
B. PROJECT AREA
2.3          The proposed project area comprises mainly the cities of Anshan, Benxi,
Dalian, Fushun and Jinzhou, with a combined population of about 8.0 million. The
Province has a population of about 36 million, with 25 million classified as urban,2/ and
has important iron ore, coal and oil reserves, enabling it to become China's major base
industry.a/ Liaoning's cities grew at an annual average rate of about 4 percent between
1977 and 1986, peaking at 7.7 percent in 1978, but declining to about 0.8 percent from
1986 onward. The rapid growth rate has been attributable mainly to migration from the
rural areas. With a decreasing birth rate, the net population growth rate for Liaoning's
cities is expected to approach the national average population growth rate of about 0.8
percent in the year 2000. The Province has also a significant agricultural output.4.
Annex 2 provides background information on Liaoning Province and the five cities.
C. EXIs G ENvRONmErAL SrrUATION
2.4          Water Quality. The water quality problems of Liaoning Province arise
from the fact that the Province is an area of limited water resources that are subjected to
a variety of demands, for agricultural, domestic and industrial use. The pressure on water
resources is particularly acute in the Hun-Taizi River Basin area, which occupies less than
one fifth of the area of the Province but supports about 15 million people, more than one
tird of its population. A number of cities in the Basin are major centers of industry,
generating a significant proportion of national industrial output, and substantial increases
in production are planned.
2.5          Such a degree of industrial activity, coupled with the fact that there is
,limited treatment of wastewaters, imposes severe stress upon the water environment.
Water supplies in the Hun and Taizi Basin for both potable and agricultural use are
critically dependent upon the two rivers, either by direct abstraction or use of aquifers
recharged by the river water. River water quality fails to comply with national water-
quality standards for the relevant beneficial uses of the rivers over substantial distances.
The situation is particularly acute in the case of cities such as Shenyang and Fushun, which
are in effect close to the headwaters of the Hun River, the flows in which are controlled
by the operation of multipurpose reservoirs upstream. The effects of pollution from such
2t  Urban pop on refes to tse livingie t   mderhe administeaion of a city or a t . A city
is an area where the establishment of the city administration bas been approved by the State. A town
is an area inhabited by no more than 20,000 residents of whom 2,000 or more are nonagmicultul
population living in the site of the township government, or an area inhabited by at least 20,000
residents of whom 10 percent or more are nonagicultural population living in the site of the township
government.
3/ Liaoning Province produces 7.2 percent of C) -'s gross industrial output, with a gross per capita
output of Y 3,416 (1988), which is about 2.1 .    the national average. In terms of gross heavy
industrial output, Liaoning produces 9.4 percent ,. the national output.
it  Liaoning's per capita arcultura output of Y 595 (1988) is slighty above the national aveae, and
agncultural output constitutes about 15 percent of the total provincial output.



- 10-
cities may be felt by users of the river for considerable distances downstream because of
the restricted dilution. In some cases, the degradation of water resources close to cities
is requiring substitution of supplies by exploitation of more distant resources with
substantially increased unit supply costs.
2.6         Water consumption in all cities is dominated by industrial use, which
typically accounts for about 70 percent of consumption. Discharges of pollution from
industry are frequently associated with inadequately controlled, and therefore highly
inefficient and wasteful, use of water and materials. Although water use and wastewater
discharges are controlled by price (user charges and effluent fees), the charges are not at
a sufficient level to have the required incentive effect.
2.7         Previous water resource and water pollution control studies, principally the
AIDAB-financed Hun-Taizi River Basin Management Study (para. 2.1) identified a
program of works for improvement of water quality improvements largely by provision of
wastewater treatment plants. The proposed project addresses water quality problems in
Liaoning by a combination of wastewater treatment, in some cases coupled with recovery
and reuse of treated wastewater, and water conservation/process improvements by industry.
2.8         Air Quality. There are serious air pollution problems in many cities in
Liaoning, in common with many cities in China, and urban air quality in terms of
concentrations of airborne particulates (TSP) and sulfur dioxide (SO) is low, particularly
in winter. The problems of urban air pollution are derived largely from the combustion
of poor-quality coal of high-sulfur content for heat and electricity generation; inefficient
use of energy; lack of emission controls for TSP and S%2; and the discharge of pollutants
close to ground level, particularly in the case of the domestic use of coal. In many cases,
the problems are exacerbated by the effects of the formation of stable temperature
inversions, which can severely restrict the dispersion of pollutants discharged to
atmosphere and therefore lead to particularly poor ambient air quality.
2.9         Air pollution is most serious in the city of Benxi, a center of iron, steel and
cement production, due in part to its location in a river valley surrounded by hills. As a
result, there are stable temperature inversions that dramatically restrict the dispersion of
the substantial quantities of pollutants discharged. During winter months, the ambient
concentrations of 50 increase by a factor of 10 and greatly exceed even the least stringent
Chinese ambient air quality standards (the Class IH standard-the minimum standard for
protection of human health). Of the order of 7 million tons of coal, much of which is of
poor quality in terms of sulfur and ash contents, are burned annually in Benxi principally
for power generation and by industry. Total emissions of TSP and SO2 have been
estimated at 229,000 and 144,000 tons per year, respectively.
2.10        The air quality problems of Benxi, and indeed of the cities in Liaoning, are
such that they cannot be solved in a realistic time frame and at reasonable costs by
emission controls alone, and it would be necessary to adopt a "cradle to grave" approach
to achieve pollution reductions at all stages of the energy generation process from fuel
sourcing to controls on combustion. The proposed project would support the air pollution



- 11-
control program of the city of Benxi in the form of enhanced energy use efficiency,
improved district heating and emission controls at key industrial plants. In parallel, a
Bank-administered Benxi Environmental Energy Management Study would be carried out,
financed by the Norwegian Trust Fund. The study would address the following:
(a) updating the emission inventory; (b) collecting coal quality data for all coal sources
used in Benxi; (c) reviewing the present coal allocation policy and assessing whether the
quality of cwal supplied to each user reflects both the needs of the user and impact on the
environment; (d) analyzing the energy efficiency of all uses of coal; (e) assessing the
degree to which improvements in thermal efficiency and cleaner combustion technology
could be used to reduce emissions; (f) analyzing the benefits of fuel/energy substitution;
(g) assessing the effects of fuel treatment to reduce emissions; (h) analyzing the costs and
benefits in economic terms of the above reviews/assessments; and (i) developing a
sustinable energy plan for Benxi.
2.11        Waste  nagement. The disposal of municipal solid wastes in many cities
in Liaoning is not carried out to accepted international standards of sanitary landfill, and
there are concerns for the impact of waste disposal in terms of effects on groundwater
quality and migration of landfill gas. In addition, the collection of wastes is inefficient,
involving multiple handling of wastes and transport in vehicles of insuffiA;ient capacity for
the operation to be economic. Although the basic objectives of removal of wastes from
city centers may be met, the present wastes management systems are beset with problems
that cause unpleasant conditions and adverse environmental impacts during both collection
and transport of wastes.
2.12        Of particular concern is the collection and disposal of hazardous wastes in
a largely uncontrolled manner. There have been some attempts at waste minimizaton and
waste exchange, but nevertheless there is frequently disposal of toxic waste materials by
unauthorized means such as sewerage systems.
2.13        The proposed project would address the problems of inefficient and
unhygienic municipal wastes collection and transport and the development of
environmentally sound standards of sanitary landfill with controls on leachate and gas
migration.
D. PROJECr FORMULATION
2.14        Recognizing that industry is the main source of pollution in China, the
Centrl Government has targeted LP for receiving attention to improve its environment.
It therefore approached the World Bank for support in funding a long-term program of
investments in environmental protection in the Province (pamr 2.2). At the same time,
LPG recognizes that the sustained protection of the environment is a prerequisite for long-
term economic growth and considers that appropriate investments in environmental
protection are of the highest priority. Presently however, agencies are required to plan
only up to the year 2000. This tme horizon is considered too short given that the
proposed project investments are expected to be completed by 1998. Therefore,
understandings were obtained during negotiations from LP that implementing agencies



- 12 -
would be authorized and instructed to adopt a 15-year planning horizon for infrastructure
investnents.
2.15       LPG directed the Liaoning Urban Construction and Renewal Project Office-
LUCRPO (para. 4.1), which was set up to up prepare the ongoing Liaoning Urban
Inftructure Project (pam. 1.17), to coordinate the preparation, and subsequently monitor
the execution, of the proposed project. LUCRPO retained foreign and local consultants
and local design institutes for preparing the project. The consultants' services are being
partally funded through the ongoing infrastructure project, the Japanese Government-
assisted PHRD fund, World Bank-supported TCC funding, UNDP support, and with
earlier support from the Canadian International Development Assistance Agency
Incorporated.



- 13 -
3. TEE PROPOSED PROJECT
A. PuoET OweCvs
3.1         The project is part of the next phase of a development program for LP to
improve environmental conditions and management. The project objectives are to:
(a) protect the main water resources in Liaoning Province including the Hun-Taizi River
Basin to allow their sustained economic and safe use for drinking, industrial, and
agricultural purposes; (b) strengthen pricing policies and institutional arrangements for
environment protection, water pollution control, wastewater and municipal solid waste
management; and (c) institute measures for air pollution control and cultural heritage asset
management.
B. PRojEcr DEscRPTnoN
3.2         The project would provide physical works and technical assistance for
institutional development in water supply, wastewater treatment, air pollution control,
wastes management, water conservation and process improvements, and environmental
rehabilitation and reconstruction.  A summary description of the various project
components is given below. A detailed description is given in Annex 3.
3.3         The investment program would comprise the following project components.
The indicated costs include physical and price contingencies.
(a)   Wastewater Maementin Anshan and Fushun comprising sewers, pump
stations, wastewater treatment, and effluent reuse facilities;
$92.8 million
(b) Wastewater and Air Quality Management in Benxi comprising sewers,
pump stations and primary wastewater treatment facilities; an air quality
management program including equipment and facilities to reduce emissions
from two blast fumaces and three coke ovens and increase their energy
efficiency; and district heating to serve some 20,000 households over an
area of some 300 hectares;                        $112.1 million
(c)   Wastewater, Muncipal Solid  Waste  and  Water Conservation
Management investments in Dalian comprsing sewers, secondary
wastewater treatment (new plant and existing plant upgrading) and effluent
reuse facilities; a pilot water conservation and clean technology program;
and solid waste management investments comprising modernization of the
municipal collection, transfer and transportation systems (1,200 tons per



- 14 -
day-tpd), upgrading of the existing disposal facility to sanitary landfiWl
standards (capacity of 2,550 tpd of municipal and industrial solid waste,
construction debris and sludge), and providing for future landfill gas
utilization;                                      $78.7 million
(d)   Water Supply System Enhancement and Protection in Jinzhou comprising
groundwater development and trunk supply, treatment plant upgrading and
distribution system strengthening, supported by a major pollution reduction
and water conservation program at the nearby Jincheng Paper Mill;
$38.7 million
(e)   Environmental RehabilitatIon and Reconstruction comprising the
recording, rehabilitation, conservation, protection, restoration and
presentation of prioritized cultural heritage assets of world significance
including the Liaoning Great Wall at Jiumenkou, archeological sites at
Niuheliang and Jieshi Gong, and the Shenyang Provincial Museum;
$2.2 million
(f)   Liaoning Environment Fund for the provision of short-term finance for
focused high environmental impact investments of in-plant clean technology
process change, supporting the core investments in air and wastewater
manlagement;                                       $4.0 million
(g)   Institutional Strengthening through Techical Assistance and Training
for supporting and strengthening environmental, financial and utility
management and performance monitoring, training, feasibility studies and
future project preparation.                        $9.6 million
TOTAL EST[MATED PROJECT COST                $338.1 million
3.4        Institutional development and policy strengthening components would
enhance policy formulation and operational experience in environmental protection; water,
wastewater and municipal solid waste management; water pollution control; and heritage
asset management. These initiatives would comprise:
(a)   establishing appropriate pricing policies for wastewater, solid waste, district
heating and heritage asset management;
(b)  improving measures and mechanisms for water pollution monitoring and for
the enforcement of water pollution regulations;
(c)   creating an environment fund to support industhal wastewater treatment
facilities, process modernization and clean technology;



- 15 -
(d)  training of staff engaged in financial management; water pollution controi
wastewater, municipal solid waste, environment and heritage asset
management; and
(e)   providing technical assistance for studies and future project preparation
including measures to alleviate air pollution, and urban infrastructure master
planning.
3.5         The following assurances and understandings were obtained during
negotiations:
(a)  the assurance that Central Government would ensure that the Anshan Iron
and Steel Company (ANGANG) would implement an agreed in-pla
polution control and water conservation time-bound Action Plan, and the
understanding that the Goverrnent would ensure that ANGANG would
purchase treated wastewaterfrom the Anshan Wastewater Company (AWC)
at a price sufficient to enable AWC to cover the operation and maintenance
costs of the reuse facilities, meeting its financial obligations (para. 5.18);
0b)  the assurance that the participating municipalities would implement an
agreed tome-bound Action Plan to connect buildings, septic tanks and
nightsoilfacilities that are located within 100 m of the sewerage systems of
Anshan, Benxi, Dalian and Fushun
(c)  the assurance that Benxi Municipal Government (BMG) would (f) implement
an agreed time-bound Action Plan for river training and other necessary
works to protect the wastewater interceptor culvert; (it) cause the Benxi Gas
Company (BGC) to expand its gas distribution network, in accordance with
a dme-based Action Plan, to accommodate the additional gas supplies
generated by implementation of the Benxi blastfurnace component; and (iit)
implement, in conjunction with the Benxi Environmental Protecdon Bureau
(BEPB), an agreed time-bound Action Plan for wastewater treatment to
national discharge standards for the industrial wastewater discharges not
included in the Benxi wastewater component;
(d)  the assurance that Fushun Municipal Government (FMG) would implement,
in conjunction with the Fushun Environmental Protection Bureau (FEPB),
an agreed tme-bound Action Plan for wastewater treatment to national
discharge standardsfor the industries not inchlded in the Fushun wastewater
component and discharging to the Shenfu Canal,
(e)  the assurance thatLP would carry out institutonal development and training
in accordance with an agreed time-bound Action Plan,
(p5 the understanding that Jianxi Municipal Government would upgrade the
access road to the Jiumenkou archeological site during 1994 and 1995, and



- 16-
(g)  the understanding that LPG would arrange for the construion of a
financial training center, using its ownflids, within a suitable timeframe.
C. PROJECr Cosr ETMATES
3.6         The estimated cost of the project, including contingencies, is Y 2,941.8
million ($338.1 million). The foreign exchange component is Y 1,558.1 million ($179.0
million), or 53 percent of project costs. The total financing required, which includes $12.7
million of interest during construction, is $350.8 million (Y 3,052.0 million). A summary
of cost estimates is given in Table 3.1 below. Detailed cost estimates are provided in
Annex .
3.7         Project cost estimates are based on consultants' engineering designs,
reflecting price levels prevailing in December 1993. The unit prices were derived through
a reconciliation of data from the following sources: (a) quotations obtained from
manufacturers and suppliers; (b) prices of goods and works from recent contracts in
Liaoning; (c) construction costs according to prices published by the Central and Liaoning
Governments, adjusted for inflation; and (d) the findings of a recently completed "Cost and
R-ates Study" commissioned by the Bank during project preparation of the proposed
Shanghai Environment Project. Physical contingencies of 15 percent have been applied to
base costs for most components, except for the Jinzhou Water Supply and Fushun
Wastewater components, where 10 percent has been adopted to reflect the confidence level
of the estimated costs of these components. To provide for inflation during project
implementation, the following annual escalation rates have been applied: for local
expenditures (excluding civil works), 12.0 percent for 1994, 9.0 percent for 1995,
8.0 percent for 1996, 7.2 percent for 1997, 6.5 percent for 1998-99 and 6.0 percent for
2000-02; for civil works, 20.0 percent for 1994, 12.0 percent for 1995, 10.0 percent for
1996, and 8.0 percent for 1997-2002; for foreign expenditures, 2.8 percent for 1994-2002.
Project management and engineering overhead costs of 11.5 percent are also included.



Tabb 3.1: SUmmARY COSr EmsiTEA           a
Y MiTon                      ,  S miion              % for          % tot
EAXII     Foreiog Lncal    Fomgn    Tota                      exchange     base coss
Anshan wastewar treatmt              109.0       184.8      293.8     12.5      21.2      33.8       62.9          13.2
Fushun wastewaer treatment           145.7      164.6       310.3     16.8      18.9      35.7       53.0          13.9
Benxi                                293.7       .74        72.0      22fi      49.1      82         59.3          32Z3
Benxi wastevwamt treatment          116.9      128.1      245.0      13.4      14.7      2 .2      52.3           11.0
Benux air quahty nIOageSnt          104.5      211.1      315.7      12.0      24.3      36.3      66.9           14.1
Benxi distict heating                72.2       88.2      160.4       8.3      10.1      18.4      55.0           7.2
Dalian                                   4       289.0      516.4     26.1      33.2      59.4       56.0
Dalian wasewater tatment            185.8      201.1      386.9      21.4      23.1      44.5      52.0           17.3
Dahn soid wate disposal              34.0       81.5      115.4       3.9       9.4      13.3      70.6           5.2
Dalian water conservation             7.6        6.4       14.1      0.9        0.7       1.6      45.8           0.6
Jinilion                             116.7       161.5      278.2     13.4      18.6                 58.1          12.5
Jinhiou waerIsupply                  81.8       75.8       157.5      9.4       8.7      18.1      48.1            7.1
Jincheng paper mill                  34.9       85.8       120.7      4.0       9.9      13.9      71.1           5.4
Environment fimd                       7.0       27.8        34.8      0.8       3.2       4.0       80.0           1.6
Environmental rehab.lconshuction       8.6        6.1        14.7      1.0       0.7       1.7       41.3           0.7
Institutional dev. & traing           12.8       51.2       64.0       1.5       5.9       7.4       80.0           2.9
Total Baseline Costs              9 920.8    1.312.4    2.233.2    105.8    150.8     2S657 8.8                100.0
Physical contingencies               125.1      179.5       304.6     14.4      20.6      35.0       58.9          13.6
Price contingencies                  337.8       66.2      404.0      38.8       7.6      46.4       16.4          18.1
Total Project Cost              1.383.7    1.558.1    2.941.8    1S9.0      179.1     338.1      53.0          131.7
Interest during constiuction c         0.0      110.2       110.2      0.0      12.7      12.7
Total Financina Recuired        1.383.'   1668.3    3.052.0    159.1       1917      350.8
LA PId-finane goods are exempt rom import duties and taxes.
hr Inudes cost of land ($9.7 million, or Y 84.4 million).
bo Interest during constuction (IDC) is based on oolending rates for projected disbursements of loan proceeds, and payment of commitment charges.
Note: Differences from other smmary tables are due to rounding.



- 18 -
D. FINANCING PLAN
3.8        The financing plan for the project is shown in Table 3.2.
Table 3.2: PRojcr FINANaNG PLAN
($ milion)
Source                      Local      Foreign      Total,     Percentage
Lianing Government,
Municipal Governments,
and Enterprises            159.1        81.7       240.8         68.6
IBRD                          0.0       110.0       110.0          31.4
Total                    159.1       191.7       35            10
3.9         The IBRD Loan of $110.0 million equivalent would be made to the People's
Republic of China for a 20-year term, including a 5-year period of grace on standard Bank
terms. The proceeds of the loan would be onlent to LP on terms and conditions
sa tctory to the Bank, at 70 percent of the Bank's standard variable interest rate, for a
15-year period including a 5-year period of grace, and a commitment charge of
0.75 percent. LP would bear the foreign exchange risk. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations from LP that it would cause the municipalities concerned to relend the
proceeds of the loan onlent to them on thefollowing terms: (a) to the Benxi Iron and Steel
Company-BENGA NG (para. 4.11) and the Jincheng General Paper Mill-JGPM
(para. 4.15) at a rate equal to the Bank's standard variable interest rate plus a spread of
1.5 percent per annun, with these enterprises bearing a commitment charge of
0. 75 percent and theforeign exchange risks; the maturity would befor 10 years, including
a 3-yearperiod of grace; and (b) to their utility (water supply, wastewater, district heating
and waste management) companies on the following terms: at a rate equal to the Bank's
standard variable interest rate, with the utility companies bearing a commitment charge
of 0.75 percent and the foreign exchange risk, the maturity would be for 15 years,
including a 5-year period of grace. The execution of the subsidiary loan agreements,
sactory to the Bank, is a condition of effectiveness. A separate Project Agreement,
including operational, financial and monitoring covenants, would be executed between LP
and IBRD.
3.10       About $4.0 million equivalent of the loan proceeds would be made available
by LP to the Liaoning Environment Fund (LEF) for eligible pollution control subprojects
on the following terms: 15 years including 5 years of grace at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate, and a commitment charge of 0.75 percent, LEF bearing the foreign exchange
risk. The loan proceeds would be supplemented by pollution levies collected by the
Liaoning Environmental Protection Bureau Uf EPB). Assurances were obtained during
negotiaions that (a) LP would cause LEF to onlend to industrial enterprises at a rate equl
to the Bank's standard variable interest rate plus a spread of 1.5 percent per annwn, with



- 19 -
the enterprises beanng a commitment charge of 0. 75 percent and the foreign exchange
risks; the maturity would befor 3 to 5 years, including a 1 to 2-year period of grace, and
to recycle subloan repayments for additionalpollution control subprojects to the extent not
needed to repay the loan to LP; ond (b) LP would cause LEPB to (i) allocate Y 2.0 million
of polution levy fees in fiscal years 1994 and 1995 and Y 10. 0 million in each fiscal year
thereafter to LEF and rii) cany out an agreed tine-bound Action Plan to achieve at least
80 percent collecdon of pollution levy fees due and outstanding at the end of each fiscal
year.
E. PRocuREMENT
3.11       Procurement procedures and arrangements satisfactory to the World Bank
would be agreed upon with LPG. All procurement activities would be organized through
Shenyang Machinery and Electric Equipment Tendenng Corporation (SYMEEC), and the
China Machinery Corporation (CMC), who have been contracted by LUCRPO to carry out
the work. Both companies are experienced and competent procurement agents who are
familiar with, and have had recent and relevant experience in international competitive
bidding (ICB) work on Bank-financed projects. The tender documents to be used m the
project would be based on the model bid documents that were prepared by the Ministry of
Finance and approved by the World Bank Group. All works and goods would be packaged
whenever practical to attract international competition. Prequalification of bidders would
be undertaken for all civil works contracts with an estimated value over $6.0 million
equivalent each, and for all goods contracts with an estimated value over $1.0 million
equivalent each, except for pipe materials contracts for which prequalification would be
undertaken with an estimated value over $0.5 million equivalent, and for urgently required
district heating equipment, for which bidders would be post-qualified. Annex S lists the
Schedule of Contract Packages and the method of procurement, and Table 3.3 summarzes
the procurement categories and the expected procurement methods. The contract packages
and the method of procurement have been finalized with LUCRPO.
3.12        Civil Works. Excluding the industrial pollution control subloan component,
there is a total of about $140 million of civil works of which about $51 million
(37 percent) would be procured using ICB procedures. Qualified domestic contractors
under ICB would be eligible for a 7.5 percent preference in bid evaluation, in accordance
with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines, May 1992. ICB procedures would be used for
all civil works contracts of estimated value over $6.0 million (i.e., three contracts). All
remaining civil works are too small, scattered or scheduled too far apart to be packaged
to be of interest to foreign firms. Of the remaining works, about $69 million would be
awarded through local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures. The LCB procedures
recently promulgated by the Government have been reviewed and found satisfactory by the
World Bank Group. Interested foreign bidders would be allowed to bid for LCB contracts.
Direct contracting (DC), of about $5.0 million (not Bank-financed) would be used for
contracts to be made with the local power companies to provide electricity supplies to the
pump stations, buildings and facilities under the project, and for utility services; and LCB
procedures (not Bank-financed) would be used for the Anshan effluent reuse pipeline, part
of the Benxi air qwality management works, and a section of the Jinzhou transmission
pipeline, totaling about $20 million.



- 20 -
Table 3.3: PRocuREaNT ARRANGEMETS
($ million,including contingencies)
Project Component              ICB      LCB      Other    NBF    Total
Civil Works                    51.5    69.1        -      19.7    140.3
(10.3)   (13.8)            (0.0)   (24.1)
Equipment & Materials         103.0      2.0      0.6    28.8    134.4
(68.8)    (0.9)    (0.4)    (0.0)   (70.1)
Environment Fund                -        -        4.0      -        4.0
(4.0)            (4.0)
Land Acquisition               -        -        -        9.7      9.7
(0.0)    (0-0)
Institutional Development      -        -        9.6      -        9.6
& Training                                     (7.7)             (7.7)
Construction Management        -        -        5.1      -        5.1
Services                                       (4.1)             (4.1)
Supervision & Project          -        -        -       35.0    35.0
Management                                              (0.0)    (0.0)
IQW                 JL4,~1S   7 1.1    129 3U           I12
NBF = Not Bank-financed.
Note: Figure:L b parentheses are amounts to be financed by the BanIL  Other
procurement methods include international and local shopping (for the industrial
pollution component and small equipment items), and consultant services under
institutional development, training and construction management services.
3.13       Equipment and Materials. Excluding the industrial pollution control
subloan component, there is a total of about $134 million of equipment and materials in
the project, of which about $103 million (77 percent) would be procured using ICB
procedures. Qualified domestic bidders would be eligible for a preference in bid
evaluation of 15 percent or customs duties and import tax payable by a nonexempt
importer, whichever is less. All equipment and materials with individual contract values
of $200,000 or more equivalent would be procured using ICB procedures. Equipment and
materials with individual contact values less than $200,000 equivalent up to an aggregat
amount of $2.0 million would be awarded using LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank.



- 21 -
LCB procedures (not Bank-financed) would be used for: materials for the Anshan effluent
reuse pipeline, Dalian solid waste collection vehicles, Benxi air quality management
equipment for Coke Oven No. 4 and Blast Furnace No. 1, and part of the rmzhou
tansmission pipeline, totaling about $29 million. Contracts costing $50,000 equivalent or
less up to an aggregate amount of about $0.6 million would be procured through
internationa or local shopping procedures with at least three price quotations.
3.14       Technical Assstee and Training. All consultants to be retined under
the project would be recruited in accordance with the World Bank's "Guidelmes for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing
Agency-August, 1981." Local consultants and counterpart staff would be engaged or
assigned by the concerned agencies of Liaoning Province. Consultants have already been
retined for project prepartion and design (para 2.15), and contracts have been signed
between LPG and consulting firms for (a) financial improvements proposed under the
project (Package A), and (b) construction management and supervision of the works to be
constructed under the project (Package B). The Terms of Reference for Packages A and
B of these consultancy seices are in the Project File.
3.15       Review of Bid Documents and Contracts. AU civil works packages (about
three contracts, 37 percent of the works) in excess of $6.0 million, and aU equipment and
materials contracts (about 15 contracts, 72 percent of the equipment and materials) in
excess of $1.0 million, and aU consulting services contracts would be subject to the Bank's
normal prior review, including prequalification, notice of invitation to bid, bid documents,
bid evaluation and contracts. Other contracts would be subject to selective post-award
review.
3.16       Prequalification. The Standard Prequalification Document for the People's
Republic of China, issued by the Ministry of Finance and approved by the World Bank
Group, would be used for prepang the invitation document. LUCRPO, SMEETC and
CMC hold copies of this document (together with model bidding documents for ICB and
LCB works and goods invitations).
3.17       Industrial Pollion Control Subloans.  Contracts for civil works,
equipment and materials financed from the Liaoning Environment Fund through subloans
would be awarded after solicitation and evaluation tirough international or local shopping
procedures of at least three written price quotations from eligible suppliers. This is
conistent with China Investment Bank (CIB) procedures that the World Bank Group has
reviewed and found satisfictory.
F. DrsBURSEMWlr
3.18       The proposed IBRD Loan of $110 million equivalent would be disbursed
over a period of about six years, as shown below.



- 22 -
1.   Civil Works          $ 23.0 million     20 percent of expenditures
2.   Materials  &         $ 68.0 million      100  percent  of  foreign
Equipment                              expenditures and 65 percent of
local expenditures
3.   Consultants'         $ 11.0 million      100  percent  of  foreign
Services  &                            expenditures
Training
4.   I n d u s t r i a 1  $ 4.0 million      95 percent of amounts disbursed
Pollution Control                      under subloans
Subloans
5.   Unallocated          $ 4.0 million
3Qta             $110.0 million
3.19       To expedite disbursements, a Special Account with an authorized allocation
of $7.0 million, representing about four months' average disbursements, would be
established. It would be replenished monthly or whenever the Special Account is drawn
down to 50 percent of its initial value, whichever occurs first. Disbursements for taining,
pollution control subloans, and contracts for civil works and goods, valued at less than
$300,000 equivalent would be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs), to
be certified by LUCRPO. Documents supporting the SOEs would be retained by
LUCRPO and made available for inspection during the course of Bank supervision
missions. All other disbursements would be made against fully documented expenditures.
A Schedule of Disbursements is given in Annex 6. As an early start has been made on
some works, retroactive financing of up to $11.0 million would be provided for
expenditures incurred from September 1, 1993, covering initial civil works and goods
contracts, and consulting services. The project is expected to be completed by June 30,
2000, and, therefore, the Loan Closing Date would be June 30, 2001. The establishment
of LEF and the execution of an acceptable financial agency agreement between LEF and
a bank for LEE subloan processing would be conditions of disbursement for the loan
proceeds allocated to LEF.
G. LAM AcQuismoN AND RE SrLmEN
3.20       Five project components would require the acquisition of land and
resettlement of current users. These are (a) the wastewater treatment plant at Anshan;
(b) the landfill site at Dalian; (c) the Malan River wastewater treatment plnt site at
Dalian; (d) Fushun wastewater treatment plant; and (e) land for the water supply facilities
at Jmzhou.
3.21        (a) Anshan. About 18 hectares (ha) of land would be required for Anshan
wastewater treatment plant, all of it being paddy fields. The permit for the land has



- 23 -
already been obtained from the city planning bureau. Since the intercepter would occupy
an existing drainage canal, no additional land is required. (b) Dalian Municipal Solid
Waste). No additional land would need to be acquired for Dalian solid waste operations
over the existing 0.8 kma2 already acquired some two years ago. The proposed transfer
staion would be built on an existing waste-hand';ng site, so no land acquisition is involved.
However, t'e proposed access road to the transfer station may involve a small amount of
demolition. This would be documented in the resettlement action plan (para. 3.27).
(c) Dalian (Wastewater). The Malan River wastewater treatment plant for Dalian would
require 13 ha of land within the existing built-up area. A number of enterprises would be
relocated and continue their operations at new sites including the Dalian Chemical Plant
with about 300 employees. (d) Flushun. About 11 ha of irrigated farmland, currently
under a combination of paddy and maize, would need to be acquired for Fushun
wastewater treatment plant. Another 2.4 ha would need to be acquired along a
3.4-km-long section of the intercepter. (e) Jinzhou. About 17 ha of farmland would be
required for wells, pump station, road construction and treatment plant for the Jinzhou
water supply component, together with a further 99 ha for temporary use. Most of the
land is currently cropland, with no buildings or structures.
3.22        No land requirements are necessary for the Benxi wastewater treatment plant
as the plant would be located on part of a larger area of land acquired by the city over 10
years ago. The proposed coilectors and interceptor would be laid in the watercourse
currently servmng as open sewers and drains. No land would need to be acquired for that
purpose, therefore, and the watercourses would remain as drains for stormwater.
3.23        Major resettlement or land acquisition would not be required. An estimated
603 households would require reemployment, of which only 85 households would require
rehousing; these would be done under well-documented Chinese policy and practices that
were recently reviewed by the Bank and found to be satisfactory. LPG anticipates no
difficulty in carrying out land acquisition and relocation of some 1,036 persons. LPG has
formed a team responsible for this purpose; consultation with the affected persons is well
advanced. Prior to appraisal, a land acquisition and resettlement plan was reviewed by the
Bank and found acceptable. Prior to negotiations, LPG forwarded to the Bank an updated
and acceptable land acquisition and resettlement plan. The Land Acquisition and
Resettlement Plan summary is presented in Annex 7 . Its implementation would be
monitored by LUCRPO. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from LPG that
it would cause the concerned agencies to (a) cany out resettlement ofpersons affected by
the project in a manner and according to a schedule that is satisfactory to the Bank
(b) report on the progress of canying out the resettlement plan using monitoring indicators
satisactory to the Bank, and (c) carry out land acquisition in accordance with an agreed
tine-bound Action Plan.
H. ENvIRoNMENrAL IMPACr ASSESSMENT
3.24        The proposed project would have a positive environmental impact. It is a
Category A project according to the Operational Directive classification. The water quality
of many watercourses would be improved by one or more classes after the completion of



- 24 -
the project. Chinese regulations require the preparation of an environmental assessment
(BA) report at the time of project design. The EA was reviewed by LEPB and the World
Bank and found to be satisfactory; it is summarized in Annex 8. While the project would
remove substantial pollution loads, some possible side effects have been identified and
mitigative measures developed dunng the EA process.  For example, appropnate
arrangements have been made for the beneficial use, wherever possible, of construction
spoil. Similarly, the siting of wastewater treatment plants is such that there would be
minimum impact on living conditions, and the discharges would be to watercourses where
the residual pollution load could be assimilated without significant detriment to local water
quality; satisfactory arrangements have also been made for sludge disposal (see Annex 8 .
I. ftoer MoNroImNG, REPORTING A   SUPRVSON
3.25        The proposed project implementation schedule is shown in Annex 9.
Operational and financial monitoring indicators for the agencies are given in the Finance
section (Chapter 5), and the assumptions for the financial projections are provided in
Annex 13. The format avd content of project progress reports and project impact
monitoring indicators and methodology were discussed and confirmed during negotiations.
Monitoring of the Institutional Development and Training Component (see Annex 3) would
be in accordance with a time-based Action Plan agreed at negotiations.
3.26        Project impact would be monitored with respect to the project objectives,
for which the key indicators are summarzed below:
(a)   enhance drinking water quality:
ndicator: % Achievement of Class HI standard;
(b)  identify and control sources of pollution:
Indicator: % controls on main polluters, and % system connections in each
city;
(c)  improve municipal solid waste and nightsoil management:
Idicator: % landfill new usage, and % nightsoil service reduction;
(d)  improve air quality in Benxi:
Indicator: % reduction of SO2 and TSP;
(e)  improve municipal, environmental and utility management and finances:
Indicator: Financial performance criteria;
(t)   support training, feasibility studies, and future investment project
preparation:
Indicator: % Achievement of Action Plan.
3.27        Reports on project progress would be sent to the Bank quarterly,
commencing October 1, 1994. The basis for establishing interim targets for project impact



- 25 -
monitoring was confirmed at negotiations. The last progress report of each year would
include the latest project cost estimate and financing plan for the following year, including
LP's approved budget for local counterpart funds. A project completion report, reviewing
the planned objectives and the achievements of the project, including costs and benefits
derived, and perfornance and contribution of all parties associated with project execution,
would be prepared by LP and submitted to the Bank within six months of the Closing
Date.
3.28       To facilitate implementation, a Project Launch Workshop would be held in
late 1994. Project supervision requirements would be based on our experience with
supervision of the ongoing Liaoning Urban Infrastructure Project. Bank supervision would
require about 200 staff-weeks over the life of the project, of which about 90 staff-weeks
would be at headquarters for the review of progress and audit reports, procurement actions
and correspondence, etc., and 110 staff-weeks would be in the field, generally comprising
two missions per year. More intensive supervision would be required during the first ee
years of the project, during which time the technical assistance would be made operational
and many procurement contracts would have been tendered, evaluated and awarded.
Supervision would be provided by environmental engineering and financial staff, as well
as other specialists in municipal solid waste, air quality management, and heritage asset
restoration, as needed. The Project Supervision Plan is shown in Annex 15.



- 26 -
4. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND   LEMENTATION
A. PRoJEer MANAGEMEN
4.1        Tkte Liaoning Urban Construction and Renewal Project Office (LUCRPO),
a provincial project office, was set up by the Liaoning Construction Commission under the
Liaoning Urban Infrastructure Project (Credit 2219-CHA); four municipal level project
offices, one each for the water component in the three project cities, and one for urban
transport in Shenyang, were also established to carry out project preparation and execution.
4.2        LPG has appointed a Leading Group headed by a Vice-Governor to direct
project implementation; LUCRPO has been made responsible for managing project
preparation, coordinating implementation and monitoring execution. Municipal-level
project offices have been established in the project towns of Anshan, Benxi, Dalian,
Fushun, Jinxi and Jinzhou. These project offices have been staffed as appropriate, with
plans for staff additions to match project implementation needs, and direct responsibility
for implementation.
4.3        LUCRPO has interacted well with the various project offices and
consultants, expedited resources to undertake preparation, and arranged for project
preparation work to be completed to the satisfaction of LPG and the Bank, resulting in the
project being prepared satisfactorily to date. LUCRPO would have the following
responsibilities during project implementation:
(a)   Overall project coordination, macro-level project management and
monitoring;
(b)   Project-wide Quality Assurance (QA);
(c)   Progress reporting to LPG and the Bank, including cost management,
project impact and environmental improvement assessment;
(d)  Interagency coordination and procurement support; and
(e)   Sectoral taining facilitation.
4.4        To enable LUCRPO to undertake this work effectively, it has been
strengthened, and the personnel slkll mix adjusted to reflect the needs of the
implementation and construction phase of LEP. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained from LPG that LUCRPO and the participating project municipalities' project
offices would be maintained throughout implementation, with fnctions and responsibilities



- 27 -
satisfactory to the Bank, with competent staff in adequate numbers for the duration of the
project.
B. lmPLENTATION RESPONSRiB               s
4.5           The institutions designated by LPG  and its municipal govemments to
implement, and finance, the various components of the project, are listed in Table 4.1.
Table 4.1: IMLEMENTING AGENCES
Prect Compo_t                   iplementing Agency                Onlending Agency
Wastewae                       Anshan Wastewater Company          Anshan Municipality
Wastewater                     Fushun WaseNater Company           Fushun Municipality
1. Was _wat                    Benxi Wastewater Company           Benxi Municipality
2. Air                         Benxi Iron & Steel Company         Benxi Municipality
3. Heating                     Benxi Distiict Heating Center      Benxi Municipality
1. Wastewae                    Dalian Waswwater Company           Dalian Municipality
2. Solid Waste                 Dalian Solid Waste Company         Dalian Municipality
3. Water Conservation          Dalian Municipality                Dalian Municipality
1.Water Supply                 Jinzhou Water Supply Company      Jinzhou Municipality
2. Proces    ovements          Jncheng General Paper Mill         Jinziou Municipality
Bnviomtat Rehabilitation
1. Mum  Services               Liaoning Provincial Government     Li;ing Province
2. Niubeling                   Liaoning Povincial Goverment       Laning Province
3. Jiumenkou                   Jinxi Municipal Govenment          Jinxi Municipality
4. Jishi                       Jimi Municipal Government          Jinr  Municipality
Eniro_etal Tmpac
Inestments in Indust-ial
H1=dses                        Liaoning Environment Fund (LEF)    Liaoning Envionental
Protection Bureau (LEPB)
Technical Assistance and
Traiinjg                       LUCRPO, Liaoning Finance           Liaoning Province and
Bureau (LFB), and Lioning          benefiting umnicipalities
Environmenl Protection
Bureau (LEPB)



- 28 -
4.6         Provincial and Municipal Institutions. LPG is headed by a governor
assistd by five vice-governors, each of whom oversees several commissions and/or
departments.  Various provincial commissions, departments and bureaus provide
supervision and guidance to the municipalities on matters relating infrastructure, planning,
development and operation, including environmental protection works. Organization charts
of LPG and the interrelationship of the project implementing agencies with the provincial
govenmment are given in Annex 10.
4.7         With few exceptions, the organizations of the municipal governments of
Anshan, Benxi, Dalian, Fushun, Jinxi and Jinzhou are essentially similar. Municipal
affairs are * ferseen by a mayor and vice mayors who run the municipal economic and
planning commissions, and municipal urban and rural construction commissions. The
latter commissions supervise a number of bureaus that are responsible for the physical
planning, design, construction, operation and maintenance of urban infrastructure, and for
environmental protection. In addition, several bureaus concerned with urban infrastructure
report directly to the office of the mayor. These include the Finance Bureau, the Water
Conservancy Bureau, the Bureau of Public Health and Public Security Bureau.
4.8         As part of China's, and Liaoning's policy of reforms in the public utilities
sector, LPG, together with its participating municipalities, decided to set up self-
accounting. and self-funding state-owned enterprises to implement the wastewater, waste
management and district heating components of the project. Prior to appraisal, wastewater
companies were set up in Anshan, Benxi, Dalian and Fushun; a waste management
company was set up in Dalian; and a district heating company was set up in Benxi. These
companies are financially autonomous.
4.9         Jinzhou Water Supply Company (JWSC). The company was established
in 1945 as a financially autonomous enterprise.  It reports to the Jinzhou Urban
Construction Bureau. JWSC employs a staff of 1,750 who are responsible for construction
management, production, operation and maintenance, customer service and administration
of the Jinzhou water supply system.
4.10        Wastewater. Until the creation of wastewater companies, wastewater
collection, treatment and disposal were generally provided by the sewerage sections of
municipal facilities management divisions (MFMDs) of the municipal governments,
divisions that reported to the municipal urban construction bureaus (UCBs), which, in turn,
came under the authority of the municipal construction committees. MFMDs are also
responsible for the operation and maintenance of roads, bridges, parks and street lighting.
The sewerage sections did not operate on a financially autonomous basis, transferring,
instead, all tariff revenue collections to the UCB. Funds were consolidated at the UCB
level and allocated to the various sections for operation, maintenance and capital works,
on the basis of budgets prepared and submitted by the sections. Staff from the existing
sewerage sections in Anshan, Benxi, Dalian and Fushun were transferred in their entirety
to the recently-formed wastewater companies.
4.11        Benid hion and Steel Company (BENGANG). The Benxi Iron and Steel
Company was established in 1911. It is a holding company for several activities, but



- 29 -
primarily for the production of iron and steel. It is the second-largest iron and steel
producer in the province, accounting for about 13 percent of provincial production. It has
three production aines with the following production capacities: (a) about 3.0 million tons
a year of pig iron; (b) about 2.4 million tons a year of raw steel; and (c) about 2.15
million tons a year of finished steel products. While plant energy consumption is high by
international standards, the company has in the past been profitable both in financial and
economic terms owing to a high plant capacity utilization factor of over 95 percent, and
low wages.
4.12        BENGANG employs almost 74,800 staff in its iron and steel operations and
related utilities. It is currently implementing its eighth five-year plan of new investments
and modernization of existing assets, costing about $480 million equivalent. The plan
includes investments in environmental protection, virWally all of which are included in the
project [para. 3.3(b) and paras. 14-20 of Annex 31.
4.13        Bend City Dongfeng District Central Heating Center (BDHC). BDHC
was established by Benxi Municipality before appraisal in order to supply heat from clean
sources to the majority of Benxi residents (pars. 14-25, Annex 3!. BDHC's initial staff
establishment was 19, drawn from the municipal government cadre. This new source of
heat would eliminate the consumption of coal in most of the 10,000 individual heaters, 17
district-level boilers and 9 smaller boilers, leading to a significant reduction in ground-level
concentrations of pollutants (SO2 and TSP).
4.14        Dalian Solid Waste Company (DSWC). Solid waste management services
in Dalian have been decentralized to the district level, which is responsible for the
collection and delivery of household refuse and street cleaning to a temporary transfer
station. The Dalian Municipal Environmental Sanitation Division has been responsible for
transferring the wastes from the existing transfer station to the landfill. The division has
been leasing vehicles from the military for this purpose. As part of its strategy for
(a) implementing its proposed solid waste component, and (b) collecting and disposing of
its municipal solid waste in the longer term, Dalian Municipality set up DSWC. The
existing staff of the landfill site were transferred to DSWC. As the new company gains
experience, an assessment of its staffing levels, capabilities and training needs would be
undertaken. The company would be responsible for the financng, construction and
operation of a transfer station, and for operating a landfill. It would also be responsible
for the transportaton of wastes between the transfer station and the landfill, except
industral wastes, construction debris and sludge from wastewater treatment plants. These
would be handled by the originators of such wastes. The company would fund its
operations from the transfer station and landfill tipping fees and charges levied on the four
district-level environmental sanitation departments (for refuse generated from street
sweeping, cleansing of public areas and residences) and from landfill tipping fees and
charges levied on industrial and commercial establishments, and the Dalian Wastewater
Company.
4.15        Jincheng General Paper MIU (JGPM). JGPM was established in 1939 as
a foreign-owned enterpnse. Its assets and liabilities were subsequently transferred to the



- 30 -
Central Government, and later to the Liaoning Provincial Government. In 1985, JGPM
became an enterprise of the Jinzhou Municipal Government. JGPM's product line is
paper, produced from reed. Its subsidiary company, the Industrial Commercial Company,
uses JGPM's by-product-red liquor-to produce a lignosulfonate binder material, which
it s   to industry. At present, much of the red liquor is discharged to waterways, causing
a severe environmental hazard. After completion of the project, the red liquor would all
be made into binder, increasing binder production from the present 50,000 tons to 180,000
tons.
4.16        Uaonlg Environment Fund (LEF). The Liaoning Environment Fund
would be chartered by LPG as an autonomous, nonprofit organization. The organization,
.nanagement and operation of LEF are summarized in Annex 11. The purpose of LEE
would be to provide funds for industrial pollution control. Project selection criteria have
been proposed and generally follow those of similar funds in operation elsewhere in China,
which have been reviewed and found satisfactory to the Bank. LEF would provide
financial support for projects in the form of loans (from the project and other sources) and
gants (from LPG sources), with the latter being given for up to 30 percent of the project
cost, averaging about 5 percent of total financing. Projects would be selected according
to cost effectiveness and financial viability. The principal funding sources for LEF would
be fees levied on pollution discharges, and the proceeds of the Loan.
4.17           tonal Development and Training. As the above-mentioned utility
(wastewater, district heating and solid waste) companies have been recently created, the
project institutional development and training component has been designed specifically to
address the accounting, management information, financial management, utility pricing,
and training needs of the entities in particular through activities supported by Package A
(see Annex 3). A contract has been signed with a firm of consultants for providing
Package A services.
C. STATUS OF ENGNEERING
4.18        Project preparation and design work has been undertaken jointly by
intnational and local consultants and design bureaus, and is well advanced. Work on
final design and bidding documents preparation for the (a) Benxi district heating; (b) Benxi
air pollution (coke ovens and blast furnace); (c) Dalian wastewater; (d) Dalian solid waste;
and (e) Jinzhou water supply components are scheduled to be completed by mid 1994; and
for the remainder of the project components by the end of 1995.



- 31 -
5. FINANCE
A. FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
5.1         Since 1978, economic reforms have evolved gradually toward an
increasingly decentralized financial system in China. Most of the industrial production and
prices have become free of government control, and enterprises have to purchase most of
their inputs at market prices. Enterprise reform has become a high priority of the
Government. In this connection, the guiding principles of the recently promulgated
'regulations on transforming the management mechanisms of state-owned industrial
enterprises" are to separate government administration from enterprise management,
increase the autonomy and accountability of state-owned enterprises, and increase
competition and market orientation. The reform efforts to improve economic policies and
enterprise efficiencies are essential for sustaining both economic development and
environmental protection in the longer run.
5.2         In order for the enterprises to assume their increased responsibilities
efficiently and effectively, the strengthening of their financial management is essential.
Toward this end, the proposed project would support the applications of modern
management techniques and human resource develop.nent for the utility companies.
Concurrently, the Swedish Government is supporting the financial strengthening of the
Liaoning Provincial Finance Bureau (LFB).
B. ACCOuNTNG
5.3         Different accounting systems are used by enterprises (autonomous units),
construction units (which execute investment projects) and local government departments,
in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Ministry of Finance.
5.4         Enterprise Accounting. All the state-owned enterprises in China follow a
unified enterprise accounting system on an accrual basis. The accounting framework was
developed in the context of a highly centralized planned economy. With a view to
complementing the ongoing efforts to deepen reforms in the financial sector and enterprise
management, the accounting system in China needed modernization to permit satisfactory
financial management in an increasingly decentralized and market-oriented environment.
As a first step, the general principles of enterprise (the term to include public utilities such
as water, sewerage, solid waste management and district heating) companies accounting
were revised by the Ministry of Finance, and introduced from July 1, 1993. As part of
the reforms, enterprises are required to produce five reports for submission to
Govemment: balance sheet, income statement, source and application of funds, profit
distribution, and details of main business. The first two reports are required to be



- 32 -
produced monthly, the remainder on an annual basis. All enterprise implementing agencies
included in the project would be following the new accounting and reporting formats.
5.5         Government Accounting. The regular government department accounts
reflect expenditures incurred against budget allocations by LPG. Accounting is handled
in a decentralized manner through transfers to subunits from which actual expenditures are
made and recorded on a cash basis. Accounts are kept at all levels, and each subunit
reflects in its accounts the budget allocation it receives from the unit above.
5.6         Project Accounts. Project accounts would be maintained by LUCRPO in
accordance with the State Construction Unit Accounting System. This system sets out
detailed accounting definitions for capital works, cash control, receivables, payables, and
specific rules for capitalizing and expending of various items. It also identifies a number
of basic monthly, quarterly and annual reporting formats, including funds flow statements
and balance sheets. The construction accounting system is comprehensive, and is adequate
for the proposed project. Project-related expenditures incurred by enterprises (e.g., the
utility companies), would be reflected within their enterprise accounting systems.
C. AUDrIS
5.7         As with other IBRD-financed projects in China, the Foreign Investment
Audit Bureau of the State Audit Administration (SAA), established in 1983, would have
overall responsibility for auditing accounts concerning the project. The actual auditing
work would be conducted by the Liaoning Provincial Audit Department under SAA's
supervision (to be confirned during negotiations). This arrangement is satisfactory.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the following annual audits would be
submitted to then Bank within six months after the end of the financial year: (a) audit of
the project accounts maintained by LUCRPO; (b) audit of the Special Account; (c) audit
of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs); and (d) audits of the financial statements of
r() Jinzhou Water Supply Company; (ii) the wastewater companies of Anshan, Benri,
Dalian and Fushun; (iii) Dalian Solid Waste Company; (v) Jincheng General Paper Mill;
(v) Benxi Iron and Steel Company; and (vi) Benxi District Heating Company.
D. PRovINcIAL FINANCE
5.8         The Liaoning Provincial Government has two types of finance, budgetary
and extrabudgetary. Budgetary revenues are provided through taxes, the base and rate of
which are set by the Central Government. LPG has, however, substantial discretion to
give tax exemptions, and is fully responsible for the administration of the taxes. Most
extrabudgetary revenues and expenditures consist of special fees to enterprises and are used
for capital expenditures. Budgetary and extrabudgetary accounts are not consolidated.
While information on extrabudgetary revenues and expenditures is confidential, and was
not, therefore, provided to the Bank, they are said to be at least as large as the budgetary
data.



- 33 -
5.9         Except for a portion of the environmental rehabilitation component ($1.7
million) and the technical assistance and training component ($10.4 million), the debt
associated with the project is being passed on to the municipalities and their utility
companies and industrial enterprises. LP would monitor municipal finances to assure that
the municipalities continue to meet debt servicing capabilities. However, should the
municipalities and their subborrowers be unable to fulfill their obligations, LP would have
no difficulty in covering debt service through its own resources, as the debt service
represented by the project is minuscule compared to total provincial budgetary
expel. litures. Provincial fiscal budgetary expenditures totaled about Y 24 billion ($2.7
billion) in 1992. During the period 1990-92, revenues and expenditures increased by about
16 percent a year. Revenues are derived mainly from taxes on industry and commerce,
which have been remitted by the municipalities. About 25 percent of provincial revenues
on the average have been passed to the Central Government, and the rest expended on
provincial requirements. Projections of provincial budgetary revenues and expenditures
are included in the Project File (Annex 16).
E. MuNIc&pAL FINANCE
5.10        The municipalities of Anshan, Benxi, Dalian, Fushun, Jinxi and Jinzhou are
expected to provide all funding not met by (a) the proceeds of the Bank loan, and (b) any
funds generated internally by the participating implementing agencies. During project
implementation, the financial projections show that these requirements would be of the
order of Y 205 million for Anshan, Y 546 million-Benxi, Y 379 million-Dalian, Y 238
million-Fushun, Y 5 million-Jinxi, and Y 187 million-Jinzhou.
5.11        Summarized historical and projected revenue and expenditure statements of
the municipalities of Anshan, Benxi, Dalian, Fushun and Jinzhou for the period 1990-2002
are given in Annex 12. The complete statements are included in the Project File
(n&m 1). Project-related expenditures as a weighted average percentage comprise about
3.1 percent of the municipalities' total expenditures, and 14.1 percent of their capital
expenditures. It is concluded that the proposed project would be affordable to the project
cities. Data for Jinxi Municipality are not provided owing to the late inclusion of the
Environmental Rehabilitation and Reconstruction component. However, as their portion
of this component represents about 0.5 percent of both project costs and total municipal
expenditures, it is considered to be affordable to Jinxi Municipality. During negotiations,
assurances were obtainedfrom LPG that it would provide, or cause the municipalities to
provide the necessary counterpart fiunds for the execution of the project.
F. PUBLIC UTLIIES
5.12        The salient features of the future finances of (a) Jinzhou Water Supply
Company (lWSC), (b) Benxi Wastewater Company (BWC), (c) Dalian Wastewater
Company (DWC), (d) Fushun Wastewater Company (FWC), (e) Benxi District Heating
Company (BDHC), and (f) Dalian Solid Waste Company (DSWC), based on the indices
and exchange rate mentioned in para. 3.10, are highlighted Tables 5.2, 5.3, 5.4 and 5.5.
The assumptions used in the financial projections are provided in Annex 13, and the



- 34 -
projected financial statements and detailed monitoring indicators are included in Annex 16.
The historical financial statements (where applicable) have been included in the project
preparation consultant's Financial Analysis Reports, also listed in Annex 16. Prior to
appraisal, LPG published revised tariffs for the above-mentioned wastewater, district
heating and solid waste management companies, to be implemented in 1994. The existing
and revised tariffs are set out in Table 5.1 below. Prior to negotiations, LPG confirmed
to the Bank the tariff enhancements to be implemented in 1994 by the wastewater, district
heating and solid waste companies.
Table 5.1: WASWATER, HEATING AND SoLD WASmE TARIFFS
Utility                      Existing tariff         Revised 1994 tariffs
(where applicable)          (average)
Anshn Wastewater            Y 0.12 per m3            Y 0.24 per m3
Benxi Wastewater            Y 0.12 per m3            Y 0.24 per m3
Dalian Wastewater           Y 0.10 per m3            Y 0.18 per m3/a
Fushun Wastewater           Y 0.08 per m3            Y 0.42 per m3
Beaxi District Heatng       -                        Y 14.50 per mn per heating season
Dalian Solid Waste                                   Y 10.00 per ton Landfill tipping fee
Y 24.00 per ton transported from
Transfer Station to Landfill
/a The average wastewater revenue would be Y 0.46 per m3, when including treatment and wastewater sales
revenues.
Water Supply
5.13         Jinzhou Water Supply Company. JWSC made surpluses in 1991 and 1992
of Y 1.2 million and Y 7.3 million, respectively, after making contributions (80 percent
of net income) to a "water resources construction fund" for the financing of its future
(post-project) capital investment requirements. Projections made up to the year 2002 show
that JMWC would continue to post surpluses if it is permitted to maintain the relatively
high tariff setting policy that has been in place from at least the beginning of the decade
(I'able 5.2).
5.14         There were two tariff increases during 1993.  On May 1, 1993, the
industrial tariff was increased from Y 0.59 to Y 0.84 per m3. On July 1, 1993, the
domestic tariff was increased from Y 0.30 to Y 0.50 per m3, and a capital constnrction and
ser ice industries tariff of Y 1.54 per m3 was introduced. The latter tariff, and the
industrial tariff, include a water resource fee of Y 0.04 per m3, which is paid to LPG.
From July 1, 1993, JWSC is also authorized to collect and retain (a) a stepped "excess'
water charge, based on industries' consumption in excess of 90 percent of their 1992
usage, and (b) a one-time charge of Y 5.00 per in2 of construction area of new residential
and office buildings.



- 35 -
Table 5.2: KEY WATER SUmLY FNACAL A    OPERATING INDICATORS:
JNZOU WATER SUPPLY COMPANY
(Y million, unless noted)
1993   1994   199S   1996   1997   1998   199    2000   2001
WAter Producton (million m3')  96    96    96    96    114    121    121    121    121
Watr Sale (mUiBon m)        86    86    86    86    97    100    108    108    108
Optating Revenue            54    68    90    103    125    137    157    166    176
OpwatinagExpeaaee"          45    55    66    76    88    95    105    111    119
Net Inome                    5      7      15    14    21    23        30     32    36
AvpgeTariff(Yuanperm')     0.63   0.79   1.06   1.21   1.28   1.37   1.46   I.S4   1.63
Opnating Ratio             0.91   0.86   0.76   0.76   0.73   0.73   0.73   0.73   0.73
Capitalxpenditues            0     29    86    48        17    13       0      0      0
% Conibutio to Iavesune
3-year avereg)                    25    30    30    83   > 100   > 100   >100   > 100
a Excludes depeciaton.
5.15          Assurances were obtained during negotiations that, commencing in fiscal
year 1995, JWSC would generate revenues from its water supply operations sifficient to
cover its operating and maintenance costs (before depreciation), increases in working
capital, debt service, and 30percent of the average capital expenditures made in a three-
year period (the year preceding the reference year, the reference year itsef, and the year
ter the reference year).
Wastewater Treatment
5.16          In 1991 and 1992, the departmental wastewater operations of Anshan, Benxi,
Dalian and Fushun all generated small surpluses. However, as is the practice in
departnental operations, no provision for depreciation was made. Had depreciation
charges been included, all of the operations would have run at a loss. The financial
objectives set by LPG for the newly-established wastewater companies is to achieve full
cost recovery, and, if possible, generate some funds for future capital invesmenet.
5.17          During the construction period the revenue requirements of the wastewater
companies would not ordinarily be expected to cover more than the opeating costs of
collection and disposal of wastewaters. The operating costs of the companies would
increase dramatically, however, when the project-financed wastewater treatment plants
come into operation around 1997-98. In order to minimize the need for substantial
increases in the wastewater tariffs at that time, LPG has directed the wastewater companies
to increase their tariffs gradually during the construction period so that prior to the
commissioning of the plants the companies would be generating revenues sufficient to
cover the costs of treatment as well. The financial projections, which are summarized
below (Table 5.3), take this into account.



- 36 -
Table 5.3: Key Wastewater Financial and Operating Indicators
(Y million, unless noted)
1993    1994    1995      1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001
Anshan Wastewater Company
Watewater Volume (million m)ji    80so     80       80      so       80       so       80       80       80
Wadewater CollectedtTteated
(milion m)                      52       72       72       72       72       80       80       80       80
Sewer Connections (no.)&       1,560    1,560    1,560    1,560    1,560    1,560    1,560    1,560    1,560
Operating Revenue                  6       17      39       56       59       92      105      113      119
Operati ExpescO /c                 3        7       15      21       25       43       45       49       53
Nd Income                          3        1       it       19      IS       17       16       20       24
AverageTariff(Yuanperm')        0.12     0.24     0.S3     0.77     0.82     1.14     1.30     1.40     1.49
Capital Expenditurea               0        5       79      99       102      65       42        0        0
Operatin Ratio                  0.49     0.94     0.62     0.55     0.58     0.67    0.71     0.71     0.90
Debt Setvice Coverage (times)                      8.8      6.6      4.5      4.7      2.6     2.8      2.9
Coveanted Revemu Requiremnat       3       16      24       31       35       62       81       84       87
Sewer lnome minus Covenant         3        1       IS      25       25        8        0        4        7
Beix Wastewater Company
Wastewater Volume (million M)     82       82       82      82       82       82       82       82       82
Wastewater CollectediTrated
(million ni)                    21       74       74       74       74       82       82       82       82
Sewer Connections (no.)        1,445    1,445    1,445    1,445    1,445    1,445    1,445    1,445    1,445
Operaing Revenue                   2       18      32       46       50       59       66       70       75
Operating Expense Lc               2        9       14      20       21       23       33       36       39
Net Incom                          0        7       14      21       19       16        3        5        8
Average Tadff (Yuan per M)      0.08     0.24     OA3      0.63     0.67     0.72     0.80    0.85     0.91
Capital Expnditrea                 0        3      32       93       97       87       35        0        0
Operating Ratio                 0.98     0.60     0.50     0.46     0.46     0.54     0.76    0.76     0.75
Debt Service Coverage (times)                      9.4      7.2      4.7      4.3      2.0     2.1      2.2
Covenated Revenue Requirement      2       11       17      24       29       34       65       67       68
ScwerIncomeminusCovenant           0        7       15      22       20       25        0        3        6
Dalian Wastewater Company
Wasewater Volume (mimion m)       22       66       66      66       66       66       66       66       66
Wastewater CollectedtiTreated
(million m'                      0       66       66       66       66       66       66       66       66
Sewer Connections (no.)        2,890    2,890    2,890    2,890    2,890    2,890    2,890    2,890    2,890
operating Revenu                  10       26      57       8S       94      101      113      120      128
Opeating Expense                   8       12      21       31       34       50       52       56       61
Net Income                         2        2       19      36       34       10        8       11       17
Average Tariff (Yuan per m)        0     0.40     0.87     1.34     1.44     1.53     1.72     1.83    1.95
Capital Expenditures               0       21      129     142      122       63       45        0        0
Operating Ratio                 0.77     0.92     0.58     0.48     0.48     0.72    0.76     0.76     0.75
Debt Service Coverage (times)               0      7.7      6.9      5.2      3.8      2.2     2.3      2.5
Coveanted Revenue Requirmt                 24      33       43       48       72      100      103      106
Sewer IncomcminuamCovenant                  1       19      35       35       17        0        4        9
ibahm Wastewater Company
Wastewater Volume (million in)    91       91      91       91       91       91       91       91       91
Wastewater CoUected/Treated
(miilion in)                    72       82       82       82       82       82       91       91       91
Sewer Connections (no.)          60S      605      605     605      605      605      60S      605      605
Operating Revenue                  6       18      38       51       55       58       71       75       80
Operatin Expense L                 6       10       17      22       25       26       33       36       39
Net Income                         0        2       13      19       16       14        0        3        6
Average Tariff (Yuan per tn)    0.08     0.42     0.46     0.62     0.67     0.71     0.78     0.83    0.88
Capital Expenditures               0        3       70      96       109      90       41        0        0
Operating Ratio                 1.04     0.79     0.58     0.53     0.54     0.53     0.79     0.78    0.77
Debt Service Coverage (times)             5.7      8.2      6.1      4.2      3.4      2.0      2.0     2.1
Covenanted Revenue Requirement     6       14       22      28       34       40       70       72       74
Sewer ncome miinus Covenant        0        4       16      23       21       19        0        3        7
Li Sewer cown:ctions in catchmiet served by system.
lb Wasewater flows assume no increase in bulk water supply available to citier.
/c Excludes depreciation.



- 37 -
5.18          Assurances were obtained during negotiations that, commencing withfiscal
year 1995, the wastewater companies of Anshan, Benxi, Dalian and Fushun would
(a) produce revenues (to include, in the case ofAnshan and Dalian, revenues from the sale
of treated wastewater to industries) from their operations sufficient to cover total operating
expenses (icluding depreciation) and the amount by which debt service requirements
exceed the provision for depreciation; and (b) incur no additional debt without the Bank's
agreement, unless a reasonable forecast shows that the companies would have a debt
service coverage of at least 1.3 times. The following understanding was obtained during
negotiations, and recorded in the minutes of negotiations: that LPG would introduce
residential wastewater tariffs commencing in fiscal year 1997.
District Heating
5.19          Unlike the wastewater operations where financial data are available from
departmental records (para. 5.16), there is no prior experience with heat distribution
operations C(able 5.4). LPG's financial objectives for the company are similar to those
for the wastewater companies, namely to achieve full cost recovery, and, if possible,
generate funds for future capital investment. Following the setting of the initial tariff of
Y 14.50 per en in fiscal year 1994, tariff increases are projected to increase at an annual
average rate of about 16 percent through the year 2001. There would also be a one-time
connection charge of Y 30.00 per ei. The operating ratio and debt service coverage are
projected to be less than 1 and over 2, respectively, throughout the implementation period.
BDHC is projected to make modest surpluses after covering its operating costs.
Table S.4: KEY Dswcr HEATIG FINANCIAL AND OPERATING INDICAThRS:
BENXI D rcTr HEATING COMPANY
(Y million, unless noted)
1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001
Heating Atea ('000 m2)       0    0.6      1    1.5    1.5       2      2      2      2
Number of Unita (no.)        0     12    20       30     40    40    50       S0    So
Covee (X)                    0    100    100    100   1OO    100    100    100    100
Opemating Reve               0      9      17    31      54    68      90    95    101
Operating Epensc /           0      S      14    22    45       52     67    71    76
Net Income                   0     23    15    21        18      0     30      7      9
AverageTuiff(Yuanperm2)      0    14.5   17.4   20.9   27.1   33.9   36.0   38.1   40.4
Capitalf pendiu              0     19    40       64    46    24       26      0      0
Opeatug Ratio                0    0.63   0.89   0.84   0.95   0.90   0.85   0.85   0.8S
Debt Sovie Coverage (times)               9.3    8.2    6.0    3.0    3.3    2.2    2.3
CovenantedRvene Requircuent  0      6      16    26    52    61        87    91    95
Heatnlncome muia Covenant    0      3      1      5       3      7      3      5      7
& Excudes depreciation.
5.20          Assurances were obtained during negotiations that, commencing with fiscal
year 1995, Benxi District Heating Company would (a) produce revenuesfrom Its operations
sufficient to cover total operating expenses (including depredation) and the amount by



- 38 -
which debt service requirements exceed the provision for depreciation, and (b) incur no
adtonal debt without the Bank's agreement, unless a reasonable forecast shows that the
company would have a debt service coverage of at least 1.3 dmes.
Solid Waste   agement
5.21         Until the formation of DSWC, the four district environmental sanitation
departments and the Dalian Environmental Sanitation Division performed the collection and
disposal of solid waste, respectively. These units received budgetary allocations from the
Dalian Municipal Government, which were assumed to cover the operations and
maintenance costs of the services provided. Industries paid a nominal Y 1.00 per ton to
the Dalian Solid Waste Supervision Office as a contribution to the management of the
landfill site. As a public utility, the financial objectives of DSWC set by the Dalian
Municipal Govemment are similar to those set for DWC, namely to achieve full cost
recovery, and, to the extent possible, to generate funds for future capital investment. The
tariffs and charges that DSWC would levy on the four district sanitation departments for
the disposal of wastes delivered by them to the transfer station, and the tipping fee to be
levied on industry delivering their wastes directly to the landfill would be expected to
generate revenues to meet the financial objectives. The initial tariff has been set at
Y 24.00 per ton for wastes delivered to the transfer station. The initial landfill tipping fee
has been set at Y 10.00 per ton. The weighted average is about Y 19.00 per ton. The
Y 1.00 per ton landfill management fee paid by industry to the DaLian Solid Waste
Supervision Office is expected to continue. Operational and financial projections of DSWC
are summarized in Table 5.5. In the year 2001, the required average tariff is projected
to be Y 51.5 per ton, equivalent to about Y 31.93 in 1994 prices. The operating ratio and
debt service coverage are projected to remain positive during the project penod.
Table 5.5: KEY SoLD WASTE FwNANCL4L AND OERiEu G INDICATORS:
DALAN SOLID WASTE COMPANY
(Y million, unless noted)
1993   1994   199S   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001
Wagato LAdfil(l CM')      671   682   702   714   727   748   762   776   790
Billabbe Wafet 000m)      484   495   S5S    527   540   561    575   589   603
OptaRftRveaue               0     10    13    16    1.    23    31    33    34
Opcating Expense h          5      8      9      4      5     5      13    16    17
Not blooms                  0      1      1      5     7      10    10    10    11
Aveage Tariff (Yuan per m)  0   19.1   23.8   28.S   33,2   37.4   49.3   S13   51.5
CapillEpendium              0     13    51    59    IS        6      0      0      0
OpemftRatio                 0   0.83   0.68   C.28   0.25   0.21   0.44   0.50   0.51
Debt Secvie Covage (times)  0   3.11   1.54   2.03   2.30   2.71   1.34   1.52   1.64
Covenuted Revenue Ruirement  0     0     13    12    14    15    28    28    29
Wads lacemnunu Covcnanr     0      0    0.4      4      S     7      2      4      5
fg Inude4depreciation.



- 39 -
5.22       Assurances were obtained during negotiations that, commencing with fiscal
year 1995, Dalian Solid Waste Company would (a) produce revenues from its operations
sufficient to cover total operating expenses (including depreciation) and the amount by
whidh debt service requirements exceed the provision for depreciation; and (b) incur no
additional debt without the Bank's agreement, unless a reasonable forecast shows that the
company would have a debt service coverage of at least 1.3 times.
5.23       Assurances were also obtained during negotiations that the utility companies
would prepare, before September 30, 1995, and in each of the following fiscal years,
forecasts satisfactory to the Bank; (a) to review whether they would meet the covenanted
requirements setforth above in such year and thefollowingfiscal year; and (b) to furnish
the results of such reviews to the Bank. tf any such review would show that the utility
company would not meet the requirements set out above, the company would take all
necessary measures, including adjustments to the structure of its tariffs and charges, in
order to meet the requirements.
G. ENTERPiS
Benid Iron and Steel Company (BENGANG)
5.24        BENGANG operations were apprai, d for both economic and financial
viability. An economic analysis of the production c the major outputs of BENGANG-pig
iron, hot rolled coils, and specialty steel-showed each of them to have good rates of
return. For example, BENGANG's single most important final output, hot rolled, coils,
are produced at an estimated economic cost of $337/ton, while the border price for that
product is $404/ton. Not surprisingly, the analysis showed the critical cost advantage to
come in labor costs per ton of output, while capital costs approximate those of developed
country producers and energy consumption somewhat exceeds that of developed country
producers.
5.25        BENGANG produces consolidated financial statements of its activities. It
has operated with an operating margin of profit of between 7 and 9 percent since 1989,
with profits being distributed between a development fund (for future capital investment),
welfare funds, research and development, and municipal and income tax (50 percent of
profits). With the introduction of an international format of accounts since July 1, 1993
(para. 5.4), staff welfare funds have been incorporated into Salaries and Benefits Expenses,
research and development has become an expense, and the development fund has been
included in Retained Earnings (Table 5.6). The analysis of 1990-92 financial data points
to fluctuating revenues and expenses caused, according to BENGANG, by fluctuations in
the supply and demand for its products. At appraisal, a nominal profit was projected for
fiscal year 1993; the 1993 financial performance was poor, due to unexpected reduction
in sales attributed to the credit limits imposed by the central government in an effort to
reduce overheating of the economy. The intrinsic financial soundness of BENGANG is
considered fully satisfactory however. BENGANG's debt to equity ratio has been low,
suggesting that much of its investment in the past has been financed from its development
fund. Its ability to assume the project-related debt is good, therefore, and the projected



- 40 -
debt to equity ratio averages about 27 percent between 1994 and 1998. Selling prices
would need to increase at about 8.7 percent per year (approximately the average inflation
rate over the project period) in order to maintain a current ratio of at least 1.5; such
increases are feasible, with selling prices below the average border selling price, ensuring
BENGANG's financial viability. Assumptions for the financial projections are given in
Annm  13.
Table 5.6: KEY FNANCIAL A    OPERATING INDICATORS:
BEonw IRON AND STEL COMPANY
(Y million, unless noted)
1991  1992  1993  1994  1993  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001
Act.  Act.
ToWa Rvonue           4,345 5,936 4,481 8,387 9,602 10,845 11,909 13,949 17,126 19,830 20,516
Operating Expnse to   3,758 4,574 4,718 5,549 5,799  5,962  6,190  6,598  7,378  8,066  8,216
Net ncome               38  312    0   794 1,304  1,826  2,226  2,959  4,101  5,106  5,S65
Not Fixed Awses       3,024 2,820 2,656 4,213 4,852  5,177  6,365  7,931  8,562  9,145  9,084
Days Reeivable          18   23   25   25   25    25    25    25    25    25    25
Days Payable           200  140  120  100   80    80    80    80    80    S0    80
Days Ivensoy            68   59   60   60   60    60    60    60    60    60    60
tQmxreEdRaio           0.5  0.7  0.1  0.8  1.1   1.3   1.5   1.7   1.9  >2.0  >2.0
/a Includes depteciation.
5.26          Assurances were obtained during negotiations that Benxi Iron and Steel
'Comnpany would maintain the following current ratios: at least 1. Oforfiscal year 1995,
1.3 for 1996 and 1.5 for 1997 and thereafter.
Jincheng General Paper Mill (JGPM
5.27          During the period 1990-92, JGPM  made income before taxes of Y 20.9
million, Y 16.1 million and Y 17.6 million, respectively, on net fixed assets in operation
of Y 180.1 million, Y 168.7 million and Y 157.4 million. This was achieved without any
operating subsidies from government and with sales prices that were fixed by the Price
Bureau. Commencing in fiscal year 1993, its prices have been subject to market prices.
The above income was equivalent to an after-tax rate of return on historic net fixed assets
in operation of 5.2 percent, 4.3 percent and 5.0 percent. The company's debt to equity
ratio was conservative at about 15/8.5.
5.28          While there would be no change in the volume of JGPM's primary product
lines of letterpress, offset and whiteboard, the project investments would, in addition to
improving the environment, assist it to increase its by-product of binder from 50,000 tons
to 150,000 tons annually, which it expects to sell. An additional by-product-man-made
firewood-could also be sold, or consumed in the factory. Modest increases in JGPM's
average sale prices of its primary product lines of about 8.3 percent a year between 1993
and 2001 should enable it to cover its operating costs as before, and service the debt
arising out of the proposed project investment. This approximates the annual general



- 41 -
inflation rate. The current ratio is projected to be at least 1.5 or higher during this period
(Table 5.7). Assumptions to the financial projections age given in Annex 13.
Table 5.7: KEY FINANCIAL AND OPERATING INDICAToRS:
JiNCENG GENERAL PAPER MILL
(Million, unless noted)
1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001
ToWa REvnue              339   375   423   470   501   548   673   692   721
0p.tatiqE,qenus /a       294   330   373   426   460   491   525   561   599
Notl nomr                  5     6      7     1     (5)    2    38    32    28
Not Fixed AssU           151   145   138   132   126   120   113   248   237
Days RE*Wivabts           90    90    90    90    90    90    90    90    90
Days Payablc              80    80    80    80    80    80    80    80    90
Days Inventory            80    70    65    5       60    60    60    60    60
Cumnl Ratio              2.1   1.8   1.7   1.7   1.6   1.5   1.5   1.6   1.6
L Includes depreciation.
5.29         Assurances were obtained during negotiations that Jincheng Greneral Paper
Mill would, commencing in fiscal year 1995, maintain a current ratio of a least 1.5.
H. ENVRONmENTAL REHABELiTATION
5.30         The Liaoning Provincial Cultural Relics Department (LPCRD) would
implement the Shenyang Museum and Niuheliang historic site subcomponents on behalf
of LPG. The funds would be passed on to it on a grant basis as part of LPG's normal
budgetary allocation. The investment in these subcomponents would represent the
equivalent of about 16 percent of LPCRD's budgetary allocations of approximately Y 20
million a year over the three-year implementation period.
5.31         The Jinxi Municipal Government would implement the Jiumenkou Great
Wall and the Jieshi historic site subcomponents with funds onlent to it by LPG on the
terms outlined in para. 3.9. The investment would represent the equivalent of about
0.5 percent of Jinxi Municipality's total expenditures over the three-year implementation
period, or about 4 percent equivalent of its capital expenditures.
5.32         While entrance fees are charged to visit the museum and historic sites, they
are not sufficient to cover the present operation and maintenance costs. In the case of
Shenyang Museum, for example, the present fees would need to be raised about 15-fold
to cover the current annual costs of operation. Such as large increase would be unrealistic
and, if introduced, would result in few local persons visiting the museum. Options for
direct cost recovery of the investment or incremental operation and maintenance costs
would be developed under the institutional development part of the project. Consistent
with international experience, part of the costs would be covered indirectly through
increased economic activity in the vicinity of the sites, generating additional revenues
through taxes.



- 42 -
6. ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL
CONSIDERATIONS
A. PROJECT JUSTFCATION
6.1         The project supports a province-wide combination of innovative policy and
technical responses to environmental problems, as well as investments identified through
earlier river basin and investment planning studies as key to reducing pollution.
Specifically, the project would support:
(a)   a substantial reduction in water pollution in the Hun-Taizi and Daling river
basins and Dalian Bay, thus protecting the environment in LP and the health
of its people;
(b)  the most severely polluted Chinese city, Benxi, in implementing its long-
term air pollution abatement program, particularly in efforts to reduce
ground-level pollution;
(c)   development of the first landfill in the province, that in Dalian, to meet
sanitary standards;
(d)  the city of Jinzhou in its aggressive campaign of managing water demand
through pricing, thereby financing development of new, high-quality water
sources; and
(e)   an innovative program to protect the rich cultural heritage of LP during a
period of rapid economic growth.
B. PRojEcr BENEFrF
6.2         The cost-effective provision of adequate wastewater facilities for Liaoning
Province is a prerequisite to the sustained public health and economic growth of an
important province in the northeast of China. The project would enhance government's
efforts to reform the economy, through the implementation of fiscally rational charges for
water, wastewater, nightsoil and solid waste services. The momentum of economic reform
would be supported by the sectoral breadth of the proposed investments, including water
quality protection, catchment protection, wastewater treatment, waste minimization
measures, and solid waste and nightsoil management; these would provide an enabling
framework for development. Based on the selection of prioritized investments, the project
would remove about 35 percent of the pollutants entering the river system in the project
cities, improve Benxi air quality to a more tolerable quality, and put in place sound



- 43 -
financial prooedures for urban services and management. Details of these impacts and
benefits are discussed below and summarized in Table 6.1. The prqject would put in place
core wastewater infructure to enable long-term environmental cleanup, and solid waft
and air management.
Table 6.1: PnoJEcT BENEFIT SummRY
CoMpCIt                                          Benefit
Mwater            Approximatly 35 % reduction of total polution load in provincial surface waters (a
gain of between I and 11 Water Quality Class)
Wae              37% of city wasteae flows treated to provincial dishre standard 11 and resd  by
indusry, su;bstiuing groundwater thlat would be made available for supply
ewater:           44% of wastewatr treated-Taizi River quality improved from Class V to Chm TV;
40% reduction in COD in local Taizi River system
Air Quality
Mnagementv
(Enterprises)     20,000 t/yr   iculates (9% of Benxi total) and 1,800 tlyr SO2 (1% Benxi total)
removed. 98"%rof carcinogenic fugitive emissions removed; town gas produced as by.-
product, displacing inefficient domestic use of coal, and firther reducn greenbouse
gas, SO2 and paiticulates
39,000 m3lday toxic wastwate eliminated (4.7 t/year cyanide, 2 tlyr phenol)
District Heating:   25,500 tlyr particulats (11 % of Benxi total) and 8,500 t/yr SO2 (6% of Bemxi total)
removed
Wastewater.       Increase in proportion of Ci wastewater treated to 38%; sevenfold incras in quatty
of treated wastewater reused by industry; sensitive aquaculture aea protected; exis
undeutilized treatment plant brought to full design capacity
Solid Waste:      Improvements in waste management system efficiency, reduction insytem openg
costs; reductionl in environmental impact including groundwatetrld o pollution;
protection of marine aquaculture areas
W      _ter.      30% of wastewater treated; Hun River quality improves from Class IV to Clm m
Paper Mill:       Two trirds of  llutioload (2 million p.e.)removed from discharp to Daling River,
reduction of 4g,0  neldt  (y 60l) in groundwate use; iprovint in
operational efficiency and raw materials use
Water Supply:     wellfield protected; developed and exploited economically, adoptng full pricing of
water resource
Environment Eud: Gain experience in implementing high rate of return clean tecnology idutri
processe
Development ofpactices, experience and precedents for financialy sustainable hritag
asset management
liinii:           Underpin prqect imlementation succems and  ainability; reduce technical and
financial riks; fortify commitment to financial viability of urba
services deliveiy



- 44 -
C. ECONOMIC ANALYsis
6.3         The project wastewater treatment components and the Benxi air pollution
control component were selected in accordance with the Liaoning provincial investment
plan to ameliorate major environmental problems and provide the basis foi sustainable
development. The water supply, solid waste, and cultural heritage components were
selected because they support innovative solutions to pressing environmental problems and
as such provide models for other cities and provinces to follow. Project components were
specified in the investment plans to meet performance goals-reduction of water and air
pollution; protection from solid waste pollution; increased water supplies; and cultural
preservation-but that plan did not specify the best means of achieving the goal in the
circumstances of each locality. For several components, especially wastewater treatment,
benefits are difficult to quantify and analysis has been limited to identifying the least-ost
option to meet a performance standard. In others, benefit streams are more readily
quantified and in those cases rates of return have been estimated. The discussion here is
grouped under the categories of water pollution abatement; water supply; air pollution
abatement; solid waste handling; and cultural preservation. However, it must be
recognized that individual project components can address more than one concern, as do
the blast furnace scrubbers in Benxi (with both air and water impacts) or the Anshan and
Dalian wastewater treatment plants (which supply treated wastewater to industry as well
as treat wastewater). The following paragraphs briefly describe the results of the economic
analysis; details are shown in Annex 14.
Water Pollution Abatement
6.4         Three cities were identified as key polluters within the Hun-Taizi basin:
Anshan, Benxi, and Fushun. Under this project all three would, for the first time, provide
treatment for a significant portion of their sewerage flows. Benxi and Fushun would
provide primary treatment and Anshan secondary treatment with sale of the resulting
treated wastewater to the Anshan Iron and Steel Company. Treatment plant placement was
optimized in each city based on long-run master plans to treat or eliminate all wastewater
flows. The new Anshan facility would capture 37 percent of all Anshan flows (another
4 percent is handled in an existing facility) and treat them to provincial discharge standard
II; Benxi 44 percent of flows (with an additional 9 percent being eliminated entirely
through process technology change from wet to dry scrubbing at a steel mill described in
para. 6.8), which would raise Taizi River water quality from Class V to Class IV; and
Fushun 30 percent of flows, which would raise the Shenfu Canal from "out of category*
to Class V and the Hun River from Class IV to m. In each case, altemative plant
placement and size were considered, as explained in more detail in Annex 14. Of the
untreated flows, many have received pretreatment to discharge standards at source (as do,
for example, 28 percent of Fushun flows) and where that does not yet occur, additional
projects over the next decade would provide treatment to meet current standards. As
mentioned, the Anshan facility would provide sufficient treatment to allow the effluent to
be reused in industry. Rapidly growing water shortages in Anshan created the market for
treated wastewater and the estimated economic rate of return (ERR) on the additional



- 45 -
investment needed to treat water for resale is 23 percent. The project would also enable
postponement of future costly water resource developments.
6.5         Dalian wastewater threatens the viability of important coastal fishery and
tourist industries and the project would increase wastewater treatment from the current
6 percent to 44 percent. The project has two components, one of which would enable an
existing treatment plant to produce at design capacity by funding intake sewers and
dewatering and sludge treatment equipment; and the other of which would treat
120,000 m3/day of currently untreated wastewater. The upgrading of the Chunliu plant is
particularly cost-effective, as is typical where projects enable the use of existing facilities.
Dalian is very hilly, which makes centralized sewage treatment difficult. The Mialan plant
would serve one watershed within Dalian that currently discharges to a particularly
sensitive part of the coastline. Both the Chunliu and Malan plants would further treat a
portion of their wastewater for industrial sale. The estimated net economic cost of
treatment is Y 0.57/m3 in Chunliu and Y 0.62/n3 in Malan.
6.6         The Jincheng paper mill, with a 3 million population equivalent COD load,
discharges by far the largest pollution load in the Daling river basin and one of the largest
in the province. Two process technology changes have been identified that would allow
the load to be reduced by two thirds at full implementation. One change recycles water
in the pulp-washing operation. This change has a high ERR, estimated at 37 percent. The
second change would allow expanded production of lignosulfonate binder from waste
streams currently discharged to the Daling. This change has an ERR estimated at
9 percent, where that estimate is based on the cost of alternative techniques for treating the
wastewater as a proxy for averted environmental damage.
Water Supply
6.7        Jinzhou municipality has moved aggressively to control water demand and
ensure funding for new water supplies through increased water tariffs. This project
supports Jinzhou's policy reforms by assisting with funding of one of their new weilfields.
The annex details the economic analysis, which yields an estimated ERR of 12 percent.
Air Pollution Abatement
6.8         The Bank identified, and would support through the loan, elements of the
Benxi long-term air pollution abatement program designed particularly to reduce ground-
level pollution. The city has identified bilateral and internal funding sources for other
program elements. The air pollution control program has three elements. The first
substantally eliminates fugitive emissions from three of Benxi's four coke ovens (the other
to be fitted when rebuilt in 1998); the second expands the district heating program to serve
about 240,000 people, or a quarter of Benxi's core urban population; the third retrofits two
blast furnaces with dry scrubbers that would permit the supply of off-gas for coke oven use
that in turn frees other gas supplies suitable for consumer use, providing gas to 50,000
more households. The latter intervention also eliminates an existing flow of 39,000 m3/day
of highly polluted wastewater.



- 46 -
6.9         The coke oven fugitive emission project was chosen among three technically
feasible alternatives described in the consultant's report. The chosen alternative was the
least-ost means of achieving the EPB-mandated reduction of 98 percent of current fugitive
emissions.
6.10        Benxi proposes to establish a central heating company that would supply heat
from a cogeneration plant, supplemented by high efficiency heat-only boilers. The project
would displace nearly all of the 10,000 individual stoves, 17 of the district-level boilers
and 9 of the very small boilers currently used for heating in Benxi. Particulate reduction
has been estimated at 25,576 tons/year (I1.1 percent of all Benxi particulates) and SOZ
reduction at 8,416 tons/year (5.8 percent of all SO2). This investment was the lowest cost
option for meeting residential air pollution reduction goals.
6.11        The blast furnace scrubber technology change yields an estimated ERR of
6 percent. This lower-bound estimate incorporates the benefits of redvced electricity and
water use in the new technology, the recycling of iron dust, part of the averted costs of
treating phenol and cyanide-ladtn wastewater, and the value of town gas freed for
consumer use. It does not include the full benefit of substantially reduced particulate and
S02 production, nor does it capture the consumer surplus in the switch to town gas.
Solid Waste Disposal
6.12        Dalian lacks, as do all other Liaoning cities, a sanitary landfill; this results
in uncontrolled leachate discharges into groundwater or coastal waters and direct dispersion
into the atmosphere of methane, an important greenhouse gas. Leachate from the present
coastal landfill site contributes to the pollution of Shouyu Bay, the most polluted part of
Dlaian Bay. Other solid waste handling problems include traffic congestion from an
inefficient transfer station and transport system. The cost of the latter problem is high in
Dlian's highly congested traffic network.
6.13        Landfill design alternatives were based on different liner materials to control
and collect leachate, including impermeable clay layers and artificial membranes. The clay
barrier was selected as the least-cost alternative, augmented by a piped leachate collection
system, storage ponds and recycling leachate back into the landfill. The release of
"greenhouse gases' would be reduced by using extraction wells linked to pipes, blowers,
and burners to flare the gas. The system has been designed to allow future integration into
an electrical generation system once gas volume justifies that investment.
6. 4        Transfer station design alternatives are linked to transportation constraints,
in this case of a maximum 20-ton load for trucks. Five altemnative transfer station/
transport models were developed and are fully described in the consultant's report. The
choices represent different combinations of truck size and tipping-floor versus containerized
waste handling, with comp-ction included in two alternatives. For these alternatives, the
average cost per ton handled ranged from a low of Y 22.1 per ton to a high of Y 28.0 per
ton. The selected alternative uses a three-level transfer station with a storage pit, loading
uncompacted waste to 20-ton transfer trucks. The cost of this alternative is estimated at



- 47 -
Y 22.8 per ton, slightly higher than the lowest cost alternative. This choice was made
because, in contrast to the 3 percent less costly, two-level, station, this alternative allows
separation of district waste collection trucks from transfer trucks via a storage pit that can
be isolated to control dust and pests.
Environmental Rehabilitation and Reconstruction
6.15        In Liaoning Province, and in China in general, little attention has been paid
to the physical setting and context of historic structures and to cultural heritage
conservation. As a result, the historic fabric has deteriorated rapidly. As land markets
become more active and property prices in the centers of historic cities increase, the threat
to heritage would continue to intensify. Bureaus charged with heritage conservation have
left largely unexplored the use of financial instruments to fund their activities. At this
critical juncture in the move to a market-based economy, conservation activities would
survive only if a means to maximize revenue generation can be identified. Experience
elsewhere has shown that wouldingness to pay depends largely on offering the public
quality presentation and interpretation of archaeological and historical sites and museums.
Based also on international experience, visits to cultural sites can be expected to rise with
the rapid increases in discretionary income and leisure time now enjoyed in China.
6.16        The project is aimed at furthering scientifically sound, least-cost approaches
to heritage asset conservation. By promoting improved management, conservation, and
fmancial analysis, the project would encourage more efficient allocations of human and
financial resources. The contribution of cultural heritage to domestic and international
tourism in Liaoning would be strengthened by the project activities that address
presentation of heritage sites and museum collecdons. Once these improvements are in
place, pricing policies for heritage sites can be evaluated so as to increase revenue. The
project, in supporting cultural heritage conseriation and in consistency with Bank policy
(OD 4.00), would also underline the importance of this resource to Liaoning and the
nation.
6.17        Project elements were chosen from a broad array of possible activities, with
the selection designed to cover representative conservation and management problems in
museums, archaeological sites, and historic structures. The component has four major
elements, each with associated training: improvement of services for the world-class
collection of the Liaoning Provincial Museum; protection of the Niuheliang archeological
site of the Hongshan culture; protection and presentation of the World Heritage Site at
Jiumenkou on the Great Wall; and site investigations at the Jieshi Palace, reputed to have
been occupied by one of China's greatest emperors. The experience gained from each
activity, reinforced through training provided under the project, would be replicable in
other Liaoning sites.
D. ENVoRONMEnAL IlMPACr
6.18        The project would contribute significantly to improving the environment and
is rated category 'A' in terms of the World Bank's Operational Directive on



- 48 -
Environmental Assessment (EA). Accordingly, an EA has been completed, reviewed by
the Bank and approved by NEPA. A detailed annex on the environment has been prepared
(Anex 8), which summarizes the findings of the EA on each component and reflects the
appraisal mission findings.
E. AFFORDABuJTY
6.19        Water. The present Jinzhou water supply tariff was enacted before project
appraisal and has been effective for some six months without evidence of difficulty for any
part of the population. Projected increases are within the range of projected real income
increases; thus, affordability should not become an issue.
6.20        Wastewater. Because the wastewater tariffs proposed for Anshan, Benxi,
Fushun, and Dalian are linked to water consumption, they would substantially increase the
cost of such consumption. Based on provincial average figures, per capita consumption
of water was 158 liters/Jay in 1992. Assuming that the poorest 5 percent consume
130 liters/day, then no more than an average of about 1.4 percent of their Y 1,005/year
income would be spent on water. Anticipated wastewater charges are well above current
water fees (which are in most cases below the level needed for a positive rate of return on
water company capital), so if those households make no adjustments in their consumption,
an additional 2.2 percent of their income would go to the sewerage tariff. This would
represent, in effect, a significant increase in the cost of water. However, the combined
cost of 3.6 percent of income is not especially high by developing country standards, and
at the postulated consumption levels, room exists to reduce consumption and hence
payments.
6.21        Industry would also face much higher charges for the combined water/
wastewater service. However, research has shown high levels of waste in current
industrial water use. Industries are expected to quickly adopt various water-saving
techniques that have been introduced to China in recent years, thereby mitigating the
impact of these charges on production costs.
F. RISKS
6.22        Management and Sustainability. Proposed revenue and service charge
enhancement, together with the investments to improve water quality and reduce the risks
to Liaoning of major water supply pollution, would provide a framework for project
sustainability. The operations and maintenance costs to support the investments would be
provided through existing revenue arrangements; these would be further streamlined and
enhanced as part of the project. Project management of the proposed widespread
investments would need to be efficiently implemented; technical assistance and training
would mitigate this risk. LPG and the utility companies do not have sustained experience
with operating large-scale wastewater treatment plants. This risk is acceptable, however,
since the project includes a carefully designed institutional development and training
component, which would reduce operating risks.



- 49 -
6.23        Commercial. Three project components, Anshan, Chunliu, and Malan,
recoup part of their operating costs through resale of treated wastewater after treatment.
The failure to sell water, or sell as much as planned, would not change the basic treatment
plant size and siting decisions. It would, of course, affect the decision to add the tertiary
treatment that permits water resale. In the two cities involved, industries have long faced
water shortages and have a history of treated wastewater use. Therefore, techniques and
markets have developed to use this product. Economic growth and fal1ing groundwater
levels are exacerbating existing shortages and bolster demand for treated wastewater. The
risk of not finding a market for the water is therefore considered minimal.
6.24        The profitability of the Jincheng pulp and paper mill red liquor processing
investment depends on being able to sell substantially more binder than currently produced
by the mill. The mill sales staff has a good command of the binder market in China and
has identified buyers for the additional product. Here, the risk appears to be one of
macroeconomic reversals that would suppress demand for the zinc and fire retardant for
which the binder is an input. Such risk cannot be ignored, but the underlying markets
appear strong and reversals, if any, should be short lived.
6.25        Tariff Implementation. Reluctance by LPG to implement and maintain
economically efficient wastewater tariffs would undermine municipal utility company
financial viability: project design requires meaningful tariff action early in project
processing. LPG implemented substantial tariff increases prior to appraisal, thereby
lessening this risk significantly; specific financial covenants agreed at negotiations would
enable effective monitoring of progress.
6.26        Follow-on Investments. To reduce water pollution in the Hun-Taizi and
adjacent river basins to acceptable levels would require considerable follow-on investments
if the long-term environmental benefits were to be maximized. While LPG proposes to
carry out the program in its entirety, this commitment would necessitate diverting funds
from other productive purposes, which may be difficult. However, LPG and the municipal
governments are fully aware of the importance and potential economic benefits of
environmental protection, and the project-generated benefits would be significant even
without these additional investments.
6.27        Operating and Other. The annex describes in some detail the risks faced
by each project component. Operating risks are negligible, due to the familiarity of the
proposed technologies in C1-ina.



- 50 -
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1         The following assurances were obtained at negotiations:
(a)   ANGANG would implement an agreed in-plant pollution control and water
conservation time-bound Action Plan [para. 3.5(a)];
(b)   The participating municipalities would implement an agreed time-bound
Action Plan to connect buildings and septic tank and nightsoil facilities that
are within 100 m of their sewerage systems [para. 3.5(b)];
(c)   BMG would implement an agreed time-bound Action Plan for river training
and other necessary works to protect the wastewater interceptor culvert
[para. 3.5(c)(i)];
(d)   BMG would cause the Benxi Gas Company to expand its gas distribution
network to be expanded in accordance with an agreed time-bound Action
Plan to accommodate the additional gas supplies generated by
implementation of the Benxi blast furnace component [para. 3.5(c)(ii)];
(e)   BMG/BEPB would implement an agreed time-bound Action Plan for
wastewater treatment to national discharge standards for the industrial
wastewater discharges not included in the Benxi wastewater component
[para. 3.5(c)(iii)];
(f)   FMG/FEPB would implement an agreed time-bound Action Plan for
wastewater treatment to national discharge standards for the industries not
included in the Fushun wastewater component and discharging to the Shenfu
Canal [para. 3.5(d)];
(g)   LP would carry out institutional development and training in accordance
with an agreed time-bound Action Plan [para. 3.5(e)];
(h)   The municipalities would onlend the loan proceeds to their respective
implementing agencies, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 3.9);
(i)   LEF would onlend to industrial enterprises, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to khe Bank [para. 3.10(a)];



- 51 -
(j)   LEPB would (i) allocate Y 2.0 million of pollution levy fees in 1994 and
1995 and Y 10.0 million in each year thereafter to LEF; and (ii) carry out
an agreed time-bound Action Plan to achieve at least 80 percent collection
of pollution levy fees each fiscal year [para. 3. 10(b)];
(k)  the project cities and implementing agencies would (i) carry out the
resettlement of persons affected by the project in a manner and according
to a plan which is satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) report annually on the
progress in carrying out the resettlement plan, using monitoring indicators
satisfactory to the Bank; and (iii) carry out land acquisition in accordance
with an agreed time-bound Action Plan (para. 3.23);
(1)   LUCRPO and the municipal project offices would be maintained throughout
implementation, with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank,
and with competent staff in adequate numbers for the duration of the project
(para. 4.4);
(m)  the following annual audits would be submitted to the Bank within six
months after the end of the financial year: (i) audit of the project accounts
maintained by LUCRPO; (ii) audit of the Special Account; (iii) audit of
statements of expenditure (SOE); and (iv) audits of the financial statements
of Jinzhou Water Supply Company, the wastewater companies of Anshan,
Benxi, Fushun and Dalian, the Dalian Solid Waste Company, Jincheng
General Paper Mill, Benxi Iron and Steel, and Benxi District Heating
Company (para. 5.7);
(n)   LPG would provide, or cause the municipalities to provide the necessary
counterpart funds for the execution of the project (para. 5.11);
(o)   Jinzhou Water Supply Company would, commencing in fiscal year 1995,
generate revenues from its water supply operations sufficient to cover its
operating and maintenance costs (before depreciation), increases in working
capital, debt service, and 30 percent of three years' average investments
(para. 5.15);
(p)  the wastewater companies of Anshan, Benxi, Dalian and Fushun, the Benxi
Dongfeng District Central Heating Center and the Dalian Solid Waste
Company would, commencing in fiscal year 1995, (i) generate revenues (to
include sales of treated wastewater to industries by Anshan and Dalian
wastewater companies) from their operations, sufficient to cover their total
operating expenses (including depreciation) and the amount by which debt
service requirements exceed the provision for depreciation; and (ii) have a
debt serwice coverage of at least 1.3 times (paras. 5.18, 5.20 and 5.22);



- 52 -
(q)   the project utility (water supply, wastewater, district heating and solid
waste) companies would, before September 30, 1995, and in each of th*
following fiscal years, prepare forecasts satisfactory to the Bank, reviewing
whether they would meet their respective requirements in such year and the
following fiscal year, and furnish the results of such reviews to the Bank;
if any such reviews would show that the companies would not meet their
requirements, LPG would cause the companies to take all necessary
measures, including adjustments to the structure of their tariffs and charges,
in order to meet the requirements (para. 5.23);
(r)   Benxi Iron and Steel Company would maintain the following current ratios:
at least 1.0 for fiscal year 1995, 1.3 for 1996, and 1.5 for 1997 and
thereafter (para. 5.26); and
(s)   Jincheng General Paper Mill would, commencing in fiscal year 1995,
maintain a current ratio of at least 1.5 (para. 5.29).
7.2         The following understandings were obtained during negotiations, and
referred to in the minutes of negotiations:
(a)   the implementing agencies would be authorized and instructed to adopt a 15-
year planning horizon for infrastructure investments (para. 2.14);
(b)   ANGANG would purchase treated wastewater from AWC at a price
sufficient to enable AWC to cover the operation and maintenance costs of
the reuse facilities, meeting its financial obligations [para. 3.5(a)];
(c)   Jinxi Municipal Government would upgrade the access road to Jiumenkou
archeological site during 1994 and 1995 [para. 3.5(f)];
(d) LPG would arrange for the construction of a financial training center, using
its own funds, within an agreed time frame [para. 3.5(g)]; and
(e)   LPG would introduce residential wastewater tariffs no later than fiscal year
1997 (para. 5.18).
7.3         The execution of subsidiary loan agreements between the project
municipalities and implementing agencies, satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.9) is a
condition of loan effectiveness.
7.4         Conditions of disbursement for the LEF component are the establishment of
LEF, and the execution of an acceptable financial agency agreement between LEF and a
bank for LEF subloan processing (para. 3.19).



- 53 -
7.5         With the above assurances, the proposed project would be suitable for a
IBRD Loan of $110 million equivalent for a period of 20 years, including 5 years of grace,
at the Bank's standard variable interest rate, to the People's Republic of China.



-55-                                       ANNEX 1
ORGANZATION OF ENONMNT PROTECTION
IN CINA
|People'c8 Republic
I of China        I
Fst-ate Councll|l
|Beij   >=            |        Provincial          E       ||National          1||Striesl
S      t                  A       t             6~~Rgina  Protection        Co|Aministraions,
Povlca       |
Environmnal
Protection
Buraus(Ps
Stmi1ar
uacwde r                                                       1
Governments
,UUrban,
D t stricti &
County
Governments
Urban,
D DsrictE
Cuty EPB6
Urban Neigh-|
_borhood, Town,l
Townshlp EPI
Offices 
Legend
Direct Reporting
-       ~~Indirect Reporting



- 56 -                        ANMX2
BACKGROUND TO LIAONING PROVINCE AND
PROJECT CITIES
Liaoung Province
1.         Liaoning Province is located in the northeast of China and is bordered to the
north by Jilin Province, to the east by the Democratic Republic of Korea, to the south by
the Bohai Sea and to the west by Hebei Province and the Inner Mongolia Autonomous
Region. The province has a total land area of 145,700 km2 and a population of 36 million
(1992), of which 25 million are urban.
2.          The province has important iron ore, coal and oil resources, which have
enabled it to become the most industrialized province in northeast China and one of the
most industrialized in China as a whole. Liaoning Province produces 7.2 percent of the
gross industral output of China, with a gross per capita output more than double the
national average. Many of the cities of Liaoning are major centers of heavy industry on
a national scale, and the province produexs 9.4 percent of gross national heavy industrial
output. Of particular significance is the steel industry, which accounts for more than
25 percent of national production.
3.          Liaoning also has a significant agricultural output, slightly above the national
average on a per capita basis. Agncultural output constitutes about 15 percent of the total
provincial output. Basic food supplies are derived from agriculture carried out in several
large river basins, principally the twin basins of the Hun and Taizi Rivers in the heartland
of the province. The rivers flow from northeast to southwest for some 415 km before
joining to form the Daliao River, which discharges to the Liaodong Gulf of the Bohai Sea,
some 98 km farther downstream. The Hun and Taizi basins occupy some 20 percent of
the land area, contain more than one third of the population of Liaoning, and produce
about 60 percent and 40 percent, respectively, of its gross industrial and agricultural
output.
4.          The province has very limited water resources, which on a per capita basis
are one third the national average and the third lowest of all the provinces. Historic rapid
industral development, coupled with inadequate wastewater management, has seriously
threatened the existing limited water resources, and substantial increases in industrial
production are planned. The total quantity of wastewater discharged from the six major
cities in the Hun-Taizi Basin have been estimated at 2.4 million m3/d in 1987 and are
projected to increase to 4.4 million m3/d in 2000. In addition, independent discharges
from major industries are estimated to rise from 2.5 million m3/d in 1987 to 3.8 million
m3/d in 2000. Such increases would further degrade the limited water resources of the



- 57 -                         ANNEX 2
province. Water pollution is already reported to be causing significant losses in agriculture
because of the poor water quality in watercourses used for irrigation.
S.          Water consumption in all cities is dominated by industrial use, which
typically accounts for about 70 percent of consumption. Discharges of pollution from
industry are frequently associated with inadequately controlled and therefore inefficient and
wasteful use of both water and materials. Water consumption per unit of industrial output
is frequently very high by international standards. The use of water per unit output of
steel and petroleum have been estimated at up to 5 and 10 times, respectively, the
corresponding use elsewhere.
6.          Studies of diversion of water from catchments where there are, albeit
modest, surpluses to augment or substitute existing polluted resources have indicated that
unit costs are very substantial and in some cases exorbitant. Thus, there is a clear need,
in addition to more effective wastewater management, for industry to improve the
efficiency of water use if industrial growth is to be sustained. Indeed, there is evidence
that industrial output in some cities is already constrained by water resource restrictions.
Potential industrial output lost as a result of water shortages has been estimated to be in
the order of millions of dollars per year.
7.          Similar lack of controls on polluting discharges and the inefficient use of
resources are also causing severe problems of air pollution in many of the major cities in
the province. The problems are derived principally from the combustion of poor-quality
coal (in terms of high sulfur and ash contents) for heating, power generation and industrial
use and result in extremely poor urban air quality, with substantial exceedance of even the
least-stringent air quality criteria, principally concentrations of sulfur dioxide (SO2) and
particulates (TSP). The nature and extent of the problems are such that they cannot be
solved at a reasonable cost and within a realistic timeframe solely by the provision of
emission controls. There would need to be a 'cradle to grave" approach to achieve
pollution reductions at all stages ranging from fuel sourcing to controls on combustion.
8.          Solid waste management throughout the province is inefficient and has
adverse effects on the environment. Waste collection and transport frequently involve
small vehicles and multiple handling of small quantities of waste, and standards of hygiene
are poor. Waste disposal is largely by simple dumping with very limited control, and there
are no sites operated to international standards of sanitary landfill. Wild fires occur
frequently on the dumps and landfills; as a result, there are problems of pollution of air,
surface runoff and groundwater.
9.          The effective utilization of water resources in the Hun-Taizi Basin was the
subject of a previous study, the Hun-Taizi River Basin Management Study (HTRBMS),
managed by the Bank and funded by the Australian International Development Assistance
Bureau (AIDAB). The study was completed in 1988 and produced a ranked set of
investments for water resource development and water pollution control measures designed
to improve water resource utilization in the basin. A number of water resource
developments were included in the Bank-financed Liaoning Urban Iftastructure Project



- 58 -                         ANNEX 2
and the proposed project would finance, inter alia, the second set of priority investments
identified by HTRBMS focused on water pollution abatement.
10.         Liaoning Province has an important cultural heritage that reflects the eventful
history of the region, its natural resource endowments, and its strategic location.
Throughout the province are cultural relics that represent the social and cultural
developments that have taken place in Liaoning. They range chronologically from the
paleolithic Jinniushan cave site, to Hongshan culture sites at Niuheliang (circa 3000 BC),
to the Jieshi Gong palace site identified with Emperor Qinshihuang (circa 220 BC), the
Great Wall at Jiumenkou (a World Heritage Site), the early timber Fenghousi Buddhist
Temple (circa 970 AD), the Manchu Palace at Shenyang (1450 AD), and the medieval
walled city of Xing Cheng. The Liaoning Provincial Museum and the Palace Museum are
noted for their great collections of Chinese paintings, textiles, lacquers, metalwork, and
ceramics. Numerous local museums dnd hundreds of cultural sites of national, provincial,
and local levels of importance are located in the province. The physical environments of
the heavily industrialized cities of the province, where new construction is occurring at a
rapid pace, present grave threats to the survival of this heritage. Conservation efforts and
development control would need to be increased in order to avoid the loss of this valuable
resource.
Anshan
1I.         Anshan is one of the major industrial cities in Liaoning and is located in the
Taizi River basin, and is the most downstream of the major cities in the basin of the Taizi
upstream of its confluence with the Hun River. The population of Anshan was
approximately 1.4 million in 1992, projected to rise to some 1.7 million in 2010. The city
is a major center of the steel industry. The Anshan Iron and Steel Complex (ANGANG)
in the city produces about 40 percent of steel output in Liaoning and more than 10 percent
of national output. Other sectors of industry represented in Anshan include petroleum and
petrochemicals, textiles and paper.
12.         The significance of Anshan as a major industrial center is reflected in the
large proportion of water consumption by industry. In 1990, industry accounted for
81 percent of the total water supply of 1.02 million e3/d. Total demand is projected to
increase to 1.56 million m3/d, of which industry would consume about 78 percent.
13.         The Taizi River runs to the west of the city with three tributaries of the
Taizi, the Nanshan, Yunliang, and Yangliu Rivers, running from east to west through the
city. These river systems and their tributaries in the city are used as wastewater channels,
intercepting all municipal and industrial wastewater from the city area, including discharges
from more than 100 major industries, for conveyance to the Taizi River system. As a
result, the water quality classification of the Taizi downstream of the discharges from
Anshan is Class V of the national surface water quality classification.
14.         The sewerage system in Anshan serves about 85 percent of the city; there
is only a single municipal wastewater treatment plant of capacity only 20,000 m3/d,



-59-                          ANNEX2
providing only primary treatment. In addition, there are industrial wastewater treatment
plants at the ANGANG complex, treating 60,000 m3/d, and at 38 other industries, all of
which are understood to experience difficulties in meeting provincial wastewater discharge
standards.
15.        The overall objectives of water management in Anshan are:
(a)  to improve water quality in the Taizi and its tributaries for use in irrigation
and industrial water supply; and
(b)  to conserve limited water resources by improving the efficiency of water use
in industry.
The long-term (up to 2020) wastewater treatment plans for Anshan involve three major and
two smaller plants with a combined capacity of some 750,000 m3/d. The highest priority
plant is one that would treat largely industrial wastewater currently discharged to the Xida
(3ou, a tributary of the Yunliang.
16.        Benxi is an industrial city, situated in hilly terrain on the upper reaches of
the Taizi River, which flows through the city in a southwesterly direction. The population
of Benxi in 1992 was about 0.95 million and is expected to reach some 1.2 million by year
2010.
17.        Benxi is an important industrial center of Liaoning Province with 230 large
plants covering 25 sectors of industry. The most important sector is the production of iron
and steel. The Benxi Iron and Steel Compsiy (BENGANG) is the second-largest steel
producer in the province, accounting for about 13 percent of production. Other significant
sectors include chemicals, pharmaceuticals, cement, paper and textiles production.
18.        The city is located some 40 km downstream of the multipurpose Guanyenge
reservoir and immediately upstream of the Shenwo reservoir, both of which impound the
mainstream Taizi and one or more of its tributaries. Water quality in the Taizi upstream
of Benxi, from where the city mainly derives its potable water supply, is generally good,
attaining Class II of the national classification. However, as the Taizi traverses the city,
it becomes highly polluted by the discharges from a number of open ditches containing
untreated municipal and industrial wastewater, and immediately downstream of the city the
river water quality deteriorates to Class V. The pollution from Benxi also degrades water
quality in the Shenwo reservoir.
19.        The existing sewer system is basically a combined system dating back for
more than 60 years. Wastewater flow projections indicate combined domestic and
industrial flows increasing from 680,000 m3/d in 1990 to around 1,008,000 m3/d by 2010.
During periods of low flow in the Taizi, the wastewater flow is similar to or even exceeds
the natural river flow.



- 60-NEX 2
20.         The City of Benxi has the poorest air quality of any city in Liaoning and
probably in China. Measured air quality (principally concentrations of TSP and SO)
varies as a function of sampling location and seasonally, and is particularly poor in winter,
when SO? concentrations rise by up to an order of magnitude. Concentrations of S02 and
TSP substntially exceed even the least-stringent air quality standards.
21.         The poor air quality in Benxi is largely a result of the combustion of coal
of poor quality (in terms of high sulfur and ash contents) by industry, for power generation
and heating, and of the widespread absence of emission controls on discharges to
atmosphere. Total consumption of coal in Benxi is of the order of 7.5 million tons per
year and the major emissions of SO2 and TSP are from power generation, iron and steel
production (blast fumaces and coke ovens) and cement manufacture. Total emissions of
SO% and TSP have been estimated at more than 140,000 and 220,000 tons per year,
respectively (1991), the dominant contributor being BENGANG, which, in addition to
producing iron and steel, also provides the electncity and gas supplies for the city.
22.         The air quality situation in Benxi is exacerbated by the location of e tcity
in a river valley surrounded by hills. The formation of stable temperature inversions
severely restricts the dispersion of the substantial discharges of pollutants leading to very
poor local air quality, particularly in winter.
Dal
23.         Dalian is at the southem tip of the Liao Dong Peninsula about 360 km from
Shenyang, the provincial capital. The city is located on a coastal strip surrounded by the
Bohai Sea on the northwest and the Yellow Sea to the southeast. The urban population of
Dalian was approximately 2.3 million in 1990 and is expected to rise to 3.7 million by
2010. The economy of the city depends on transportation, fisheries, tourism and
industries, including metallurgy, textiles, food processing, electronics, and building
materials.
24.         The city derives its water supplies from  two reservoirs and from
groundwater. Total water supply is projected to rise from 424,000 m3id in 1990 to
1,342,000 m3/d in 2010. However, Dalian has among the highest-cost water resources of
the cities in Liaoning, and there is currently significant suppression of demand because of
restricted supplies. This has led to the recovery of treated municipal wastewater for use
by industry in Dalian.
25.        In Dalian, the primary concern with regard to the control of pollution caused
by untreated wastewater discharges relates to the need to protect water quality in the
coastal areas. Heishijiao Bay, with an area of 36 knIm at the mouth of the Malan River on
the southem coast of the city, is important for aquaculture of kelps and shellfish,
principally abalone, mussels and cla..s. In addition, the coastal waters are extensively
used for recreation. Water quality in these recreational waters indicates a significant
degree of bacterial pollution from domestic wastewater. The shellfish production is
threatened by the occurrence of red tides and the concentration by the shellfish of heavy



-61-                           ANN      2
metals derived from industrial wastewater discharges to the Malan River and thence to
Heishijiao Bay.
26.         Dalian Bay on the east coast of the city has an area of 210 kn9 but is
semienclosed, with limited water movement. West Bay, the inshore area of Dalian Bay,
has particularly poor water circulation and is heavily polluted by numerous discharges of
untreated wastewater.
27.         A total of eight wastewater treatment projects have been identified for the
city, sesving a total population of 1.7 million. Only one has been constructed, the Chunliu
plant discharging to West Bay, and this is not functioning at full capacity because of
sewerage system limitations that restrict the flow that can be treated. Part of the treated
wastewater is recovered for use by local industry.
28.         Approximately 85 percent (1,100 tons per day) of the municipal waste in
Dalian is collected regularly. Industry provides its own collection and disposal service;
while the collection coverage is satisfactory, severe littering and pollution problems are
associated with the solid waste management system. The open collection bins cause
littering, bad odor and are eyesores in the urban environment. Collection vehicles bring
the waste to a transfer point at Shouyu Bay, which is near the city center, and dump it on
the ground where more than 120,000 m3 of waste has accumulated, because the transport
vehicles used are too small and inefficient.
29.         Uncontrolled fires in the decomposing garbage and bad odor foul the air.
Polluted water flows in the Shouyu Bay, and loose waste litters the area around the transfer
dump. The waste is transported in open trucks to a landfill at Maoyingzi, where it is
disposed of in an uncontrolled manner on the shores of Jinzhou Bay; leachate pollutes the
coastal waters.  The fumes from  frequent wild fires on the landfill give rise to
environmental and public health hazards.  The landfill gases released from  the
decomposing vwaste also contribute marginally to global warming.
30.         The problems of waste management in Dalian are typical of those of the
province as a whole and are exacerbated by the fact that the principal landfill site is located
some 25 km from the city, resulting in high transport costs because of the small capacity
of the vehicles used. Although there is a basic waste transfer facility at the former Shouyu
landfill site close to the city, the improvement in transport efficiency is limited because
there are no waste compaction facilities.
Fushun
31.         Fushun is located on the Hun River about 50 km upstream from Shenyang
and immediately downstream of the multipurpose Dahuofang reservoir used for flood
alleviation and water supply purposes. The 1992 population was 1.2 million, projected to
rise to 1.5 million by 2010.



- 62 -                        ANNEX 2
32.         Fushun is a major center of heavy industry in Liaoning and has more than
1,100 industrial plants covering 45 sectors of industry. Principal activities in Fushun
include coal mining, metallurgy, petroleum and petrochemicals, and machinery
manufacture. Two large thermal power stations are located within the city. Substantial
increases in industrial activity are planned.
33.         Water consumption in Fushun is dominated by industry, which accounted
for more than 80 percent of the total 1990 wastewater flow of approximately
600,000 m3/d. Almost half the industrial wastewater quantity wvas accounted for by
discharges from power stations and coal mines. Wastewater quantities are projected to rise
to approximately 1.3 million m3/d in 2010, with industry still accounting for 75 percent
in spite of substantial expected economies in water use. Some 40 industries in Fushun
have installed some form of wastewater treatment facility, but the effectiveness of these
in terms of reducing pollution is very limited.
34.         At present, wastewater is discharged untreated into the Hun River, which
runs through Fushun from east to west, and to the Shenfu Irrigation Canal. Since Fushun
is located immediately downstream of the Dahuofang reser-voir, the flow in the Hun River
in Fushun is very restricted, as therefore is the dilution of the wastewater discharges. As
a result, the water quality in the Hun River as it traverses Fushun fails even to comply
with the Class V classification. The Shenfu canal is similarly highly polluted because of
very limited dilution of wastewater discharges. It has been estimated that in the Shenyang-
Fushun area, water pollution has caused a loss in economic terms of about 6 percent of the
local agricultural output.
35.         The primary concerns with regard to the wastewater pollution in Fushun are:
(a)  the need to protect the Shenyang aquifer, which is recharged largely by the
Hun River downstream of Fushun and which provides the Shenyang water
supply; and
(b)  the control of pollution in the Shenfu irrigation canal.
36.         Since the Hun River is the major source of recharge for the Shenyang
aquifer some 20 km downstream of Fushun, the water quality in this section of the Hun
River needs to be improved from below Class V to Class MU. Similarly, the water quality
in the Shenfu canal needs to be improved to Class V to meet irrigation requirements.
Jlnzhou
37.        Jinzhou is situated southwest of Liaoning on the Xiaoling River about 20 km
north of the Bohai Sea, and is located on the major transportation corridor between Beijing
and the industrial northeast of China. The city is an economic and cultural center for
western Liaoning and has an industrial base comprising petrochemical, metallurgical,
electrical, textile and medical industries. The urban population is currently about
0.9 million, projected to increase to approximately 1.3 million in 2010.



- 63 -                         ANNEX-2
38.         The municipal water supply for the city is supplied from groundwater
sources, mostly from shallow aquifers recharged by the Xiaoling and Nuer Rivers. As
with other cities in Liaoning, industry dominates water use, accounting for about
75 percent of consumption, much of which is by independent groundwater abstractions.
Considerable industrial development is proposed, particularly in designated development
zones. Water demand is therefore projected to increase from the present level of
approximately 540,000 n3/d to about 980,000 m3/d in 2010.
39.         Of the seven water sources serving Jinzhou, four are within the city limits
and are at risk of contamination as a result of poor wastewater management, in particular
the discharge of inadequately treated wastewater to the Xiaoling River. The Bozi water
source already needs to be taken out of service due to local contamination of the aquifer
by recharge by untreated wastewater.
40.         Treatment of the wastewater from the city is planned, but there is urgent
need to address projected shortfalls in water supply, which would inhibit industrial growth,
and to safeguard the supply sources. In view of the limited groundwater resources in the
city area and the potential risks of contamination, it would be increasingly necessary to
exploit groundwater resources more distant from the city. A new abstraction from an
aquifer recharged by the Daling River to the east of Jinzhou is proposed.
41.         The Jincheng Paper Mill is located on the Daling River about 25 km north
east of Jinzhou and about 15 kn upstream of the proposed groundwater abstraction for
Jinzhou. The mill is an independent accounting unit subordinated to the Jinzhou Municipal
Light Industry Bureau and has been operating for in excess of 50 years. The annual
turnover of the mill is some Y 320 million.
42.         The mill produces 100,000 tons per year of paper and cardboard, using reed
as the raw material and operating the magnesium sulfite pulping process. The use of water
and raw materials at the mill is inefficient, and the mill discharges a highly polluting
wastewater stream. Water consumption is some 220 m3 per ton of paper produced, which
is several times that at efficient pulp and paper mills elsewhere. In addition, the pollution
load of the wastewater from the mill is some 3 million population equivalent, and the
discharge is the most significant single discharge to the Daling River. There is very
limited dilution in the Daling River, and the discharge from the mill severely degrades
water quality in the river. As a result, there is concern regarding the potential effect of
the discharge on water quality in the aquifer from which future abstractions for Jinzhou are
proposed.
Environmenlul Rehabilitation and Construction
43.         Many suitable heritage conservation activities were reviewed in the
preparation of the project. The four activities presented below were chosen as they form
a cohesive package that covers a broad range of heritage issues and are spread
geographically OLroughout the province. Activities at the Shenyang Palace Museum and
the medieval walled city of Xing Cheng, judged also to be priorities, await funding.



- 64 -                        ANNEX2
44.         Museum Services. Although the Liaoning Provincial Museum in Shenyang
is acknowledged by museum experts as one of the world's greatest collections of Chinese
art, particularly its early paintings and textiles, it is relatively unknown and underutilized
in Shenyang and the province. Under this activity, parts of the Liaoning Provincial
Museum would be renovated in order to improve the environmental and security conditions
in galleries and storerooms and to rationalize the use of the existing buildings. A
Conservation Center would be installed and equipped, the only such teaching facility in the
Province. An exhibition introducing the history and material culture of Liaoning and
related publicity material would be prepared to increase the museum's visibility and
popularity in Shenyang. The museum is slated to become the focus of training activities
for the project, incorporating training in preventive conser  on methods, presentation and
interpretation of material culture, programming and budg   g, and management.
45.         Niuhellang. One of the most important archaeological sites in Liaoning, and
perhaps China, Niuheliang is a key to understanding the early history of the Hongshan
culture (circa 3000 BC) and Liu people. Archaeological work is under way, but adequate
site conservation is lacking. Planning for the development of the site for visitors has not
been carried out. The site is in urgent need of emergency conservation of areas in which
archaeological excavation has commenced and which are now at serious risk from the
effects of the extreme climate and lack of security. In addition, site management works,
supported by a conceptual plan for its long-term development, would meet archaeological
investigation and site and conservation needs, its presentation for visitors, and future
infrastructure requirements.
46.         Jiumenkou Great Wall. The Great Wall at Jiumenkou, a World Heritage
Site, consists of expanses of wall, observation and signal towers, and a nine-arched bridge
across the Jiujiang River. This strategic pass of the Great Wall is located in a dramatic
landscape some 30 minutes from the established tourist resorts of Shanhaiguan and the
Bohai Sea. Although parts of the WaU at Jiumenkou have been repaired, the remaining
unprotected areas are threatened by decay that is hastened by uncontrolled visitor access.
At present, there are no educational or tourism promotion functions at the site.
47.         Conservation of the Wall is needed that would develop and apply
nonintrusive, scientifically sound methods to stabilize a section of the Wall. In tandem
with appropriate visitor management, the negative impacts from visitors would be reduced.
Conservation techniques used here would be applicable at other sites in Liaoning. Site
presentation would focus on improving existing visitor facilities, increasing the visitors'
understanding and enjoyment of the Great Wall, and improving revenue earnings. The
geographical position and ecological setting of Jiumenkou, the historical background and
construction history of the Wall, and great personalities associated with Jiumenkou would
be presented to visitors. Additional funding is being sought for the preparation and
implementation of a comprehensive Master Plan at Jiumenkou that would assess the
significance of the site, its infrastructure requirements, sociocultural setting, financing
options, and tourism potential. This would be an instrument to reconcile the historical and
conservation sensitivity of the site with its development as a major historic place.



- 65 -                         ANNEX 2
48.         Jieshi Gong. The archaeologial site of Jieshi Gong, covering an area of
over 25 kn2, contains traces of early settlements and has been identified with the palace
of the third century BC Emperor Qinshihuan. The investigation of the site is at an early
stage; interest in the area for tourism development is growing. A macro-site investigation
of the site, including systematic archaeological survey, is required to form a sound basis
for any future development. Selected site conservation works in excavated areas would
also be undertaken.
49.         Sectoral Issues. Traditionally, cultural heritage conservation has existed at
the margins, carried out with little coordination with line agencies and small budgets.
Awareness of environmental issues has provided an opportunity to bring heritage
conservation into the national development agenda. Several issues, however, remain to be
adequately considered. Development control and financing are central to the discussion.
A critical issue, which would need concerted efforts, is how development control
mechanisms can be used to protect the heritage. At present in Liaoning Province, and in
China in general, heritage is considered primarily as individual monuments. Little
attention is paid to the physical setting and context of historic structures. The result is that
the historic fabric is rapidly being lost, as in the case of the surroundings of the Imperial
Palace in Shenyang where a large, multistory shopping complex has been constructed
adjacent to the Palace, severely compromising its integrity. As land markets become more
active and property prices in the centers of historic cities increase, the threat to heritage
would also intensify. The use of financial instruments to fund heritage activities is largely
unexplored. At this critical juncture in the move to a market-based economy, heritage
would need to maximize its ability to generate revenue in order to survive. Experience has
shown that wouldingness to pay depends largely on offering the public archaeological and
historical sites and museums with quality presentation and interpretation. It can be
expected that in China, as discretionary income and leisure time increase, visitorship to
cultural sites would also rise.



- 66 -                         A x-3
DETAIED PROJECT DESC ON
1.          The components of the proposed project investments arc described in detail
below and summarized in tabular form.
Anshan Wastewater Colection, Treatment and Disposal
2.          The Anshan wastewater component is designed to address the pollution of
the Xida Gou canal, which is a tributary of the Yunliang River and ultimately the Taizi.
The Xida Gou carries mainly industrial wastewater (about 93 percent), principally from
the ANGANG steel complex in Anshan. The component would also provide opportunities
for reuse of the treated wastewater for a number of purposes in the ANGANG plant for
water conservation objectives.  The principal wastewater characteristics are high
concentrations of suspended solids and oil.
3.          The present dry weather flow is estimated around 192,000 m3/day, based on
field survey data obtained in 1992. Significant increases in wastewater flows are not
expected since restricted water availability is already a limiting factor for industry in
Anshan. Future industrial development would be forced to incorporate better water
management and reuse policies that would offset any total increase in water demand.
4.          The design average flow for the facility is 220,000 m3l/da with the treatment
process units designed to deal with peak flows of 440,000 m3/day. Treatment of the
wastewater is based on a process sequence comprising grit removal, chemically assisted
primary clarification using alum, and sand filtration. Sludge generated by the treatment
would be dewatered by pressure filtration (filter belt presses) and disposed of at a suitable
landfill. The treated effluent would be mostly reused withir. ANGANG operations and the
treatment process is designed to produce effluent to comply with the ANGANG
specification for recycled water in terms of suspended solids and oil concentrations. The
estimated shown below is a total cost including all contingencies.
5.          Proposed Component ($45.0 million). The proposed component would
comprise the following works:
(a)   Interceptor Culvert of reinforced concrete multiple section construction,
about 4.2 km length, size about 1.5 m wide * 2.0 m high;
(b)   Wastewater Treatment Works to provide effective treatment for about
220,000 m3/d of wastewater for industrial reuse purposes. The process
units would include screening, grit removal, chemically assisted primary



- 67 -                        ANNEX 3
clarification, filtration, sludge dewatering and removal, and onward
pumping of treated wastewater for reuse; and
(c)   Treated Effluent Pumping Main comprising about 3 km of twin steel or
other pipe materials in size about 1,000 mm diameter for industrial reuse.
Fushun Wastewater Collection, Treatment and Disposal
6.          The objective of wastewater collection and treatment in Fushun is to improve
water quality in the Hun River, which is the primary recharge source of the Shenyang
aquifer from which the city of Shenyang derives its potable water supply and the Shenfu
canal, which is extensively used for irrigation. The project concept is based on the
collection of wastewater flows from the city and conveyance by a 26 kn interceptor sewer
for treatment at a new treatment plant at Sanbaotun, downstream of Fushun, and
subsequent discharge to the Hun River. Treatment is by chemically assisted primary
sedimentation, with dewatering and disposal of sludge by landfill. Wastewater flows from
20 major industries in Fushun are to be excluded from the sewerage system and treated on
site for subsequent disposal by discharge to the Shenfu canal. The objective is to improve
water quality in the Hun River downstream of Fushun to Class m and in the Shenfu canal
to Class V.
7.          The average industrial wastewater flow for the design year for the sewerage
system of 2000 is estimated at 230,000 m3/d and average municipal wastewater flow at
some 250,000 m3/d. The interceptor capacity would allow for about 2.4 times the average
flow. The first-phase wastewater treatment plant capacity is 250,000 m3/d, and a pilot
plant facility of capacity 250 m3/d would be provided to determine longer-term design
criteria for secondary treatment.
8.          Proposed Component ($47.8 million). The works to be implemented under
this component are:
(a)   Municipal Interceptor Sewer totaling about 14.5 km of reinforced concrete
single- and double-section rectangular culverts in sizes from about 2.0 m
wide * 1.9 m high to 2.6 m wide * 2.0 m high;
(b)   Industrial Interceptor Sewer totaling about 10.5 km of reinforced concrete
single-section closed rectangular culvert, in sizes from about 1.4 m wide *
1.4 m high to 1.6 m wide * 1.5 m high;
(c)   Pump Stations.  Reinforced concrete pumping structures, equipment,
pumps, clectrical facilities, of about 50,000 e3ld total capacity;
(d)   Link Sewers and Connections totaling about 10.6 km of reinforced
concrete or other pipe materials in sizes from about 500 mm to 1,200 mm
diameter and single-section closed culverts in sizes from about 1.4 m wide
1 X 4 m high to 1.6 m wide * 1.6 m high; and



- 68 -                        ANNEX 3
(e)   Wastewater Treatmert Plant at Sanbaotun comprising, pumps, screens,
grit removal, chemicaUy assisted primary clarification, mechanical sludge
dewatering and landfiU disposal; design capacity 250,000 m31d of mixed
wastewater, together with a pilot plant facility of 250 m3/d capacity.
Benid Wastewater Collection, Treatment and Disposal
9.          The objective of the Benxi wastewater component is to address the existing
gross pollution of the Taizi River, as it traverses the city, by untreated domestic and
industrial wastewater discharges. This has resulted in deterioration of water quality in the
Taizi downstream of Benxi, where it fails to comply with even the Class V standard, and
in the Shenwo reservoir, which releases water into the Taizi for abstraction for use in
Liaoyang and Anshan.
10.        The main city area would be served by two treatment systems; a municipal
plant at Linjiawaizi on the northem bank of the Taizi would treat an average flow of
300,000 m31d of a mixture of domestic and industrial wastewater in roughly equal
proportions, and a second industrial plant, to be located at Tuanshanzi, on the south bank,
would treat the industrial flows from the main industrial area in the center and southwest
of the city, principaly from the BENGANG steel compleA. In the longer term, a third,
much smaller plant would treat mainly industrial wastewater from the northeastern areas
of the city. Treatment at the municipal wastewater treatment plant would take the form
of grit removal, chemically assisted primary clarification and sludge dewaterng by filter-
belt pressing for disposal at a suitable nearby landfill facility.
11.        Wastewater would be conveyed to the proposed municipal wastewater
treatment plant by a large interceptor sewer, some 12 km in length, traversing the majority
of the city and running adjacent to the river. This sewer would intercept dry-weather
flows of municipal and industrial wastewater currently discharging to the Taizi via outfalls
and open channels. The wastewater to be treated at the industrial wastewater treatment
plant would conveyed to the plant by a separate interceptor adjacent to the river on the
south bank.
12.        The objective of treatment is to improve the water quality in the Taizi River
to Class IV. Collection and treatment of the combined municipal wastewater would make
a significant improvement in water quality in the Taizi, but would not be sufficient to
achieve atl water quality objectives.  It is important, therefore, that the industrial
wastewater collection and treatment facilities be provided as a matter of urgency.
13.        Proposed Component ($39.9 million). The proposed project component
would comprise the following works for the municipal system (the industrial system would
be implemented under a separate program):
(a)   Municipal Interceptor Sewer totaling about 5.5 km of reinforced concrete
or other pipe materials in sizes from about 900 mm to 1,600 mm diameter;



- 69 -                        AEX 3
(b)   Municipal Interceptor Sewer totaling about 6.6 km of reinforced concrete
single-section closed culvert in sizes from about 2.3 m wide by 1.8 m high
to 2.8 m wide by 1.9 m high;
(c)   Link Sewers and Connections totaling about 7 km of reinforced concrete
or other pipe materials in sizes from about 300 mm to 800 mm diameter;
and
(d)   Wastewater Treatment Plant at Linjiawaizi to provide treatment for about
300,000 m3ld of mixed domestic and industrial wastewater. The process
would include screening, grit removal, chemically assisted primary
clarfication, and sludge dewatering/landfill disposal.
Benxi Air Qualky Management and Dtrict Heating
14.        Benxi has a Master Plan for Air Pollution Abatement (APA), prepared by
the Benxi EPB, which is in two phases, covering the periods 1991-96 and 1996-2000. The
objective to be achieved by 1996 is to comply with Class mI of the national air quality
standards (the least stringent) on an annual average basis for aU pollutants except for SO2
for which the goal is an annual average of 0.15 mglm3 (1.5 times the Class Im standard).
The 2000 objective is compliance with the Class II standard for all pollutants other than
S02 for which the objective is the Class m standard.
15.        The first stage of the APA program is therefore aimed primarily at removal
of TSP, with a lower priority attached to SO2. Proposals are in hand for substantial
reductions in TSP from the Benxi power station, operated by BENGANG, by means of the
installation of electrostatic precipitators on the boiler plant.  BENGANG would
neverteless remain the most significant source of TSP and S02 emissions in Benxi.
16.        This component would comprise pollution control investments at the
BENGANG blast furnaces and coke ovens and provision of boilers, heat exchangers and
distribution pipework forming part of an expansion of the Benxi district heating system.
The subcomponents are as follows.
17.        Blast Furnaces. The existing wet scrubbers for solids removal from the off-
gases at two blast fumaces would be replaced by dry electrostatic precipitators. This
would have the effect of obviating a polluting wastewater discharge to the Taizi and of a
small reduction in the discharge of TSP to atmosphere. The primary benefit, however, is
that the off-gases would be of suitable quality for use in the BENGANG coke ovens and
hence the recovery of their energy content.
18.        This reuse would have the beneficial effect of allowing the coke oven gas
currently used to be diverted for beneficial use in the town gas supply network for
residential areas, and would approximately double the availability of town gas. This in
turn would reduce the consumption of coal in small inefficient domestic boilers and stoves,
which is particularly important in terms of its effect on the ground-level concentrations of



- 70 -                        ANNEX 3
the important pollutants S02 and TSP. To realize the maximum environmental and
economic benefits of the proposa!, it is imperative that the town gas distribution system in
Benxi is of sufficient capacity to utilize fully the additional supplies and must be expanded
if necessary.
19.        Coke Ovens. The objective of this subcomponent is to reduce the emissions
of particulates that occur during the charging of the coke ovens with coal and the coke side
pushing and quenching. Although not highly significant in terms simply of TSP, the
emissions are all fugitive and at or near ground level and therefore are very significant in
terms of local ground-level pollutant concentrations. Of particular concern are the
emissions from the coal-charging operations, which contain the carcinogenic benzol-soluble
organics (BSO) and benzopyrene (Bap), which are associated with the emissions of TSP
and condense and adhere to the particulate matter and are easily inhaled. They are
therefore of considerable concem in terms of both occupational and environmental health.
20.        The process selected for the control of emissions from charging of the coke
ovens is based on a new automatic charging car design with adjustments to the sequencing
and rate of coal charging. The pushing emission control proposal is based on the
*Minister-Stein" process and retrofitting of the existing quench towers, which collectively
reduce emissions from both the pushing of the coke into the quench car and during the
quench cycle.
21.        District Heating. This subcomponent provides distribution pipework, heat
exchangers and supplementary boilers to support a district heating scheme to increase the
residential heating supply area in Benxi by approximately 1 million m2 based primarily on
a 28 MW CHP plant. The overall scheme would have a substantial environmental benefit
in reducing the consumption of coal in small inefficient boilers in residential areas and
hence the emissions of SO2 and TSP to atmosphere. There would be a furnher reduction
in emissions of both TSP and SO2 because emission controls would be incorporated in the
CHP boiler plant, in the case of SO2 removal in the form of in-fumace injection of
limestone.
22.         As a result of imbalances in demands for heat and electricity in terms of the
CHP plant output in winter, it is necessary to provide supplementary heat-only boilers for
winter operation. In order to sustain the environmental benefits of the scheme as a whole,
these boilers would also be equipped with emission controls.
23.         The cumulative effect of these proposals is to reduce emissions of TSP by
about 20 percent and S02 by about 7 percent in terms of annual emissions. Although two
of the three subcomponents are directed at BENGANG, the overall mass emissions from
BENGANG are not greatly reduced in terms of the principal pollutants at which the Benxi
APA Master Plan is directed, namely TSP and 52. The reductions in emissions derive
principally from the reductions in the use of coal in residential areas by means of improved
energy efficiency and fuel substitution, in part brought about by the BENGANG blast
furnace subcomponent. Thus, the component is consistent both with the objectives of the



- 71-                         ANNEX3
Benxi APA Master Plan and with the Bank's ongoing policy dialogue with China in the
context of a change from coal to cleaner fuels for urban energy supply.
24.         In practice, the effect of the component in terms of improvements in air
quality in Benxi is expected to be greater than implied simply by the annual reductions in
emissions for two reasons:
(a)  the reductions in emissions derived from fuel substitution are achieved by
replacing small boilers in residential areas that have no emission controls,
are inefficient and discharge emissions close to ground level; their effect on
ground-level concentrations of pollutants is therefore disproportionate to the
mass of pollutant emitted; and
(b)   part of the reduction is seasonal, occurring only over the five-month heating
period; thus the emission reduction on a daily basis is proportionally
increased.
25.         Proposed Component ($72.2 million). This component would comprise:
Air Quality Management
(a)   BENGANG Coke Ovens Nos. 1, 2 and 4, comprising the supply and
installation of automatic charging car facilities with emission controls and
retrofitting of existing quench towers; and
(b)   BENGANG Blast Furnaces Nos. 1 and 2, comprising the provision of dry
electrostatic precipitators for control of polluting wastewater discharges to
Taizi River and energy recovery from utilization of off-gases.
District Heating
(c)   Boiler PLant, comprising 28 MW CHP boiler plant and ancillary facilities;
(d)   Distribution Pipework, comprising Dongfeng and Chaitun pipelines, heat
exchangers and miscellaneous equipment; and
(e)   Auxiliary Facilities, comprising administration building, utility services.
Daian Wastewater Collection, Treatment and Disposal
26.         The major water pollution issues in Dalian relate to the need for protection
of coastal water quality, principally in terms of recreational waters and aquaculture. A
total of eight wastewater treatment and disposal schemes have been identified in Dalian for
completion by the year 2020 to deal with projected municipal and industrial wastewater
flows of about 640,000 m3/d at that time. The plants have been prioritized, in part in
terms of size, to ensure maximum environmental impact by dealing with the largest flows



- 72 -                        ANHUI3
first. The plants at Malan and Chunliu, with estimated flows in 2020 of 190,000 and
100,000 m3ld account for the major pollution loads, are given first priority. To date, only
the Chunliu plant has been constructed.
27.         The existing Chunliu plant, commissioned in 1988, was designed to treat a
flow of 60,000 m3/d, but is presently operating at about 25 percent of its rated capacity due
primarily to deficiencies in the sewerage system. Sewerage system improvements would
be undertaken to divert additional wastewater flows to the Chunliu wastewater treatment
plant, and the plant would be refurbished to enhance treatment efficiency and to realize its
original design capacity. A new wastewater treatment facility would be provided at Malan
River with a capacity of 120,000 m3/d, with the objective of improving water quality in
recreational waters and aquaculture areas of the adjacent Heishijiao Bay. Sludge from both
plants would be disposed of at the Maoyingzi landfill site.
28.         Due to water supply constraints in Dalian and the high cost of future water
source developments, reuse of treated effluent by industrial units is an important
consideration. Both the Chunliu (after upgrading) and the Malan River plants would
provide teriary treatment for significant proportions of the treated wastewater for industrial
reuse.
29.         Proposed Component ($60.0 million). The works proposed under this
component are as follows:
Chunliu System
(a)   Municipal Interceptor and Collector Sewers totaling about 18 kn of
reinforced concrete or other pipe materials in sizes from about 400 mm to
1,200 mm diameter;
(b)   Pump Stations. Reinforced concrete pumping structures, equipment and
electrical installations of about 51,000 m3/d total capacity;
(c)   Chunliu  Wastewater  Treatment  Plant  Rehabilitation/xtension
comprising screens, grit removal, aeration plant extension/diffuser
upgrading, control system, sludge drying/removal with capacity about
60,000 m3/d;
(d) Tertiary Treatment and Wastewater Recovery comprising sand filtration
and chlorination for a flow of 40,000 m3/d, pumping station and distribution
mains;
Malan System
(e)   Municipal Interceptor Sewer totaling about 3.5 km of reinforced concrete
or other pipe materials in sizes from about 500 mm to 1,200 mm diameter;



- 73 -                         ANNE  3
(f)   Link and Connection Sewers totaling about 3 km of reinforced concrete or
other pipe materials in size of about 500 mm to 700 mm diameter;
(g)   Pnump Stations. Reinforced concrete pumping structures, equipment and
electrical facilities in new and rehabilitated stations of about 50,000 meld
total capacity; and
(h)   Malan Wastewater Treatment Plant comprising screens, grit removal,
biological treatment using oxidation ditch technology, sludge drying/
removal; total capacity 120,000 me/d;
(i)   Tertiary Treatment and Wastewater Recovery.  Sand filtration and
chlorination plant of capacity 40,000 m3/d for recovery of treated
wastewater for industrial reuse; and
(j)   EflMuent Reuse Pipeline totaling about 5.1 km of ductile iron or other pipe
materials in sizes from about 250 mm to 50u mm diameter.
Dalnan Water Conservation
30.         Proposed Component ($2.1 million). The water conservation project
component would comprise the following four nriority projects as subcomponents:
(a)   Dalian Water Supply Company. Unaccounted-For Water (UFW) Project,
which would formulate the project methodology and approach, study and
selection of target areas in which to carry out the field investigations and
water loss measurements. The work would include:
(i) Acquisition of leak detection equipment and training of personnel;
installation of water meters and pressure gauges, and start recorings
to establish the baseline conditions; trial leak detection survey;
(ii) Field surveys and data collection, detailed water, energy and
wastewater monitoring, and finally reporting;
(b)   DaLlan University of Technology. Retrofitting and Water Conservation
Project, which would consist of retrofitting existing water supply system
with more water and energy efficient fixtures. The planned investigations
on recycling of treated wastewater were reportedly found to be useful;
(c)   Dalian Brewery. Source Control and Recycling Project, which would
permit the following:
(i) recovery of condensate from a heat exchanger;
(ii) recycling of waste water from a pasteurization process;



- 74 -                        ANNE  3
(iii) treatment and recycling of the barley washing process;
(iv)  water and energy conservation by recovering water from the boiler;
and
(v)  recovery of yeast solids by sedimentation, filtering and drying, and
reuse of the yeast, as well as reduction of effluent flows, allowing
the plant to meet EPB effluent standards; and
(d)   DaLian Steel Plant. Conservation Equipment Technology Project, for the
installation of a 1.75 MW capacity chiller plant and support facilities, which
would result in substantial water and energy savings. The esimated
investments are Y 3.0 million, which is an increase of 50 percent from the
budgeted cost.
Dalian Municipal Solid Waste Management
31.         The objectives of this component are to alleviate the environmental pollution
and health risks associated with the present solid waste management system in DaLian, to
provide a better collection service, to enhance the reliability and operational efficiency of
the transportation system, and to provide for environmentally sound disposal of the waste
collected from domestic, industrial and commercial sources.
32.         A self-managed and self-financed, autonomious company, the Dalian Solid
Waste Company, has been established to be responsible for operation of the transfer
station, the transportation system and the landfill. The necessary company charters have
been written. A tariff structure for the transfer-transport services, as well as disposal
chnarges, have been adopted. The Dalian Municipal Government has issued the necessary
operating licenses to the new company, and the rate structure has been approved, but
would not be put into effect until the transfer station and the transportation system have
been installed.
33.        The administrative municipal districts (Zhang Shan, Xi Gang, Sha Hekou
and Gan Jing Zi) and the Dalian Construction Bureau, under the Dalian Municipal
Government, would continue to be responsible for providing solid waste collection
services, street sweeping, cleansing of public areas, and for special services on request
from industry and commerce.
34.        Industry, commerce and institutional entities would be responsible for
collection and transportation of their own waste.
35.         The solid waste management component comprises of:
(a)   Replacing the existing 99 open collection trucks and open public waste bins
with 56 sealed collection trucks (5-ton) equipped for mechanical loading of
bins with lids. This would not only reduce the number of vehicles in



- 75 -                        ANNEX-3
operation, but would make collection more cost-efficient, reduce littering of
the streets, and eliminate the present open public containers, which are
eyesores and a source of bad odor in an otherwise clean city;
(b)   Replacing the existing open and uncontrolled transfer site at Sl-ouyu Bay,
about 10 km from the city center, and the present open dumper trucks used
to transport the waste the 33 km to the Maoyingzi landfill, with a modemn,
enclosed, transfer station with capacity to handle up to 1,500 tons per day,
and provides one-day temporary storage. The waste would be transported
to the landfill in 20-ton containers hauled by 15 large semitrailers. The
about 120,000 rn3 of waste that currently remain at this site would be
removed and transported to the landfill.  This would eliminate an
uncontrolled source of pollution of the Shouyu Bay, greatly improve the
visual impression of this important industrial development area, reduce air
pollution from open fires and bad odor from the decomposing waste. The
transportation would be more effective, and there would be less traffic from
the larger-capacity vehicles;
(c)   Upgrading the present waste dump at Maoyingzi, on the shoreline of the
Bohai Bay to a sanitary landfill standard, which would be able to handle
about 2,550 tons per day. The selected site has capacity for about 20 years
of filling. A leachate system would be developed that minimizes seepage
into the groundwater and the bay, the landfill gas system would consist of
extraction wells and collector pipes, blowers and burners. Provision would
be made for gas utilization to be introduced at a later stage. Plant and
equipment for waste movement and compaction, cover material handling and
support functions would be provided. The site would also have office
facilities, scales, and truck/container washing bays; and
(d)   A separate institutional development and training project aimed at enabling
the Dalian Solid Waste Company staff to operate and manage the transfer
station, transportation and sanitary landfill efficiently and cost effectively is
included.
36.         Proposed Component ($16.6 million). This component would comprise:
(a)   Collection Vehicles to replace the existing open waste bins and trucks,
comprising about 56 seded vehicles, each of about 5-ton capacity;
(b)   Transfer Station at Shouyu Bay comprising fully equipped facility to handle
1,500 tons per day, together with ancillary facilities and equipment;
(c)   Landfill Development at Maoyingzi to upgrade the existing dumping site
to provide sanitary landfill with capacity of about 2,550 tons per day,
together with support facilities; and



- 76 -                        ANNEX3
(d)    snal Development and training for Dalian Solid Waste Company
staff.
Jlnzou Water Supply
37.        The present water supply for Jinzhou is derived entirely from groundwater
abstracted close to the city mainly from a shallow aquifer recharged by the Xiaoling and
Nuer Rivers, and is unable to support significant increases in demand. In addition, four
of the seven groundwater sources :.re at risk of contamination resulting from inadequate
wastewater management.
38.         Groundwater assessment indioated that significant additional groundwater
resources yielding up to 300,000 m3/d are avb-. ible in the Daling-Xiaoling alluvial fan area
to the east of the city. Detailed studies confiimed the availability of at least 100,000 m'/d
under dry-year conditions from the Luduan area of the aquifer, which is located along the
Daling River some 20 kan to the east of Jinzhou. The aquifer is recharged over part of its
length through connections with surface water flows in Daling River.
39.         The component would provide an additional 100,000 m3/d of water to
ruizhou, tlus reducing the anticipated shortfall in year 2000. In addition, there would be
enhancements to the distribution system, water treatment plant and related facilities and a
new tansmission main to provide additional water to the Jinmi Port City.
40.         Proposed Component ($22.2 milllon). The works to be implemented under
this component are:
(a)   Tubewell Source Development comprising about 16 tubewells of about
700 mm diameter, 50 to 80 m depth, together with reticulation pipework,
pumps, wellhead works, electrical connections, and access roads. Total
capacity about 100,000 m3/d;
(b) Baduan Booster Pump Station comprising reservoirs pumping plant,
electrical connections, and controls, including about S pump units, each of
capacity about 400 liters/sec, with a total station output around
100,000 m3/d;
(c)   Baduan to Damu Tansmission Line totaling about 20 km of prestressed
or other pipe material of size around 1,200 mm diameter with capacity
about 100,000 m3/d;
(d)   Damu Water Treatment Plant extensions comprising chlorination,
pumping plant, system controls, and storage to increase the existing capacity
by about 70,000 m3/d;



- 77 -                        ANNEX 3
(e)   Shankou Tunnel. Construction of reinforced concrete lined tunnel of about
300 m total length, together with associated pipework, access shafts and
connections;
(f)   Transmission Main to Jinxi Port City totaling about 30 km of prestressed
or other pipe materials in size about 1,000 mm diameter; and
(g)   Distribution System Strengthening totaling about 5 km in cast iron, ductile
iron, steel, or other pipe materials of size about 600 mm diameter.
Jincheng Paper Mill Pollution Management
41.         The Jincheng paper mill produces 100,000 tons per year of paper and board
using reed as the raw material. The production process is inefficient and highly polluting
and the pollution load of the 65,000 m3/d wastewater discharge from the mill to the Daling
River is equivalent to that of the wastewater from a population of 3 million. The discharge
from the mill is tie largest single discharge to the Daling, and there is concern in terms
of the potential effect of this pollution on the quality of groundwater recharged by the
river.
42.         The objective of the component is to improve the efficiency of water use in
the mill, by means of wastewater treatment, recycling and process modifications, and to
recover both process raw materials and concentrated process liquor from the pulping
operations (the so-called red liquor) for sale as a lignosulfonate binder material. White
water from the paper-malkng plant would be treated by coagulation/filtration for recovery
of fiber and talc and the treated wastewater reused both in the paper-making section and
the pulp mill. Water consumption in the pulp mill would also be reduced by more efficient
use of water in the pulping process, which would have the further benefit of producing a
more concentrated red liquor. This would be further concentrated to a level of 50 percent
dissolved solids by means of multiple-effect evaporation.
43.         The component would reduce water consumption by about 40,000 m3/d, of
which 22,000 mrr3/d is in paper-maldng and 18,000 m3/d is in the pulp mill. In addition,
there would be recovery of 6,000 tons per year of paper fiber and 8,000 tons per year of
talc and produce a total of 150,000 tons per year of binder.
44.         Proposed Component ($16.5 million). The works to be implemented under
this component are:
(a)   Red Uquor Extraction comprising double-roll press equipment and
associated facilities;
(b)   Red Liquor Evaporation comprsing evaporators and associated equipment
for producing 150,000 tons per year of lignosulfonate binder product;



- 78 -                         ANNEX 3
(c)   White Water Recovery comprising equipment and facilities for recovery
of about 6,000 tons per year of fiber and 8,000 tons per year of talc for
reuse. About 40,000 m3/d of water would be recovered for reuse; and
(d)   Fuelwood Production comprising press equipment for salvage of waste
fiber for reuse as boiler fuel.
Envfronmental Rehabilitation and Reconstruction
45.         Proposed Component ($2.2 million). The component comprises four major
activities aimed at providing urgently needed museum and site conservation and
strengthening cultural asset management capacity. The works to be carried out under this
component are:
(a)   Museum  Services.  Renovation of parts of the Liaoning Provincial
Museum, comprising civil, electrical and mechanical works to improve air
quality, humidity and temperature control, lighting, and security and fire
detection in existing buildings, especially in the storage and exhibition areas.
Installation and equipping of a Conservation Center for provincial use as a
teaching facility in materials decay analysis and preventive conservation.
Preparation of museum exhibit and publicity materials, including purchase
of necessary equipment and exhibit materials;
(b)   NiuheLiang. Emergency conservation of excavated areas of the site by
means of lightweight roof structures, coverings, backfilling, stabilization,
and other internationally accepted methods and development and purchase
of presentation materials. Site management works would comprise the
preparation of a conceptual plan for protection, future excavation, and the
provision of future infrastructure.
(c)   Jiumenkou Great Wall. Conservation of a section of the Great WalI of
China, comprising stabilization, replacement of original stonework and
necessary infill, application of mortar, restoration of upper horizontal
surfaces, strengthening of weakened areas, construction of necessary
drainage systems. Site presentation and visitor management would include
civil works to improve existing visitor facilities and preparation and
purchase of site presentation materials.
(d)   Jieshi Gong. Macro site-investigation works, comprising field survey of
the protected area, sample trenches, find analysis and conservation, and
recording. Selected site conservation works in excavated areas by means
of lightweight roof structures, coverings, stabilization, backfilling, and other
internationally accepted methods.



- 79 -                        ANN  EX3
Liaoning Environment Fund
46.         Proposed Component ($4.0 million) . This component would comprise loan
funds for provision of short-term finance for focused high environmental-impact
investments in in-plant clean technology process change, supporting the core investments
in air and wastewater management. Counterpart funding would be provided by the LEPB-
administered funds collected from pollution levies.
Institutional Development and Training
47.         Proposed Component ($9.6 million). This component would comprise
three main packages described below, together with an allowance for future project
preparation. Details are set out below in the Institutional Development and Training Table,
showing estimated local and international person-months and other supporting related
inputs. The scope of work and Draft Terms of Reference (TORs) for the three main
assignments (Packages A, B and C) were reviewed during the mission and are in the
Project File (Annex I ).
PACKAGE A: FINANCAL MANAGEMENT SERVICES AND TRAINNG
Objectives
48.         The objective of Package A, the Financial Management Services and
Training package of the institutional development and training component is to:
(a)   strengthen the financial management of LEP water supply, wastewater, and
solid waste companies, and the related municipal bureaus and divisions;
(b)   strengthen the overall provincial financial management and policy-makir.g
in the Liaoning Province; and
(c)   create adequate facilities and programs for general public administration
training within the province.
Scope of Work
49.         The services to be provided under this assignment are for a substantial
consulting assignment, and would include:
(a)   Provision of accounting systems, management information systems and
training in water supply, wastewater, and solid waste management
companies, and the computer training for accounting staff;
(b)   Equipment and curriculum  development for the proposed Liaoning
Provincial Public Administration Training Center (currently under
construction);



- 80 -                        ANNEX3
(c)   Wastewater and water supply utility pricing; and
(d)   Provincial financial management.
PACKAGE B: TCHNICAL MANAGEMEN  SERvicEs AD TRANNG
Objectives
50.         The objective of Technical Package B of the technical assistance and training
component is to ensure the efficient implementation of LEP while strengthening sectr
insttutions.
Scope of Work
51.         The services to be provided under this assignment are for a substantial
consulting assignment and would include:
(a)   Quality assurance training for materials production;
(b)   Wastewater Treatment Plant operations training;
(c) Dalian Solid Waste Management Training;
(d)   Fushun Wastewater Pilot Treatment study;
(e)  Infrastructure Sector training including computer skills and project
management;
(f)   Liaoning Project Management Training; and
(g)   Provincial Wastewater Investment Planning and Training.
For the purpose of procurement packaging, the construction management services
would be included as an integrl part of this institutional development component,
and a single TOR would cover all these items.
PACKAGE C: ENVRONMENAL QUALT  mANAGEMENT, MONtORING A   CONROL
Objectives
52.         The objective of Package C, the proposed Environmental Management
Thining component is to strgthen the management capacity of the Liaoning EPB through
pviding:



- 81-                         ANNEX3
(a)  training (taking the form of both lectures and hands-on trining) to EPB
staff at provincial, city and county level in ke) facets of environmental
management;
(b)   overseas study tours for appropnate key EPB staff to gain experience of
international approaches to environmental management; and
(c) enhanced equipment for the new Liaoning EPB training center in Shenyang.
Scope of Work
53.        The program would be undertaken in two phases. In Phase I, a speciaist
training consultant would, in conjunction with the Liaoning EPB, develop a detailed
prioritized taining progam for the following:
(a)   environmental management-strategic policy approaches to environmental
management; environmental quality standards; pollution control sategies
and mechanism; legislative approaches;
b)   environmental economics-least-cost and cost-recovery strategies; cost-
benefit analysis; economic instruments; effects of market economics on
environmental management;
(c)   pollution control-waste minimization in industry; industrial wast
recycling; reuse and recovery; water conservation; waste and wastewater
treatment technology; and
(d) environmental monitoring-objectives and designs of monitoring programs;
quality control of sampling and analysis; computerized data management.
54.        The program is expected to include: lecture courses, hands-on tWaining,
workshops in key environmental areas, and overseas training. The training needs
asessment would be undertaken in collaboration with the Liaoning EPB and would identify
equipment to be provided for the environmental training center in Shenyang. The program
would be implemented in Phase II, which it is expected would be undertaken over a period
of 18 months.
On=  FUIn   PROJECr PREPARATON
55.        This would provide for the formulation and preparation of future investment
prects yet unidentified.



- 82 -                                                ANNEX 3
Component            Location           Description                             Cepacity/Sin                    Funcion
Anshan Weter
Inodustrial keu o        han              elonfacd coete. multipt eion.          4.2 km                         To convey indutria we_wa  to
Sewer                                   dosed aiiven sc I-. m wide*2 m  igb                                     tatmcat piaat
Watwter              Anshan             Warwtr tatm   plant amprisIng.           220.000 m'ld                   To trea we    er  to seitabl
treatment pla                           pumps. scaens, grit removal. cemicd                                     quality for indusri reuse
assised primary darificaIon, fltrlon.
sludgc removal/dewataring; muse pump
'tatbon
Rcue effluent        Anshan             Presed oo t. saeel or other pipe         2.5 km 2-1.000 mm die          To omey ttd wower for mm
pumping main                            maerial. twin pipe iirc
Fuwbun Wasewater
Munidcip             Fushun             Reiod concret singe end double           14.5 km                        To convey domestic ad Industrial
itecptor Sew                            wetion cloed  iert In sims btwen                                         tewaer to treatment plan at
2.0 m widel1.9 m high and 2.6 m                                        snbaoun
widc*2.0 m high
Industrial nrepor    Fuhun              ReInfored cocte single section dosed     10.6 km                        To convey treaed industrial
swer                                    culvert in sins between 14 m wideliA m                                  wsewaer to Sbenar can
high and 1.6 m widel.5 m high
D-ogzbou             Dogng              Reinforeod concrte structure with 3 no   19.000 m'ld                    To rie wewar into main
Pump Staion                             pump seu sech 12 m hced*480 m'Ihr (two                                  Ianreptor ewc
duty. n standby)
Kunu                 Kuan               Reinforted ConDCrte tructurm with 3      30.800 m'/d                    To rise indutrial watewar  into
P_ump Station                           no*45 kW pumpwus each 25 m head (two                                    Industrial intrceptor sew
duty. one  anby)
niak wes and         Dongzhou           Reinformcd  concrtc or other pipe mateals   10.6 km                     To oonvey w_cemr to trunk
onnecon              iKuange  nd        In ims betwcen 500 mm and 1.200 mm                                      Interceptor sewer sytas
vaious            dia. and closed dngle cuverts in sls
bawen 1.2 m widel.4 m high and
1.6 m wide1.6 m high
Waearcr              Sedatun            Waeer trcetment piln comprising          250.000 m'/d                   To trut domesti and iutri
Treatment                               pumps, scees, grit rmoval, chemicaly     average dry weather flow       wautwae to acceptable quaity
Plane (WWIPF                            asisteld primary darific3ton and sludge                                 for discar  to Hun river
removal
Benxi Wasewae
Municipal            Benxi              Reinforced conocet or oter pipe meterias    0.7 km 900 mm dia           To convey domestc and industrial
InrCeptor Sewer                         in sdn between 900 end 1.600 mm dia of    1.7 km 1.400 mm dia           watwhletr to liijiawi. teu ue#
5.5 km total length                     2.5 km 1.600 mm din            pIlnt
OA kmAtwin 1.300 mm din
Munidpal             Benid              Reinfored conte  snglc sction dowed      0.9 km 2.3 m-l.8 m             To covy domestic and induriad
In Qte r Sew                            culvert in im  between 2.2 m wldc*i.8 m    0.5 km 2.5 m1.8 m            wastwt  to llrnjiwalu, ucameta
igh snd 2.5 m wide l.9 m high           1.8 km 2.7 m*l.8 m             piant
3.6 km 2.8 m*1.8 m
Lnk      a and       Xhu   a. 7hu gjia,  Rdinforceid coCa or other pipe mtrils   7 km                           To convey watewer to
connctos             Guton.end Caitun   in sins beten 300 mm and i00 mm din                                    intercptor sysem
Wastewmer             1rawalizi         W      _at    truemet plt comprising     300.0OO m'ld avae   dry        To tuw  4omeni and industrial
Tretmen Plat                            pumps. s        grit removal, chemically  wether flow                   wavasr to acceptable qaity for
asied pimary clarifon and sludg                                         discap to Talh river
dryinremva
Bealt Ait Pollution Manaaement and DistrictetH
Coke Oven Nos. 1.    enS Ste            Automtc coke chagiog  w falities with                                   To red    emfission at palats
2 & 4                Company            emission conol                                                          for improved ooou@ti and
envimarmi iahh
Bast Furne  Noa.    Bew          Steei  Povin  of dry eloatc piadpt                                             To d rvit pouin             e nd
I&2                  Compay                                                                                     utilim of-gase for ta-.



- 83 -                                                   ANX3
Component             L0gation            Description                               Capaity/Size                     Function
Bona Pla              Belud               Biler plant instwallaion                  28 MW capaity                   Reduction in pollution emlsoa   by
replacement of ineffiCitt
residential boULen
Disslbont             Do&kng end          Dlstibut   pipework In atel or otber      -                               To distribute dleAd  breating
PlPwlk                Chaitbn             consamion mateials                                                         erwvs
DPa WmWr
Munidp           a                        Reforced come at Wer pipe marIa    iS km                                  To convoy wantwuw to Chunlu
ilteup  ean                              In Dm  400 mm to 1.200 mm die                                              treatment works
adiam  sell
amp Sutln             Dalg                Reiford cona     tuture wIth 3 ao         36,000 med                      To diee the wantwaw itso the
pump sach 75 kW2S m hed                                                   municdpal ser
capecity.  dllal equipment
Sp  Station           Dulogo              Reinfored concmte usc A  with 3 no        15.000 m'/d                     To raise the wew     Ino tl e
pump  u each 30 kW*8 m cpacty. snd                                        municipal ewr
nille  equipment
Wutewa                Chunliu             RehtbiltIoa and expmube of existing       60.000 tm'/d                    To tra wastwer to woepbb
Treatm   Pn                                   ter ttme  plant                                                         andards for mtu  aed indusui
surfiae discare
municipal             mLawu               Reinforced conrt or ther pipe meras   3.5 km                              To nei  watewor into munIdpal
Jaepwtr SewIr in dam bewoe 500 mm and 1.200 mm                                                                       intercptor wer
dia
C eeing Seuen          Ma   atm           Reinforced  oneste or other pipe maeIas   3 km                            To   ve Wageq  _ to munl
in I  500m mm to 700 mm die                                               itereptor ew
Wa _twar              Ma                  Weawter Utement plt                       120.000 m'Id (40,000 meld for    To treSt wastwar to ocepabl
Tiame  Pan                                compnaigpumps. s       , gn removd,        euse)                           standards fb Indurialse, and
econdary oxldatnd/icalto  tetaty                                          surface discre
ftration sludge dewateringhemoval
pam  du                 gn Hal            Renovation of exisin   mp "atlon          10i.0   m'id                    To res     pump staton to
operatione us
Iap Stole             Middle Way          Redanced onmue amu           with 5 No    40,000 m'/d                     To pump wa_iwaer to MaiU
pumpa   each of 45 kW15 m beed                                            Treatment plan
caacty
n          BMW        Mai                 D>utic iro or athr pipe mte     i         5.1 km                          To omey teeted efdi_  fhr
Pipeline                                  sze betwee 250 mm end 500 mm d4b                                          indutri  me
Ddim 9d 
SANy  Itind           Meo                 Site prpaaon. In      hruv1. dfke         Waste                    tsd   To provide af; disoa of sud
ash wos                                   buldinp, clay Uner, lea       collection.  Municipal              1200   wt   and sludge ftrm to Ma)5
stoa  and racdrateon system. snd          ndustia (cod ash)               River end Chunia ictm         pllt
-dlwl gas olesaiona stm                                            300
Construction              l00
Sewage sludge            -SS
Snla  lnd             MItyin              Equipment and plat for wase and easth     as aboe                         To place sad *pa wae in th
Bq met                                    wos, vehile sle, onite Itadfill, provide soil wCr, and
Iacbta pumps, gs flue end ete                                             enirnme    proio
support fdIlie
T7a,nr staa           Shbyu Bay           RemolVd of  iti  wats, si                 i.500 t/d                       To providcL e  day tm
OviL Wmh                                  ppq,mWlon, mos road. construction of                                            e amqdqy, and to t_ms&r
xWsnoroad conmm   rms and evat"                                           wat fm _        tolea  Vehls to
fatuiies                                                                       er cdty trawsposilon vets
and cntai
T_nsfr stadt          Shbuyu Ba            qipmet and flities o unlodlla,500 tVd 
Equipment                                 collection vahics, udlln.g wa_ in the
orage Pi  and lan    inso ontain
Tsnnspsavilon         Delen               Selalsuliers God banu r Sihaslig the    15 setrslr wits 1520-tM           To tutnspat the -_e 13 Inn *em
Epipisant                                 waft to the  ndfUil                       cdqpcy *aner                    the tnsfr station to the luf



- 84 -                                                  ANNEX 3
C tmpon               lf1dO              DecriptioD                               C ety/Slm                        Funa
Collei                Da                 o o   truks and bins                     56 eied, r.om .                 For oulon  of       d
Equipment                                                                         compacting tru&s with S tons    municipal sld wee
load cpaity and 2.000 0.36 m
volume colecion bins
SWM Traing             IW                Tainng progam for the Dallan Solid
Wat Company saff, wbo would be
responsible for operating the trantfer and
d       fsos litist
DaIltl WaOer Co4eFvetlo
Dalia Water Supply    Dda ce of kek dcion equipment,                                                              To demons  mataep hr
COMPany                                  nmot and miawotr mete, field                                             ddmnalo  of u eosatd fr
Invesdgaons and lk deteon.                                               water,  ad pre l meamm  to
Replament of pipes with high losse, no                                   reduce leAb frm underground
costimate of civil woi*s, depends n                                      War main
the resul ot ield nvstigations
DdhDl University of    Della             Retrofitg finures aDd measuring flow                                     To demonstrate methdology ad
Teholg                                    aelN                                                                    prlOd e        hwes to war
5onsialon In building
Deil BerJy           Della               Jnstallatlon of wter and erery                                           To densctatoe psacticl as of
consevaton equipment.  w matealW                                         pams   equpma  to      wa e,
OrveY                                                                    erg  and ceV maas
Dl SWel plant         DellaItnstltion of new chiller equipmen                                                     To demconsrae mof    p n
echnolog for wor and oaV
consevatIo
Jlnzhou Wale SUniv
Grundwat  Wat         Ludan              Constructon of 16 No. tubeetis, about    100.000 ml/d                    To bncrem the wa  spl hr
Snmr  Delopment                          700 mm din X S5-70 m depth, eacb of                                      Sizhaou mudicipl m
abot 8,000 m'/d -padty, togther, with
retloucDon pipework, submeible pumps,
.11 bhed wakt, a       roads
Hootr                 Dadu-              Reinftced cncrete britck                100,000 eIld                    To pump raw wot to Doe  war
YmUp setlo.                              e      _no   3,000 m 3 reservoir (two                                    ttme  pla
tn), pumping equipmen eampulslg 4
pumps (3 duty, I tandby) each of apacity
Ibout 400 literssc*40 m bee, ad
qanllay equipm
Trasmission           fedua to Deau    Pmestr d c crete ad/or o*er pipe          100.000 eld                     To cermy mw war to Der_
Lim                                      mateils, aim  bout 1,200 mm din,                                         wr treamen plt
pumping min
Dom  Wter             Dame               Expansion of euitng pl and treatent      70.000 ms/d                     To utreat   t      wen supl hr
Treatme  Pln                             by 70,000 m/d compddig chloIato,                                         p_bl Ut In Jinazbo mol*p
euy,  o          servoir, pumping                                        am
plat aidlary equipm
Dithut   system      Jlnzbcu City        Dlstrlbutios ystm pipeork of DL, (       5k Sm                           To Imre prsmr  In -afg
t      _agthnln                          sd  or aodr materb of aboua 600 mm                                       dieaqron  s
dia
Shk   TunDIY          Shakou             Reiafrced <oa    UumdI Constto           300 m                           To _mpe putg hod
Sbou 2S m blgh2.5 m wWhd, togethr                                        condio  In aulsag mda hr om
wI  emu sbaft, 1,00 mm die wuv                                           dcdlve opuwio
diverio madn
TreamIeson main       Damu to Jlinxl     Pre d conacie adr other pipe             30 km                           To a        lly treae wse o
to ZInol Pot City                        matDeri Pumping main, el  about                                          mu Post Cty
IA0  mm di



j!1   XI    X4 X    '          11
I I }]   ]t   t [I X '   I     X 



-86-                                     A
Table: INSrmrnoNAL DEVELOwMWNT mm TRAINNG
LEP                                            j   Person-months        Other Cots            Total Cost Le
TA Ref                    Title                       Inter- I       Locl  Y m    Y million    S million
,                    ~~~~~~~~natiotw l                                  quivalent
A1     PACKAGE A: FINANCIAL.                           22   I 150       0.40       0.10       8.6          1.0
Executing Agency: LFB
WW, WS & SWM Accounting Systems &
MIS bnplementation & Training
A.2    Liaoning Provincial Public Administration       10      32       4.00       0.70       8.1         0.9
Training Center/a 
A.3    WW & WS Utility Pricing                        5.5      16                  0.03        1.6        0.2
A.4    Provincial Fnancial Management                  18     120                             4.0         0.5
-                               Subtotal PackageA        56     318       4.40       0.83       22.3         2.6
B.1    PACKAGE B: TECHNICAL                                                       0.50       36.4         4.2
Executina Agency: LUCRPO
Construction Mnagement Services
B.2    Quality Assurance Training for Materials                                               0.9         0.1
Production
A.3  iWW Trament Plant Operations Training             12      36                 0.03        2.9         0.3
3.4    Dalian Solid Waste Training                      9      24                 0.02        2.9         0.3
B.5    Fushun Wastewater P;lot Treament Study                                        _        2.4         0.3
3.6     nrasruct  Sector Training, including                                                  1.6         0.2
computer skills and project management
3.7    Lioing Project Management Training              18      42                             4.0         0.5
1.8    Provincial WW Iavestment Planning and          IS       55                             4.0         0.5
Training
Subtotal Package B (excluding B. 1)  54     157                  0.05 [     18.7         2.2
CA1    PACKAGE C: ENVIRONMENTAL                I       5   1is                     0.251      6.61        0.8
STRENGTHENING                          |          |       |          |          |         |
Executing Agency: LEPB.                |          |       |          |          |         I
Environmental Quality Management,
=J MonitoringoandoControl                           I       I         I          I          I
SubtotalPackageC        15s    15                   0.25       6.6         0.8
DAl  I 2M13R                                  1          1        1                    |     16.4         1.9
Executing Agency: LUCRPO:             j          j                        =         =
FPure ProjectPeparation                 _            -                         j
Subtotal D !                      =  I            [    16.4          1.9
TOTAL All Packaes (Excludina B.1)              12S     490       4.40!      1.13      64.0         7.4
JA May not add due to rounding.



DETAILED PROJECT COST ES
SummARY Accous CosT SummARY
RMB                              USS                           X Total
------------------------------    ...........................  X Foreign        Base
Local   Foreign     Total       Local  Foreign    Total      Exchange     Costs
..............................    ...........................  -------------------
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
.. . . .... .   ....
A. Civil Works                      483.4     375.7      859.1        55.6     43.2     98.7         43.7       38.5
B. Equ1pment & Materials            128.5     826.9     955.3         14.8    95.0   109.8           86.6      42.8
C. Enviromnent Revotvng Fund          7.0      27.8       34.8         0.8      3.2      4.0         80.0        1.6
D. Construction Mgmt Svcs             7.1      29.5       36.5         0.8      3.4      4.2         80.7        1.6
E. Tech. Asst. Studies, Trg          12.8      51.2       64.0         1.5      5.9      7.4         80.0        2.9
F. Land Acquisit. & Resettat         66.1       0.0      66.1          7.6      0.0      7.6          0.0       3.0
G. Engineering & MNnagement         216.1       1.3      217.4        24.8      0.2     25.0          0.6       9.7
.. . .. .. ...... . .. .. ............ ....................    .......................................   ---------------
Total BASELINE COSTS                920.8    1312.4    2233.2        105.8    150.8    256.7         58.8      100.0
Physical Contingencies           125.1     179.5     304.6         14.4     20.6     35.0         58.9       13.6
Price Contingencies              337.8      66.2    404.0          38.8      7.6    46.4          16.4       18.1
.. --                                                          --------------------
Total PROJECTS COSTS               1383.7   1558.1    2941.8         159.0   179.1    338.1          53.0      131.7
V a=y=19         9 ===    ===========================                =
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 -   5/13/1994  9:55



ANSHAN WASTWATER TtREATMr DEA   CosCr TANA (Yuan)
Bs Costs                                      one Costs in USS
T994   1995   1996   199?   19968  199  Total       1994  1995  1996  199?   96  1999 Touta
.......................  ..........................  ......................... ..........................................
t. IWESTENT COSiTS
1.0 Interceptor Cmstrctn    0.0    5.8    5.8    3.9    1.9    1.9  19.4          0.0   0.?   O.?  0.4   0.2   0.2   2.2
2.0 Anshn WYP                0.0    7.2    7.2   10.8    7.2    3.6   35.9        0.0   0.8   0.8   1.2   0.1   0.4   4.1
3.0 Reuse Pipetine Const    0.0    6.7    5.0    1.7    1.7    1.7  16.8          0.0   0.8   0.6   0.2   0.2   0.2   1.9
4.0 Powr Suppty              0.0    0.0    1.7    0.0    0.0    0.0    1.?        0.0   0.0   0.2   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.2
..~~~~~~~~~~:  -- ..  . .. I.                ....... .......... ............ ................... ...... ........... .............
Sub-Total                     0.0   19.7   19.   t16.3   10.8    7.2   73.8        0.0   2.3   2.3   1.9   1.2   0.8   8.5
B. equipmemnt & Materials
21.0 Suppty Pipe Material    01                    9.     4.7    4.7  47.4        0.0   1.1   2.2   1.1   0.5   0.5   5.4
22.0 Anehn WTP NIU            0.0   23.8   23.8  3S5.7  23.8   11.9  119.0        0.0   2.7   2.7   4.1   2.7   1.4  .3.7
23.0 Sludge Vehs/Ccntanrs    0.0    0.0    0.0    3.3    0.4    0.0    3.7        0.0   0.0   0.0   0.4   0.0   0.0   0.4
24.0 Mise Eqiip/Materiats    0.0    0.0    0.8    0.8    0.5    O.S    2.6        0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1          0.1   0.3
... . .. . . .. ... .. .. ..... .... .... ......    ..... .....  . .   !  ...... .... ... ...... ..
Sub-Totat                     0.0   33.3  43.5   49.3  29.4   17.2  172.?          0.0   3.8   5.0   5.7   3.4   2.0  19.9
C. Lord Acquisitn S Resettat       3.8    3.8    3.8    1.3    0.0    0.0   12.5       0.4   0.4   0.4   0.1   0.0   0.0   1.4
0. Engireering S Nmg.unt
Civilt Works                 0.0    2.3    2.3    1.9    1.2    0.8    8.5        0.0   0.3   0.3   0.2   0.1   0.1   1.0
Eqiuipeent & Materiats       0.0    3.8    5.0    5.7    3.4    2.0   19.9        0.0   0.4   0.6   0.7   0.4   0.2   2.3
tand Acquisitn S Reseltl     0.4    0.4    0.4    0.1    0.0    0.0    1.4        0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.2
....... ....   ... .... ...... ...... ...... ......    ..... ..... ............................... ..... ...... ................
Sth.Totat                     0.4    6.5    7.7    7.7    4.6    2.8   29.8        0.0   0.8   0.9   0.9   0.5   0.3   3.4
E. Constructitn Mtgt Svc
Civit Works                  0.0    0.4    0.4    0.3    0.2    0.1    1.5        0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.2
Eqiptant a MAewrials         0.0    0.7    0.9    1.0    0.6    0.3    3.5        0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.4                                                    4
Sub-Totet                    W00    1.1    1. .3 1t.3    0.    0 5    5 0          0 0   1O   0.1   0 2  .O1  0.1   0 .6 
Totel liVESTMENT COSTS                4.2   64.4   76.0   75.9  45.7   27.7  293.8        0.5   7.4   8.7   8.7   5.2   3.2  33.0                                                    1
-     ---e-  -----se ee"se we- -- -   _ sa --*
Total                             4.2   64.4   76.0   75.9   45.7  27.7  293.8         0.5   7.4   8.7   8.?   5.2   3.2  33.8
Totals Irctuding Contingencies
Totels Including Contingencies                                 IISS
1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999  total      1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999 total
............................                        ...........   ...........................
t. tINESTMENT COSTS
................
A. Civil Works
1.0 Interceptor Constrctn    0.0    7.3    7.9    5.6    3.0    3.1   26.8        0.0   0.8   0.9   0.6   0.3   0.4   3.1
2.0 Anshan nvP               0.0    9.2   10.1  16.4   11.7    6.3   53.8         0.0   1.1   1.2   1.9   1.4   0.7   6.2
3.0 Reuse Pipeline Const     0.0    8.8    7.5    2.7    2.9    3.1   25.1        0.0   1.0   0.9   0.3   0.3   0.4   2.9
4.0 Power Suwpty             0.0    0.0    2.5    0.0    0.0    0.0    2.5        0.0   0.0   0.3   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.3
.... ............. ...... ..................         .......... ................ ..... .....
StuTotal                      0.0   25.2   27.9   24.8   17.7  12.5  108.1         0.0   2.9   3.2   2.8   2.0   1.4  12.4
S. Equipument a materials
21.0  swPpty Pipe Materalt    0.0   11.6   24.6  13.0    6.9    7.2   63.3        0.0   1.3   2.8   1.5   0.8   0.8   7.3
22.0 Anhan WTP NIU            0.0   27.8   28.4  44.0   30.4   15.7  146.2        0.0   3.2   3.3   5.1   3.5   1.8  16.8
23.0 sludge Velhs/tontenra    0.0    0.0    0.0    4.1    0.5    0.0    4.6       0.0   0.0   0.0   0.5   0.1   0.0   0.5
24.0 Misc EciipVMateriast    0.0    0 0    1.      .0    0 7    0.7    3.4       0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.4
............... ....................... .......... .-..:O... ............. ... . . ...... ...... ....... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... .....
Stb-Totat                     0.0   39.3   54.0  62.1   38.4   23.7  217.6         0.0   4.5   6.2   7.1   4.4   2.7  25.0
C. Lwnd Acquiasitn S Resetlt      4.4    4.7    5.2    1.9    0.0    0.0  16.2         0.5   0.5   0.6   0.2   0.0   0.0   1.9
0. Engineering S Neregement
Civit Workes                  0.0    2.8    3.1    2.8    2.0    1.4   12.2       0.0   0.3   0.4   0.3   0.2   0.2   1.4
EqLilpnt S  atterials        0.0    4.8    6.9    8.5    5.5    3.4   29.1        0.0   0.6   0.8   1.0   0.6   0.4   3.3
Luid Acqaisitn 4 teewttet    0.5    0.5    0.6    0.2    0.0    0.0    1.9        0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.2
.... . ...... ...... ........ ...... ...... ......    ..... ...... ....................................  ... ...... ..............
sub-Totst                     0.5    8.2   10.7   11.5    7.5    4.8   43.2        0.1   0.9   1.2   1.3   0,9   0.6   S.0
Civil works                  0.0    0.5    0.5    0.4    0.3    0.2    1.8        0.0   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.2
EqEsztnt A I M ateras        0.0    0.8      15.   1.2    0.8    0.5    4.3       0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1  o0.    0.5
...                                                      . .... . ...... ..... ..... ..... .....
Sub-Total                     0-.0 -'.3       .     1.?,   1.1    0.7     6.       0.0   0.1   0.2   8.2   0.1   0.1   0.7
Totat tINWSTNWt OllSTS                4.9   78.7  99.3  102.0  64.6   41.7  391.3         0.6   9.0  11.4  11.7   7.4   4.8  45.0
4.9  78.7  99.3  102.8  64.6  41.7  391.3           0.6   9.0  11.4  11.7   7.4   4.8  45.0
-Values seled by 10000.0  3i9/1994  9z30



BE=x WASTWATIR TI  ATiir: DErAILE CosT TABIE (Yuan)
game Costs                               But. costs In 05
19419519   1I,7  1996  1999 It.t    "194 1995  199  1997 1998 1"V9 Total
A. C1IVI  Oi
1.0 Interceptor Cor 'retn   0.    4.7  14.2  1t.2   9.4   4.7  47.2      0.    .   16  I.6  1.i  0.5  5.4
2.0  it  erCmecMs   00   0.0   3.1   3.1   9.6   0.0   7.7               0.0  0.0  0.4  0.4  0.1  0.1  0.9
3.0 Benxi WWIP            0.0   6.7  13.4  20.1  20.1   6.7  66.9        0.0  0.8  1.5  2.3  2.3  0.8  7.7
4.0 Advance Works/jiJtIlts   1.2   0.6   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   2.0     0.1  0.1  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.2
5.0 Power S.ppty          0.0   0.0  10.2   0.0   0.0   0.0  10.2        0.0  0.0  1.2  0.0  0.0  0.0  1.2
6.0 Slufge Oleposal Site    0.0   1.0   3.0   3.0   2.0   1.0  10.0      0.0  0.1  0.3  0.3  0.2  0.1  1.1
sub-Iotst                  1.2  13.2  43.8  40.1  32.3  13.2  144.0       0.1  1.5  5.0  4.6  3.7  1.5 16.6
8. tquipeT;, & Matrials
21. Sty Pipe Material.  0.0   2.9   2.9   0.7   0.7   0.0   7.2          0.0  0.3  0.3  0.1  0.1  0.0  0.6
22.0 Beawl 11P MUE        0.0   3.6  11.6  17.4  17.4   5.8  57.9        0.0  0.7  1.3  2.0  2.0  0.?  6.7
23.q Sludge vehsftntann    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.5   0.4   0.0   0.9       0.0  0.0  0.0  0.   0.0  0.0  0.1
24.ti Nisc Eqwip/lMaterists   0.0   0.0   0.6   0.6   0.5   0.5   2.6    0.0  0.0  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.3
"-Totat             ~~0.0   8.7  15.2  19.4  19.0   6.3  66.6      0 0  1.0  1.8  2.2  2.2  0.7  7.9
C. taed Acqulsltn A BeemtI.t   1.0   1.0   1.0   0.3   0.0   0.0   3.3        0.1  0.1  0.1  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.4
E.Lwnsieriew & NerrAgment
Civil Vwoks               0.1   1.5   5.0   4.6   3.7   1.5  6.6        0.0  0.2  0.6  0.5  0.4  0.2  1.9
Equipmnt a Matse.iais     0.0   1.0   1.8   2.2   2.2   0.7   7.9        0.0  0.1  0.2  0.3  0.3  0.1  0.9
Lu=  Acquisitn 6 Besetlat   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.6   0.0   0.0   0.4      0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0
Sub-Total                  0.3   26   69        .9 59   2.2 a2.           0.0  03     .8  0.6  0.    .      .9
8. Canstructl*3 Wt Swe
Civil Works               0.0   0.3   0.9   0.6   0.6   0.3   2.9        0.0  0.0  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.0  0.3 
tqaIpoent & MatriGAls     0.0   0.2   0.3   0.4   0.4   0.1   1.4        0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.2
..... ... .... :i....:. ... - ..W...T. ..W ........ .... ... .... ....00
S.h.Total                  0.0   0.4   1.    1.2   1.0   0.4   43         0.   0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.0  0.5                             ~
i.t.t i,swSIMai oM$               2.5S 5.   66.   625.2  221 2.0                 0.3  3.0  7.6  7.6  6.7  2.5 28.2
Total                          2.5  25.9  68.1  66.2  38.2  22.1 245.0        0.3  3.0  7.6  7.8  6.7  2.5 28.2
totals Including Contlnumncies
to"tal tnctuding Contingencies                           W$5
1994  1995  1996  1997  199   1999 Total    1991. 199  1996 199  1998 1999 Total
A. Civi tok
1.0interceptor Couutrctn   0.0   3.9  19.1  20.4  14.5   7.7  67.51    0.0  0.7  2.2  2.3  '.7  0.9  7.*
2.0 LinkI lewars/Connectno   0.0   0.0   4.6   5.0   1.4   1.5  12,5     0.0  0.0  0.5  0.6  0.2  0.2  1.4
3.0 Beni WoP              0.0   8.5  16.8  30.5  32.7  11.6 102.2        0.0  1.0  2.2  3.5  3.8  1.3 11.8
4.0 Advance Worksjljflits   1.4   1.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   2.3      0.2  0.1  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.3
5. Poe  mpy0.0   0.0  14.8   0.0   0.0   0.0  14.8                       0.0  0.0  1.7  0.0  0.0  0.0  1.7
6.00 Sl'udg DisOposal SIt  0.0   1.    4.4   4.6   3.4   1.6  15.7       0.0  0.1  0.5  0.5  0.4  0.2  1.8
Sab.Iaota                  1.4  16.8  61.8  60.8  51.9  22.6 215.2        0.2  1.9  7.1I  7.0  6.0  2.6 24.7
B. Equipment II Mlteriael
21. Supply Pipe Merate  1   0.0   3.5   3.8   1.0   1.0   0.0   9.3      0.0  0.4  0.4  0.1  0.1  0.0  1.1
22.0 Benxd WIP MU9        0.0   6.8  13.8  21.4  22.2   7.7  72.0        0.0  0.8  1.6  2.5  2.6  0.9  8.3
23.0 Sludge Veitlontsnrs   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.7   0.5   0.0   1.1       0.0  0.0  0.0  0.1  0.1  0.0  0.1
24.0 Misc EqulpVMt.orials   0.0   0.0   1.0   1.0   0.7'  0.7   3.4      0.0  0.0  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.4
sth.total                  0.0  10.3  16.6  24.1  24.5   8.4  85.3        0.0  1.2  2.1  2.8  2.8  1.0  9.9
C. land Acq.,iaitn A lowe      1.1   1.2   1.4   0.5   0.0   0.0   4.2        0.1  0.   0.2  0.1  0.0  0.0  0.5
0. Inginsering a MageOment
Civit Vorks               0.2   1.9   7.0   7.0   6.0   2.6  24.6        0.0  0.2  0.6  0.6  0.7  0.3  2.8
Equipment 8 lieterials    0.0   1.2   2.4   3.3   3.5   1.3  11.6        0.0  0.1  0.3  0.4  0.4  0.1  1.4
luan  ACA*Asitn & teetlaxt   0.1   0.    0.2   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.5     0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.1
Sdt.T*tst                  0.3   3.3   9.S  10.4   9.5   3.9  36.9        0.0  0.4  1.1  1.2  1.   0.4  4.2
Civil Works               0.0   0.3   1.1   1.0   0.9   0.4   3.7        0.0  0.0  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.0  0.4
Equipment 6 materials     0.0   0.2   0.4   0.5   0.5   0.2   1.0        0.0  0.0  0.0  0.1  0.1  0.0  0.2
sub-Ttota                  0.0   0.      .5   1.5   1.4   0.5   5.4       0.0  0.1  0.2  0.2  D.2  0.1  0.6
...    .   ......   ......   ...t..   .....   ... ..   ......  .....   .....   .....   .....   ....   ....   .....
Totat ISMN l                    2.9  32.1  92..7  97.3  87.3  35.4 347.6       0.3  3.7  10.7 11.2 10.0  4.1  39.9
-Vatues scated by 100000.0 3/9f 994 9:32



BDw At QUAwIY MANAGEmzNT EE s): DsTALE Cosr TAKE (Yuan)
ease Costs                                         Base Costs in US5
1994   1995   1996   1997   199S   199  Totat              1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  199 Totat
. - ...........................              n .           ..    ...............                      ...............
t. INVESTMENT COSTS
..... i-... ---
A. Civi WI    e
1.O  Coke ovens 1U2 Charge    1.0        1.9     2.4     1.4      1.9     1.0    9.6        0.1   0.2   0.3   0.2   0.2   0.1   1.1
2.0 Coke Oven 4 Chrging          2.1    4.2      5.3    3.2    4.2        2.1   21.1        0.2   0.5    0.6   0.4   0.5   0.2   2..;.
1.0 Blst Furnace 1 & 2           3.2    6.4      8.0    4.8    6.4    3.2   32.2            0.4   0.7   0.9   0.6   0.7   0.4   3.7
...  ............  ............. ...... .......   .........    .... . ... ........ .  ...    ....   ...   ...    ............
Sub-tootat                        6.3   12.6   15.7    9.4   12.6    6.3   62.9              0.7   1.4   1.8   1.1   1.4   0.7   7.2
B. Equipwent & Materisls
21.0 Coke oven 182 Charge    4.5         8.9   11.1    6.7    8.9    4.5   44.6             O.S   1.0   1.5   0.8    1.0   0.5   5.1
22.0 Coke Oven 4 Cherging    4.1    8.2   10.3    6.2            8.2    4.1   41.1          0.5   0.9   1.2   0.7   0.9   0.5   4.7
23.0 Coke Oven 1S2t4 Push    2.7    5.3    6.7    4.0             5.3    2.7   26.7         0.3   0.6   0.8   0.5   0.6   0.3   3.1
24.0 stlat Furnce Equip    10.3   20.6   25.?   15.4   20.6   10.3  102.8                   1.2   2.4    3.0  t1       2.4    1.2  11.8
...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ......    ..... ...................................................... ..............
Sub-Totat                        21.S   43.0   53.8   32.3   43.0   21t.   215.2             2.5   4.9   6.2   3.7   4.9   2.5  24.7
C. Engineeing & Nwaeneeent
C ivit Wkrkg                     0.7     1.4    1.8      1.1      1.4    0.7    7.2         0.1   0.2   0.2   O.1   0.2   0.1   0.0
Equipgent & Materials            2.5     4.9    6.2    3.7       4.9    2.5   24.7          0.3   0.6   0.7   0.4   0.6   0.3   2 8
...... ---.....Z...  ...;.. ...... ...... ......    ........ ............ ...... ....... ....... .......... ._........
SubT-otal                         3.2     6.4     8.0     4.8    6.4    3.2   32.0           0.4   0.7   0.9   0.6   0.7   0.4   3.7
0. Construction Mgaat Svcs
Civil Works                      0.1    0.3      0.3    0.2      0.3    0.1       1.3       0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1
Equlpent & Matelrals             0.4     0.9     1.1    0.6      0.9    0.4    4.3          0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.5
...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ......    ......................................................... ......... .............. ..........
Sb-Total                          0.6     1.1     1.4     0.8      t.1    0.6    5.6         O.1   0.1   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.6                                                              'Q
.... .          ...... .................. .                     . ..         ....  ...                
Total INVESTMlET COSTS                   31.6   63.1    78.9   47.4   63.1   31.6  315.?             3.6   7.3   9.1   5.4   7.3   3.6  36.3                                                               a
V~                      _a"                    -                   "M   mem         _ _ _     a   __  __
Total                                 31.6   63.1   78.9   47.4   63.1   31.6  315.?             3.6   7.3   9.1    5.4    7.3   3.6  36.3
Totaes includifn  Contingencies
Totats inctuding Contingenes                                           use
1994   1995   1996   199?   1996   1999  totat            194  1995  1996  199t  1998  1999 Total
.................................................    ............................................................. ....................
t. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil Works
1.0 Coke Ovens 12 Charge         1.1    2.4      3.3    2.1    3.1       1.6   13.7         0.1   0.3   0.4   0.2   0.4   0.2   1.6
2.0 Coke Ovn 4 Chwging           2.5    5.3    7.3    4.7    6.7    3.6   30.1              0.3   0.6   0.8   0.5   0.8   0.4   3.5
1.0 StBst Furnace 1 & 2          3.8    8.1   11.1    7.2   10.2    5.4   46.0              0.4   0.9   1.3   0.8   1.2   0.6   5.3
.. . .... .. ...... ...... ...... ......    ....... ......................................................... ....................
Sutb.otat                         7.4   15.9   21.8   14.1   20.0   10.6   89.8              0.8   1.8   2.5    1.6   2..   1.2  10.3
8. Equlpoent S Materials
21.0 Coke oven 1S2 Charge    5.1   10.5   13.6    8.s   11.8    6.1   S5.6                  0.6   1.2   1.6   1.0   1.4   0.7   6.4
22.0 Coke Oven 4 Charging    4.7    9.?   12.5    7.8   10.8    5.6   51.2                  0.5   1.1   1.4   0.9    1.2   0.6   5.9
23.0 Coke Oven 18284 Push    3.1    6.3          8.1    5.1    7.0    3.7   33.3            0.4   0.7   0.9   0.6   0.8   0.4   3.8
24.0  olast Furnace Equip    t1.9   24.2   31.3   19.5   27.1   14.1  128.1                 1.4   2.8   3.6   2.2   3.1   1.6  14.7
Sub-Total                        24.8   50.?   65.5   40.9   56.8   29.6  26S.2              2.9   5.8   7.5   4.?   6.5   3.4  30.8
C. Engineering & tanb_mnt
Civil Works                      0.8    1.8    2.5       1.6    2.3       1.2   10.4        0.1   0.2   0.3   0.2   0.3   0.1   1.2
Equipnt * Materials              2.9    6.2    8.6    5.6    8.0    4.3   35.5              0.3   0.7   1.0   0.6   0.9   0.5   4.1
.....  .... ..... i-... ...... ....... ...... ....... ......    ...... .... ....... ...... ....... ..... ...... ..... ... .. ......... .. ......... ..
Sub-totrt                         3.7    8.0    11.1    7.2   10.3    5.5   45.8             0.4   0.9    1.3   0.8   1.2   0.6   5.3
0. Contruction Mont Svcs
Civil Uork                       0.1     0.3    0.4    0.2    0.3    0.2          1.6       0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.2
Equipment 4 Materlnts            0.5     1.0     1.3    0.8       1.1    0.6    5.4         0.1   0.1   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1    0.6
Sub-Total                         0.6    1.3       1.7    t.1    1.5       0.8    7.0        0.1   0.2   0.2   0.1t  .. 02   .          .8
.............. .. ....................... ......  ...... ......  ........ ....... ..... ..... ..... ..... ...... ....... 
Total INVESIMTEt COSTS                   36.6   75.9  100.1   63.2   88.6   46.5  410.8              4.2   8.7  11.5   7.3  10.2   5.3  47.2
Totat                                 36.6   75.9  100.1   63.2   88.6   46.5  410.8             4.2   8.7  11.5   7.3  10.2   5.3  47.2
Vatues scaled by  OOOOO.0  3/9/1994  9032



B  -AIRt QUALT MANAGzIm (Dmcr HuTm): DFTA    COST TAaL (Yuan)
gm Costs                            B. Caste In UN
1994  1995  tW69   t 1991 9-9  Total    199  1995    6 19?7 W9 Tota
1. li VOM  CO5sS
...............
A. Civit Owoks
1.0 Rliver water SWtY     1.0   2.0   2.9   2.0   1.0   9.8        0.1  0.2  0.3  0.2  0.1  1.1
2.0 tol*i SiWort focilt   2.2   4.4   6.7   4.4   2.2  22.2         0.3  0.5  0.8  O.S  0.3  2.6
3.0 Oangen Pipetine        3.2   6.3   9.5   6.3   3.2  31.6        0.4  0.7  1.1  o.7  0.4  3.6
4.0  ~I^n Sdgt0o.~fen 3KS   1.S   3.0   4.5   3.0   1.5   V.0       0.2  0.3  0.5  0.3  0.2  1.7
5.0 Ot 1tun PipatirafW.S    t.7   3.S   5.2   3.S    .T  * .4       0.2  0.4  0.6  0.4  0.2  2.0
6.0 Pipe CeouonWNilse ilk   0.6   1.2   1.7   1.2   0.6  5.        0.1  0.1  0.2  0.1  0.1  0.7
sib-Totat                  10.2  20 4  30.5  20.4  10.2 101.8        1.2  2.3  3.5  2.3  1.2  11.7
8. Equlpwnt S Nterlote
21.0 Sellers A Equlpment    3.?   7.3  11.0   7.3   3.7  36.6       0.4  0.8  1.3  0.a  0.4  4.2
22.0 Vehicles             0.3   0.6   0.9   0.6   0.3   2.9        0.0  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.0  0.3
Sub-total                   3.9   7.9  11.0   7.9   3.9  39.5       0.5  0.9  1.4  0.9  0.5  4.5
C. Engineering A N Huugnt
Civit Wtor                 1.2   2.3   3.5   2.3   1.2  11.7        0.1  0.3  0.4  0.3  0.1  1.3
IqaWpmnt 6 Iatortats       0.S   0.9   1.4   0.9   0.5   4.5        0    0.1  0.2  0    0.1  OS
SJib-Totl                   1.6   3.2   4.9   3.2   1.6  t6.2       0.2  0.4  0.6  0.4  0.2  1.;
0. Catructlen t lt Svc
Civilt Vorke               0.2   0.4   0.6   0.4   0.2   2.0        0.0  0.0  0.1  0.0  0.0  0.2
lekipment 6 lstsrlets      0.1   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.1    08        0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.1
SibrTetat                   0.3   0.6   0.9   0.6   0.3   2.8        0.0  0.1  O.t  0.1  0.0  0.3
Totat IlVESTIEIIET cOTs          16.0  32.1  48.1  32.1  16.0  t60.4       18   3.7  5.5  3.7  1.0  18.4
_. Me_- mm f  =m    .. u                  a _"   s  Ss    _a *use"  S
otalt                         t6.0  32.1  48.1  32.1  16.0  160.4       1.8  3.7  5.5  3.?  1.8 18.4
en..nnna.....s.n..e.ueun...e...e   n..a..ea.e..asSaap.saas..
Totals incluinfir Conti igeneIao
Touta lsncluding Contingenmiss                           us5t
1994  1995  1996  19   1990  1999 Total    199  I5  1996 1997 1W9  199 Totat
,..................................................................  ..........................................
1. IWMSTHEUt COStS
................
A. Civil Works
1.0 River WatetrSuppy     1.1   2.5   4.    2.9   1.6   1.7  13.8        0.1  0.3  0.5  0.3  0.2  0.2  1.6
2.0 goiter Suport Foctl  2.6   5.6   9.2   6.6   3.5   3.8  31.3         0.3  0.6  1.1  0.8  0.4  0.4  3.6
3.0 Dufuen PIpetine       3.7   8.0  13.1   9.4   S.0   5.3   4.6        0.4  0.9  1.5  1.1  0.6  0.6  5.1
4.0 ASIn BdlOeqfnn ItS   1.8   3.8   6.2   4.5   2.4   2.5  21.2         0.2  0.4  0.7  O.S  0.3  0.3  2.4
S.V Cheitun PipltineSIES    2.0   4.3   6.9   4.9   2.6   2.8  23.6      0.2  0.5  0.8  0.6  0.3  0.3  2.7
6.0 Pipe Cros1nolisc Uk   0 7   1.5   2.S   1.8   1.0   1.1   8.6        0.1  0.2  0.3  0.2  O.t  0.1  1.0
S..Totelt                 11.9  2s.7  42.1  30.2  16.1  17.1  143.1       1.4  3.0  4.8  3.5  1.9  2.0  16.5
8. Equipmnt S Ibteriato
21.0 soll8et    Eqpipmnt   4.2   8.6  13.2   9.1   4.7   4.9  44.7       0.5  1.0  1.5  1.0  0.5  0.6  5.1
22.0 Vehicle              0.3   0.7   1.0   0.7   0.4   0.4   3.5        0.0  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.0  0.0  0.4
Sib-Totat                  46   9.2  14.2   9.8   5.1   5.3  48.2         0.5  1.1  1.6  1.1  0.6  0.6  S.S
C. EninweerIng  Nmnagaent
Civil Works               1.4   2.9   4.9   3.5   1.9   2.0  16.6        0.2  0.3  0.6  0.4  0.2  0.2  1.9
Equipment A Materials     0.5   1.1   1.9   1.4   O.7   0.8   6.4        0.1  0.1  0.2  0.2  0.1  0.1  0.?
..~~~~~ @@*.              .......   ** . ......    ........ ..... ......... ..... ...... . .... ....... ..... ........ ... .. 6
S-otal.                    t.9    4.1   6.7   4.9   24   2.8  23.0        0.2  O.S  0.8  0.6  0.3  0.3  2.6
O. Ceratnuctlen NW Svc
Clvft WoDrks              0.2   0.5   0.8   0.5   0.3   0.3   2.5        0.0  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.0  0.0  0.S
Eplipment A Materials     0.1   0.2   0.3   0.2   0.1   0.1   1.0        0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.1
....e..e..... .... ......  ...... ...... ......   .... .... sass. ..... ..... ..... .....
Teota IffStNENt COSTS            18 i  39.  "i 64    *.6  24.2  25.6 217.9       2.2  4.6  7.4  5.2  2.3  2.9 25.0
"MMO   ~~ ***mm    ~  *m      -    ~    *-_-us"     _-" -    -- -*. --B  -" - __
Total                         18.7  39.7  "4.1  45.   24.2  25.4 217.9        2.2  4.6  7.4  5.2  2.8  2.9 25.0
Values sated by 1000000.0  319119$ 9t33



DAW1.M WArSMWATm T&ThENr. DrrAuwD COWr TAniS (Yuan)
las u Wst.                               SUk  Ca"  In 1S
9iw   t915  t996  t   t903  t999 iToat    19i6 1995 toS  tit t9"  1909 .t6      t
.................. ..............  ............................... ..........................................
1. ItrttTm W
1.0 Hel n  trtce4tr eaat   0.8   2.5   L.S   1.7   0.8   0.0   81       0.1  0.5  03   0.2  0.t  0.0  1.0
Lfttien    Statton        0.5   1.9  Ot   0.0   0.0   0.0   2.7        0.1  0.2  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  OS
1.0 t an                  0.0  19.9  19.9  29*  19.9   9.9  99.4        0.0  2.3  23   3.4  2.S  t.1  1,.A
4.0 ftin  ri sfory        0.0   0.0   3.S  0o0   0.0   0.0   3.S        0.0  0.0  0.4  0.0  0.0  0.0 o.
s.0 tatel  Ne  Pipftn cm    0.0   0.0   1.9   0.2   0.0   0.0   2,1     0.0  0.0  0.2  0.0  0.0  0,0  0.2
1.0 oimtlv lnttpt"r e     23   9.3   4.7   4.7   1.2   1.2  23.5        0.3  1.1  0.5  0.5  0.1  0.1  2.T
2.0  ei I.nptt stetan    0.6   2.2   0.3   0.0 e.0   0.0   3.2          0.1  0.3  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.4
3.0 chaunku la   P        0.0   2.2   3.3   3.S   t.1   1.1  1O.9       0.0  0.3  0.4  0.4  0.1  01   1.3
....   .  ;.    .;.    ..w.....   .....   ....................  ................................ ....................
skibtotat                 *4.4  3.:  3.3  1.?  23.0  12.2  113.6         0.1  4.4  4.2  4.6  2.6  1.4  17.7
0. fEwient 4 ltdisI.
21.0 Pipe latwats,        1.0   5.0   3.0   1.0   0.0   0.0  10.9       0.1  0e4   0.3  0.1  0.0  0.0  1.1
22.0 ltin atP M8E         0.0  30.T  30.7  20.5  10.2  10.2 102,4       0.0  3.5  3.S  2.4  1.2  1.2 11.8
23.0 Stute VWaEtMtis    0.0   0.0   0.0   1.3   0.4   0.0   1.9         0.0  0.0  0.0  0.2  0.0  0.0  0.2
24.0 HImC fCf1PIlat44IGt3   0.0   0.0   1.3   0.*   0.3   0.3   2.6     0.0  0.0  0.1  0.1  0.0  0.0  0.3
25.0 Htel  Piap Itate WA   0.0   1.6   2.7   0.S   0.3   0.3   3.1      0.0  0.2  0.3  0.1  0.0  0.0  0.6
22.0 MM iu WOS tKM        0.0   5.0   7.5   T.5   2.5   2.5  24.9       0.0  0.6  0.9  0.9  0.3  0.3  2.9
2S.0 clhu Pt n1I          0.0   1.6   2.7  605   0.3   0.3   S.5        0.0  0.2  0.3  0.1  0.0  0.0  OA
SinbTotal                  1.0  44.0  40.0  32.3  13.9  `l3.5  t2.8      0.1  3.1  5.5  3.7  1.6  1.6  17.6
C. ta  ACqubltt a 5it#ttt    10.5  10.5  10.3   3.5   0.0   0.0  35.1    1.2  1.2  .2  0.4  0.0  0.0  4.0
Civl Watts               0.5   4.4   4.2   4.6   2.6   1.4  17.7       0.1  0.5  0.3  0.5  0.3  0.2  2.0
Wqpmt a retwl             e.1 0.1   3.    3.S   3.7   1.6   1.6  17.4   0.0  0.   0.   0.4  0.2  0.2  2.0
Ltd   sealtn A t ett   I.2   1.2   1.2   0.        0      0.0   40       .   0.1  0.1  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.5
.......................! ... ?  -... ................................... 2................
Smb.Iot t                  1.0t   O.6  10.9   0.7   4.2   3.0  39.3      0.2  t.2  1.3  1.0  0.5  0.3  4.5
E. Ceosnactlme 19t 9we.
CIvit wait                0.1   0.8   0.?   0.8   0.5   0.2   3.1       0.0  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.0  0.4
Equpt_ nt a fla s ot.o 0    0.9   1.0   0.7   0.3   0.3   3.1           0.0  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.0  0.0  0.4
SLIfritet                  0.1   1.6   1.7   1.4  O.    0.5   6.2       0.0  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.1  0.1  0.7
...................... ...... ...... ..... ................................   ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... 
Tt tt _itN tDSTRIN car$               tet   1or.5    .6  41.9  29.2 Y86.0       2.0 t2.t 12.4  veit  4.8t  3.4 ".S
T t t                         17.0  104.9  W07.S  es.6  41.9  29.2 386.9     2.0 12.  12.4  9.0  4.0  3.4 44.
TototetO Is actt tieitrul  - e,U
Totdt tretutat contl -  fee   _ 
. XT                    ---**8@@*6b**o-*@****--* *--
19914  199   1996  199?  1"Vs  199  i.t.t    1994 1993 1996 199  1090 199 loott
I. IMON.  WIM
..........
A.CiiWat
1.0 Httan I tc-aptr Gamtt    .O   3.4   3.    2.5 8    t.S   0.0  12.3    0.1  0.4  0.4  0.3  0.2  0.0  1.4
2.0 Hem Pap Statlin       0.6   2.4   0.4   0.0   0.    0.0   3.4    0.1  0.3  0    0.0  0.0  0.0  0.4
3.0 Helm 4AP              0.0  23.4   20.0  4.   32.4  17.2 14S6        0.0  2.9  3.2  152  3.7  2.0 7.1r
4.0 fltin Pama 9umpty     0.0   0.0   S.    0.0   0.0   0.0   3.1       0.0  0.0  0.6  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.6
3.0 Htem Rs,miptn cam   0.0   0.0   2.8   0.3   0.0   0.0   31          0.0  0.0  0.0  0.4
1.0 cauit  Intrqcep. Gim   2.8  12.3   7.0  T7    2.1   2.2  339        0.3  1.4  0.8  00.9  0.2  0.3  3.9
2.0 ctittI P""T Statlou    0.7   2.8   0.4   0.0   0.0   0.0   4.0    0.   0.3  0.1  0.0  0.0  0.0  5.3
3.0 Omuit.u 14119         0.0   2.0   4.7   3.1   1.i   1.9  16.3       0.0  0.3  0.3  0.6  0.2  0.2  1.9
SkibTott                   5.1  4      32.i  61 2  37,3  2i.; 226.6      0.6  3.6  60   7 .0  4.   2   2S.0
0. Epilpammt S Mat.merilI
21.0 Pipe  aterht         1.2   6.1   3.9   1.4   0.0   0.   12.        0.1  0.7  0.4  0.2  0.0  0.0  1.4
22.0 fHelm 19 W8E         0.0  3S.8  36.6  23.2  13.0  13.3  121.1      0.0  4.1  4.2  2.9  1.3  1.6 14.3
23.0 Stunp Vonacantmrs   0.0   0.o   o.0   1.9   0.3   0.0   2.4        0.0  0.0  0.0  0.2  0.1  0.0  0.3
24.0 IIse SIplsatristl   0.0   0.0   1.4   1.0   0.4   0.4   3.4        0.0  0.0  0.2  0.1  0.0  0.0  0.4
23.0 Hal P"i  Stns        0.0o 1.9   3.3   0.?   0.4   0.4   4.6        0.0  0.2  0.4  0.1  0.0  0.0  0.8
22.0 chait IO I           0.0   5.e   9.1   9.4   3.3   3.4  30.9       0.0  0.7  1.0  1.1  0.4  0.4  3.6
25.0 Oimmttu Pt 59        0.0   1.9   3.3   0.7   0.4   0.4   6.6       0.0  0.2  0.4  0.1  0.0  0.0  0.8
sIio?otat                  1.2  SI.6  s3    40.2  17.8  16.  186 5       0.1  1.9  6.6  4.6  2.1  2.1 21 4
C. a1itu  I S tt    12.3  1.2   u.6   1.3   0.0   0o.0  4.3                  1.4  1.3  1.7  0.6  0.0  0.0  3.2
0. Enaliie,la 8T *  iwoSt
cI Wte                    0.6   3.3   3.8   6.0   4.3   2.4  23.4       0.1  0.6  0 7  0.   0.35  0.3  2.9
5 pi-t 8 Het 1.1.         0.1   4.3   7.6   3.6   2.6   2.7  24.9       0.0  0.7  0.9  0.6  0.3  0.3  2.9
Lid AemleItn 8 tletlat   1.4   1.5   1.7   0.6   0.0   0.0   5.2        0.2  0.2  0.2  0.1  0.0  0.0  0.4
.. ...... ........ ...... ......   ..... ..... ..... ....... *0. ............... ......  .......... 
Smb.Tatel                  2.1  13.3  13.1  13.0   6.5   s.1  33.3       0.2  t.s  1.7  t.3  0.8  0.6  6.4
E. Caitnmtten .t.t Svc
Civil wtA,                0.1   0.9   0.9   1.0   0.6   0.3   3.9       0.0  0.1  0.1  0.   o.1  0.0  0.4
Eqalmpums A lasilh        0.0   1.0   1.2   0.8   0.4   0.4   3.6       0.0  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.0  0.0  0.4
0.h.Tot.                   0.1   1.9   2.9   t.8   1.0   0.7   7.7       0.0  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.1  0.1  0.9
Total 159025  WIm               20.0 129.1  41.3 121.1  63.4  43.2 321.6       2.4  14.  16.3  14.0  7.3  3.2 60.0
lotat ina.... an. ea. ........    .;1                                            e0ea an..          ss a.0
Total                         20.8 129.1  11.1  121.S  63.4  4S.2 321.6      2.4  U.8 16.3 14.0  7.3  1.2 60.0
* Vatlu  octed by 1    .0  rT9194 t3s



DAUAN SOIUD WASIE MWNAGEmEr. DETAIED COST TAKlE (Yuan)
8ase Costs                                  one Costs in USS
194  1995  1996  1997  1998   199  Total    1994  195  1996  1997  1998 1999 Totat
.. .,_ ..........................................................  ..........................................
1. tIVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil lorks
1.0 Transfer Station        2.1   6.2   8.3   2.1   2.1   0.0  20.8           0.2  0.7  1.0  0.2  0.2  0.0  2.4
2.0 Landfilt Site           1.0   3.0   4.0   1.0   1.0   0.0   9.9           0.1  0.3  0.5  0.1  0.1  0.0  1.1
. ..... ...... .... .....  .... ..... .......   ..... .................................................. ....................
Sub-Total                    3.1   9.2  12.3   3.1   3.1   0.0  30.7           0.4  1.1  1.4  0.4  0.4  0.0  3.5
S. Equipmnt & Materials
21.0 cotlection Sys Equip   1.5   6.0   6.0   1.5   0.0   0.0  15.0           0.2  0.7  0.?  0.2  0.0  0.0  1.7
22.0 Xfer/oisposal System    5.6  22.4  22.4   5.6   0.0   0.0  56.0          0.6  2.6  2.6  0.6  0.0  0.0  6.4
.. .... .. ........ ...... ....... ...... ...... _, ............................. ............ ...................... ...........
Sth-Total                    7.1  28.4  28.4   7.t   0.0   0.0  71.0           0.8  3.3  3.3  0.8  0.0  0.0  8.2
C. En5inmering & Maeamient
Civil Works                 0.4   1.1   1.4   0.4   0.4   0.0   3.5           0.0  0.1  0.2  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.4
Equipment S Materials       0.8   3.3   3.3   0.8   0.0   0.0   8.2           0.1  0.4  0.4  0.1  0.0  0.0  0.9
Sub-Totat                    1.2   4.3   4.7   1.2   0.4   0.0  11.7           0.1  0.5  0.5  0.1  0.0  0.0  1.3
0. Construction Rt Sns
Civil Works                 0.1   0.2   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.6           0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.1
Equipmernt & Materials      0.1   0.6   0.6   0.1   0.0   0.0   1.4           0.0  0.1  0.1  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.2
Sub-Total                    0.2   0.8   0.8   0.2   0.1   0.0   2.0           0.0  0.1  0.1  0.0   0.0  0.0  0.2
........................ ... i.. ..w. .... ....:. .... . ..................................   ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... .....
Total IINESTMElT COSTS             11.5  42.7  46.2  11.5   3,5   0.0  115.4          1.3  4.9  5.3  1.3  0.4  0.0  13.3                                             '^
*u      u.S..   .flS..53   Sf                     SU. nf    Sl SO               sc, . Sf
Total                           11.5  42.7  46.2  11.5   3.5   0.0  115.4          1.3  4.9  5.3  1.3  0.4  0.0  13.3
Totals Including Contingenies
Ttatel tncludfns Coantifnh.nes                              uS.
1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999 Total    1994 1995  1996 1997 1996  1999 Total
............................... ........................................................  ..........................................
1. IWNESTtiENT COSTS
................
A. Civil Works
1.0 iranafer Station        2.4   7.9  11.6   3.1   3.3   0.0  28.5           0.3  0.9   1.3  0.4  0.4  0.0  3.3
2.0 Landfill Site           1.2   3.8   5.5   1.5   1.6   0.0  13.6           0.1  0.4  0.6  0.2  0.2  0.0  1.6
5tu-Totat                    3.6   11.7  17.2   4.6   4.9   0.0   2.0          0.4  1.3  2.0  0.5  0.6  0.0  4.8
S. Equipment & Materilso
21.0 Collection Sys Equip   1.7   7.0   7.2   1.9   0.0   0.0  17.8           0.2  0.8  0.8  0.2  0.0  0.0  2.0
22.0 Xfer/Ohsposl System    6.5  26.1  26.8   6.9   0.0   0.0  66.3           0.7  3.0  3.1  0.8  0.0  0.0  7.6
Stb-Totae                    8.2  33.1  34.0   8.8   0.0   0.0  84.1           0.9  3.8  3.9  1.0  0.0  0.0  9.7
C. Engineering B Management
Civil Works                 0.4   1.3   2.0   0.5   0.6   0.0   4.8           0.0  0.2  0.2  0.1  0.1  0.0  0.6
Equipment & Materiaels      1.0   4.1   4.5   1.2   0.0   0.0  10.8           0.1   O.S  0.5  0.1  0.0  0.0  1.2
Sub-Total                    i.4   5.4   6.5   i.8   0.6   0.0  15.6           0.2  0.6  0.7  0.2  0.1  0.0  1.8
0. Construction Mrpt Svcs
Civil Uworks                0.1   0.2   0.3   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.8           0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.1
Equipment & Materiats       0.2   0.7   0.?   0.2   0.0   0.0   1.7           0.0  0.1  0.1  0.0  0.0  0.3  0.2
Sub-Total                    0.2   0.9   1.0   0.3   0.1   0.0   2.5           0.0  0.1  0.1  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.3
Total INVESTMENIT COSTS            13.4  51.2  56.6  15.4   5.6   0.0  144.1          1.   5.9   6.   1.i8   0.6  0.0  16.6 
.... ..... ..... ...... ...... ...... .b....   ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ....
Total                           13.4  51.2  58.6  15.4   5.6   0.0  144.1          1.5  5.9  6.7  1.8  0.6  0.0  16.6
V Yelues stated by 1000000.0 3//194  9:33



a
DALIAN WATER CONSERVATION: DKFAW CosT TANA (Yuan)
Sao Costs                                Soe Costs In lS.
1994  1995  1996  1997 98-99 Total           1994  1995  1996  1997 98-99 Total
,_............................................................ ............................................ 
t. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil lWorks
1.0 Dlatn university            1.3   1.8   0.9   0.4   0.0   4.4            0.2   o.?   o.1   0.1   0.0   0.5
2.0 Catian Steel hill.          1.1    1.S   0.8   0.4   0.0   3.8           0.1    0.2   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.4
3.0 Ddlian Brevery              0.4   0.5   0.2   0.1    0.0   1.2            0.0   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1
4.0 Datfan Suppty Co.           0.3      0.4   0.2   0.1    0.0   1.1        0.0   0.1    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1
-   . . ...... ---..    ...... .... ... .....    ..... ...... ... ... . ... . . .. .. .. ... ...... ..__
Sub-Total                        3.1   4.2   2.1    1.0   0.0  10.5            0.4   0.5   0.2   0.1   0.0   1.2
S. Materilsts end Equlpment
21.0 Eqlipaent & Intrusen   0.6   0.8   0.4   0.2   0.0   1.9                01    0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.2
C. Engineering &  Ma ement
Civil Works                     0.4   0.5   0.2   0.1   0.0   1.2            0.0   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1
Eqiipoent & Materiels           0.1   0.1    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.2           0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
SoLb-totat                       0.4   0.6   0.3   0.1   0 0   1 4            0.0   0.1   0.0   0.0. 0 0   0.2
0. Constrction Must Svcs
Civlt Works                     0.1   0.1    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.2           0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
Equiment * tsateriels           0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0            0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
-.. _..W. .................... ......W .  .......    W...W....... ..... ...... ...... ... ... W.
Sob-Totat                          0.1   .1    0.0   0.0    .0 0.2             0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
... .      ...... ..... ..... ...... _................................. .............. .........................._,
Total INWESTMENT COSTS                   4 2   5.6   2.8    1.4   0.0  14.1            0.5   0.6   0.3   0.2   0.0   1.6
a 0a   l -   MM" D   mu-     mc   amc.        M" _    "Su   mmcm m--   Imc   -
Total                                 4.2   5.6   2.8    1.4   0.0  14.1           0.5   0.6   0.3   0.2   0.0   1.6
Totals Including Contlie lncies
Totel, Includtng Continge  Ies                                 Ust
1994  1995  1996  1997 98-99 Total             1994  1995  1996  1997 98-99 Total
....................................           ...................................................................
1. INVEStMENT COSTS
................
A. Civil Works
1.0 Dalton tnIversity            1.6   2.3   1.3   0.7   0.0   5.9              0.2   0.3   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.7
2.0 Dallen Steel Mill            1.4   2.0   1.1   0.6   0.0   5.1              0.2   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.6
3.0 Dolian Brewery               0.4   0.6   0.3   0.2   0.0   1.6              0.1    0.1    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.2
4.0 Potten Supply Co.            0.4   0.6   0.3   0.2   0.0   1.S              0.0   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.2
..... ...:.... ...... ...... .....            ........................... ..... ...... ....... .......... ..........
Stb-Total                         3.9   .S   3.0   1.6   0.0  14.1              0.4   0.6   0.3   0.2   0.0    1.6
S. Materslss end Equipment
21.0 Equipment & Intrumen    0.7   0.9   0.5   0.3   0.0   2.4                 O.    0.1   0.1    0.0   0.0   0.3
C. Englneering * Manweaent
Civil Worke                      0.4   0.6   0.3   0.2   0.0   1.6              0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.2
Equipment & Materials            0.1    0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.3             0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
.................. ........................... ..     .... ....  ..... ...... .... . .... .
Sob-Total                         0.5   0.7   0.4   0.2   0.0   1.9              0.1    0.1    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.2
0. Construction Most Svcs
Civil Wwrks                      0.1   0.1    0.1   0.0   0.0   0.3             0.0   0.0   0.0   O..)  0.0   0.0
Equipent & Materials             0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0              O.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
Sob-Total                           .    0.1   0.1                   0.3         0.0   0.0    0 0   0.0   0.0    0.0
... :      ... ................... ..... ............................ ... ... ..... ........ ..... ....... ......
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                    5.2   7.4   4.0   2.2   0.0  18.7              0.6   0.8   0.5   0.2   0.0   2.1
g..o -..  gmr Oam  in.mm  gamma         amum  umam ag=ammWM    gamma 0lg.
Totat                                  S.2   7.4   4.0   2.2   0.0  18.7              b.6   0.8   O.S   0.2   0.0   2.1
Values scated by 1000000.0  3/9/1994  9s34



FusRUN WASrwATER TREATIWr. DErAnzD Cosr TABLE (Yuan)
one. Ctsa                                    oane Costs In 115$
194 99    1996   1997,  1998   1999  Toa        9419   19    9719    999 Total
2. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. C1iil Morks
1.0 Int=cptr Contrctn    0.0  27.0  27.0  40.S   27.0  13.5  134.9               0.0   3.1   3.1   4.7   3.1   1.6  IS.5
2.0 Lin   eers/Cofsnectns    0.0    0.0    7.7    1.0    1.0    0.0    9.6       0.0   0.0  0,9   0.1   0.1   0.0   1.1
3.0 Pt~tation                0.0    0.0    1.4    0.2    0.2    0.0    1.8       0.0   0.0   0.2   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.2
4.0  =.  otun %MP            0.0    8.5    8.5   12.7    8.5    4.2   42.3       0.0   1.0  1.0   1.3   1.0   0.5   4.9
5.0 Poser Suppty             0.0    0.0    0.0    3.1    3.1    0.0    6.2       0.0   0.0   0.0   0.4   0.4   0.0   0.7
S'kb-Totat                    0.0  35.4  44.6  57.4  39.7   17.7  194.8           0.0   4.1   5.1   6.6   4.6   2.0  22.4
0. Equipment & Materials
21.0 Suppty Pipe Material    0.0    3.0    0.7    0.0    0.0    0.0    3.7       0.0  0.3   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.4
22.0 Ssnbaotun~ WP MIlE      0.0   11.2  16.8   11.2   11.2    5.6   56.0        0.0   1.3   1.9   1.3   1.3   0.6   6.4
23.0 Sludgte Vehs/Contanrs    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    1.3   0.1    1.5       0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.2   0.0   0.2
24.0 Misc Equip/Materials    0.0   0.:0    0.0    0.0      I.   :0.8    8.4      0.0  :0.0   0 00 0:   :0.9  0.    1.0
25.0 Pwip Station NUE        0.0    0.     15    0.    0.0 00           1.7      0.0   0.   0.   0.   00         .0   0.2
Sub-Total                     0.0  14.2  19.1   11.4   2~.1    6.6   71.3         0.0   1.6   2.2   1.3   2.3   0.8   8.2
C. Lanld Acquisitn A Resettet     2.5    2.5    2.5    0.8    0.0    0.0    8.3       0.5   0.3   0.3   0.1   0.0   0.0   1.0
D. Engineering & Management
Civil Works                  0.0    4.1    5.1    6.6    4.6    2.0   22.4       0.0   0.5   0.6   0.8   0.5   0.2   2.6
Equipment  Materiast        0.0    1.6   2.2    1.3    2.3    0.8    8.2        0.0   0.2   0.3   0.2   0.3   0.1   0.9
Sub-Total                     0.0    5.7    7.3    7.9    6.9    2.8   30.6       0.0   0.7   0.8  0,9  i0.8  0.3   3.5
C. Construction Naist SW$s
Civil Works                  0.0    0.7    0.9    1.2    0.8    0.4    3.9       0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.5
Equipment A Materials        0.0    0.3    0.4    0.2    0.4    0.1    1.4       0.0   0.0   0.0   9.0   0.0   0.0  0.2                                                   j
sub.totat                     0.0    1.0    1.3    1.4    1.2   0.4      5.3      0.0   O.'  0.1   0.2   0.A  0.1   0.6
..   ..;. .;-..;....  ...              4...   ..   ..   ..   ..   ..  ..
Total INVESTMNT COSTS                2.5  58.    74.   7.9   6.9   27.6. 310.3           0.3   6.8   8.6   9.1   7.8   3.2  35.7
.....  555-5  - ------ ------ ----3  3 ...... 3553 ..3. M."= 55-3 5555  3see" 3555
Total                             2.5  58.8  74.7T  78.9  67.9   27.6  310.3          0.3   6.8   8.6   9.1   7.8   3.2  35.7
Totals Including Conytingencies        Or.akdown of TotaLs Incl.Cont.
Totels Including Contingencies                                St1$
...... ....   . ss       ..... ..ssusss.ustfsnsss. .   u5f5555s5555535355s3                  sss&.usssusssn.
194 1995   1996   19    1998  1999Tol          1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999 Total    F.txch   Local  Taxes   Total
I. tNVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil Works
1.0 Interceptor Constrctn   0.0  32.2  34.8  55.8  39.6  20.9  183.3          0.0  3.7  4.0  6.4   4.5  2.4  21.1I          10.3   10.8    0.0   21.1
2.0 Link Setiers/Caonnectns   0.0   0.0  11.0   1.5   1.6   0.0  14.1          0.0  0.0   1.3  0.2   0.2  0.0   1.6          0.3    1.4    0.0    1.6
3.0 Pu.p Station            0.0   0.0    1.9   0.3   0.3   0.0   2.4          0.0  0.0  0.2  0.0   0.0  0.0  0.3             0.1    0.1    0.0    0.3
4.0 Sanbaottm 141W          0.0  10.4   11.6  t8.8  13.4   7.2  6f.4           0.0  I.2  1.3  2.2   1.5  0.8  7..I           7.1    5.0    0.0    7.1
5.0 Power S.mly             0.0    0.0   0.0   4.7   5.1    0.0   9.8          0.0  0.0  0.0  0.5   0.6  0.0  1.1            0.3    0.9    0.0    1.1
Sub-Total                    00   42.6  59.2  81.1  60.0  28.1  271.0           0.0  4.9  6.8  9.3  6.9  3.2 31.1            13.0   18.2    0.0   31.1
B. Equipment a materials
21.0 Supply Pipe Motorist   0.0   3.S    0.9   0.0   0.0    0.0   4.4          0.0  0.4  0.1  0.0   0.0  0.0  0.3            0.3    0.2    0.0    0.5
22.0 Sra,*ottm IATP MI!     0.0  12.5  19.2  13.3  13.8   7.1  65.9            0.0  1.4  2.2  1.5   1.6  0.8   7.6           6.9    0.7    0.0       7.6
23.0 Sludlge Ve#V/Contsers   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   I.7   0.2    1.8          0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0   0.2  0.0   0.2           0.2    0.0    0.0    0.2
24.0 wise Fauip/Materiels   0.      .      .      .      .      .    10        00 00    .    .         .    .      .          .       .       .       .
25. Ptaq Station MEt        0.0   0..    :1.    0.2   0.0    0.0   1.          00     .0   .2.0     0 0  0.   0.2            02       .0 .0    0.2
Sub-Total                    0.0  16.0  21.9  13.5  25.3   8.5  85.1            0.0  1.8  2.S  1.5  2.9  1.0  9.8             0.4    1.4    0.0    9.8
C. Lard Acquisitn A Resetla      2.8   3.0   3.3    1.2   0.0    0.0  10.2          0.3  0.3  0.4  0.1   0.0  0.0   1.2           0.0    1.2    0.0       1.2
.EngineerIng & Mnawgement
Civil Works                 0.0   4.9    6.8   9.5   7.0   3.4  31.5           0.0  0.6  0.8  1.1  0.8  0.4  3.6             0.0    3.6    0.0    3.6
Equipment A Naterials       0.0 ..2:.0 . 2!.9 . 1.9   3.6  ...       11.I5    .0.0  0.2  0.3  0.2  0.4  0.1   1.3            0.0    1.3    0.0    -.3
5tb-Total                    0.       a.   9.7   11.3  10.6   4.6   4.           .    .   1.1  1.3  1.2  0.5   5.0            0.0    5.0    0.0    5.0
E. Construction Piget Syvcs
Civil Works                 0.0   0.8    1.0    1.4   1.0   0.5   4.7          0.0  0.1  0.1  0.2  0.1  0.1  0.5             0.4    0.1    0.0    0.5
Equipment & Materials       0.    03       .4    0.3   0.5    0.2   1.         0.0  0.0  0.1  0.0   0.1  0.0  0.2            0.2    0.0    01.0    0.2
Sub-Totat                    0.0   1.1    1.3   1.7   1.5   0.6   6.3           0.0  0.1   0.2  0.2  0.2  0.1   0.7           0.6    0.2    0.0    0.7
Tota( INVESTMENT COSTS              2.8  69.   95.6  108.8  97.4  41.8  415.8          0.3  8.0.0  0  12.S  11.2  4.5  47.8         22.0   25.8    0.0   41.8
Total                            2.8  69.5  95.6  108.8  97.4  41.8  415.8          0.3  8.0  11.0  12.5  11.2  4.8  47.8        22.0   25.5    0.0   7.8
- Values scaled by 1000000.0  5/13/1994  9:49



JuanOU WATER SuPPLY: DEurAED Cosr TABLE (Yuan)
B_e  costo                                         one Coats In USS                                   #
199i   19i5   t9t6   1997   199S   1999  Total            199i  1995  1996  1997  1996  t999 Totat
1. INVEStESTt tO5TS
1 . .I ... E............ .. ... ..
A. Civil t'Woks
1.0 Wettleitd/o.yr/tut l    7.9          7 9    2.0    2.0    0.0    0.0         9         0      0      0       .    0      0      2.3
2.0 OinoiVTP                     1.0    4.0    3.0       1.0     1.0     0.      9.        0.     0.     03 0.         0.    00     11
3 0 8 en  Pu   Station           2.0    4.0    2.0       1.0    1.0    0.0    9.9          0.2   0.  0.2   0.    0.            .    1.1
4.0 Conveyor             3~~~~.2   18.3    2.6   0.0    0.00  ,0.0   26.1          0.6,   21    0.3   0.0:   30.0   0.0   3.0
5.0 Oistrb Neturk tnptrut    0.6    2.1          0.3    0.0      0.0    0.0    3.0         0.1   0.2   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.3
Sub-Tots(------.......... ........ ................... .                           ..;:............ !..... ..... .....  ...
SEuitotlt                        16.7   36.2    9.6       3.9    2.0    0.0   68.6           1.9   4.2   1.1   0.5   O.2   0.0   7.9
21.0 s'ppty Pipe Materiat    00   1.    1  3    3.3              3.3     0.0   33.3        0.0   1.5    1.5   0.4   0.4   0.0   3.8
22.0 Vetilotd. DOaw  WTP         2.7   10.7    8.0       2.7    2.7     0.   26.7          0.3   1.2   0.9   0.3   0.3   0.0   3.1
23.0 Vehice                      1.3 i-  0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    1.5            0.2   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.2
24.0 Mizsc Eqip/Natertala        0.0    0.6    0.4       0.4    0.4    0.2       1.9       0.0   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.2
sItA.totai                        4.2   24.6   21.7    6.4        6.4     0.2   63.4        0.5   2.8   2.5   0.7   0.7   0.0   7.3
C. Ln  A4qulsttn 4 Resettat           2.1    2.1    2.1    0.7    0.0    0.0    6.9              0.2   0.2   0.2   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.8
0. Enuineaina A Mwasweant
Civit works                      1.9    4.2    1.1    O.S    0.2    0.0    7.9             0.2   0.5   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.9
Equitrnt S   otsrits             0.5    2.8    2.5    0.7    o.7    0.0    7.3             0.1   0.3   0.3   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.8
Land 4acqu1situ  & Rosette.    0.2       0.2    0.2    0.1    0.0        0.O    0.8        0.0   0.0   L'.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1
....   - ---            I...I.  ....I.  ..... I    .....  .....  .....  .....    .... ....................................... ....................
5L -Total                         2.6     7.2    3.9      1.3     1.0    0.0   16.0         0.3   0.8   0.4   0.1   0.1   0.0   1.8
S. Construction fMP Svcs
Civit works                      0.3    0.7    0.2    0.1        0.0    0.0      1.4       0.0   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.2
Eq.aPmet  & matoriats            0.1    0.5    0.4    0.1    0.1    0.0    1.3             0.0   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1 80
SLt-Tatel              ...   ..   ...........................................................................................  ........................................... 
sub-Totot                         0.4     1.2    0.6    0.2       0.2    0.0    2.7         0.0   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.3
Totat IlffSTMEtT cOSTS                   26.0   71.3   36.t   12.5    9.5    0.2  157.!             3.0   8.2   4.4   1.4   1.1   0.0  18.1
Totat                                26.0   71.3   385.    12.5    9.5         0.2  157.5        3.0   8.2   4.4   1.4   1.1   0.0  18.1
Totals Inctudtns Contingaeicls
Totatl tcmtudnti C.itigofeet                                          t#iS
1      t94   195    9i  1997   19iS    9i9  Total         1994  1995  t9i6  1997  1996  1999 totat
..........................  ......................... ......................... ...... ...............................
1. iiiSTNST  COsST
................ ......                                                                          .. .. . .. . .. . .. . .. . ... .. .
A. Cfvit  orks
1.0 vWttfletd/mnyr/Tunt    8.9    9.7    2.7    2.9    0.0    0.0   243                   t.0   t.t   0.3   0.3   0.0   0.0   2.8
2.0 Dem  VIP                     1.1     4.0    4.0    1.4       1.5     0.0   I2.8        0.1   0.6   0.r   0.2   0.2   0.0   t.S
3.0  tCw   PU   Statin           2.2    4.8    2.6       1.4     1.5    0.0   12.6         0.3   0.6   0.3   0.2   0.2   0.0   1.5
4.0 Cwor                         5.9   22.9    3.7    0.0        0.0    0.0   32.S         0.T   2.6   0.4   0.0   0.0   0.0   3.7
3.0 Distrb   etwk ltrwt          O.7    2.6    0.4    0.0    0.0    0.0    3.7             0.1   0.3   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.4
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....................................   ....................................... ....................
SubhTotai                        18.8   44.9   13.4    5.6    3.0    0.0   86.0             2.2   5.2   1.5   0.7   0.4   0.0   9.9
S. Equipment & materiats
21.0 SWty PiPe taterist    0.0   1S.5   16.5    4.4    4.6    0.0   41.1                   0.0   1.8   1.9   0.5   0.5   0.0   4.7
22.0 V.11 aintd, DOW  tITP       2.9   11.9    9.2    3.2    3.3    o.0   30.4             0.3   1.4   1.1   0.4   0.4   0.0   3.5
23.0 Vehicles                    1.7    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    1.7             0.2   0.0   0.e   0.0 0.0    0.0   0.2
24.0 tisce EqiitpMatbrials    0.0        0.7    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.3    2.4            0.0   0.1   0.    O.1   0.1   0.0   0.3
..........................................................................................
Sub-Total                         4.6   28.       6.2    8.0      6.4    0.3   75.6         0.S        3.2    3.0   0.9   1.0   0.0 .. 7
C. angd nee sitn g     R esett         2.3    2.5    2.7    1.0    0.o    0.0    s.s             0.3   0.3   0.3   O.1   0.0   0.0   1.0
CivlPrtt l otosts                2.1    5.0    1.5       0.7    0.4    0.0    9.6          0.2   0.6   0.2   0.1   0.0   0.0   1.1
Equlpent 8 Maiterials            0.5    3.4    3.3    1.1        1.1    0.0    9.4         0.1   0.4   0.4   0.1   0.1   0.0   1.t
LOWd AcqUiitn   Rea-ti.t.. 0.3    0.3    0.3    0.1    0.0    0.0                1.0       0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1
. . ...... ...... ........ ...... ...... ......    ..... ..... ..... ......  ..... ..... ...............
SuibTotat                         2.9    8.7    5.t1    1.8    1.5    0.0   20.0            0.3   1.0   0.6   0.2   0.2   0.0   2.3
E. Cortnetln Mjot Svc,
Civit Works                      0.4    0.8    0.2       0.1    0.1    0.0       1.6       0.0   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.2
EquiPment .& Materalt.           0.1    C.6    0.5    0.2    0.2    0.0    1.S             0.0   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.2
... .... ......;.. ....... ..... ..... ..... .... ..... W.... ..... .... .... ... .... ... .... ... .... ... .... ... ..... ..... .....
SubTtots(                         O.S    t.4    0.7    0.3    0.2    0.0    3.t             O.t   0.2   O.tI 0.0   0.0   0.0   0.4
........~~~~~~~~~... ...  ........ ...................... ............ ................. ....................
Totat INESTIEMXt COSTS                   29.t   8.5   48.2   t6.9   13.1    0.3  193.1              3.3   9.8   5.S   1.9   1.S   0.0  22.2
Total                                29.1   8S.S   48.2   14.9   13.1    0.3  193.1              3.3   9.8   S.S   1.9   1.S   0.0  22.2
Vatues etted by ItNOOWOOO  391194  9:34



JINCHENG PAPER MDLU DErMALE COSr TAKE (Yuan)
Base Costs                                            Base Costs In US$
1994    195    1996   1997    1998    1999  Total            1994  1995  1996   997 I     199   19  Totat
...........  ............................................... ............. ...............I...........................
t. NVESTMENT COSTS
........... .......... ..
A. Civil torks
1.0 Jinche     Paper Kill         0.0      2.2     3.3      3.3      1.1     1.1    11.0        0.0    0.3    0.4   0.4    0.1    0.1
S. Equipment l Materials
21.0 Red Ltquor Extractn           4.3    12.8    12.8      8.6      4.3     0.0    42.8         0.5    1.S    1.5    1.0   0.5    0.0    4.9
22.0 Red Liquor Evaporatn         4.3    17.2    12.9       4.3      4.3     0.0    43.1         0.5    2.0    1.5    0.5    0.5    0.0    5.0
23.0 Whitte Water/Risc Eq          2.8     5.6      0.9     0.0      0.0     0.0      9.4        0.3    0.6   0.1    0.0   0.0   0.0    1.1
55..w  .  .... ....... ...... ......                     ..... ..... .............................. ....................
Sub-Totat                          11.4    35.7   26.7    12.9        8.6     0.0    95.3         1.3   4.1   3.1    1.5    1.0   0.0  11.0
C. Engineering S, mrgagment
Civlt works                       0.0      0.3     0.4      0.4      0.1     0.1      1.3       0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1
Eqilpent S lleteriats              1.3     4.1      3.1     1.5      1.0     0.0    11.0         0.2   0.5    0.4    0.2    0.1    0.0    1.3
...... ....... ...... ...... ...... ....... _............    ............................................... ....................
Stb-Totat                           1.3     4.4      3.5     1.9      1.1     0.1    12.2         0.2    0.5    0.4    0.2    0.1    0.0    1.4
0. contrutton Kgot Sws
Civil Vorke                        0.0     0.0      0.1     0.1      0.0     0.0      0.2        0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Equipment S Materatls              0.2     0.7      0.5     0.3      0.2     0.0      1.9        0.0   0.1  O.       0.0   0.0   0.0   0.2
Sul-Totat                           0.2     0        0.8      0.3     0.2     0.0      2.1        0.0    0.1   0.1   0.0    0.0   0.0    0.2
.............~........ ...... ........ ....;..           ..... ..;...... ..............
Totat INVESTHlIIT COSTS                    13.0    4.0    34.1    18.4    11.0         1.2  120.7         1.5    4.9   3.9   2.1    1.3    0.1  13.9
C& &=""" --D ---                                               'm *-D -D ---  - --- 
Total                                   13.0   43.0   34.1    18.4    11.0         1.2  120.7          1.5    4.9   3.9   2.1    1.3    0.1  13.9                                                      _.
Totals Including Contingencies
Totals  Including Contingencies                                            tlsS
1994    1995    1996   1997    1998   1999  Total            1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999 Totat
.................................................   ................................................................ .....................
t. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil Uorks
1.0 Jinchienq Paper Nitl           0.0     2.7     4.4      4.8      1.7     1.8   15.3         0.0    0.3    O.S   0.5   0.2    0.2    1.8
S. Equipment & Materfats
21.0 Red Liquor Extractn           4.7   14.5    15.1   10.5         5.5     0.0    50.2         0.5    1.7    1.7    1.2    0.6    0.0   5.8
22.0 Red Liquor Eveporatn          4.8   19.2   14.8        5.1      5.3     0.0    49.2         0.5    2.2    1.7   0.6    0.6    0.0    5.6
23.0 White Woter/Misc Eq           3.1     6.5      1.1     0.0      0.0     0.0    10.7        0.4    0.7   0.1    0.0    0.0    0.0    1.2
,. , ....  ,,,....  _,...... ...... ...... ...... ......  ...........  ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... .....
Sub-Totat                          12.6   40.2    31.0    15.5    10.7        0.0  110.1          1.4    4.6    3.6    1.8   1.2    0.0  12.7
C. Engineering 4 Mnegemnt
Civit Works                        0.0     0.3      0.5     0.5      0.2     0.2      1.8       0.0    n.0    0.1    0.1    0.0    0.0   0.2
Equipment 6 Materists              1.5     4.9      4.1     2.1      1.5     0.0    14.1         0.2    0.6    0.5    0.2    0.2    0.0    1.6
, ... ....... ....... ......... .... .... ..... ....... ...... .... ..... ...... .....   .... ..... ...... ..... ...... ..... ...... .... .... ...
Sub-Totat                           1.5     5.2      4.6     2.7      1.7     0.2    15.S         0.2    0.6    0.5    0.3    0.2    0.0    1.8
P. Construction Meat Svcs
Civit Works                        0.0     0.0      0.1     0.1      0.0     0.0      0.3       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0
Equipment & Materiots              0.3     0.8      0.6     0.3      0.2     0.0      2.2       0.0    0.1    0.1    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.3
Sub-Tot8t                           0.3     0.9      0.7     0.4      0.2     0.0      2.5        0.0 O.1   O.    0.0 0-        0   0.0    0.3
........... ....... .....   .... ......   .... ......   .... ...... :.  ......   ... ..... .... .......  ..... ...... ..... ...... .....  .....   ... ..... ...
Totat INVESTMENT COSTS                     14.3    49.0    40.7    23.4    14.4        2.0  143.7         1.6    5.6    4.7    2.7    1.7    0.2   16.S
5--00- om--ou  -a     5 0    sf   s _  noon                   n--    n        san  ss   05- 05 s           s- m.
Total                                   14.3   49.0   40.7   23.4    14.4          2.0  143.7          1.6    5.6    4.7    2.7    1.7   0.2   16.5
Vatues scated by 1000000.0  3/9/1994  9:35



ENVIRONMENrAL REHABILITATON AND) RECONSTUCTON: DETAiLE  Cosr TABLE (Yuan)
Yotals Including Contingencies
Base Costs                   Base Costs in us5$        Totats Including contingencies                us$
1994  1995  1996 97-99 Total    1994  1995  1996 97-99 Totat    1994  1995  1996 97-99 lotal    199  1995  1996 97-99 Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil Vorks
1.0 Museun Services       0*fl  1.0  0.1  0.0  1.1        0.0  0.1  0.0  0.0  0.1         0.0  1.4  0.1  0.0  1.5         0.A   0.2  0.0  0.0  0.2
2.0 Miuhettang            O..'  1.2  0.0  0.0  1.4        0.0  0.1  0.0  0.0  0.2         0.2  1.7  0.0  0.0  1.9         0.0  0.2  0.0  0.0  0.2
3.0 Jiumenkou             0.0  1.7  1.7  0.0  3.5         0.0  0.2  0.2  0.0  0.4         0.0  2.3  2.6  0.0  4.9         0.0  0.3  0.3  0.0  0.6
4.0 iaeshi                0.1  1.3  0.0  0.0  1.4         0.0  0.1  0.0  0.0  0.2         0.2  1.7  0.0  0.0  1.9         0.0  0.2  0.0  0.0  0.2
Sub-Total                  0.4  5.2   1.S  0.0  7.4        0.0  0.6  0.2  0.0  0.8         0.4  7.0  2.7  0.0  10.2        0.1  0.8  0.3  0.0  1.2
B. Equipment & Materiats
1.0 Museum Services       0.3  3.2  1.0  0.0  4.5         0.0  0.4  0.1  0.0  0.5         0.3  3.9  1.3  0.0  5.5         0.0  0.4  0.1  0.0  0.6            00
2.0 NiuhelIang            0.3  0.2  0.0  0.0  0.5         0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  (O,1        0.4  0.2  0.0  0.0  0.6         0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.1
3.0 Jilumenkou            0.3  0.0  0.1  0.0  0.1.        0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0         0.3  0.0  0.1  0.tu  0.4        0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0
4.0 Jieshi                0.0  0.1  0.0  0.0  0.1          0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0        0.0  0.1  0.0  0.0  0.2         0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0
Sub-Totat                  0.9  3.5  1.1  0.0  5.5         0.1  0.4  0.1  0.0  0.6          1.1  4.3  1.4  0.0  6.7        0.1  0.5  0.2  0.0  0.8
C. Engineering I. 4anagement
Civil Works               0.0  0.6  0.2  0.0  0.8          0.0  0.1  0.0  0.0  0.1        0.1  0.8  (0.3  0.0  1.1        0.0  0.1  0.0  11.0  0.1
Equipment & Katerials     0.1  0.4  0.1  0.0  0.6         0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.1          0.1  0.5  0.2  0.0  0.8        0.0  0.1  0.0  0.0  0.1
Sub-Total                  0.1  1.0  0.3  0.0  1.5         0.0  0.1  0.0  0.0  0.2         0.2  1.3  0.5  0.0  2.0         0.0  0.2  0.1  0.0  0.2
0. Construction Ngut svcs
Civil Works               0.0  0.1  0.0  0.0  0.1         0.0  0.0  0.0    0.0  0.0       0.0  0.1  0.0  0.0  0.2          0.0  0.0  o.e  0.0  0.0
Equipment & Materials     0.0  0.1  0.0  0.0  0.1          0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0         0.0  0.1  0.0  0.0  0.1         0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0
SulrlTotat                 0.0  0.2  0.1  0.0  0.3          0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0         0.0  0.2  0.1  0.0  0.3        0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0
Total iNVESTMENT COSTS            1.5  9.9  3.3  0.0  14.7         0.2  1.1  0.4  0.0  1.7         1.7  12.8  4.7  0.0  19.3      0.2  1.5  0.5  0.0  2.2
==ins *===  ScZ==.a   t_ -  ----cc, ==== CUUCU CU=C    .== VC-U= =n == C=SC  ===                === C..=    C== lS U= C= == CSC==
Total                          1.5  9.9  3.3  0.0  14.7         0.2  1.1  0.4  0.0  1.7         1.7  12.8  4.7  0.0  19.3      0.2  1.5  0.5  0.0  2.2
Values scaled by 1000000.0 3/9/1994 9.35



LUAONING ENVIONMENT FUND: DIrTAnz  CMs TABLZE (Yuan)
Totals lncludfng Cont ingencfes
Base Costs             ease Casts in USS       Totats inctuding contingencies-                 t1s
94-96 97-98  1999 Total   94-96 97-98  1999 Total   1994-96 1997-96   1999Tol    1994-96 1997-96   1999  Totat
It. INWESTNENT COSTS
A. Enwirorment Revolvng Fund    3.5  10.4  3.5  34.8       0.4  1.2  0.4  4.0          3.5   10.4    3.5   34.8           0.4    1.2    0.4    4.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS             3.5  10.4  3.5  34.8       0.4   1.2  0.4  4.0         3.S   10.4    I.S   34.8           0.4    1.2    0.4    4.0
Total                           3.5  10.4  3.5  34.8       0.4   1.2  0.4  4.0         3.5   10.4    3.5   34.8           0.4    1.2    0.4    4.0
-Values scaled by 1000000.0 5/13/1994 9:54
INSinUFIoNAL STRENGTHENING; AND SIwES (Yuan)
Trotats includitn contingencies
Base Costs      Rase C' .s in UiS$       Totals Including contingencies                         us%
1994 95-99 Muai,   1994 95-99 Total    1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 Total    1994 1995  1996 1997 '1998 1999 Tota
I. INWSTNCNT COSTS
A. Tech. Assistance &Trainig
A.1 Actng Sys  H IS      2.1  1.3  8.6       0.2  0.1  1.0      2.6  1.6  1.6  1.7  1.8  1.9 11.2         0.3  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  1.3
A.2 IP Pub Ada Trng Ctr    2.0  1.2  8.1     0.2  0.1  0.9      2.4  1.5  1.5  1.6  1.7  ,.8  10.5        0.3  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  1.2
A.3 WIlWS Util Pricing   0.4  41.2  1.6      0.0  0.0  0.2      0.5  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  2.1         0.1  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.2
A.4 Prov Fin Nget         1.0  0.6  4.0      0.1  0.1  0.5      1.2  0.7  0.8  0.8  0.8  0.9  5.2         0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1I  0.1  0.1  0.6
6.2 Quality Assurance TVs  0.2  0.1  0.9     0.0  0.0  0.1      0.3  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  1.2         0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.1
6.3 W Treatment Plant    0.T  0.4  2.9       0.1  0.0  0.3      0.9  0.5  0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6  3.8         0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.4
8.4 Datian Solid Vast*    0.T  0.4  2.9      0.1  0.0  0.3      0.9  0.5  0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6  3.8         0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.4
6.5 Fushun WW Pilot Tartat  0.6  0.4  2.4    0.1  0.0  0.3      0.7  0.4  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5  3.1         0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.4.
6.6 Infrastructure Sector  0.4  0.2  1.6     0.0  0.0  0.2      0.5  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  2.1         0.1  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.2
6.7 tlacning Project Mgmt  1.0  0.6  4.0     0.1  0.1  0.5      1.2  0.7  0.8  0.8  0.8  0.9  5.2         0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.6
5.8 Prov IA Invsatt PIng   1.0  0.6  4.0     0.1  0.1  0.5      1.2  0.7  0.8  0.8  0.8  0.9  5.2         0.1  0.2  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.6
C.1 1P6 N4gmt 1mgo        1.6  1.0  6.6      0.2  0.1  0.8      2.0  1.2  1.3  1.3  1.4  1.4  8.6         0.2  0.1  0.1  0.2  0.2  0.2  1.0
0.1 Future Project Prep    4.1  2.5 16.4     0.5  0.3  1.9       4.9  3.0  3.1  3.3  3.4  3.5 21.3        0.6  0.3  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4  2.5
sub-Totel                 16.0  9.6 64.0      1.8  1.1  7.4    19.3 11.8 12.2 12.7  13.3  13.8 83.Z        2.2  1.4  1.4  1.5  1.5  1.6  9.6
.....  .....  m.. . . ...  .... ..     ..... 3.....mU .....  ...n a g . a m .. .     . . .   . .. ... .m....  ..... m....  ...ama m   ma m .mam..   .....
Total MTETCSS16.0  9.6 64.0                       1.8  1.1  7.4    19.3 11.8 12.2 12.7 13.3  13.8 83.2         2.2  1.4  1.4  1.5  1.   1 .6  9.6
-Values sealed by 1000000.0 3/9/1994 9:36



SUMMARY AccouNfs BY Pkaojr ComroEw  (Yuan)
Anshan    Fushun     Benxl    Benxl               Dellan    Dallan   Dallon                        Envirorm
Wastewat Wastewat wastewat    Air         Benxi  Wastewat    Solid    Water   Jinzhou  Jincheng    ent                  Technice
er        er        er    Pollutlo  Distict    er         Waste  Conserva    hater       Paper  Rehab/Co Environ   I Asst
Treatmt   Trestmt   Treatot   n Mgmt    Heating   Trestmt   Dispsl     tion     supply    hill        nst   ent Fund  t Trng
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
....................
A. Clvit Works                        73.8    194.8    144.0        62.9    101.8      153.6      30.7      10.5      68.6      11.0       7.4       0.0       0.0
B. Equlpment & Materials             172.7      71.3      68.6    215.2       39.5    152.8       71.0       0.0      63.4      95.3       5.5       0.0       0.0
C. Environment Revolvng Fund           0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      34.8       0.0
0. Construction Mgut Svcs              5.0       5.3       4.3       5.6       2.8       6.2       2.0       0.2       2.7       2.1       0.3       0.0       0.0
E. Tech. Asst. Studfes, Trg            0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      64.0
F. Land Acqulsit. & Resetimt          .2.S       8.3       3.3       0.0       0.0     35.1        0.0       0.0       6.9       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
G. Engineering & anagement            29.8      30.6      24.8      32.0      16.2      39.3      11.7       3.3      16.0      12.2       1.5       0.0       0.0
.....      ........        ..............              ............  .................................     ....................
Total BASELINE COSTS                 293.8    310.3    245.0    315.7    160.4    386.9    115.4            '.1      157.S    120.7       14.7      34.8      64.0
Physleal Contingencies              44.1      31.0      36.7      47.4      24.1      58.0      17.3       2.8      15.8      12.1       2.5       0.0      12.8
Price ContIngencies                 53.4      74.4      65.9      47.8      33.5      76.7      11.4       1.8      19.8      11.0       2.0       0.0       6.4
Total PROJECT COSTS                  391.3    415.8    347.6    410.8    217.9    521.6    144.1            18.7    193.1    143.7        19.3      34.8      83.2
Taxes                                0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Foreign Exchange                   223.7    191.0    1S6.0    254.5    105.8    241.6           95.8       7.9      85.4      97.1       7.3      27.8      64.3
Values Scaled by 1000000.0  5113/194 9: 4                    Su      ARY  AccouNTs Bay YE;AR (Yuan)
Totals Intluding Contingencies                                Totals Including Contingencies
RN                                                             US$
1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999   Total        1994    1995    1996    t997    1998    1999   Total
3w= ====u :23 ==s===u =     =ouaes:=as==o=e=w=u=3=#    wg====w-=s=s=srg=a=wga=aaW3
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
. ...................
A. Civil Works                       52.6  247.0  305.7  288.9   213.1   114.1  1221.5             6.0   28.4    35.1    33.2    24.5    13.1   140.4
8. Equipment & Materials             57.0  282.8  324.5   222.9   187.0    93.7  1167.9            6.6    32.5    37.3    25.6    21.5    10.8   134.2
C. Enviro#ment Revoltvng Fund         3.5     3.5     3.5    10.4    10.4      3.5    34.8         0.4     0.4     0.4      1.2     1.2     0.4     4.0
0. Construction Mgt Svcs              2.2    10.3    11.9      9.4     7.3     3.8    44.9         0.3     1.2     1.4      1.1     0.8     0.4     5.2
E. Tech. Asst. Studies, Trg          19.3    11.8    12.2    12.7    13.3    13.8    83.2          2.2     1.4     1.4      1.5     1.5     1.6     9.6
F. Land Acquisit. & Resetlut         22.9   24.6    27.1      9.8      0.0     0.0    84.4         2.6     2.8     3.1     1.1      0.0     0.0     9.7
C. Engineering & Management          15.7   66.0    80.3    65.1    51.2    27.0   305.2           1.8     7.6     9.2      7.5     5.9     3.1    35.1
Total PROJECT COSTS                 173.2  646.0  765.2   619.3   482.3  255.8  2941.8            19.9   74.3    88.0    71.2   S5.4    29.4   338.1
..  ........................................................................................................................0 513......1...9.....9...._
Votues Seated tty t04004G.O 5113Jt594 9:5S



- 101 - 
SCHEDULE OF CON CT PACKAGES
Contmct                                          Procuremen    stiatd
no.         Description                           type      bss cost        Remarks
(Y million)
AWW/l.0   Iterceptor Culverts                     LCB           19.4
/2.0   Wastewatr Treatment Plant            LCB           35.9
/3.0    Istallation of Reuse Pipeline                     16.8     NBF
/4.0   Power Supply                          DC            1.7     Contr&t vAth
Power Co.,
NBF
AWW/21.0   Supply of Pipe Matedals                              47.4      NBF
/22.0   Treatment Plant Equipment/s          ICB          119.0     PQ rqd.
/23.0   Sludge Vehicles & Contines            ICB           3.7
/24.0   Misc. Equ         ia               ICBILCB          2.6     To be decided
UIJ.MUN WASTEWATER
QV-d Wodm
FWW/1.0   Consuction of Itrceptor                 ICB          134.9    PQ reqd.
/2.0   Construction of Link Sewer.          LCB            9.6
/3.0   Constrction of Pump Stations         LCB            1.8
/4.0   Sanbaotua Treatment Plant            LCB           42.3
1S.0   Power Supply                          DC            6.2     NBF
_t92 A Mdarial
FWW/21.0   Supply of Pipe Materias                 ICB           3.7
/22.0   Sanbaotum Treatment Pbuut             ICB          56.0     PQ reqd.
/23.0   Sludge Vehicles & Contaers            ICB           1.5
/24.0   Misc. Mateials & Equipmet          ICB/LCB          8.4     Psckage to be
decided
/25.0   Pump Station M&E Work                ICB            1.7
BFNXI WASTEWVATER
civil W
BWW/1.0   Municipal ntecptor                     LCB           47.2
/2.0   Link Sewrs & Connections             LCB            7.7
/3.0   Wasotwr Treatmen/Sludge Works         ICB          76.9     PQ reqd.
/4.0   Advance Wo*/fUtilities               LCB            2.0
/5.0   Power Supplies                        DC           10.2     Coantrct with
Power Co.,
NBF



- 102-
Contract                                         Procurent  Estimated
no.         Description                           type      bs cost         Ra
(Y million)
13uimeamt & mAterials
BWW/21.0   Supply of Pipe Materials               ICB            7.2     PQ reqd.
/22.0   Wastewater Treatment Plant            ICB          57.9     PQ reqd.
/23.0   Sludge Vehicles & Containes          LCB            0.9
/24.0   Misc. Equipment & Materials        ICB/LCB          2.6
BENXI DISIRIC HEATING
,Civil WoQf
BCH/l,0   River Water Supply                    LCB            9.8      Reroctive
/2.0   Boiler Support Facilities            LCB           22.2     contact
/3.0   Dongfeng Pipeline                    LCB           31.6     ditto
14.0   Admin Bldg & Dongfeng HESs           LCB           15.0     ditto
/5.0   Chaitun Pipeln and HESs              LCB           17.4
/6.0   Rail Crossings & Utilities            DC            5.8     NIF
Eauipment & Materials
BCH21.0    Supply/fistallation of Boilers and Equipment ICB   36.6
/22.0   Vehicles                              ICB           2.9
BMAIR QUA   MANAGEU
BAP/1.0   Coke Oven Nos. 1&2 Charging             -            9.6     NBF
120    Coke Oven Pushing, No. 4 Charging      -           21.1     NBP
/3.0   BlastPumaces Nos. 1&2                              32.2     NEF
fWD=& Maedl
BAPI,l.0   Supply/stabll Coke Oven 14f. 1&2
Cargng Equipment                    ICB           44.6     PQ reqd.
/22.0   Coke Oven No. 4 Carging                -           41.1     NBF
123.0   Coke Oven No. 4 Pushing                            26.7     NBF
/24.1   Supply/InstalBlal t Fura  No. 1 Equipment -        51.4     NBF
/24.2   Supply/nstll Blast Furnac No. 2 EquipmentlCB       51.4     PQ reqd.
DALlhN WASTEWATER
Civi Warka
DCWIl.0   Chunliu  rceptor/Coectors              LCB           23.3
DMW/1.0   Malan Interceptor/Collectors            LCB            8.5
DCW/2.0   Chunliu Pump Stations                  LCB            3.2
DMW/2.0   Malan Pump Statons                      LCB           2.7
DCW/3.0   Chunliu Treatmt Plant Upgrade          LCB           10.9
DMW/3.0   Malan Treatment Plant                   ICB          99.4      PQ rqd.
DMW14.0   Malan Power Supplis                     DC             3.5     Contract with
Power Co.,
NBP
DMW/5.0   Malan Reuse Pipdine                     LCB            2.1



- 103 -                              ANNEX5
Contract                                          Procttement  Estimated
no.         Description                            type      base cost        Remark
(Y million)
Eauipment & Materials
DMW/21.0   Pipe Materials, Malan & Chunliu          ICB           10.0     PQ reqd.
DCW/22.0   Chunliu Treatment Equipment             ICB            24.9     PQ reqd.
DMW/22.0   Malan Tratment Equipment                 ICB          102.4     PQ reqd.
DMC/23.0   Sludge Transport Vehicles               ICB             1.9
DMC/24.0   Miscellaneous Equipment               ICB/LCB          2.6
DMC/25.0   Malan Pump Station M&E                  ICB            5.5
DCW/25.0   Chunliu Pump Station M&E                 ICB            5.5
DALIAN SOLID WASTE
Civil Works
DSW/1.0   Transfer Station                        LCB           20.8
DSWI2.0   Landfili Site Works                     LCB            9.9
Eanioment & Materials
DSW/21.0   Collection System Equipment               -           15.0      NBF
/22.0   Transfer and Disposal Equipment        ICB           56.0     PQ reqd.
DALIAN WATER CONSERVATION
Civil Works
DWC/1.0    Dalian University                      LCB            4.4
/2.0    Dalian Steel Mill                    LCB             3.8
/3.0    Dalian Brewery                       LCB             1.2
/4.0   Dalian Water Supply Company           LCB             1.1
Eguiimqent & Materials
DWC/21.0   Misc Equipment & Materials              ICB             1.9
JINZHOU WATER SUPPLY
civil Wod
JWS/1.0   Wellfield, Damu Transmissi,            LCB            19.7     Retroactive
and Shankou Tunnel                                          contract
/2.0   Damu Treatment Works                  LCB             9.9
/3.0   Baduan Pump Station Constuction       LCB             9.9
/4.1   Transmission Pipeline Baduan-Damu     LCB            13.1
/4.2   Transmission Pipeline Damu-Jinxi Port  LCB           13.0     NBF
/5.0    Distribution Impovements              LCB            3.0
Equivment & Materials
JWS/21.1   Supply of Pipe Maters                   ICB           16.7     PQ reqd.
121.2   Supply of Pipe Materals                 -            16.6     NBF
/22.0   Supply/Install Pumps at Wellfld. and
Tretment Equipment                   ICB           26.7     PQ reqd.
/23.0   Operational Vehicles                  LCB             1.5
/24.0    Misc. Equipment & Materials        ICBILCB           1.9



- 104 -                             ANNEXS
Contract                                         Procurement  Estimated
no.         Descripdion                           type      base cost       Remarks
(Y milion)
JINCHENG PULP MILL
Civil Works
JPM/1.0   Pulp Mill Civil Works                 LCB           11.0
EQuipme=  8 Materials
JPM/21.0   Red Liquor Extraction                 ICB           42.8     PQ reqd.
/22.0   Red Liquor Evaporation               ICB           43.1     PQ reqd.
/23.0   Wbite Water/Fuelwood/Misc.           ICB            9.4     PQ reqd.
ENVIRONMEN-TAL REHABILITATION & CONSTRUCTION
civil woik
CHC/1.0   Museum Services                       LCB            1.1
/2.0   Niuheliang                           LCB            1.4
/3.0   Jiumenkou                            LCB            3.5
/4.0   Jieshi                               LCB            1.4
Eauigment & Materials
CHC/21.0   Museum Services                        ICB           4.5
/22.0   Niuheliang                           LCB            0.5
/23.0   Jiumeukou                            LCB            0.4
/24.0   Jiesbi                               LCB            0.1
NB,F = Not Bank financed.



- 105-                        &N- 
SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMS
Bank
Bank fiscal year           Semester    Cumulative    Project    Profile La
and semester              -------- ($ million) -     (
First & Ic                 8.6          8.6          7.8         6.0
Second                     3.3         11.9         10.8         9.0
First                      7.7         19.6         17.8        16.0
Second                    12.1         31.7         28.8       27.0
1222
First                     13.2         44.9         40.8        57.0
Second                    14.3         59.2         53.8       60.0
First                     12.9         72.1         65.6        65.0
Second                    11.6         83.7         76.1        69.0
122
First                     10.3         94.0         85.5        70.0
Second                     8.9        102.9         93.6       75.0
First                      5.1        108.0         98.2        79.0
Second                     1.0        109.0         99.1        82.0
First                      0.7        109.7         99.7        90.0
Second                     0.3        110.0        100.0       100.0
La Latest disbursement profile for China (urban sector).
Lh Includes Special Account disbursement $7.0 million.
Lg Errors due to rounding.



- 106 -                        ANNEX 7
LAD ACQUISMON AND RESE1VHEMENT PLAN
Overall Preparation of Resettlement Action Plans
1.          Prior to appraisal, all project cities presented the Bank with resettlement
plans for those project components requiring land acquisition. Prior to negotiations, the
Liaoning Provincial Govemment (LPG) forwarded to the Bank an updated and acceptable
land acquisition and resettlement plan. All project cities-Anshan, Benxi, Dalian, Fushun,
and Jinzhou-have such components.
2.          The resettlement plans for individual cities share many features, due to the
fact that all were developed within the same regulatory framework (described in Chapter 2
of China: Involuntary Resettlement, Report No. 11641-CHA). The Bank review of
Chinese resettlement policy showed that basing compensation on collective land ownership
(for rural communities) or enterprises (in urban areas) effectively protected the interests
of all groups but the unregistered population (migrants who have not been given the right
of permanent abode). Project cities contend, and site visits by Bank staff yielded no
evidence, that no members of the unregistered population depend on the land acquired for
this project.
3.          In each city, the resettlement efforts would be executed by the city land
administration bureau, or another government agency with special responsibility for
resettlement. All project cities have massive investment programs that involve substantial
rsettlement and the assigned agencies are therefore experienced in this work. The
executing agencies are those typically used in resettlement work and acknowledged in the
Bank's resettlement review to be well placed to execute the work. Each would be required
to submit annual reports on their efforts under the Bank project. Supervision would be
provided by Bank staff.
4.          In addition to the discussions with the provincial project office, preappraisal
and appraisal missions conducted separate discussions and field trips among all
subcomponents in order to understand the basic scope and preparation status of land
requisition and resettlement. A brief summary follows of the major mission findings. The
table at the end summarizes the land and other assets to be acquired and compensation
paid. The resettlement plans themselves can be found in the Project File.
Anshan Wastewater Treatment Plant
5.          The proposed wastewater treatment plant site adjoins an Anshan Iron and
Steel Company industrial solid waste dump. The 18-ha site currently supports irrigated
agriculture, producing one crop of rice annually. The intercepter would be built in the



- 107 -                        ANNEX 7
existing drainage canal and therefore requires no additional land acquisition. Consistent
with the resettlement plan, no structures were found in the area. The area to be acquired
falls within the boundaries of a single village and takes approximately one fourth of the
cultivated land in that village.
6.          Because land acquisition would not require any housing removal, nor affect
any productive enterprise or employment off the land, the social and economic impact of
resettlement would be limited to the losses inherent in the land. Communal ownership
assures that the land acquisition would not result in any family losing its land base.
Rather, all families would suffer a 25 percent reduction in cultivated land. Anshan
municipality estimated the gross output value of the rice at Y 9,000 per ha. This figure
stands well above the provincial average of Y 7,500 for rice, presumably due to relatively
high input use. Farmers 1ose net, not gross, income when they lose the land. Using the
provincial average ratio of net to gross (based on purchased inputs, not including own
labor), the Anshan farm families forgo approximately Y 5,135 per ha in income. The
compensation proposed by the project includes Y 300,000 per ha paid to the village, or
nearly 60 times the annual net income from the land. Currently, bank term-savings
deposits yield slightly over 10 percent, or over Y 30,000 per ha, so such risk-free use of
the funds would result in a substantial increase in real income to affected families. In
addition, the labor previously used on the land would be freed for other productive
purposes. The mission judges that this compensation level fully meets the requirement of
maintaining income at before-resettlement levels.
Benid Wastewater Treatment Plant
7.          The collectors and interceptor would be laid in the watercourses currently
serving as open sewers and drains. No land need be acquired for that purpose and
watercourses would remain as drains for storm water. The treatment plant itself would be
located on land acquired a decade ago for a nursery. Some 15 ha are on a river floodplain
that became usable due to the recent completion of an upstream reservoir that prevents
flooding. Before reservoir completion, seasonal flooding prevented use of the land for
cultivation and it is currently covered with brush. A further 10 ha would require
destruction of orchards. In addition to the land acquired, three families would lose their
houses to the project.
8.         The ftree families have been offered, and accepted, new housing sites some
500 m from their current location. The sites adjoin one another, as did the original sites,
and equal the original sites in size. The owners would be expected to demolish their own
houses, with full salvage rights, and manage construction of their new housing. In addition
to compensation adequate to rebuild housing to the original standard, each family would
be granted Y 1,000 for removal costs and Y 1,200 as a transition period living subsidy.
The latter sum equals 14 months' per capita income for the families.
9.          The nursery is a state, as opposed to collective, enterprise. The land
acquisition would not, therefore, result in the loss of cultivated land to any particular
family. The nursery has uncultivated land suitable for the reestablishment of the 6 ha of



- 108 -                        ANNEX 7
orchard to be lost. The compensation negotiated by the enterprise to protect itself (and
hence all workers) from economic loss totals Y 523,500 per ha. Current income per ha
from the orchards totals Y 17,255. The available funds would allow full reestablishment
of 6 ha of orchard, compensate for all income loss during the five-year period needed to
regain full production, provide an additional margin for risk, and leave the nursery with
a younger orchard. The compensation package is judged to fully meet the shared Bank and
Chinese goals of protecting project-affected people from adverse effects.
Dalian Malan River Wastewater Treatment Plant
10.        The proposed Malan River Wastewater Treatment Plant is located along the
Malan River in the southern coastal area of Dalian. It would require 13 ha of land in an
urban area. No farmland would be affected and the land in question is government owned,
but eight factories and commercial enterprises would be displaced. Not atypically for
Chinese industry, employee housing is provided on factory grounds and factory relocation
would nev..ssitate the relocation of 85 families. The largest affected enterprise is the
Dalian Chemical Plant with over 300 employees.
11.        Dalian has developed a resettlement plan for the industrial enterprises that
relocates the three chemical plants to the new Nanguanling chemical industries district,
19 kn from their present site; the two construction materials sales companies would go to
the Sandaogou zone, 14 km from the current site; a specialty oil supply firmn would
relocate 6 km to the Xishancun oil depot; an aquaculture company warehouse would move
11 km to the mouth of the Lingshui river; and the labor bureau of a shipbuilding firm
would move 9.6 km to a space off Yanhai Road. All would have their new facilities
constructed before the move so as to minimize disruption to their operations and aU
employees would continue to receive full pay over the move period.
12.        The 85 families needing to be rehoused would be given apartments in a new
housing development in the current neighborhood, with no temporary housing needed.
This move would ensure that they can continue to use the same schools and other public
facilities to which they are accustomed. It would, however, substantialy increase the
commuting distance for family members employed in the factory, for they would now need
to travel 19 km to work. The factory is planning to provide a home-to-work bus for these
people, which would help ease the burden. Other family members, of course, would have
unchanged commutes.
Fushun Wastewater Treatment Plant
13.        The proposed wastewater treatment plant would occupy 11 ha of irrigated
farmland currently under a coir-ination of paddy and maize and the village that adjoins
that land. A total of 70 village   ;ies would need relocation. Another 2.4 ha would be
acquired along a 3.4-km-long sec .n of the interceptor. The latter area would consist of
a strip of land paralleling the current drainage canal and is a mixture of cultivated land and
farm housing. Use of this land would displace 79 families. The remaining section of the
intercepter would be in a trench along the riverbed and would not affect productive land.



-109 -                         ANNEX 7
Construction of branch sewers would require the relocation of an additional 39 families,
for a total of 188 families needing relocation. In addition to the permanent land taken, an
additional 16 ha of cultivated land would be temporarily used dtiring construction, then
returned to the cultivators.
14.        The project office would provide new housing or housing sites for all
families needing relocation. Following the pattern in urban resettlement, for those
currently in government housing, the new housing would provide substantially more floor
space and improved amenities. The project office estimates an average 27 percent increase
in floor space for each family as well as amenities such as private flush toilets, now
available in few of the affected households. These improvements come at the price of
physical uislocation, with the new housing located 2 to 4 km from the original housing
site. For the 80 percent of the affected families, all from farm villages who own their own
housing, the city would provide new housing plots on which the farmers can rebuild. The
land would require a nominal Y 10 per year (less than $2) use right payment. Housing
would be compensated at a level permitting the construction of new housing of area equal
to the original.
15.        The acquisition of cultivated land would displace 226 farmers. Because of
the amnount of land lost and the physical displacement of villagers from the remaining land,
all farmers would shift to nonagricultural status. With this status comes access to the
urban public welfare system and, for resettling people, state responsibility for providing
employment. Of the 226, 36 would be employed by the wastewater treatment plant. The
remaining 190 would have their employment arranged by the Fushun labor bureau. For
the period until such employment, which may take up to 30 months, the farmers would be
employed by the labor bureau and assigned to temporary labor jobs or, once the permanent
position has been identified, taining courses for their new jobs.
16.        Employment would be funded through compensation for lost land.
Compensation levels vary by land use, hence income. Payment from the project to the
municipality for vegetable land would be Y 1.6 million per ha, irrigated land at Y 380,000
per ha, and rainfed land at Y 298,000 per ha. Those figures include both compensation
for lost production and special taxes designed to discourage land acquisition. Because the
communities themselves would not arrange alternative employment, they would receive no
more than Y 54,000 per ha for irrigated land and Y 45,000 per ha for rainfed land. The
remaining funds would be used by the labor bureau for investment in enterprises providing
jobs for the displaced labor. In Fushun, such provide an average income of no less than
Y 4,800 per year in direct salary and subsidies, well above the average net annual crop
income per farmer of Y 800.
17.        Despite the increases in housing space or quality and the higher incomes
enjoyed by resettled farmers, the welfare gain necessarily remains ambiguous. The
substantial shift in lifestyle, in moving from independent farming to more regimented
industrial manual labor, would not necessarily be welcomed by every affected family.
Some opportunity remains for distributing these opportunities among collective members
by preference, as some land remainis in each affected village, but the assumption is that



-110 -                         AN X
those losing housing would move. They would be able to remain only if families not
losing housing wouldingly trade their housing for a city apartment and the new job
opportunity. Those decisions are made by the community, not by the resettlement office
and no guarantee can be given that a family preferring to remain in farming would be
allowed to do so.
18.        Farmers having land taken for temporary project use would be compensated
for the full gross output value of their land during the entire use period. Ihis more than
compensates for forgone income, because they need not purchase inputs for that land nor
apply their labor to it. If the temporary use involves disturbing soil structure (digging, as
opposed to spoil placement), then additional compensation is paid for the period needed
to return the land to its original productivity. Compensation levels are Y 13,000/year for
vegetable land, Y 8,800/year for irrigated land, and Y 3,900/year for rainfed land.
Jinzhou Water Supply Project
19.        The Jinzhou Water Supply Project consists of a wellfield, pump station,
water distribution plant, a 25-kn-long water pipeline and access roads. The total project
would acquire nearly 17 ha of farmland and temporarily use a further 99 ha. The bulk of
this land is rainfed grain land in Songshan and Xingzhuang townships. A small proportion
is used for vegetable cultivation or afforested.
20.         The Jinzhou situation resembles that of Anshan in that land acquisition would
not require any housing removal, nor affect any productive enterprise or employment off
the land, therefore limiting the social and economic impact of resettlement to the losses
inherent in the land. Again, communal ownership assures that the land acquisition would
not result in any family losing its land base. Indeed, the community itself would lose a
much lower percentage of its land than in Anshan, with the most affected community
losing less hn 10 percent of its cultivated land. The project is basing compensation on
gross income from cultivated land totaling Y 9,000 per ha for irrigated land and Y 7,500
per ha for rainfed land. These nominal figures are above actual returns as reported by the
villages. The Anshan calculation for net income holds here as well, suggesting a net of
approximately Y 5,135 per ha for irrigated land and Y 4,300 per ha for rainfed. Direct
compensation to the villages would total Y 81,000 per ha for irrigated land and Y 67,500
per ha for rainfed, in each case over 15 times the net income from the land. Again, with
risk-free bank term-savings deposits yielding slightly over 10 percent, the equivalent
income would total Y 8,400 per year for irrigated land and Y 7,000 for rainfed. In
addition, the labor previously used on the land would be freed for other productive
purposes. This compensation level is judged to fully meet the requirement of maintaining
income at before-resettlement levels.
21.         Temporarily acquired land would be compensated for its gross output value
during the period of use, again with a premium paid if the structure of the land is
disturbed. Specifically, land compacted by vehicle traffic would be paid an extra year's
full income as additional compensation and land excavated would be paid an additional



-111-                                    ANNEX 7
eight years' full income. This compensation level is judged to fully meet the requirement
of protecting income of the temporarily affected people.
22.            Trees on land taken for either permanent or temporary use would be
compensated additionally to the normal land compensation, based on their full value.
Moreover, farmers would be permitted to salvage the trees.
SUMMARY OF LAONING ENVIRONMENT PROJECr RESETrLEMEN
Land Acquisition (ha)      Housing      Enterprise       Labor
Removal       Removal      RestleDment      Budget
Project City  Permanet       Temporary       (units)       (units)       (prsons)     (Y milion)
Anshan                18.0           0.0             0             0             810        12.85
Baui                  21.0           0.0             3             0               0         3.26
Dalian                13.0           0.0            85             8               0        35.08
Fushun                22.5          16.9           188             0             226        23.69
Jinzhou               16.8         100.2             0 0                          0         7.23



- 112 -                        ANNE  8
E ONMENTAL ASSESSMENT SM
hItroduction
1.          Liaoning Province is located in the northeast of China and is bordered to the
north by Jilin Province, to the east by the Democratic Republic of Korea, to the south by
the Bohai Sea and to the west by Hebei Province and the Inner Mongolia Autonomous
Region. The province has a total land area of 145,700 km2 and a population of 36 million,
of which 25 million are urban, and has developed a strong industrial base, many of the
cities being major centers of heavy industry. Basic food supplies are derived from
agriculture carried out in several large river basins, principally the twin basins of the Hun
and Taizi Rivers in the heardand of the province and occupying some 20 percent of its land
but producing about 40 percent of its gross agricultural output. These same basins contain
more than one third of the population of Liaoning and produce about 60 percent of its
gross induswtrial output.
2.          Historic rapid industrial development, coupled with inadequate wastewater
mnanagement, has seriously threatened the existing limited water resources, and substantial
inmreases in industrial production are planned. The total quantity of wastewater discharged
from the six major cities in the Hun-Taizi Basin have been estimated at 2.4 million m3/d
in 1987 and are projected to increase to 4.4 million m3/d in 2000. In addition, independent
discharges from major industries are estimated to rise from 2.5 million m3/d in 1987 to
3.8 million m3/d in 2000. Such increases would further degrade the limited water
resources of the province.
3.          Water consumption in all cities is dominated by industrial use, which
typically accounts for about 70 percent of consumption. Discharges of pollution from
industry are frequently associated with inadequately controlled and therefore inefficient and
wasteful use of both water and materials. Water consumption per unit of industrial output
is frequently very high by intemational standards. Studies of diversion of water from
catchments where there are, albeit modest, surpluses to augment or substitute existing
polluted resources have indicated that unit costs are very substantial and in some cases
exorbitant. Thus, there is a clear need, in addition to more effective wastewater
management, for industry to improve the efficiency of water use if industrial growth is to
be sustained. Indeed, there is evidence that industrial output in some cities is already
constained by water resource restrictions.
4.          Similar lack of controls on polluting discharges and the inefficient use of
resources are also causing severe problems of air pollution in many of the major cities in
the province, notably in the city of Benxi. The problems are derived principally from the
combustion of poor-quality coal for heating, power generation and industrial use and result



- 113 -                        A
in extremely poor urban air quality, with substantial exceedance of even the least-stringent
air quality criteria. The nature and extent of the problems are such that they cannot be
solved at a reasonable cost and wifhin a realistic timeframe solely by the provision of
emission controls. There would need to be a "cradle to grave' approach to achieve
pollution reduc,ins at all stages ranging from fuel sourcing to controls on combustion.
S.          The effective utilization of water resources in the Hun-Taizi Basin was the
sul,;ect of a previous study, the Hun-Taizi River Basin Management Study (HTRBMS),
managed by the Bank and funded by the Australian International Development Assistance
Bureau (AIDAB). The study was completed in 1988 and produced a ranked set of
investments for water resource development and water pollution control measures designed
to improve water resource utilization in the Basin. A number of water resource
developments were included in the Bank-financed Liaoning Urban Infrastructure Project
and the proposed project would finance, inter alia, the second set of priority investments
identified by HTRBMS focused on water pollution abatement.
6.         In order to address the concerns described above, the proposed project would
fscus on improving the state of the environment in Liaoning via a range of investments
with the objectives of:
(a)  improving water quality, principally in the Hun-Taizi Basin, to allow safe
beneficial use;
0b)  improving urban air quality;
(c)  improving standards of municipal wastes management;
(d)  institution of measures to alleviate industrial pollution and to improve water
and materials udlization; and
(e)   strengthening of policies and institutional arrangements for water and air
quality management, wastewater facilities operations, environmental
regulation and management training.
7.          Technical support and training would be provided to various environment
sector agencies in Liaoning and both provincial and municipal level including environment
protection bureaus (EPBs) and municipal utility operations and finance departments.
Administrtive and Institutional Framework
8.          The State Environmental Protection Comminttee (SEPC) is the highest level
of authority on environmental policy and includes the State Council and heads of all
relevant ministries and agencies. The National Environmental Protection Agency (NEPA)
functions as the secretriat of SEPC and is responsible for all aspects of environmental
policy although it shares authority with other agencies for certain natual resources. NEPA
sets overall policies and regulations governing the provincial and municipal environmental



-114 -                          ANNEX 8
protection bureaus (EPBs) and implementation of environmental policy is through the
municipal and provincial EPBs, who are responsible for the maintenance of environmental
quality.
9.          Specific responsibility for water resources in Liaoning is shared between five
agencies, coordinated by the Liaoning Water Resource Management Committee headed by
a Vice Governor of the province. Maintenance of water quality is the responsibility of the
Liaoning EPB and its subordinate municipal EPBs. Trose bureaus monitor environmental
quality, set environmental and discharge standards, assess and levy pollution charges and
prosecute serious polluters. All discharges to watercourses in Liaoning, whether from the
cities or from industry, come under the control of the EPBs.
Project Description
10.         The proposed project comprises a total of 12 components as follows:
(a)   Anshan Wastewater Treatment and Recovery-physicochemical treatment of
220,000 m3/d of wastewater largely from the ANGANG steel complex and
recovery of the treated wastewater for process use in the complex;
(b)   Benxi Wastewater Treatment-provision of trunk sewers and chemically
assisted primary treatment plant for 300,000 m3/d of mixed municipal and
industrial wastewater;
(c)   Fushun Wastewater Treatment-provision of trunk sewer system  and
chemically assisted primary treatment plant for 250,000 m3/d of mixed
municipal and industrial wastewater;
(d)   Benxi Air Quality Management-retrofitting of emission controls in the form
of dry electrostatic precipitators at two blast furnaces (replacing existing wet
scrubber systems) and controls on coal loading and unloading at three coke
ovens in the Benxi Iron and Steel complex to reduce emissions, and in the
former case, permit heat recovery from waste gases; provision of coal-fired
boilers and distribution pipework for a new district heating system;
(e)   Dalian Wastewater Treatment and Recovery-provision of Malan River
trunk sewer system and secondary treatment plant for 120,000 m3/d of
mixed municipal and industrial wastewater; distribution system for recovery
of treated wastewater for use by lo.al industry; sewerage system
improvements and upgrading of Chunliu wastewater treatment plant to
increase treatment capacity to 60,000 m3/d to enhance industrial reuse of
treated wastewater;
(f)   Dalian Solid Wastes Management-improvements to solid waste collection
facilities; construction of new waste transfer station and provision of bulk



- 115 -                        ANNEX 8
waste transport vehicles; development of landfill site with leachate control
and landfill gas collection facilities;
(g)   Jinzhou Water Supply-development of new groundwater resources to
substitute existing boreholes close to the city that have become polluted;
(h)   Jincheng Paper Mill Process Improvements-reduction in pollution load
(currently 3 million population equivalent) from paper mill by process
improvements comprising: water recycling; improvements in process
chemical utilization; and recovery of a lignosulfonate binder product for
various industrial applications;
(i)   Industrial Water Conservation-various projects in Dalian to reduce water
consumption in industry, institutional use, and water utility (improved leak
detection);
.j)   Environmental Rehabilitation and Construction-improved conservation and
presentation of Liaoning Provincial Museum, Niuheliang, Jiumenkou Great
Wall and Jieshi Gong.
(k)   Environmental Protection Fund-a fund similar to those included in other
Bank-financed environment and infrastructure projects in China focused on
industrial pollution control and process improvement projects; and
({)   Technical Assistance and Training Components-including institutional
strengthening; project management; financial management and economic
analysis; training for wastewater treatment and wastes management
operations; pilot wastewater treatment plant; and energy policy study for
Benxi.
11.        Of the above components, (a)-(h) involve physical works in the immediate
term and are therefore covered by the EA studies. The components are divided within
three distnct geographic areas within Liaoning as follows:
Hun-Taiz; River Basin/Central Liaoning                         a-d
Xiaoling-Daling River Basin/SE Liaoning                      e & f
DaLian area (Liaodong peninsula)/S Liaoning                  g & h
The EA for the project as a whole is subdivided to reflect these three geographic areas.



- 116 -                        ANNE  8
Baseline Data
12.         General. Liaoning Province has important coal, oil, and iron ore reserves
that have enabled it to become a major industrial center of China, generating about
7 percent of national industrial output. A number of cities in Liaoning are centers of
heavy industry of national importance. The importance of industry is reflected in the fact
that, although Liaoning has also a significant agricultural output, there has been high
population growth in the cities as a result of migration from rural areas. Some cities such
as Dalian are establishing special economic development zones, which are increasing the
rate of industrial development.
13.         Principal economic activities in the project area include: coal mining; oil
and gas production; petroleum refining; chemicals manufacture; steel and coke production;
nachinery manufacture; metallurgy; pulp and paper production; textiles and light industry.
14.         Climate. The climate in the project area of Liaoning is subhumid, with
maritime influences resulting in a moderation of temperatures, more so in Dalian than in
other project cities. Annual average daily temperatures range from 60C to 90C. The
coldest month is January, with daily average temperatures ranging between -5C and
-17C, and July, the hottest month, has daily average temperatures between 230C and
240C.
15.         Average annual precipitawion ranges between 500 mm and 1,000 mm,
increasing from southeast to northwest. Between 63 and 70 percent of precipitation occurs
as rain during the summer mcvths of June to September, with approximately 9 to
10 percent falling in the winter months of December to February.
16.         Ecology. Upland forested areas of Liaoning contain poplar, larch, willow,
oak, dragon spruce, fir and northeast China ash; fauna include badger, roe deer, pheasant,
and egret. The project components are, however, located in urban or agricultural areas
where the majority of the native flora and fauna have been replaced by species adaptable
to such environments.
17.         Wastewater discharges have impaired riverine aquatic environments in the
Hun-Taizi Basin (Anshan, Benxi, Fushun discharges) and the Daling Basin (Jinzhou and
Jincheng discharges). In areas of acute pollution, there are reportedly no fish species
present, although in less polluted areas carp, catfish and wild gill eel are found. Offshore
areas around Dalian are diverse, the Heishijiao Bight and Dalian Bay being rich marine
environments supporting numerous native species and highly productive aquaculture
systems. Major cultivated species include kelp, abalone, scallops and mussels. However,
in the Heishijiao Bight close to the mouth of the Malan River, the environment has been
impaired by wastewater discharges. Areas of Jinzhou Bay originally contained mud flats
with native populations of alkaline rush and reeds, but many of these mud flats have been
converted for prawn farming.



- 117 -                          ANNEX 8
18.         Water Quality. Water quality standards for China have been developed by
NEPA and are known as the Environmental Quality Standards for Surface Waters
(EQSSW). For rivers, the EQSSW are applicable for water quality in the river
downstream of any mixing zones with polluting discharges. EQSSW are defined for five
water use classifications, for each of which a set of maximum permissible concentrations
of various pollutants. The water use classifications are listed below, and the applicable
EQSSW in Annex 2.
a     Class I-very clean waters, for natural protection.
*     Class 11-water used for drinking water source.
*     Class m-water used for drinking water after some treatment.
*     Class IV-water used for recreational use, boating, fishing and for industrial
water supply.
a     Class V-water suitable for industrial cooling water or for irrigation.
The water quality targets for the Hun-Taizi and Daling Rivers that are affected by the
various project components are shown in Table 1.
19.         Wastewater discharges, both municipal and industrial, must comply with the
requirements of the national Integrated Wastewater Discharge Standards (IWDS), which
have been modified to take account of the specific environmental requirements of Liaoning.
The Liaoning standards are listed in Annex 2 and are generally more stringent than IWDS
and were implemented in 1990. Wastewater must be treated to maintain one of two
standards based on the beneficial uses of the receiving water:
*     Standard I-for discharge to Class III surface water.
o     Standard 11-for discharge to Class IV or Class V surface water.
20.         In no instance may discharges be made to Class I or Class II surface water
bodies. The Liaoning standards also include conditions on flow, water reuse rate and
maximum concentrations of a number of pollutants specifically for wastewaters from
24 categories of industry, principally heavy industry.
21.         The National Marine Water Classification system classifies manne waters
are classified into three categories as a function of water use as follows:
a     Class I-natural protection, salt harvesting, fisheries
o     Class 11-recreation
     Class m-industrial uses, harbots



-118 -                                   A     E
Table 1: WATER QuALT TARGErS IN HuN, TAD AND DALING RPES
B      bp1 ii ~pfl                  Beneficial Uses                           Water Quality Target
run    River.                         _  _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _  _  _   _     _  _   _  _  _
Upteam of Duofanw Rervoir           Drikn spply                              lca m
Dhoofng Rseervoir                   Drinking supply                           cia n
Fudwh Section to Hun He Gat         Indusrial use; recreation; rechauge for Shenyang  Clss m
Aquifer
Downsrm of Hun He Gate              Irrigation                                Class V
Taid River.
Guangyng Reservoir                  Drndng supply                             Class n
Downstb m of Guangye  Reseroir to   Dnnk  suply                               class m
BDoe Section                        Industrial use                            Cls IV
Downsam  of Bead to Shenwo Reservoir   Indusial use                           Class IV
Tag.Reservoir                       Ddanking swpply; indusWtial use           Cass 
Downstream of Shenwo Reservoir to Gao Li  Recharge for Liaoyang Aquifer       Cass Im
MSection
Downsteam of Gao Li Men to Xiao Kou Zi  Indusal use                           Clas 1V
Section 
Downseam of Xiao Kou Zi Section     drgation                                  Clas V
Daft Riwv_ 
Whole section                    T-riaon;  ndusial use                        Class IV
Soww: Lisong Province Urban Studies, River Basin Management Poject, Basn Pannig Repoit 1989.
22.             As for discharges to freshwater, there are two standards in Liaoning for
wastewater discharges to marine waters depending upon the beneficial uses of the receiving
water:
e       Standard I-for discharge to Class II waters
e       Standard 11-for discharge to Class m  waters
In no case is a wastewater discharge to Class I waters permitted. Details of the Liaoning
standards for discharge to marine waters are given in the Project File.
23.             The Hun-Taizi Rivers generally flow in a northeast to southwest direction
through the province and discharge some 98 kn downstream of their confluence into the
Bohai Sea via the Gulf of Liaodong. The rivers are heavily exploited for a number of
uses, including agiculture, and the flow regime highly influenced by the operation of large
multipurpose impounding reservoirs. The Liaoning EPB monitors water quality in the
basin at 23 locations at frequencies that are seasonal and based on nver flow conditions.



- 119 -                        ANNEX 8
The upper reaches of the rivers are generally of high quality, but water quality deteriorates
as the rivers flow through th_ more developed regions of the province. Most of the
surface waters in the basin within the developed areas are of very poor quality, failing to
comply even with the Class V standards. The problem is compounded during the dry
season when virtually the entire river flows consist of raw wastewater, and groundwater
has become contaminated via surface water recharge.
24.         The use of these polluted water sources for potable supply poses potential
problems in terms of threats to human health. The poor quality of surface water
downstream of Fushun and Benxi also adversely affects agricultural irrigation, and
irrigation standards are exceeded in terms of concentrations of COD, oil and ammonia.
25.         The Daling-Xiaoling basin is the largest catchment of the rivers in the
Jinzhou administrative area. Flows in the rivers and tributaries are dominated by runoff
resulting from precipitation and flows are therefore highly variable. In the case of the
Daling, the monthly average flows range from about 9 m3/s in January to more than
150 m3/s in July and August. Most rivers in the basin flow through areas of hilly
topography with steep slopes and limited vegetative cover, and as a result there is severe
erosion with subsequent sedimentation and siltation in the downstream rivers.
26.         The Daling rises in Jianchang, a hilly area in the southwest of Jinzhou and
discharges to the Gulf of Liaodong some 400 river km downstream. As a result of
erosion, water quality in the upper reaches of the river is poor in terms of suspended
solids. In addition, there are also discharges of pollution to the river, in particular that
from the Jincheng Paper Mill, which has a pollution load of some 3 million population
equivalent. The dilution of this discharge ranges from about 200 in July/August to as little
as 12 in January. As a result, COD concentrations in the Daling are in the order of
hundreds of mg/l. The effect of the discharge from the Jincheng Paper Mill alone is to
increase the COD concentration in the Daling by up to about 200 mg/l depending upon the
river flow.
27.         Groundwater in the urban area of Jinzhou City is mainly derived from water-
bearing strata alkng the banks of the Xiaoling and Nuer rivers. Yields are limited and
there is evidence of contamination of some wells as a result of polluting discharges by
industry. The remaining groundwater resources in the region of Jinzhou are in the Daling
and Xiaoling alluvial fans with water-bearing strata consisting of gritstones with thickness
between 20 and 60 m.
28.         The Malan River in Dalian is 14 km in length with adrainage area of
95 km2 and discharges to the Yellow Sea via the Heishijiao Bight. It constitutes the major
outlet for wastewater in the southwest of Dalian and receives discharges totaling up to
50,000 m3/d from more than 100 industrial plants. The discharge from the Malan River
is causing pollution problems along the adjacent shoreline of the Heishijiao Bight, which
is a popular area for tourism. Elsewhere in Heishijiao Bight, seawater quality is generally
good.



- 120 -                        ANNEX
29.         Shouyu Bay, part of Daman Bay, to the northeast of Dalian also receives
untreated municipal and industrial wastewater discharges. These discharges, together with
the restricted water movement in the bay, are reported to be causing eutrophication
problems, and Shouyu Bay is considered to be the most polluted area of Dalian Bay.
30.         Mr Quality. Ambient air quality standards in China are based on three
clssifications for air quality as follows:
o     Class I-protection of human health and ecological resources based on long-
term exposure to contaminants.
e     Class 11-protection of human health and ecological resources based on
long- and short-term exposure to contaminants.
0    Class m-minimum standard for protection of human health and ecological
resources based on acute and chronic exposure to contaminants.
The standards include concentrations of particulates (TSP), sulfur dioxiJe (SO,), nitrogen
oxides (NO), carbon dioxide and photochemical products and are given in Annex 2.
31.         The City of Benxi has the poorest air quality of any city in Liaoning and
probably in China. Air quality is monitored at six locations in Benxi considered to
reresent the most likely arithmetic average air quality to which inhabitants of Benxi are
exposed and at a seventh location considered to represent background conditions. The air
quality data for SO% and TSP for 1990 are given in Tables 2 and 3. Measured air quality
varies as a function of sampling location and seasonally, and is particularly poor in winter,
when SO concentrations rise by up to an order of magnitude. Concentrations of SO2 and
TSP substantially exceed even the Class m air quality standards.
32.         The poor air quality in Benxi is largely as a result of the combustion of coal
of poor quality (m terms of high sulfur and ash contents) by industry, for power generation
and heating and of the widespread absence of emission controls on discharges to
atmosphere. Total consumption of coal in Benxi is of the order of 7.5 million tons/year
and the major emissions of SO2 and TSP are from power generation, iron and steel
production (blast furnaces and coke ovens) and cement manufacture. Total emissions of
SO2 and TSP have been estimated for 1991 at more than 140,000 and 220,000 tons/year
(a major proportion of which is accounted for by fugitive emissions), respectively. Benxi
has a Master Plan for Air Pollution Abatement with the objective of achieving Class m air
quality for SO2 and Class II for all other pollutants by 2000. To date, this has
concentraed primarily on reducing emissions of TSP. These are expected to reduce by
of the order of 11 percent from the 1991 figure as a result of initiatives already in hand
in terms of emission controls at power plants.
33.         Ihe air quality situation in Benxi is exacerbated by the location of the city
in a river valley surrounded by hills. The formation of stable temperature inversions



- 121-                                         ANNEX 8
Table 2: 1990 ANMBT AI CONCENTRATIONS OF TSP (mg/W) BY SEASON
IN TE CrrY OF BENXI
Annual
Statio Number la               Spdnq           Summe            Autumn           Winter           Arithmetic
_____ ____ __   _ ____ _____   ___ ____ ____ A verage
1                             0.41             0.43             0.61             0.58             0.51
2                              032             0.40             0.60             0.59             0.48
3                             0.21             0.07             0.34             0.76             0.34
4                              0.25            0.08             0.16             0.42             0.23
5                              0.18            0.09             0.24             0.49             0.25
6                              0.34            0.28             0.33              1.04            0.50
7                              0.11            0.06             0.12             0.66             0.24
Seasonal Arid e Average       0.26            0.20             0.34             0.65             0.36
&   Stations 1. 2 and 3 represent indusil areas; stations 4 and S represeAt mostly residentalW areas; station 6 represnts industrial,
residential, and dense taffic; and station 7 reprent backgund data.
Swwre: Baon ENE .
Table 3: 1990 AMBENT AiR CONCENTEAIIONS OF SO2 (mg/mrn) BY SEASON
IN THE CrTY OF BENo
1 StiiOD Number /11            Sprng            Summer           Autumn           Wnter            Arihmuet
Averag
I________________0.10                           0.03             0.07             0.42             0.15
2                              0.03             0.05             0.10             0.44             0.17
3                              0.03             0.02             0.13             0.45             0.16
4                              0.03             0.02             0.07             0.52             0.16
5                              0.03             0.03             0.04            OS4              0.16
6                              0.06             0.03             0.09             0.54             0.18
7                              0.02             0.03             0.08             0.45             0.14
Seasonal Arithmetic Average    0.05           1 0.03             0.08             0.48             0.16
/a  Stions 1, 2 and 3 represent industril areas; stations 4 and 5 represent mostly residential areas; staion 6 reprents industrial,
resdeal, and dense traffic; and sation 7 represents basc.round data.
S5ww: Benf EPB.
severely restricts the dispersion of the substantial discharges of pollutants, leading to
particularly poor local air quality.
34.               Waste Mnagement.  Waste management throughout the Province is
inefficient and has adverse effects upon the environment.  Waste collection and transport
frequently uses small vehicles and involves multiple handling of small quantities of waste,



-122 -                         ANNEX 8
and standards of hygiene are poor. Waste disposal is largely by simple dumping with very
limited control, and there are no sites operated to international standards of sanitary
landfill. As a result, there are problems of pollution of groundwater.
Consideration of Alternatives
35.         In some cases, the options selected represent the only practicable solution
to the specific problem involved. For example, the cost of achieving the very substantial
pollution reductions achieved by process improvements at the Jincheng Paper Mill by
wastewater treatment involving no revenue generation by virtue of product recovery would
have been prohibitively expensive. For cases where there were realistic alternative
options, the rationale for the selection of the proposed selection is described below.
36.         Hun-Talzi Basin Wastewater Treatment. The wastewater treatment plants
proposed for Anshan, Benxi and Fushun are based on primary sedimentation, chemically
assisted to enhance process performance. In the case of Anshan, this was the only process
sequence that could achieve the required treated water quality, given the nature of the raw
wastewater. Although the lack of dilution in the rivers in the basin means that a high
degree of treatment is needed to maintain river water quality, this process sequence was
selected in the immediate term for Benxi and Fushun in preference to biological treatment
systems for the following reasons:
(a)   the mixed wastewater is dilute, reflecting the large contribution by industry
to wastewater flows and probably also inefficient use of water, which would
make biological treatment systems less cost-effective;
(b)  the current lack of rigorous control of industrial wastewaters means that the
mixed wastewater may contain significant concentrations of toxic materials
that could adversely affect biological treatment;
(c)   chemical treatment systems are less temperature sensitive and there are not
currently established design parameters for full-scale biological treatnent
systems under Liaoning winter conditions (a large pilot plant is proposed for
Fushun to undertake the appropriate experimentation); the sustained low
temperatures (as low as -30C) in 1 .iaoning during winter months precludes
the use of waste stabilization ponds in view of the very large areas of land
that would be necessary; and
(d)   the system selected has a lower unit capital cost, which means that a greater
volume of wastewater can be treated for a given level of expenditure and the
cost per unit mass of pollutant removed thus reduced; for the same level of
investment, a much smaller flow could have been treated by biological
treatment and, although this would have been to a higher standard,
substantial volumes of wastewater would have remained untreated and the
overall pollution load removed therefore much smaller.



- 123 -                        ANNEX 8
37.         It is expected that in fuure biological treatmnent would be introduced when
the problems outined in (a) and 0) above have been overcome, and the facilities provided
in LEP would stiU form part of the overall process sequence.
38.         Dalian Wastewater Treatment.  The process proposed for the two
wastewater treatment plants in DaLian is biological treatment using the activated sludge
process. In the case of the existing Chunliu plant, this represents an extension to and
refurbishment of an existing process sequence. Moreover, for both the Chunliu and the
new Malan River plants, biological treatment is the only realistic treatment process
sequence that can achieve a treated wastewater quality suitable for recovery for use by
industry.
39.         An alternative option was investigated for the Malan River in the form of
a pimary treatment plant and discharge to the Heishijiao Bight via a long marine outfafl.
This was rejected because of the cost of the very long outfall (6 km) necessary to provide
adequate dilution and dispersion of the discharge so that water quality in the aquaculture
areas of the Heishijiao Bight were not fthreatned.
40.         Benxi Air Quality  nagement. Only in the case of the emissions control
for coke oven loading and unloading was there an alternative process option. The option
proposed is not the least-cost option and was selected because the alternative, based on less
complicated process technology, was not approved by Benxi EPB because it could only
achieve 94 percent solids removal compared with the 98 percent removed by the more
complex system and required by Benxi EPB.
41.         Dal'an Solid Waste Management. Incineration and composting were
investgated as alteratives to landfill, and were rejected, respectively, on grounds of cost
and lack of demand for the product. In either case, there would still be a need for landfill
of incinerator ash or compost plant reject streams.
Enviromnental Benefts
42.         Hun-Taizi River Basin. The wastewater treatment projects for cities in the
Hun-Taizi basin would provide substantial environmental benefits in terms of reduced
pollution loads discharges to the rivers and in the case of Anshan complete removal of
wastewater from the receiving watercourse. The benefits associated with the individual
project components in the Hun-Taizi Basin are discussed below.
43.         Anshan. The treatment plant at Anshan would treat 220,000 me/d from the
Xi Da Gou channel, one of four channels that discharge to the Yunliang River, a tributary
of the Taizi. The flow in the Xi Da Gou consists almost entirely of industrial wastewater
and typically has high concentrations of suspended solids (in excess of 1,000 mg/l) and oil
(in excess of 20 mg/l). This would be treated by a combination of coagulation,
sedimentation and filtration to produce treated effluent complying with the ANGANG steel
plant standards for water for process reuse in the steel plant. This would involve removal
of about 95 percent of suspended solids and oil and would therefore remove more than



- 124- A-NE a
200 tons of suspended solids of industral origin and about 4 tons of oil per day from the
river system. Thus, even on the occasions when the treated wastewater is discharged to
the Xi Da Gou, at times of lack of demand in the steel plant, there would still be a major
improvement in the quality of water downstream that is used in agriculture.
44.         lewd. The city of Benxi is situated on the Taizi direcdy upstream of the
Shenwo reservoir and about 40 km downstream of the Guanyenge reservoir. Wastewater
from the city, both municipal and industrial, is discharged almost entirely without
treatment to the Taizi via a number of tributaries and open channels. The proposed
wastewater interceptor would collect flows in these tributaries and channels over a distance
of some 12 river kn for treatment at a plant downstream of the city. There would be a
substantal improvement in water quality in the Taizi as it traverses the city as a result of
the complete removal of these discharges. Downstream of the city, there would b,' an
improvement by virtue of the pollution load reduction achieved in treatment.
45.         The estimated reduction in COD concentration in the Taizi as it traverses
the city is about 40 percent. The proposed interceptor sewer would not collect wastewater
from a major industrial area including the Benxi Iron and Steel complex, the wastewaters
from which would be collected and treated separately. Such treatment would be necessary
if the proposed water quality standards for the Taizi are to be achieved. A very significant
reduction in pollution from the Benxi Iron and Steel complex would result from the
replacement of the wet scrubbers for blast furnace off-gas by a dry electrostatic precipitator
fcility as described in detail below.
46.         Fushiun. The city of Fushun is located on the Hun River immediately
downsteam of the multipurpose Dahuofang Reservoir and 50 km upstream of Shenyang,
the provincial capital. Fushun is heavily industrialized and some 84 percent of the total
wastewater flow (745,000 m3/d) is derived from industrial sources. Of the total wastewater
flow, about 55 percent is discharged direct to the Hun River and 38 percent to the Shenfu
Irrigation Canal, which runs from west to east and conveys the untreated wastewater to
irrigate some 10,000 ha of farmland.
47.         The project allows for the collection and treatment of mixed municipal and
industial wastewater stream, which excludes wastewater from 20 major industries in
Fushun that produce about 32 percent of the total wastewater flow and would be treated
separtely at source. This was decided from considerations of treatability effects on the
mixed wastewater, treatment economics and the financial capability of the industries
concerned. The treated industrial wastewater from these 20 industries would be collected
by a separate industrial wastewater interceptor discharging to the Shenfu Canal. The
mixed municipal and industrial wastewater would be collected by a 26-km municipal
waswwater interceptor for chemically assisted pnmary treatment at a plant downstream of
the city.
48.         There would be a substantial improvement in water quality in the Hun River
as it traverses urban Fushun because the discharges of waewater would have been
removed completely. There would be a similar improvement in river quality downstream



- 125 -                        ANNIfi
of Fushun by virtue of the pollution load removed by the treatment plant. The estimated
reduction in COD concentrations in the river water is about 70 percent, with significant
reductions also in terms of specific pollutants of industrial origin such as phenols. Water
quality in the Shenfu Canal would also be improved by virtue of the treatment at the
individual industries.
49.         Beni Air Pollution Control. The environmental benefits of the Benxi air
pollution control component are very significant and take three forms as follows:
(a)   Direct benefits to local air quality as a result of emission controls;
(b)   Indirect benefits as a result of recovery of heat, thereby reducing the co*l
consumption necessary for the same heat demand;
(c)   Indirect benefits by virtue of fuel substitution and/or improved combustion
efficiency; the district heating component would replace small inefficient
coal-fired boilers, which are particularly polluting because they burn poor-
quality coal and have no emission controls; moreover, discharge stacks are
short and therefore pollutants are discharged close to ground level with very
limited scope for dispersion.
50.        The replacement of the existing wet scrubbers at the blast furnaces by dry
electrostatic precipitators would result in a small increase in solids removal and additionally
would obviate a wastewater discharge of approximately 4.2 million nm/year containing
toxic pollutants such as cyanides (4.7 tons/year) and phenols (2 tons/year) to the Taizi
River. The principal benefit, however, would be that the blast furnace gas can be used in
coke ovens, thereby displacing coke oven gas for use to supplement the city gas supply.
This would amount to approximately a doubling of the availability of gas for residental
use, with a substantial saving in residential coal consumption. This substitution would
reduce SO% emissions in Benxi by about 1,800 tons/year.
51.         The emission controls at the coke ovens give a relatively small reduction in
emissions of particulates in mass terms, but, since the emissions are fugitive and at ground
level, the improvement in local air quality is substantial. In particular, there is almost
complete elimination of the emissions of highly carcinogenic organic chemicals such as
beazopyrene, which is a significant health hazard to operations personnel at and near the
plant.
52.         The district heating facility gives a very substantial environmental
improvement for two reasons. It would replace a large number of small, inefficient
domestic coal boilers by a large efficient coal-fired combined heat and power plant
equipped with emission controls for removal of both SO and TSP and a number of heat-
only boilers, also coal-fired and equipped with similar emission controls. The expected
reduction in emissions of SO2 is more than 8,000 tons/year for the disrict heating facility
as a whole and about 800 tons/year for the heat-only boilers provided in the component.



- 126 -                        ANNEX 8
53.         The overall total reduction in emissions has been calculated in percentage
terms on adopting the "bubble concept" to Benxi and considering all mass emissions in the
city as equivalent. On this simple and conservative basis, the total reduction in SO2
emissions on an annual basis is approximately 10,000 tons/year (about 7 percent) and that
in TSP emissions is approximately 45,000 tons/year (about 20 percent). In practice, the
effect of the reduction in emissions is likely to be greater, because the reductions are
mainly indirect in respect of reducing the domestic use of coal that is highly seasonal,
mainly for heating in winter. Moreover, the emissions that are being replaced are mainly
from small domestic boilers, where the emissions are probably of the greatest significance
because they are closest to ground level.
54.         Dalian Components. There would be substantial benefits in terms of
receiving water quality as a result of both wastewater treatment components. In the case
of the Malan River plant, all present discharges to the Malan River and thence to the
Heishijiao Bight would be given a high degree of treatment, and there would be a major
improvement in water quality at the mouth of the river and in the adjacent coastal
recreational waters. In addition, any potential threats to water quality in the aquaculture
areas of the Heishijiao Bight would be greatly reduced. In the case of the Chunliu plant
extension, there would be a decrease in the quantities of untreated wastewater discharged
to Dalian Bay in areas where there is limited water movement. In both cases, the recovery
of treated wastewater for industrial use would enhance very limited water resources ir
Dalian.
55.         The development of the Maoyingzi landfill site and the Shouyu Bay refuse
transfer station would improve the aesthetic and environmental standards of wastes
management in Dalian. The transfer station facility is located some 425 km from the
landfill and would substantially improve transport efficiency. The compaction facilities to
be installed and the larger vehicles used for onward transport of wastes to the landfill site
would reduce the number of vehicle movements and therefore the transport-derived
environmental impacts such as traffic, noise and air pollution. Introduction of high
standards of landfill site operation, particularly leachate and landfill gas controls) would
reduce the risk of local groundwater pollution and of gas migration and possible explosion/
fire risks. Moreover, methane is an important greenhouse gas (GHG) and the collection
and flaring of the landfill gas would substantially reduce the GHG emissions from the site.
It is expected that energy recovery from the landfill gas would be economic as the site is
more extensively developed and in the long term could contribute of the order of several
megawatts to local electricity supplies. Moreover, its beneficial use would avoid the need
to dissipate very large amounts of thermal energy by means of a flare.
56.         Jinzhou Components. The development of new water resources for Jinzhou
would improve the quality of water in supply by virtue of substitution of sources that are
already contaminated or are at risk of contamination. The process improvements at the
Iincheng would have a major positive impact on water quality in the Daling River since
the mill wastewater represents by far the largest pollution load to the river. The process
improvements would reduce the pollution load by more than 2 million population
equivalent, largely as a result of the production and sale of the binder product produced



- 127 -                        ANNEX-8
from  the concentrated process liquor.  In addition, there would be substantial
improvements/savings in water (more than 60 percent) and process chemicals use and
product recovery.
Negative Environmental Impacts
57.         Although, as referred to above, the overall environmental impact of the
project is very substantially positive, there are nevertheless some negative impacts that
would require mitigation at the design and construction stages. In addition, the provision
of additional water resources for Jinzhou, although clearly beneficial in itself, would
neveadeless result in corresponding increases in wastewater quantities from Jinzhou, which
unless treated would adversely impact the appropriate receiving watercourses in the Daling/
Xiaoling Basin. The potential adverse impacts of LEP are listed in Table 4 and the
principal issues discussed below.
58.         Land Use. Significant areas of land would be necessary for the constuction
of the four wastewater treatment facilities and the water resource development at Jinzhou
as follows:
Anshan                  15 ha
Benxi                   22 ha
Dalian (Malan River)    5 ha
Fushun                  49 ha
Jinzhou                 5 ha
In addition, the Dalian landfill would be located within an area of 5 km2 previously used
for salt and prawn production.
59.         The site in Anshan is within an industrialized area and is currently unused.
Its use is therefore not considered to impose an adverse impact. The Benxi plant would
be located in an area that is already flood-prone. Thus, mitigation measures would be
necessary to protect the site from future flooding and adverse impacts are not therefore
significant. Only in the case of Fushun and Jinzhou would there be loss of agricultural
land, but the impact on the agricultural output of the region would not be significant.
Where temporary use of agricultural land is necessary for the construction of pipelines,
topsoil would be stored separately and the land reinstated. In the case of Dalian, the
construction of the plant would use land that could otherwise have been used for industry.
60.         Water AvailabilIty. The proposed Anshan wastewater treatment plant,
although improving very substantially the quality of any wastewater discharged from the
plant to the Xida Gou, would remove a significant quantity of water (220,000 m3kW) from
the clannel, which is a tributary of the Yunliang and ultimately the Taizi, both of which
are used for irrigation. However, the reuse of the treated wastewater would release the
coresponding amount of water from the municipal supply and the overall discharge of
wastewater to the catchment would remain the same.



- 128 -                                        ANNX S
Table 4: SumMARi OF ENRoNMENTAL IPAcT Am
PROPOSED MITIGATION MEAES
Item                 PoWntial Negstive    Mitigation Masures                Iplce.ation       Mot
________I___________                                                  Responsibility     RePni'i        .
Agricultual land     Permanent           Development of land acquisiion   Municipal UCla      Municipa EPBa
conversion for pant  schedule
site
Chinese repulations provide for  Municipal UCBs    Municipal EP8s
comDnl atmon                                .           
Loss of soil fertility   Topsoil from working width to be    Contrctor   Municipal EP8a
following pipeline  stored scarately
installation
Excess spoil to be removed from  Contractor         Municipal EPBs
site
Loss of access      Temporar access to be provided   Contractor          Municipal EPBs
Tempore             Compensation to be prvided                           Municipal EPBs
reductiona n
__roductivity
Resetlmnclt          Resetdlement of     Resettlement scheme drawn up     Municipal UCBS    LUCRPO
people from
constrtction sites  Chinese regulations for          Municipal UCBs    LUCRPO
resettlement require:
(a) Compensation
(b) Provision of at least equivalent
bousin_
Reddues dispoal      Residues produced    Disose of residues at propedy    Municipal          Municipal EPBs
during plant        designed landfill or by reuse    Wastwater
operation                                            Companies
Rivers and strems    Sediametation       Sedimntation barriers would be    Contractor         Municipal EPB
during conSttuction    esablisbed where necessay during
construction
Archaeology          Disturbance of      Construction work to be hlted if a    Contractor     Municipa 8Bs
undiscovered sites  discovery is made
Underground          Severance resukling    Contact local utilities prior to  Contractor      Municipa EPBs
utilities            in service break    excavwation
Ses and roads        Temporary closure    Detours to be etablished and    Contractor          Municipal EPBa
durng consthction    streets and roads would be
satisfactorily repaired following
facility installation                           _
Socioeconomics      Influx of            Utiliem local population to extent  Contactor        Municipal EPBs
construction work   vracticable
force to area
Conuractor to provide on-site    Contactor          Municipal EPB
________________          accommodation if necessary
Spoi                 Disposal of splus   Material to be disposed of in    Contrator           Municipal EPUs
spoil               accordance with an approved
disposal pln
Spoil to be used for construction  Municipa UCBs    Municipal EPBs
fill where needed, road
construction, Indscaping, or other
needs, if apprpriate.
Noise                Disturbance durin   Restrictions on construction      Contractor         Municipal UCBs
constuction         activities at night
Air pollution        Fugidve dust from   Watr spraydown to keep dust       Contractor         Municipal UCBs
const4uction        down if problem is evident                        _
Waste generation     Construction debris   Contain waste and dispose of at  Contractor        Municipal UCBs
accumulation        proper disposal eilitg                           -



- 129 -                        ANNX 8
61.         Resettlement. Only in the case of the Benxi treatment plant would there be
a need for any residential resettlement.  It is expected that 40-50 households
(approximately 200 people) would be relocated from an area contiguous to the proposed
treatment plant site to provide a sufficient sanitary buffer zone between the plant and the
nearest residence. Details of the resettlement arrangements are described in Annex 7.
62.        In the case of the Maoyingzi landfill site and the transfer station, the project
would take away the livelihood of the approximately 100 scavengers that remove recyclable
material from the waste stream (amounting to about 2 percent), thereby deriving an income
of some Y 2,000/month.
53.         Spoil Disposal. Spoil would be generated from construction of all facilities
involving excavations. Spoil would be used for construction fill where needed or for other
uses such as road construction and landscaping. Spoil in excess of local requirements
would be disposed of in accordance with an approved disposal plan.
64.         Residues Disposal. Sludges would be generated at the wastewater treatment
plants at Anshan, Benxi, Dalian and Fushun. 7ince industry generates a major proportion
of the wastewater flow, the sludges would likely contain significant quantities of pollutants
of industrial origin, such as heavy metals, and would not be suitable for reuse ir.
agriculre. Sludge disposal would in all cases by landfill in sites that are environmentally
secure and/or have suitable environmental controls. Proposals for sludge disposal for the
five cities are given in Table 5.
65.         A residue would also be generated by the electrostatic precipitators to be
illed at the blast furnaces in Benxi. It is expected that this solid residue would be
reused in cement production, but if this proves not to be feasible, disposal would be to a
suitably designed landfill.
66.         Construction Impacts. The principal adverse impacts of construction
activities are on urban air quality and noise levels. Increased dust from construction
activities would be temporary and effects can be mitigated by, for example, water sprays.
The effects of increased noise levels may be minimized by controls on hours of worldng.
Pipeline construction may cause temporary disruption to traffic and other services. Once
construction is complete, all roads would be reinstated and other areas regraded to allow
appropriate use such as agriculture.



- 130 -                                     ANNEX
Table 5: WASgWATUR TREATT PLANW SLUDGE DISPOSAL SUMMARY
City       Sludge      Sludge               Landfill Description             EP8          Conments
Type      Quantity                                              Apptoval
(tonstday)                                                                       l
Asnshan    Primary         200      An existing ash disposal site near the village  Yes  Etimated life of
of Heniuzhuan would be utilized for the              landfdl is in
disposal of primary sludge from the                  excess of 20
wastewat^r treatment works. The site is              year
located 10 km from the WWTP and is
currently used for the disposal of slag and
other industrial wastes from the Angang steel
works and the Liaoyang Petrochemical Plant.
The landfill is unlined and has no leachate
_collection system.
Benxi      Primay          250      A new landfill site is proposed approx. 850  Yes     Estimatod life of
m north of the WWTP site. The landfil is to          Phase 1 landfll
be onstructed within anatual ravine and              is in the ordr of
contained by an earthen filled dam. The              5 years
landfill would be clay lined with leachate
collection and conveyance back to the
treatment works.
Dalian-    Primary &       95       A new engineered landfill (Maoyingzi        Yes      Estimated life of
Maan       Secondary                Landfill) is to be constructed approx. 18 km         landfill is 20
north of Dalian on the west coast of the             years
Dalian Peninsula. The landfill is to be
constructed in phases and designed for the
disposal of domestic solid waste, construction
debris and nonhazardous industrial wastes.
The landfill would be clai lined with a
leaclete collection system as well as a gas
collection system.
Duliau-    Primary &       75       The Maoyingzi Landfill as described above   Yes      Estmated life of
Chusliu    Secondary               for Dalian-Malan would also be utilized for           landfill is 20
the disposal of sludge from Dalian-Chunliu.          years
Fushuo     Primary         200      A nOw landfll is proposed 5 km from the     Yes      Esdmatd life of
WWTP site to dispose of sludge generated             landfill is 10
from the treament works. The site is an              yesrs
abandoned clay borrow pit which has beea
procured by tho City of Fushun. The landfill
has an in-situ clay liner for leachate
collection.



-131 -                                          ANNEX
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Implementation Schedule of Liaoning Environment Project                         _
1993           1994            1995           1996            1997           1998            1999-
12  34 1 2 1 3 1 4   1 1 2   3 I  4   1 1 2          3 1 4  L  1' 3  4_ 15 I- 2        _   _ 1S  399
ftq * Ooomin'.tetisEt                                                            ___            __ _ 
ft  Oocwftentot3oft                N.'=1l =
tIM                              .. ..              -                                                               
-TAr OhJnWm. aO'.o
fiUtF- Oo1   b   =tf,,t   X  9M1S___ 
E gao Wfa                                                                                               -   __  __ 
tMt~   ~      .f~ T    9                111111}}1. ..':   ltlmtt) -.:.e.e'                            _                 
ft& oamtftet
Der4w POcei.__
daft mNeT nd N  ami-
1~~~~~f &4fwte     __,,,,JW  \                                                                                 1sl   
= ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11111G 1__ 
*~~~~~~~~ WeOc  thOft~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
COW'Clf                                   ..      .-.'&,.    * ~ *44   ..
kW'sewft    .ttVoc
F I                   n.ffucnfl
II T
otion wow varmlm~~~~...



Chart 1: IAONING ENVIRONmeNT PROJECw-ORGANIZATION OF IJAONING PROVINCE
Liaoning People's Congress
riAonintg Provincial Government|
General Office                       Construction Bureau               Forestry Bureau                   Textile Industry Bureau
Planning Commission                 Finance Bureau                     Agriculture & Livestock Bureau  Light Industry Bureau
Foreign Economy Relations & Trade  Environmental Protection Bureau  Commerce Bureau                      Chemical Industry Bureau
Commission                        Personnel Buzeau                   Grain Bureau                      Coal Industry Bureau
Restructuring Economy Commission   Public Security Bureau              Meteorological Bureau             Electronic Industry Bureau
Science & Technology C<umission    Radio & Television Bureau           Township Enterprise Bureau        Metallurgical Industry Bureau
Industrial Production Commission   Culture Bureau                      Land Administration Bureau        Petrochemical Industry Bureau
Education Comlnssion                 Public Health Bureau              Livestock Bureau                  Water Resources Bureau
Physical Culture & Sports Com.      Supervision Bureau                 Fishery Bureau                    Agricultural Machinery Bureau
Nationalities Affairs Comission   Justice Bureau                       Survey & Mapping Bureau           Building Materials Bureau
Family Planning Commission           Civil Affairs Bureau             |Seismic Bureau                    Technical Supervision Bureau
Government Body Establisbment &    Office Administration Bureau        Geology & Minerals Bureau         Patent Bureau
Staffing Commission               Religious Affairs Bureau           Industry & Commerce Adminis-    Oceanography Bureau
Foreign Affairs Office              Statistics Bureau                    tration Bureau                  Complete Sets of Mechanical
Agricultural Office                  Information & Publishing Bureau  Goods & Materials Bureau             Equipment Bureau
National Property Administra-    Price Bureau                       Commnication Bureau
tion Bureau                     Labor Bureau                     Machine Building Industry
Tax Bureau                        Tourism Bureau                      Bureau
Auditing Bureau
Archives Bureau



Chart 2: lLAONING ENVtoNmrNT fPtoJEcT-PRoawr ORGANZAON WTN LAomN PRoviNcL GovE
ILaa* Prewincl
G! Owrnt (USC)|
lwLounin Urban Couotzuati.
and Renewal PrQj=Leodia
aOrep (L
trW~~~ I                                      .            I.                    -..  IGoI                             .       I
L  SaFdus-        L*eia  Plan           L             nicipl Govenent.              Lana                Liaoiu  Evi          Lcig          Liaon
tum Candeci010a                    Bureeau MMII                                       Buhn  iha    iz)reau  tio. Suream CLUBS)    uenC )      Iet
trbl Produc- ffld;_ | Y(AnebaFa Sonni. DeliaJ.                               CcaettsuctIen    mantal~ rotec-   Baudit             B     ulture
Smici   Industy      |unicipal      Iunicipal                                       Mnicipal Cunicipal Eni-    Mic | 8                     MunicipaL
1*1~~~~~IPole                       Cttuctrutia b    _      rmntal Pro-l       Aui             utr
nlma Pae  GMipl lPro eet OffLe (LCRO)        (P u) OffLee P   i U   -
|Bei Air P01- lJizbcu Papor       Benri Districtl                          W | etater. Solid      Soitd |Ieto-|   ater
A luiondusryj 1f1   uDr-      etn  Su-Iu1rome                                  Wtr  aPl,  Wuom    to   I Iation  t1     to Bureau* I              Bb  l etfa/o
Direct loaderebip
-dainietrative  aed  Cntructive
Iz



- 134 -                       AN1       11
LIAONG                OM                  (E
1.         China is taking a variety of measures to bring municipal and industrial
pollution under control. One method, addressed to industries, is to create revolving loan
funds at the provincial or municipal level that provide subsidized financing for the control
of liquid, solid and gaseous wastes, particularly to those can produce greater social and
environmental benefits. A regulatory framework wherein industries are required to neet
specified waste discharge standards and an institutional structure to organize ane kperate
the funds are prerequisite to their success.
2.         In 1982, Chinese environmental laws provided for the establishment of an
environment fund financed by pollution fees. These provided local-level (province,
municipality and county) subsidies and grants for pollution reduction investments in
industrial and municipal pollution reduction projects, and environmental monitoring and
enforcement for the EPBs. In 1988, an amendment allowed about 20-30 percent of the
fees to be provided to enterprises as a loan; some cities are still experimenting with this.
Among the provinces in China, Liaoning has the highest pollution fee collection amount
and the Shenyang Environmental Fund is considered a model of pollution revolving fund
for the country.
Pollution Fee Collection and Use in Liaoning Province
3.         In Liaoning, pollution fee collection is executed by the municipal and county
EPBs, while fee collection and uftlization planning are jointly drawn up by provincial,
municipal and county EPBs. According to fund allocation plan provided by the EPBs, the
local finance bureaus issue order and extend funds to subprovincial level PCBCs for loan
disbursement. Currently, about 950 persons are working in the pollution levy offices of the
EPBs in Liaoning.
4.          Fees are assessed according to waste discharge information provided to levy
offices by the local monitoring stations. On the average, large polluting industries would
be monitored monthly; however, due to lack of monitoring forces, some industries receive
their fee bill according to waste discharge load estimate by monitoring station. In
Liaoning, the top 100 polluters contribute to 75 percent of the total fees collected.
5.          Fee rates have been established for wastewater discharges, waste gas
emissions, solid waste dumping and noise pollution. Between 1980 to 1992, total fee
collection anounts to Y 1.41 billion. Of the collected fees, about 70 percent were used
for industrial pllution control, 10 percent for nonindustrial environmental improvement



- 135 -                       ANW        l1
projects and 20 percent for EPBs' environmental monitoring and enforcement. During
1986-90 period, about 6,616 industrial pollution control projects (48 of them with
investment over Y 1.0 million) were supported by pollution fee fund, totaled about Y 550
million, account for about 42 percent of the needed investment. Of the above, 3,217
projects have been completed, increased annual industrial wastewater treatment capacity
by 104 million cubic meters waste gas emission treatment by 70.6 billion standard cubic
meters and solid waste treatment by 2.8 million tons, corresponding to new treatment
capacities of 21.5 percent, 52.8 percent and 23.7 percent. Resource recovery projects
produced Y 175 million during the same period. Pollution fees for industrial pollution
control clearly played an important role in Liaoning. Fee collection efficiency for
Liaoning was about 70 percent in 1992. By the end of the 1991-96 period, the total fee
collection is expected to reach Y 250 million per year in Liaoning, due to new rates to be
enforced and strengthening of fee collection management.
6.          Bank Experience in China with Environmental Funds. The Bank has
supported the establishment of environmental funds under four different projects and three
of them have been in operation for at least one year. The Bank-assisted funds were found
to have the following superior features:
(a)   provided a stronger framework for management, including organization,
staffing and operation regulations, and, indirectly, providing the basis for
other environmental protection management measures including the permit
system and the promotion of pollution prevention programs;
(0)   instituted rigorous requirements and procedures for project preparation and
appraisal ensuring a higher project success rate; and
(c)   provided training for capacity-building to staff of the fund offices in the
technical and financial areas.
7.          On the f ier hand, because the great majority of the borrowers are small-
and medium-sized ente rises requiring loans under $1.0 million, the appraisal procedures
could be modified in th& future in order to be tailored to the circumstances.
The Liaoning Environment Fund (LEE)
8.          Objective. The purpose of establishing LEF is to strengthen the existing
Liaoning pollution prevention program with a technically, institutionally and financially
sustainable mechanism. The Fund would primarily assist industrial enterprises to control
pollution through waste minimization measures, modifications or renovations to existing
plants to reduce waste outputs or to recycle waste generated during production. Industrial
upgrading projects designed to reduce the amount of pollutant discharge and to save natural
resources and energy, commercial waste recovery services and centralized treatment plants
would also be considered by the Fund.



- 136 -                       AiNE..I1
9.          Organization and Financing of LEF. LEF is chartered by the Liaoning
Provincial Government (LPG) as an autonomous, nonprofit organization, with initial capital
equivalent of Y 2.0 million, registered with the Liaoning Bureau of Industry and
Commerce as an entity. The Bank Loan would provide $4.0 million and LEPB would
contribute from industrial pollution discharge fees (Y 2.0 million for each of the first two
years and Y 10.0 million per year thereafter).
10.        LPG would appoint a five-member Steering Committee comprised of
representatives from LEPB, the Commission of Planning and the Finance Bureau of
Liaoning. The Steering Committee would propose policies for application for LEF
funding, formulate rules and regulations for Fund management, select a depository agency
for the Fund and define the terms and conditions for Fund loans. The LEF Steering
Committee would also determine institutional structure and staff composition of the LEF
Management Office and approve its annual work plan and budget.
11.        The Fund Management Office (FMO) would be established to consist of
12 positions, to be filled during a three-year period, including specialists in environmental
science and technology, industral processing, economics and finance, and administradve
and support staff. The director would be appointed by the Steering Committee, and most
other staff would be locally recruited. The Director of FMO is the legal person of LEF.
The main role of FMO would be in investment project planning, coordination between
borrower and agent bank, review of project feasibility and supervision of project
implementation. A specialists' consortium would be formed to provide specific expertise
needed in project evaluation.
12.        Fund Management. Specific management procedures are prescribed in
LEE operational rules and procedures, including project selection criteria, project
management procedures and aspects of financial management.
13.        Project Selection. Each application would have to be reviewed by its local-
level industrial bureau and planning commission, and approved by the concerned local
Environmental Protection Bureau to ensure consistency with the municipal environmental
planning. Based on the general project selection criteria mentioned above, a formula for
ranldng has been developed to prioritize submitted project proposals.
Project Management Procedures
14.        LEF operating procedures have been drafted and would be approved by the
LEE Steering Committee. Fundamental project management procedures are:
(a)   The Fund Management Office would issue LEF directives and solicitations
for project proposals to the sublevel provincial environmental protecton
agencies and planning agencies;



- 137-                       ANNEX 11
(b) With consent from the local industrial bureau, the enterprise would submit
a loan application to the environmental protection agency and planning
agency of its location;
(c) The environmental protection agency and planning agency would review the
application according to Fund selection criteria and formula for project
prioritization;
(d)   The enterprise would prepare a feasibility study report, including a financial
proposal for investment and environmental impact assessment (EIA). FMO
would have to inform the Bank about the proposed projects for approval
before appraisal is to be carried by the agent bank.
(e)   After the project has been appraised by the agent bank, FMO would submit
the appraisal report to the World Bank for approval. The Bank would only
review and approve the first five subloan projects and thereafter each
subloan of over $300,000. Then FMO would then develop a loan plan
includi1ig identifying the loan extension period and loan period according to
the project type, construction period and economic benefits.
(f)   The LEF Steering Committee would be responsible for the final approval
of subloan projects. FMO would issue the loan plan to the local bureaus in
charge, the cofinancing agencies and the agent bank;
(g)   The project unit, upon receipt of the loan plan, would arrange for its
implementation.
(h)   The FMO would supervise the implementation of the project.
(i)   After a defined period of commissioning of the operation, the project unit
would submit an application for project examination and acceptance to the
bureaus in charge of the project. As proof of satisfactory completion of the
project, a Certificate of Examination and Acceptance would be issued to the
project unit, which would make inference to the environmental agency's
monitoring report;
(j)   The bureau in charge would submit examination and acceptance documents
for the project to FMO;
(k)  If, upon examination and acceptance after project completion, the project
still does not meet the design document requirements, FMO would arrange
for appropriate departments to develop amendments to the project.



- 138-                        ANNEX 11
Project Appraisal
15.        The China Investment Bank (CIB), Liaoning Branch, has been selected to
be the agent bank for LEF. Its responsibilities include contracting and supervising the
work of technical appraisal agent(s), undertaking financial appraisal, manage disbursement
and supervise expenditures. The appraisal would follow the CIB Appraisal Manual for use
on Bank-financed projects. CIB would contract agent(s) for technical appraisal and the
possible candidates are Liaoning Environmental Protection Engineering Consulting
Company and the industrial consulting firms affiliated to industrial bureaus and design
institutes. CIB would provide monthly project statements to FMO reporting on both the
LEF-financed portion and the project-financed portion. FMO would collect the principal
and the interest of the loan; the agent bank would provide any necessary assistance.
16.        For the technical appraisal of individual projects, the general criteria to be
considered are: (a) the impact to the ambient environment before and after the project,
(b) unit cost of investment per unit pollution load reduction, (c) efforts made on pollution
prevention, (d) compliance with environmental regulations and standards; and (e) whether
it is technical feasible and has produced the le:Lst-cost option.
17.        The economic appraisal for  vestment of the individual enterprise must
show the enterprise is economically viable, . indicated by the internal rate of return (IRR)
of the subproject.
18.        For the financial appraisal of the subproject, each enterprise would have to
show if it, as a whole, would be financially viable measured by debt service ratio, and this
value should be larger than 1.4. For subproject investing on joint waste treatment facility,
a financing plan for the operation and maintenance of the facility would be required,
including service charges made to the client enterprises.
Project Flnancing Procedures Between Agent Bank and Borrower
19.        CIB is the account-bearing bank as well as agent bank for LEF. Once a
subloan application is approved by LEF, CIB would execute financial management of the
loan according to procedures described below:
(a)   CIB would establish a financing plan of the loan with the project unit (the
borrower), in accordance with the loan agreement signed between LEF and
the enterprise.
(b)   The project unit wouid open an account with CIB and deposit its share of
the capital raised for the project.
(c)   CIB would disburse funds upon receipt of statement of expenditure, in the
form of invoice or letter of credit, to the project unit as reimbursement for
project expenses. Disbursement would be made once a month.



- 139 -                       ANNEX 11
(d)   CIB would supervise the fund's use by the project unit. If project funds are
found to have been used for any purpose other than the approved project,
CIB would refuse further disbursement and take measure for rectification.
(e)   CIB would report to LEF quarterly on the financial status of loans made to
borrowers; CIB would also report emerging issues and make suggestions for
improvement as needed.
(f)   At project completion CIB would finalize the financial accounting.
(g)   If projects fail to meet project date or design criteria, upon consultation with
the LEF, CIB would terminate disbursement.
(h)   CIB would assist LEF in the collection of loan principal, interest, late
payment penalties and fines.
20.         CIB Liaoning would assist in the collection of subloan repayments for
subproject, review of contract package prepared by FMO and the project entity, and
determine the procurement method of the various subprojects basically following the same
procedures as Bank-financed CIB projects.
21.         Disbursement would be made through CIB from the special account for LEP
in the Liaoning Finance Bureau. According to payment schedule prescribed in the
contract, and borrowers would submit a budget proposal to the agent Bank in advance of
any disbursements. Project entity would pay for project cost, then be reimbursed by CIB.
The final installment would not be paid until the project unit has received its waste
discharge permit from the local EPB. Fund project accounts would be audited annually,
as would other project components.
LemM
22.         The LEF loan for each project unit would be limited to 100 prcent of
foreign exchange costs, or 50 percent of total project costs (excluding land), whichever is
higher. LEF would contribute 50 percent maximum of the total project costs and furer
the project size would not exceed $1 million and the loan size for each project would not
exceed $400,000. The LEF would bear the subloans' credit risk. The Fund subloan
interest rate would be the IBRD standard variable rate plus a spread of 1.5 percent per
year and a commitment charge of 0.75 percent. The project unit would bear the foreign
exchange risk according to the Foreign Debt Risk Act of China. The Fund loan period
would be between three to five years. LEF loan grace periods would be determined by
project nature, construction time, loan repayment ability, as well as the expected
environmental benefits. Repayments to LEF would be recycled for additional similar
subprojects to the extent funds are not needed for repayment by LEF of its subordinate
loan.



-140 -                        ANNEX II
23.         Repayments and Default. In case of default, FMO is entitled to deduct the
outstanding part of the loan within a certain period of time, and is entitled to collect extra
interest as the overdue payment fine. FMO would also take other necessary measures to
protect its interest.
24.         Responsibilities of the Recipient. The loan recipient must not appropriate
the loan for any other purposes. Should the recipient do so, FMO would withdraw the
loan and grant with the grant interest as well as extra interest as the overdue repayment
fine.
25.         Liabritles. The loan recipient would be responsible for project losses
caused by project design, construction, fmance management, or any other unforeseen
factors.
LEF Project Pipeline
26.         A proposed subloan project pipeline has been prepared by LEPB (see Table
below). The prefeasibility of two of the proposed subloan projects have been reviewed:
(a) the detoxication of Cr(+6) slag and its utilization in making P 'oy roller ball in Jinzhou
Ferro-alloy plant, and (b) the recovery of combustible gas from electric arc furnace and
purification of waste air emission of Liaoyang Ferro-alloy plant. The two plants are now
proceeding with the preparation of their appraisal reports that would be appraised by CuB.
Istitutional Development and Equipment Needs
27.         The Fund Management Office personnel would undergo an extensive training
program. Training courses would include economic and financial analysis, waste
management, waste reduction technology particularly in resource recovery/recycling and
clean technology. Training and equipments for LEF are covered under Package C,
environmental quality management, monitoring and control.



-141-                               ANNEX  II
Table: PROPOSED LEF SUBLOAN INVESM NT FOR PROJECT PPELE
Project Name/ Project    Project Description; Estimation of Pollution  Total    Investment
Unit                   Reduction/Resource Recovery             Investment in    Financed by
Y Million      LEF in S
Million
1. Utilization and detox-   ilihou Ferro-alloy Plant has accumulated  16.0             0.6
ication of Cr(+6) con-   about 350,000 tons of toxic chromium(+)
taning slag of Jinzhou    containing slag posing potential hazard to
Feo-alloy Plant        the ambient environment. These slag
would be used to make roller balls and in
the process Cr(+6) would convert to
Cr(+3).                                                               l
2. Recovery of combus-  (1) The old open furnace would be sealed        8.9            0.5
tible ga from electric    and collect combustible gases/heat from a
arc fwunace and purifi-   recovery chamber. (2) Purification of waste
cation of waste emission  emission air.
gas of Liaoyang Ferro-
alloy Plants                                                                                 l
3. Dilute Ammonia      waste water treatment from gas-making            1.15           0.1
Water Recovery and     unit discharge, 20,000 t/a water saved;
Deufiuizaon/Tieling    ammonia recovery, 900 t/a and sulfur
Cherlical Plat         recovery 105 t/a
4. Wastewate treatment  (1) recovery of alminumr salts, aluminum        1.5            0.15
and Resource Recovery/  sulfate about 20 t/a and aluminum chloride
Kaiyuan Chemical Plant  450 t/a; (2) recovery of sulfuric acid, 700
tVa; (3) water recycling 840,000 CM/a; (4)
wastewater discharge meeting standard
5. Wastewer Treat-    (1) separation of clean and dirty process         1.4            0.1
meat and Resurce       water steams, water reuse 400,000 t/a; (2)
Recovery/Kaiyuan       recovery of 30% hydrochloric acid, 50 t/a;
Gelatine Plant         (3) wastewater treatment plant construction,
800 CM/d capacity
6. Wastewater Trest-    (1) alkaline recovery, 70 t/d; (2) waste-       1.8             0.15
mwt and Resource       water treatment plant construction, 1,500
Recovery/Kaiyuan       CM/d treatment capacity
linen Textile Mill
7. Wastewate Treat-    (1) grease recovery through dissolved air        1.0             0.1
ment and Resource      floatation separation, 22 tVa; (2) COD
Recovery/Kaiyuan       (< 150 ppm) and oil (< 10 ppm) concentra-
Grease Plant           tions both meeting effluent standards
S. Hydrochloric Acid    (1) chlorine recovery system, HCI recovery      1.35           0.15
Recovery/Kaiyuan       at 3,000 t/a, replacing lime water absorp-
United Chlor-Alkaline    tion method
Plant



-142 -                              ANNEX 11
Project Name/ Project    Project Desription; Estimation of Pollution  Total     Investment
Unit                   ReductionlResource Recovery             Investment in    Financed by
Y Million      LEF in $
. __________________                                                               M illion
9. Wastewater Treat-   wastewater treatment plant construction,         3.2            0.2
mat and Recycling/     1,100 tld capacity, saving 60% of water
Yingkou No.1 Knitting    use of the plant or 180,000 tVa
Plant
10. Coal Dust Utiliza-    (1) construction of settling for the treatment  3.8          0.25
tion/Kaiyu Thermal     of dust-washing water with water recycling
Power Plant            of 500,000 CM/a; (2) coal dust utilization,
40,000 t/a
11. Cement Dust Treat-  cleaner production measures and installing    10.17            0.6
meat and Recoveryl     ESP at the end of the kiln, recovering 15
Haichent Cement Plant   t/d of cement producing Y 3.0 million/a
profit                                                                l
12. Electric Furnace   (1) installing ESP for the furnace, recover-    8.89            0.4
Fume Purification and    ing manganese 300 t/a; (3) constructing a
Resource Recovery/     waste heat recovery boiler recovers
Liaoyang Ferro-alloy   128,000 t/a steam
Plant
13. Wastewater Treat-   lime treatment of wastewater and sedimen-     10.0             0.5
ment and Reuse/        tation, with treatment capacity of 800
Huludao Zinc Plant     CM/h, and reuse treated effluent
14. White Water Treat-  (1) installing oblique net for fiber recovery,  6.5            0.4
ment and Technology    3.6 t/d, resulting in water recycling 6,000
Renovatiom/Taian Paper  t/d; (2) clean technology adoption: replac-
Mill                   ing alkaline method by ammonia method,
the resultant ammonia containing liquor
could be use for irrigation, reducing COD
.____ _             ___ _____ _                           ___ _ ___discharge by 65,000 t/a



-143 -                                                         ANN&EX 12
MICIPAL FINANCES
(Y million)
-SAd~i -ESL-.
Ib_.u~s                           1,367     3,0       3,823    1.984    2,088      2,231    2,401     2,537    2,736   2,928    3,133   3,352
ofd45b Utbm                         298       396      473       499       524   S550          78  I    66       637      669      502      737
Utb  aS% of   .us                  21.8      26.4      264      25.2      2S.1     24.7      24.1      23.9      233     22.8     2.4    22.0
- 'a E   VW                       I    m  I             tI M   L ,4        18    IM           I'          4       1%      IW         ,        W
..Thail1wm                            73.6      85    1,036     3,342     3,387     3,|      3,350     1,4S4    I SS6   1,f65    1,7S2   3,907 
of d4&   U*d                        7J4       378      433       453       476      499       524       351       57S     607       67      60
CGOW   EW-ft-                       334       433      se8       674       679      744       840       921    1,04   1,155    1,266  139
aS a( Toa Eap.                   45.4     50.2      561       39.0     37.2      58.6      61.3      63.3     67.7    69.4      71.0    72.8
f  IhvSl                             i3        14        Is       19        19      12         21        22       23       24       23       27
so a%ofcqitENV.                   3.4      3.2       3.1       2.8       2.8      2.7       2.        2.4      2.2      2.1      2.0      1.9
plc                 _                 0         0        0       3.3      66.3      82.1     79.2      49.6      32.3       0        0        0
I % OCapBIEP.                     0.0      0.0       0.0       0.8       9.7     11.0       9.4       3.4      3.1      0.0      0.0     0.0
89       as   S97         S3I,o      1,104    3,3|      3,l M     3,267    I ,30    1,40S    1,473 |,S4S
Wm& i bU*=                         5        74       232      264       278       292        M        323      3371    354       372     391
tUh on%   d Room                   31.8      32.8      30.8     25.3      25.2      25.2     253       2s3.      2s3     23.2     253      253
83PMV~RES
Towld     _           p|dlta        614       599      649       61        736       752      789       828       869     913      959  I3,37
d v     Ugba                        266       252      26S       267       281      293       310       323       342     3S9      377      395
Cq"aplallomulu                      173       IV7      241       253       26       279       293       3         324     3        338      376
|L    rT*WE ap.                  28.5     31.2      31.3      37.2    37.2       37.1      37.1      37.2     373    37.2       373      373
fu&11              m            |    34        24        25       26        27       28        30        32        33      35       37       39
a S of Cspid Er.                 19.4     10.7      10.4      10.3      10.2     10.0      10.2      10.4     10.2    10.3      10.3    304
DioEa pmmdI a                         0         0        0         0      3D.2    129.3    226.2       177.21 164.7    89.4           0       0
* S oa C|pIa Eq.                  0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      18.9     46.3      77.2   | 1S7.      50.8    26.3       0       0.0



-~~---
Z~~ _4                                                    @          4X_OqF_RB_        
| l _ _ . @ _ _ ! -r t 8 R ^ i : r   0  R  @ a " 4 ~W :t
X 1 _ _ _ t  _ ! _ 4 _     q _  q            wnt
.~~~-           4'  - _                 -    t-a    -~       |
14 2         ; 8 Sdi :53      R54 -      w        q@ q H
I1, ;SkE    tt



- 145-                                                           ANNE 12
t90i                         1993      194    1 1975     1996  1  1997        191       1999  2111   20
771      759       mI       7no        a17       oS        970     10,       1,241    1.433    I.       1934
d a"UA                               139   1 54          179       19 2        -3     m 2   23            2l        2107     37                329
Utdun a  1 oems                     t18.0     29.5      23        14.6      25.1      25.0     24.2       23.1     21.      209.0     1I      17.0
Te,it E3Ibuee                        546       593       640       667   _6           730       763       797       ON9      S6       NO       9o
of vAitt V&n                         143       132       161       16        195      214       236       259       25       314      3U       380
Cwwgi                                 112     133       139       145       t52      153       165       174      1I2       191     2M        210
a g  d       t Biq.              20.5      2L4       21.7      21.7      21.8      21.0      21.8      tIS      22       2.0        .01   22.2
_~~~~~ P_..                                                                           - *A^
___________ _                              _                                  _- -              _ _                   -         _     -
aIs u d CIaIp p.                    0         0         0         0         0         0        0          0        0        0         0       0
Emma--                              a0._0_    0.0       0.0       0.0      393      118.0     72.3       33.0     21.6      2.2     0O        0.
a ,ofCq1am>       .                0.o -o         e  0.0   0.0   25.9   77.1   OR    19.0   11.    Ia    0                                   0A



- 146 -                       ANNEX  3
FIMANCIAL ANALYSIS ASSUMI  ONS
A. JINzHou WATER SUPPLY COMPANY
1.          Assumptions to the projections of the main financial statements of the
Jinzhou Water Supply Company (JWSC) for the period 1994-2001 are provided below.
2.          Inflation and Exchange Rates.  Yearly general domestic inflation rates
used in the projections are 12.0 percent for 1994, 9.0 percent in 1995, 8.0 percent in
1996, 7.2 percent in 1997, 6.5 percent in 1998-99 and 6.0 percent in 2000-01. Foreign
price increases are estimated at 2.8 percent for each of years 1994-2001. The exchange
rate used to convert foreign costs to local currency, where applicable, was Y 8.7 per $1.0.
It is assumed that exchange rate adjustments would, on average, maintain purchasing
power parity over the projection period.
Income Statement
3.          Water Sales. Projections of sales are based on "minimum demand" and
maximum  capacity figures.  Unaccounted-for-water is estimated at 11 percent of
production, rising to 15 percent from 1997. It is assumed that whenever demand exceeds
supply, the shortfall would be borne by both the domestic and nondomestic categories of
consumers, proportionally.
4.          Tariffs. The domestic tariff, in effect since July 1, 1993, is Y 0.50 per i3.
The capital construction and service industries (includes cold drinks industry) tariff, also
introduced from July 1, 1993, and which includes a water resources fee of Y 0.04 per n3,
is Y 1.54 per m3. The industrial tariff was raised on May 1, 1993 from Y 0.59 to Y 0.84
per me (which includes a water resource fee of Y 0.04 per m3. The net average prices per
m3 in current terms over the projected period are as follows: Y 0.79 in 1994; Y 1.06-
1995; Y 1.21-1996; Y 1.28-1997; Y 1.37-1998; Y 1.46-1999; Y 1.54-2000; and
Y 1.63-2001. The ratio between domestic tariffs and net nondomestic tariffs is about
35:65.
5.          Other Charges. Industries that exceed 90 percent of their previous year's
consumption (the base), would be subject to excess water charges per i3, as follows:
Y 1.24 between 1 and 10 percent over the base; Y 1.64 between 11 and 20 percent;
Y 2.04 between 21 and 30 percent; and Y 2.44 over 31 percent of the base. The above
charges include the water resource fee of Y 0.04 per m3. As it would be difficult to
estimate the quantum of "excess" water consumed, no assumptions of such charges have
been included in the projections.



- 147-                         ANNEX 13
6.          A one-time charge of Y 5.00 per m2 of construction area is applicable for
connecting new residential and office buildings to the water supply system. The
projections assume an annual construction of 150,000 m2 against which this charge would
apply.
7.          The above "excess water" and construction area charges, which accrue to
JWSC, became effective from July 1, 1993. The water resource fee of Y 0.04 per m3 is
paid to the Water Conservancy Bureau.
8.          Operating Costs. Salaries and wages are assumed to increase at the rates
given in para. 2 above. Energy prices are assumed to increase in line with general
inflation. Materials and other costs are assumed to increase at the general inflation rate.
Depreciation for plant and machinery is taken at 7 percent. For other fixed assets,
depreciation is taken at 3.9 percent of gross fixed assets in operation. Sales tax, including
an urban construction surtax and an education surtax, is at 3.27 percent of gross operating
revenue; and a provincial profits tax is at 33 percent of net income.
9.          Interest and Amortization Expenses. The proceeds of the IBRD loan are
assumed to be onlent by Jinzhou Municipal Government (JMG) to JWSC at the IBRD's
standard variable interest rate (which was 7.27 percent per year at the time of
negotiations), and 0.75 percent per year commitment charge, over 15 years, including
5 years of grace. Interest is paid annually. Amortization of loans would be on the basis
of equal payments of principal. JWSC would bear the foreign exchange risk. Other loans
from JMG are at about 11.5 percent per year over three to five years with equal
repayments of principal starting on completion of the disbursement period.
Balance Sheet
10.         Inventories. Inventories have been projected to take into account general
inflation as well as any expanded levels of operations and construction.
11.         Accounts Receivable. Accounts receivable from water sales are assumed
to be 120 percent of monthly revenue in 1994, or about 36 days' revenue.
12.         Fixed Assets. JWSC's fixed assets are valued at historic costs. As a state-
owned enterprise, JWSC is not permitted to revalue its assets. In the projections,
construction work-in-progress is assumed to be 100 percent accounted for upon completion.
Source and Application of Funds
13.         Working Capital Needs. Working capital needs represent the excess, or
otherwise, of the current year's current assets (net of cash), less the excess of the previous
year's current assets (net of cash) over current liabilities.
14.         Change In Cash. Change in cash (which includes short-term investments)
calculates the balance sheet cash balance for the current year.



- 148 -                       ANNEX 13
B. WASTEWATER COI4ANIES
15.        Assumptions to the projections of the main financial statements of the
Anshan, Benxi, Dalian and Fushun Wastewater Companies for the period 1994-2001 are
provided below.
16.        Inflation and Exchange Rates. Yearly general domestic inflation rates used
in the projections are 12.0 percent for 1994, 9.0 percent in 1995, 8.0 percent in 1996,
7.2 percent in 1997, 6.5 percent in 1998-99 and 6.0 percent in 2000-02. Foreign price
increase are estimated at 2.8 percent for each of years 1994-2001. The exchange rate
used to convert foreign costs to local currency, where applicable, was Y 8.7 per $1.0. It
is assumed that exchange rate adjustments would, on average, maintain purchasing power
parity over the projection period.
Income Statement
17.        Sales. Projections of sewerage quantities are based on "minimum demand"
and maximum capacity figures, and at the equivalent of 80 percent of water bills.
18.        Average Tariffs. The average prices in Yuan per m3 in current terms are
as follows:
1224  122}  19261927 i2M  1222  ; 2sQ  2g
Anshan      0.24  0.53  0.77  0.82  1.14  1.30  1.40  1.49
Benxi       0.24  0.43  0.63  0.67  0.72  0.80  0.85  0.91
Dalian      0.40  0.87  1.34  1.44  1.53  1.72  1.83  1.95
Fushun      0.42  0.46  0.62  0.67  0.71  0.78  0.83  0.88
19.        The above average tariffs are assumed to increase in steps up to the year
1996 to cover the projected costs of treatment on the project-financed treatment plants due
to enter service around 1998, as well as the collection and disposal costs of wastewater.
This was done to minimuie the need for substantial increases in the tariffs to cover
treatment costs when the plants enter service. From 1997, the tariffs increase generally
with inflation.
20.         Treat d Wastewater Sales. Anshan and Dalian Wastewater Companies
anticipate selling a part of, or all, their treated wastewater production to industry. The
projected tariffs per m3 are shown below. The projections assume Anshan would sell all
its treated wastewater; Dalian would sell 50 percent of its treated wastewater.
1224 1995 19261222  122  1222 2  Q          1
Anshan      0.00  0.00  0.00  0.35  0.37  0.40  0.42  0.45
Dalian      0.48  0.52  0.57  0.61  0.65  0.69  0.73  0.77



- 149 - 
21.         Operating Costs. Salaries, wages and staff benefits are assumed to increase
at the rates given in para. 16 above. Energy, materials and other costs are assumed to
increase in line with general inflation also. Depreciation for plant and machinery is taken
at 6.0 percent. For other fixed assets, depreciation is taken at between 3.3 and 4 percent
of gross fixed assets in operation. Business tax is 3.27 percent, which includes an urban
construction surtax and an education surtax. Provincial income tax is 33 percent of net
income.
22.         Interest and Amortization Expenses. The proceeds of the IBRD loan are
assumed to be onlent to the Anshan, Benxi, Dalian and Fushun Wastewater Companies by
their respective Municipal Govemments at the IBRD's standard variable interest rate
(which was 7.27 percent per year at the time of negotiations), and 0.75 percent per year
commitment charge over 15 years, including 5 years of grace. Interest is paid annually.
Amordzation of loans would be on the basis of equal payments of principal. The
wastewater companies would bear the foreign exchange risk. The municipalities would
provide the local capital counterpart funds as capital grants.
Balance Sheet
23.         Inventories. Inventories have been projected to take into account general
inflation as well as any expanded levels of operations and construction.
24.         Accounts Receivable. Accounts receivable are assumed to be 49 percent
of monthly billings, or about 15 days' revenue.
Source and Application of Funds
25.         Working Capital Needs. Working capital needs represent the excess, or
otherwise, of the current year's current assets (net of cash), less the excess of the previous
year's current assets (net of cash) over curent liabilities.
26.         Change in Cash. Change in cash (which includes short-term investments)
calculates the balance sheet cash balance for the current year.
C. BENXI DONGFENG DmRrcr CENTRAL HATING CENER
27.         Assumptions to the projections of the main fina2icial statements of the Benxi
Central Heating Center for the period 1994-2001 are provided below.
28.         Inflation and Exchange Rates. Yearly general domestic inflation rates used
in the projections are 12.0 percent for 1994, 9.0 percent in 1995, 8.0 percent in 1996,
7.2 percent in 1997, 6.5 percent in 1998-99, and 6.0 percent in 200-2001. Foreign price
increases are estimated at 2.8 percent for each of years 1994-2001. The exchange rate
used to convert foreign costs to local currency, where applicable, was Y 8.7 per $1.0. It
is assumed that exchange rate adjustments would, on average, maintain purchasing power
parity over the projectiorn period.



-150-                         ANNEX 13
Income Statement
29.         Revenue. Revenues are based on projected sales of the heat (steam)
production based on n2 of housing.
30.         Sales Prices. The prices in Yuan per m2 in current terms are as follows:
1224 I199 1996 1997 1998 1999 2LW 2001
14.51 17.41 20.90 27.17 33.96 36.00 38.16 40.44
There is also a one-time connection charge of Y 30.00 per m2, which is assumed to
increase in line with inflation. These revenues are included as nonoperating revenue in the
projections.
31.         Operating Costs. Salaries, wages and staff benefits are assumed to increase
at the rates given in para. 28 above. Energy, materials and other costs are assumed to
increase in line with general inflation also. Depreciation for plant and machinery is taken
at 6 percent. For other fixed assets, depreciation is taken at 4 percent of gross fixed assets
in operation. Business tax is 3.22 percent, which includes an urban construction surtax
and an education surtax. The Center is exempt from provincial income tax for the present.
32.         Interest and Amortization Expenses. The proceeds of the IBRD loan are
assumed to be onlent to the Benxi Central Heating Center by Benxi Municipality at the
IBRD's standard variable interest rate (which was 7.27 percent per year at the time of
negotiations), and 0.75 percent per year commitment charge over 15 years, including
5 years of grace. Interest is paid annually. Amortization of the loan would be on the basis
of equal payments of principal. The Company would bear the foreign exchange risk. The
local capital counterpart funds would be provided by Benxi Municipality as a grant.
BlBce Sheet
33.         Inventories. Inventories have been projected to take into account general
inflation as well as any expanded levels of operations and construction.
34.         Accounts Receivable. Accounts receivable are assumed to be 49 percent
of monthly billings, or about 15 days' revenue.
Source and Application of Funds
35.         Working Capital Needs. Working capital needs represent the excess, or
otherwise, of the current year's current assets (net of cash), less the excess of the previous
year's current assets (net of cash) over current liabilities.
36.         Change In Cash. Change in cash (which includes short-term investnents)
calculates the balance sheet cash balance for the current year.



-151-                         ANNEX 13
D. DALIAN SoLID WASTE COMPANY
37.         Assumptions to the projections of the main financial statements of Dalian
Solid Waste Company for the period 1994-2001 are provided below.
38.         Inflation and Exchange Rates. Yearly general domestic inflation rates used
in the projections are 12.0 percent for 1994, 9.0 percent in 1995, 8.0 percent in 1996,
7.2 percent in 1997, 6.5 percent in 1998-99, and 6.0 percent in 2000-2001. Foreign price
increases are estimated at 2.8 percent for each of years 1994-2001. The exchange rate
used to convert foreign costs to local currency, where applicable, was Y 8.7 per $1.0. It
is assumed that exchange rate adjustments would, on average, maintain purchasing power
parity over the projection period.
Income Statement
39.         Revenue. Revenues are based on projections of solid wastes to be disposed
of at the landfill, as follows: (a) 100 percent of the residential and institutional wastes
generated in Dalian; (b) the maximum permissible wastes allowable from the industrial
sector of 93,600 tons annually; and (c) 100 percent of the annual sludge waste.
40.         Tariffs. The prices in Yuan per ton in current terms are as follows:
194  1995   1996  1997  1998  1922 22 00 2001
Transfer/Tipping    24.0  29.0  34.0  39.0  44.0  57.0  59.0  59.0
Landfill Tipping
(for industry)
Fee              10.0  15.0  20.0  25.0  30.0  43.0  45.0  45.0
Average Tariff    19.1  23.8  28.5  33.2  37.4  49.3  51.3  51.5
41.         Refuse received at the transfer station for disposal at the landfill includes the
landfill tipping fee. Industrial wastes are not allowed to be routed through the transfer
station. Industries are therefore required to make their own arrangements for disposal of
their nontoxic, nonhazardous wastes at the landfill, and would be charged the landfill
tipping fee only.
42.         Operating Costs. Salaries, wages and staff benefits are assumed to increase
at the rates given in para. 38 above. Energy, materials and other costs are assumed to
increase in line with general inflation also. Depreciation for plant and machinery is taken
at about 11.9 percent. For other fixed assets, depreciation is taken at about 3.8 percent
of gross fixed assets in operation. Land tax is Y 1.50 per m2 for the transfer station,
Y 1.20 per m2 for the landfill site. Building Tax is 70 percent of fixed assets multiplied
by 1.2 percent. Equipment Tax is Y 60.00 per tonnage of capacity of truck. Business tax
is 3.27 percent, which includes an urban construction surtax and an education surtax.
Income tax is 33 percent of net income.



- 152-                        ANNE13
43.        Interest and Amortization Expenses. The proceeds of the IBRD loan are
assumed to be onlent to the Dalian Solid Waste Company by the Dalian Municipal
Govemment at the IBRD's standard variable interest rate (which was 7.27 percent per year
at the time of negotiations), and 0.75 percent per year commitment charge over 15 years,
including 5 years of grace. Interest is paid annually. Amortization of the loan would be
on the basis of equal payments of principal. The Company would bear the foreign
exchange risk. The Municipality would provide the local capital counterpart funds as a
grant.
Balance Sheet
44.        Inventories. Inventories have been projected to take into account general
inflation as well as any expanded levels of operations and construction.
45.         Accounts Receivable. Accounts receivable are assumed to be 49 percent
of monthly billings, or about 15 days' revenue.
Source and Application of Funds
46.         Working Capital Needs. Worldng capital needs represent the excess, or
otherwise, of the current year's current assets (net of cash), less the excess of the previous
year's current assets (net of cash) over current liabilities.
47.         Change in Cash. Change in cash (which includes short-term investments)
calculates the balance sheet cash balance for the current year.
E. Bmx  IRON AD STEL CoMPAY
48.         Assumptions to the projections of the main financial statements of the Benxi
Iron and Steel Company for the period 1994-2001 are provided below.
49.        Inflation and Exchange Rates. Yearly general domestic inflation rates used
in the projections are 12.0 percent for 1994, 9.0 percent in 1995, 8.0 percent in 1996,
7.2 percent in 1997, 6.5 percent in 1998-99, and 6.0 percent in 200001. Foreign price
increases are estimated at 2.8 percent for each of years 1994-2001. The exchange rate
used to convert foreign costs to local currency, where applicable, was Y 8.7 per $1.0. It
is assumed that exchange rate adjustments would, on average, maintain purchasing power
panty over the projection penod.
Income Statement
50.         Revenue. Revenues are based on projected sales of the Company's main
products.



- 153 -                       ANNEX 13
51.         Sales Prices. The average prices in Yuan per ton in current terms are as
follows:
1924 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001
3,157 3,447 3,843 4,213 4,601 5,027 5,474 5,665
52.         Operating Costs. Salaries, wages and staff benefits are assumed to increase
at the rates given in para. 49 above. Energy, materials and other costs are assumed to
increase in line with general inflation also. Depreciation of plant and machinery and other
fixed assets is taken as 3.3 percent of gross fixed assets in operation. Business tax is
12.0 percent, which includes an urban construction surtax and an education surtax.
Provincial income tax is 50 percent of net income.
53.         Interest and Amortization Expenses. The proceeds of the IBRD loan are
assumed to be onlent to the Benxi Iron and Steel Company by Benxi Municipality at the
[BRD's standard variable interest rate plus 1.5 percent (equivalent to 8.77 percent at the
time of negotiations-7.27 percent+ 1.5 percent), and 0.75 percent per year commitment
charge over 10 years, including 3 years of grace. Interest is paid annually. Amorftizaon
of the loan would be on the basis of equal payments of principal. The Company would
bear the foreign exchange risk. The local capital counterpart funds would be provided by
Benxi Municipality.
Balance Sheet
54.         Inventories. Inventories have been projected to take into account general
inflation as well as any expanded levels of operations and construction.
55.         Accounts Receivable. Accounts receivable are assumed to be 82 percent
of monthly billings, or about 25 days' revenue.
Source and Application of Funds
56.         Working Capital Needs. Working capital needs represent the excess, or
otherwise, of the current year's current assets (net of cash), less the excess of the previous
year's current assets (net of cash) over current liabilities.
57.         Change in Cash. Change in cash (which includes short-term investments)
calculates the balance sheet cash balance for the current year.
F. JINCENG GENERAL PAPER ML
58.         Assumptions to the projections of the main financial statements of the
Jmcheng General Paper Mill for the period 1994-2001 are provided below.



- 154-                        ANNEX 13
59.        Inflation and Exchange Rates. Yearly general domestic inflation rates used
in the projections are 12.0 percent for 1994, 9.0 percent in 1995, 8.0 percent in 1996,
7.2 percent in 1997, 6.5 percent in 1998-99, and 6.0 percent in 2000-01. Foreign price
increases are estimated at 2.8 percent for each of years 1994-2001. The exchange rate
used to convert foreign costs to local currency, where applicable, was Y 8.7 per $1.0. It
is assumed that exchange rate adjustments would, on average, maintain purchasing power
parity over the projection period.
Income Statement
60.         Revenue. Revenues are based on projected sales of the Company's main
products-letter press, offset and whiteboard-and by-products-binder and man-made
wood.
61.         Sales Prices. The prices in Yuan per ton in current terms are as follows:
1994  19   1996 1997  1998  1292 2000 2001
Letter Press      3,583 4,430 4,696 5,034 6,000 7,000 7,420 7,865
Offset            3,300 3,300 3,600 3,850 4,200 5,800 6,000 6,200
Whiteboard        2,600 2,730 2,948 3,161 3,366 3,871 4,103 4,250
Average Sales Price 3,592 3,911 4,107 4,301 4,729 5,886 6,041 6,284
ftTrQdcts
Binder            260  275   290  305  320  335   355   369
Man-made
Firewood        160   167   176  185   194  206   218   227
62.        Operating Costs. Salaries, wages and staff benefits are assumed to increase
at the rates given in para. 59 above. Energy, materials and other costs are assumed to
increase in line with general inflation also. Depreciation of plant and machinery and other
fixed assets is taken at 3.3 percent of gross fixed assets in operation. Business tax is
9.82 percent, which includes an urban construction surtax and an education surtax.
Provincial income tax is 55 percent of net income.
63.        Interest and Amortization Expenses. The proceeds of the IBRD loan are
assumed to be onlent to the Jincheng General paper Mill by the Jinzhou Municipal
Government at the IBRD's standard variable interest rate plus 1.5 percent (equivalent to
8.77 percent per year at the time of appraisal-7.27 percent+ 1.5 percent), and
0.75 percent per year commitment charge over 10 years, including 3 years of grace.
Interest is paid annually. Amortization of the loan would be on the basis of equal
payments of principal. The Company would bear the foreign exchange risk. The local
capital counterpart funds would be provided by (a) Jinzhou EPB in the form of 50 percent
loan, 50 percent grant, and (b) a loan from the Jinzhou Construction bank at 11.5 percent
per year interest, repayable in five years, with no grace period.



- 155-                         AMEX
Balace Sheet
64.         Inventories. Inventories have been projected to take into account general
inflation as well as any expanded levels of operations and construction.
65.         Accounts Receivable. Accounts receivable are assumed to be 37 percent
of monthly billings, or about 90 days' revenue.
Source and Application of Funds
66.         Working Capital Needs. Worldng capital needs represent the excess, or
otherwise, of the current year's current assets (net of cash), less the excess of the previous
year's current assets (net of cash) over current liabilities.
67.         Change in Cash. Change in cash (which includes short-term investments)
calculates the balance sheet cash balance for the current year.



- 156-                        ANN         14
PROJECT JUSTMCATION AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. PROJECr JUSTICATION
1.         Liaoning Province has developed a provincial investment plan designed to
ameliorate major environmental problems and provide the basis for sustainable
development. The development of that plan was assisted in part by a 1986 study conducted
jointly with AIDAB, the UNDP, and the World Bank, which identified inadequate water
supply, wastewater management, water and air pollution control, and urban transport as
major impediments to sustainable development in Liaoning Province. Further research
work carried out by LPG, with financial assistance from AIDAB, formulated strategic
plans to ameliorate those problems in cities in the Hun-Taizi river basins, which produce
about 60 percent of Liaoning's industral output, and in other major cities in the province.
Based on Liaoning's prioritized investment plan, the Bank helped finance projects in
Shenyang, Fuxm and Yingkou municipalities under the Liaoning Urban Infrstructure
Project (Credit 2219-CHA). The project now proposed addresses needs in the five cities
of Anshan, Benxi, Dalian, Fushun, and Jinzhou, identified in the investment plan as having
the next highest priority needs.
2.          Investments included in the proposed loan address specific environmental
improvement needs, but more importantly either contribute directly to the restoration of
water quality in the Hun-Taizi river basin, support exemplary policy initiatives, or support
solutions new to China. The Hun-Taizi cleanup effort depends critically on reducing
poilution loads from the major industral cities of Fushun, Benxi, and Anshan, all of which
would build wastewater treatment plants under the loan. Anshan would provide teriary
treatment and resell all treated wastewater. The switch from wet scrubbers to electrostatic
precipitators to clean blast furnace gases in Benxi would eliminate a major source of highly
toxic phenols and cyanide in the Taizi River. Other water pollution control efforts include
that in the Jincheng paper mill, the largest source of pollution in the Daling river basin,
with a 3 million population equivalent. There, process changes to reduce wastewater and
to use the main pollutant-lignosulfonates-to produce a marketable binder provide
pollution reduction at far less cost than conventional treatment alternatives. Dalian would
rely on conventional treatment for its mixed industrial and domestic wastewaters, but add
tertiary treatment that allows sale of treated wastewater for industrial uses in this water-
short city.
3.          Support for water supply capacity expansion in Jinzhou is justified by their
aggressive use of prices to control demand and support their expansion program. Jinzhou
acted without extemal pressure to raise water prices to levels that provide a rate of return
in excess of 20 percent. The 42 percent industrial and 66 percent residential price
incteases have been in effect for only five months, so conclusions about the actual



- 157 -                       ANNEX 14
reduction in excess demand would be premature, but the water company has already noted
a substantial fall in peak summer demand. Dalian, too, has increased tariffs to moderate
demand, an action that would strengthen the market for recycled water to be produced in
the Bank-supported wastewater treatment plants. Dalian's tariffs are -""w among the
highest in China and to take advantage of new industrial interest in saving water, the Bank
loan supports a pilot program of industrial and institutional process change demonstrating
low-cost strategies for water saving.
4.          Benxi has the dubious distinction of having the most intense air pollution of
any city in China, with winter peak SO2 levels well above the level (Class III) at which
China reckons children and other vulnerable people must restrict their activity. The Bank
identified, and would support through the loan, elements of the Benxi long-term air
pollution abatement program designed particularly to reduce ground-level pollution. The
electrostatic precipitators for the blast furnaces mentioned in para. 2 would not only reduce
water pollution, but also provide heat for coke ovens, in turn releasing enough coke oven
gas to double the town gas supply in Benxi and free 50,000 households from reliance on
coal stoves. A retrofit of the coking ovens with a closed charging and pushing system, the
first such retrofit in China, would reduce fugitive emissions of benzopyrene and other
highly carcinogenic organic chemicals by 96 percent, protecting coke oven and nearby
workers from toxic exposure. Investments in the district heating system would allow the
displacement of 26 inefficient boilers that cannot be economically fitted with pollution
control systems and most of the 10,000 individual stoves used for household heat. The
overall effect of these investments would be an estimated 10,200 tons per year reduction
in total Sa loads (7.1 percent of the total) and 45,000 tons per year reduction in
particulates (19.6 percent of the total). The impact would be greater than the proportions
suggest, because all averted emissions are from low stacks, with their highly concentrated
discharges in residential areas.
5.          Despite the rapid degradation of ground, surface, and coastal waters in
Liaoning, not a single landfill in the province operates to sanitary landfill standards. The
solid waste component of the project supports the development of such a landfill in Dalian,
where leachate from a coastal landfill site threatens highly profitable shrimp farms and
other aquaculture. In addition, landfill gasses would be collected through a system
allowing future use of the methane in electricity generation. However, methane output
would not reach levels justifying power generation investments until after the project
period, hence would not be funded by the project. The landfill would serve as a model
for others in the province. To complement those investments, an improved transfer station
would be built in the city and transport upgraded to reduce the number of trips needed to
haul urban refuse to the landfill site. The transfer station and landfill management would
be shifted from the municipal government to a newly formed corporation, which would
allow the efficiency gains possible with increased managerial independence and accrual
accounting.
6.          Perhaps the most innovative program element is that protecting the cultural
heritage of Liaoning, which includes assets of international renown. Termed support for
environmental rehabilitation and reconstruction" in project documents, this component



-158-                         ANNEX 14
recognizes that rapid industrial and commercial development can lead to the equally rapid,
although perhaps inadvertent, destruction of cultural heritage. This comes through high
air and water pollution, which can erode the physical fabric of monuments and relics, and
through the failure to plan or site new construction in a manner sympathetic to existing
historical properties. The component would demonstrate the potential to preserve, develop,
and present cultural properties in a manner that enhances their value and provides benefits
such as increased tourist revenues.
B. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
7.          Project components were selected based on the criteria described in the
above paragraphs. Those criteria set only performance goals-reduction of water and air
pollution, protection from solid waste pollution, increased water supplies, and cultural
preservation-they do not specify the best means of achieving the goal. The specific
means of achieving the goals is unique to the circumstances of each locality and are
described in the following paragraphs. The discussion is grouped undr- the larger
categories of water pollution abatement; water supply; air pollution abatement; solid waste
handling; and cultural preservation. However, it must be recognized that individual project
components can address more than one concern, as do the blast furnace scrubbers in Benxi
or the Anshan and Dalian wastewater treatment plants. For several components, especially
wastewater treatment, benefits are difficult and expensive to quantify and analysis has been
1imited to identifying the least-cost option to meet a performance standard. In others,
benefit streams are more readily quantified and in those cases rates of return have been
estimated.
C. AFORDABIL1TY
8.          Water. The present Jinzhou water supply tariff was enacted before project
appraisal and has been effective for some six months without evidence of difficulty for any
part of the population. Projected increases are within the range of projected real income
increases, thus affordability should not become an issue.
9.          Wastewater. Because the wastewater tariffs proposed for Anshan, Benxi,
Fushun, and Dalian are linked to water consumption, they would substantially increase the
6ost of such consumption. Based on provincial average figures, per capita consumption
of water equaled 158 liters/day in 1992. Assuming that the poorest 5 percent consume
130 liters/day, then no more than an average of about 1.4 percent of their Y 1,005/year
income would be spent on water. Anticipated wastewater charges are well above current
water fees (which are in most cases below the level needed for a positive rate of return on
water company capital), so if those households make no adjustments in their consumption,
an additional 2.2 percent of their income would go to the sewerage tariff. This would
represent, in effect, a significant increase in the cost of water. However, the combined
cost of 3.6 percent of income is not especially high by developing country standards and
at the postulated consumption levels, room exists to reduce consumption, hence payments.



- 159-                         ANNE4
10.         Industry would also face much highier charges for the combined water/
wastewater service.  However, research has shown high levels of waste in current
industrial water use. Industries are expected to quickly adopt some in the range of water-
saving techniques that have been introduced to China in recent years, thereby mitigating
the impact of these charges on production costs.
D. WATER POLIAMION ABtATEMENT
Anshan Wastewater
11.         Background. Anshan, with an urban population of nearly 1. I million, is
home to some 500 major industries, including mining, metallurgical, chemical processing,
petrochemicals, dyeing, and paper making. The city's largest employer, the Anshan Iron
and Steel Corporation, is also China's largest iron and steel producer. Through Anshan
flow the Nanshan, Yunliang, and Yangliu Rivers, tributaries to the Taizi, which passes to
the west of the city. Wastewater flows total about 520,000 ml/day, of which some
48 percent receives treatment at source.  Despite those treatment efforts, Anshan
contributes a substantial pollution load to the Taizi River and that load, combined with
those from Fushun and Benxi, result in Taizi water quality failing to reach Class V
standards. Nonetheless, downstream agricultural communities continue to draw irrigation
water from the river. While those same communities nttempt to avoid the Taizi pollution
by drinking groundwater, the Taizi recharges the aNuifers they draw on, aquifers now
beginning to show measurable pollution levels.
12.         As part of the provincial program to ensure sustainable water supplies for
productive uses, Anshan has been required to protect Taizi river quality by treating
wastewater to the Liaoning integrated wastewater discharge standard II.
13.         Fconomic Analysis. The value of meeting the water quality goal can, at
least theoretically, be evaluated in terms of reduced water supply and treatment costs for
downstream communities, the positive health impacts of avoiding heavy metal uptake by
irrigated crops, increased value of the fish catch, increases in recreational use of
downstream waters, and increases in the amenity value of the Taizi. However, these
benefits are external to Anshan, and the large number of polluters results in a complex
waste flow, frrem which measuring the marginal improvement attributable to Anshan
treatment would be a challenging modeling exercise. The decision for Anshan is therefore
treated as one of identifying the least costly treatment strategy to meet the specified water
quality goals. The economic analysis is therefore based on the least-cost approach.
14.         As noted earlier, three rivers flow through Anshan, and the city has
developed a program that would treat wastewater flows in each basin separately. The
decision to proceed in this way has not been subject to economic analysis, but is consistent
with the flown  in each system and the layout of the existing sewerage system. The project
under disciwsm,on is the first phase of the program, that designed to treat the Yunliang river
basini wastc;ldt flows. Those flows are picked up by two interceptors that converge on
the Xidagoii Canal.  The present dry-weather flow averages about 192,000 m3/day,



-160-                         ANNEX 14
93 percent of which is from industrial sources, primarily Anshan Iron and Steel
Corporation plants. The wastewater is characterized by high suspended solids and oil and
low BOD. Significant increases in flows are not anticipated, since additional water would
be available to local industry only through recycling.
15.        The layouit of the existing interceptors and the constraint on increased
wastewater flows determined both siting and capacity of the treatment works. The works
have been sited at the first flat area downstream of the interceptor intersection that could
be acquired without displacing farm housing. The design flow has been set at 220,000 ml/
day, a 10 percent margin over base flows, with a peak flow capacity of 440,000 m3Jday
needed to cope with storm flows in the combined system.
16.        The solution to the least-cost problem has an additional consideration in
Anshan. Water shortages in the city have created a market for recycled water and
designers were therefore faced with two options:
(a)   The provision of primary treatment, consisting of screening, grit removal,
and chemically assisted clarification; and
(b)   Option (a), plus secondary and tertiary treatment, together with transmission
pipelines for the recycled water.
17.        Because option (a) is the minimum necessary to comply with provincial
discharge guidelines, the choice of option would depend on whether the additional cost of
option (b) would be covered by the expected economic returns from water resales. Table 1
presents the marginal economic returns to option (b). The estimated ERR is 23 percent,
based on the current resale price for treated waste water. The high ERR results from the
fact that the primary treatment facility and operating costs are not attributed to treated
wastewater production. The primary treatment was dictated as a solution to Taizi
pollution, and would have occurred in any case. A second reason for the high return is
that the consumer has agreed to build and maintain the transmission pipelines at their own
expense, reducing both investment and operating costs. Indeed, the estimated ERR is a
lower bound in that it does not incorporate any estimate of the consumer surplus realized
by the Anshan Iron and Steel Company (ANGANG), which has contracted to take the
entire output of treated wastewater.
18.        The ERR supports the Anshan municipal government's selection of option
(b). Were costs to increase a further 20 percent above the physical contingency already
included in the investment costs, and sales reach only half of those projected, the ERR
would still reach 8 percent. Given that the 8 percent underestimates the benefits, for
reasons given in para. 14, the investment appears robust to changes in costs and sales.
19.        Risks. The primary treatment stage of the wastewater treatment plant
presents few risks. The technology is used successfully in other parts of China and
presents few operational challenges. The terdiary treatment for reuse also uses well-known
technology, but success in meeting reuse quality standards would be difficult without



-161 -                         ANNEX 14
adequate control of influent quali'ty. That quality would not now allow the plant to meet
quality standards consistently and thus be able to sell treated wastewater. Influent quality
therefore becomes key to successful plant operation. This problem would be prohibitively
difficult were not the main source of raw wastewater also the sole consumer of the treated
wastewater. ANGANG badly needs the treated wastewater to replace more expensive fresh
water. In testament to that need, ANGANG is building the pipeline from the treatment
plant to its own network. ANGANG workshops contribute 80 percent of the wastewater
stream treated by the plant, with another 8 percent from unproblematic domestic sources.
ANGANG's strong vested interest in assuring that treated wastewater can be supplied,
coupled with their control of the quality of the influent, minimizes the risk of low influent
quality preventing successful treatment for resale. The ANGANG management has agreed
to implement a wastewater quality-based treatment tariff that would protect treatment plant
financial interests when influent quality prevents production of saleable water.
Benxi Wastewater
20.         Background. The Taizi River bisects Benxi City, one of China's largest
steel producers. In addition to steel, Benxi produces an estimated 680,000 ml/day of
industrial, commercial, institutional and residential wastewater. Industries treat some of
their wastewater, although in many cases the resulting flow still fails to meet national
discharge standards. About 10 percent of the total wastewater enters the existing sewerage
system, with the remainder discharged to natural watercourses that drain to the Taizi
River, or to the river itself. The existing sewerage system also discharges to the Taizi
without treatment.
21.         Benxi itself suffers few ill effects from its highly polluting wastewater. The
municipal water company abstracts water upstream of the city, where the Taizi meets
class II quality standards, comfortably above the minimum quality for drinking water
supply. Industries extract within city boundaries, but above their own waste discharge
points. However, at the downstream edge of the city the water no longer meets Class V
standards, the lowest quality deemed usable for any productive purpose. The Taizi then
flows but a few kllometers to the Shenwo Reservoir, the main water source for Liaoyang,
a major industrial city of 660,000 people. The Taizi's self-purification capacity cannot
match the pollution load and fish in the river have been declared inedible due to their high
concentrations of heavy metals.
22.         Benxi Municipality has agreed to bring Taizi water quality up to the
Class IV level below the city-a level that permits irrigation, industrial, and recreational
use. Meeting this goal is expected to raise Shenwo water quality to Class III, the
minimum for a drinking water source.
23.         Economic Analysis. The value of meeting the water quality goal can, at
least theoretically, be evaluated in terms of reduced water treatment costs in downstream
communities, increased value of the fish catch, increases in recreational use of downstream
waters, and nicreases in the amenity value of the Taizi. As a practical matter, sewage
treatment in Benxi is motivated by political pressure to restore Taizi quality to a level that



- 162 -                       ANNEX 1-4
no longer threatens the health of downstream communities and the decision for Benxi
therefore becomes one of identifying the least costly treatment strategy to meet that goal.
The economic analysis is therefore based on the least-cost approach.
24.         Meeting the Taizi water quality goal requires an aggressive program of
wastewater collection and treatment. Economies of scale dictate centralized collection and
treatment of residential, institutional and commercial sewage, individual sources of which
now discharge to a small number of streams tributary to the Taizi. However, industrial
wastewater may be produced in sufficient quantity and have specific enough treatment
needs to warrant treatment at source, followed by discharge to the sewerage system or to
the Taizi. Additionally, the geographic coverage*  'le reticulation system needs to be
optimized. Initial work on these problems producet  z following four options:
(a)   Complete coverage by the reticulation system, with a treatment plant
capacity of 700,000 m3/day and primary treatment (screening, grit removal,
and chemically assisted primary clarification).
(b)   Exclusion of industrial enterprises that meet discharge standards, with plant
capacity to be a function of industrial commitments to meet those standards.
(c)   Exclusion of the northeast corner of the city, with a 32,000 m3/day sewage
flow, from the reticulation system.
(d)   The combination of options 2 ano 3, implying a treatment plant size of
about 300,000 m3/day.
25.         The fourth option was chosen, for reasons described briefly below and in
more detail in the feasibility study.
26.         The Benxi Iron and Steel Company (BENGANG) produces far more
industrial wastewater than any other source in Benxi.  Furthermore, the chemical
composition of many BENGANG wastewaters forces pretreatment before they can enter
a municipal system. BENGANG was offered the option of treating wastewater to the
national standard before direct discharge or, after necessary pretreatment, discharging to
the municipal system for further treatment. After reviewing the cost of each option,
BENGANG elected self-treatment and wastewater would therefore not enter the municipal
system. This allows a concomitant reduction in interceptor and treatment plant capacity.
27.         BENGANG developed a plan that would, by the end of 1997, ensure that
all wastewater meets national standards. Crucial elements of the plan include switching
from wet scrubbers to dry scrubbers in the blast furnaces and power plant (another
component of this loan finances blast furnace scrubbers, which for the Xihu number 1 and
2 fumaces would reduce wastewater by 39,000 m3/day); expanding treatment units for the
coldng ovens (work on which would be finished by the end of 1993); and increasing
wastewater treatment and reuse in other parts of the mill. Full application of the pollution
levy fee, which for BENGANG has risen from Y 10 million in 1991 to Y 17 million in



- 163 -                       ANNEX 14
1993 as fee coverage has expanded, encourages BENGANG to implement fully the
program, which the municipal EPB monitors. As an additional precautionary measure, the
city has set aside a parcel of land near BENGANG for construction of an industrial
wastewater treatment plant should BENGANG fail to meet its goals, or should further
increases in national discharge standards require a higher level of treatment.
28.         BENGANG's choice to opt out of the municipal system plays an important
role in the viability of option 3. A PENGANG plant dominates the northeast corner of
Benxi and produces the bulk of the current sewage flow, all of which would be treated
under BENGANG's plan. The remainiug municipal wastewater would not have sufficient
impact on river quality to justify building the needed interceptor in that area.
29.         The remaining flows from all sources would enter the municipal system,
with industrial flows pretreated as necessary. The current use of stream beds to carry the
bulk of sewage flows allows installation of sanitary sewers adjoining or under the stream
bed. The streams would continue to drain storm waters, and this use of separate drainage
and sewerage systems allows smaller interceptors and a smaller treatment plant to be built.
30.         After the determination of system coverage, hence plant capacity and the
nature of incoming sewage, the next step was to determine the degree of treatment. Unlike
Dalian and Anshan, two other cities with wastewater teatment plants financed by the
project, Benxi does not suffer water shortages for municipal use, while industrial shortages
occur in some years for brief periods in the winter. Therefore, Benxi has no incentive to
move to teriary treatment for water recycling. Effluent tests determined that primary
treatment would remove the heavy metals so inimical to health, as well as reduce other
pollutant loads sufficiently to allow the desired Class IV standard to be met downstream
of the treatment plant. However, the area being acquired for the treatment plant allows
for expansion to secondary treatment if future quality needs dictate.
31.         With the above parameters set, further design alternatives were evaluated
on the basis of financial costs. Because the alternative technologies considered did not
involve radically different proportions of capital and labor, or inputs that vary in
substantially different proportions from world market prices, the financial costs reflect
relative economic costs and determine the least-cost economic solution. Discussion of the
design alternatives can be found in the consultant's report, which is on file.
32.         Risks. The proposed Benxi technology is well-proven and presents few
operating challenges. The major risk in the Benxi effort is that BENGANG not meet its
long-term treatment goals. Measures to minimize that risk were detailed in para. 23,
above. Further, it is worth noting that the Benxi plan is not prospective, but in the mid-
point of implementation. The additional coke oven water treatment facility would be
commissioned by end-1993, and the dry scrubbers on the first two blast furmaces would
be financed under this project. Nonetheless, system performance would be carefully
monitored.



-164-                         ANNEX 14
Dalian Wastewater
33.         Background.  Dalian, with a nonagricultural population of about 2.3
million, is at the southern tip of the Liaodong peninsula, which separates the Bohai Sea
from the Yellow Sea. The city has a diverse economic base that includes one of northeast
China's most important deep-water ports, fisheries, tourism, and industries ranging from
metallurgy to textiles, electronics, food processing and building materials.  Only
20,000 m3/day of a total wastewater stream estimated at 360,0) m3/day is currently
treated before discharge to coastal waters. Population and economic growth have outrun
industrial water-saving measures, resulting in rapid growth of the wastewater stream. The
predominance of industrial wastewater can be seen in the low BOD and high suspended
solids and phenols of the discharges.
34.         The inshore areas of the Dalian, West, and Heishijiao Bays, all important
for tourism, fisheries, aquaculture, and seaweed cultivation, have growing pollutant
concentrations that threaten the viability of important sectors of Dalian's economy. One
wastewater treatment plant, commissioned in 1988, provides the only municipal sewage
treatment. That plant, at Chunliu, serves discharges to the main deep-water port zone but
operates at only one third of its rated 60,000 m3/day capacity due to a lack of link and
interceptor sewers. Dalian has planned a total of eight wastewater treatment plants that
would provide complete coverage of estimated flows by the year 2020. The geography of
Dalian, which is built over a range of hills that create distinct drainage basins, drove the
decision about plant numbers and service areas. Of the seven remaining to be constructed,
the highest priority site is on the Malan River, now an open sewer discharging to Heshijiao
Bay, an important aquaculture and tourist resort area. The Malan also carries the largest
pollution load and wastewater flow of the seven zones.
35.         Economic Analysis: (a) Chunliu Wastewater Treatment Plant. The
existing wastewater treatment facility at Chunliu processes only one third of its design
capacity of 60,000 m3/day. Furthermore, the digesters and sludge dewatering facilities
have never functioned, forcing the plant to discharge sludge to the bay. Although it does
treat a modest amount of wastewater for sale-about 5,000 m3/day-the plant far from
realizes its potential contribution to reducing water pollution in Dalian's coastal waters or
supplying treated wastewater for industrial use.
36.         Chunliu has the advantage of substantial sunk costs needing a supply
constraint relieved to realize ful production. This project would relieve that constraint,
which would have the secondary benefit of providing additional treated wastewater for sale.
Those two factors lead to an incremental economic cost of treating wastewater of only
Y 0.57 per ton (see Table 2), as compared to Y 0.62 per m3 for the next least costly option
in the Dalian wastewater treatment plan. The ultimate purpose of sewage treatment is to
reduce pollution damage and, in this case, relatively low net treatment costs reinforce a
decision driven by the municipal government's ranking of damage from the various
catchments. Chunliu serves a high-density residential and industrial neighborhood
discharging sewage into the central harbor. The need to protect this vulnerable resource
drives the decision to invest in sewers in the Chunliu catchment.



- 165 -                       ANNEX 14
37.         Risks:  (a) Chumllu Wastewater Treatment Plant. The design and
equipment quality failures that kept the original digesters and sludge dewatenng equipment
from being operated would be avoided through more careful engineering and the use of
competitive bidding with strict performance criteria in the current project. That part of the
facility that now operates turns out a high-quality effluent and sells treated wastewater,
encouraging signs for the operation of the expanded facility. Chunliu costs are held down
by the sale of water and any difficulty in marketing the planned output at planned prices
would impair the financial performance of the system. However, the design assumes sales
of only half of the incremental wastewater intake, and that at a price only 40 percent of
the sale price for fresh water. Dalian's freshwater shortages and stringent quotas under
which industries operate encourage use of treated wastewater, so the market risk is
believed slight. With no additional water sales, treatment costs would rise to Y 0.70/mn3
and necessitate a tariff increase.
38.         Economic Analysis: (b) Malan Wastewater Treatment Plant. The Malan
River has a drainage area of 95 kin, capturing the major wastewater flows in southwest
Dalian. In addition to domestic wastewater, the river collects discharges of up to
50,000 m3/day from more than 100 industrial plants. Discharge from the river pollutes the
shoreline near the river mouth and the fishery waters offshore. As the Malan drains into
the most popular tourist beach area in Dalian, and an area of rich offshore fisheries,
including cultured shellfish, control of this effluent stream has also been given priority by
the government.
39.         Two basic design altematives were considered for Malan river treatment.
Both depend on link and interceptor sewers that would separate storm water from sewage
flows, allowing the river to drain the former. The first alternative would provide primary
treatment prior to discharge through a 6 km long marine outfall. The second would
provide secondary treatment, with discharge to the river, and, as demand permitted,
terty treatment for up to half of the wastewater for industrial reuse. Costs were
estimated for both alternatives and the second proved both substantially cheaper and less
risky. Details can be found in the consultant's reports.
40.         The proposed Malan Wastewater Treatment P'ant was the second least costly
to the Chunliu sewerage network extension. Malan also shares with Chunliu the possibility
of selling treated wastewater for industrial use. The net economic costs of treating the
wastewater are approximately Y 0.62/m3 (see Table 3). If no treated wastewater sales
were realized, that cost would increase to Y 0.71/m3.
41.         Risks: (b) Malan Wastewater Treatment Plant. As with the other
wastewater treatment plants, Malan depends on a tested design that would require operating
skills similar to those demonstrated in the Chunliu plant. The fact that Dalian has
operators of proven competence minimizes operational risk. As with Chunliu, the sale of
treated wastewater for industrial use reduces net treatment costs, but a 50 percent decline
in treated wastewater sales would increase net treatment costs by only 6 percent, while a
50 percent increase in sales would reduce costs by 7 percent. Any substantial variation in



- 166 -                       ANNEX  14
resale performnance would be matched by a tariff adjustment to maintain treatment plant
financial performance at the planned level.
Msishun Wastewater
42.         Bacdground. Fushun is a major industrial city with a 1992 population of
about 1.2 million, located on the Hun River about 50 km upstream from Shenyang, the
provincial capital. At present, some industrial wastewaters receive pretreatment and they,
along with untreated domestic, institutional, and other industrial wastewaters, are then
discharged into the Hun River or to the Shenfu Irrigation Canal. The Shenfu Canal itself
discharges to the Hun River, which eventually merges with the Taizi River south of
Shenyang.
43.         In large part because of the 630,000 n/day Fushun wastewater discharges,
neither the Hun River nor the Shenfu Canal meet Category V surface water quality
standards, the lowest standard allowing water use. Despite that, the Shenfu remains the
most important source of irrigation water for farmers to the west of Fushun and the Hun
River recharges the Shenyang aquifer, which begins some 20 km downstream from
Fushun. Pollution of the aquifer has forced Shenyang to meet part of its water needs
through construction of a conveyor to the Dahuofan6, Reservoir, on the Hun River
upstream of Fushun.
44.         As part of the provincial program to ensure sustainable water supplies for
productive uses, Fushun has now been required to protect the Shenyang aquifer by
ensuring that as it approaches the recharge area, the water quality of the Hun reaches
Cls  m, the minimum standard for drinldng water, and that the water quality in the
Shenfu Canal be improved to Class V, the minimum for irrigation use.
45.         Economic Analysis. The value of meeting the water quality goal can, at
least theoretically, be evaluated in terms of reduced water supply and treatment costs for
Shenyang, the positive health impacts of avoiding heavy metal uptake by irrigated crops,
increased value of the fish catch, increases in recreational use of downstream waters, and
increases in the amenity value of the Hun. However, these benefits are external to Fushun
(with the possible exception of health impacts from crops) and the decision for Fushun
therefore becomes one of identifying the least costly treatment strategy to meet the
specified water quality goals. The economic analysis is therefore based on the least-cost
approach.
46.         Approximately 63 percent of the Fushun population already connects to a
sewerage system, which discharges primarily to the Shenfu Canal. Of those discharges,
some 30 percent are of domestic origin and the remainder industdal. The coverage of the
current sewerage system and siting of local pump stations influenced the development of
options to meet the quality goals laid out above. A crucial finding in the feasibility studies
was that treatment of the effluent in the existing sewerage system would allow quality goals
to be met. The third of the flow not presently captured enters the Hun River on the
upstream side of the city, and, with other wastewaters suffici-ntly treated, the Hun has



- 167 -                        ANNEX 14
sufficient self-cleaning capacity to meet the Class III standard at the aquifer without further
treatment of the uncaptured flows.
47.         Analysis of wastewater flows showed that the effluent from 20 large
industrial plants currently treating sewage to national standards and discharging to the
Shenfu Canal could be excluded from the treatment stream while maintaining the Shenfu
Canal water at Class V. Those plants discharge an average of 240,000 ml/day, or about
28 percent of all Fushun flows, allowing a substantial reduction in the design capacity for
the treatment plant. The remaining wastewater can be brought to acceptable quality
through primary treatment consisting of screening, grit removal, and chemically assisted
primary clarification.
48.         Based on those findings and the layout of the existing reticulation system,
two alternative concepts for wastewater collection, treatment and disposal were considered:
(a)   construction of four separate collection/treatment systems to serve Fushun
city districts; and
(b)   collection of all flows, with treatment at a single plant at Sanbaotun to the
south of Fushun.
49.         Both alternatives examined a number of conveyor and plant site/size options,
full description of which can be found in the consultant's feasibility studies. Economies
of scale in treatment outweighed the additional conveyor costs of the single plant option
(option B), which was therefore adopted in this project.
50.         The treatment plant, with a capacity of 250,000 m3/day, has been sized to
meet year 2000 flows. The plant would be located well beyond the current industrial and
residential districts to allow for future urban growth and minimize resettlement. As with
the Anshan and Benxi plants, the financial cost minimizing plant engineering solution to
meet the 250,000 m3/day capacity demand also results in the economic least-cost plant
configuration. Details may be found in the consultant's reports.
51.         In determining which industrial plants would be incorporated into the new
system, Fushun officials surveyed the enterprises not yet meeting national discharge
standards. They established that the cost of in-plant treatment in these enterprises would
exceed the cost of centralized treatment and that the designed mix of in-plant and
centralized treatment is therefore also least cost from the industry's perspective.
52.         The Fushun treatment plant would incorporate a small unit to test strategies
for secondary treatment. This work is being done in anticipation of future further
tightening of ambient quaLty standards and would facilitate least-cost responses to those
future demands. The 110,000 ml/day of wastewater not entering the Shenfu Canal would
continue to discharge to the Hun River near the top of the interceptor through three natral
streams. Those streams serve as storm drains with high wet-season flows, with other flows
primarily from residential and mining areas. The area served is growing very slowly and



-168-                         ANNEX 14
the contribution to Hun River pollution small. For this reason, planning has yet to begin
for investment in an interceptor system and treatment plant to serve this area. However,
Fushun continues to monitor those flows and would take action if they begin to contribute
substantial pollution to the Hun.
53.         Risks. As with the other plants, the proposed Fushun technology is well-
proven and presents few operating challenges. Fushun has already constructed a large
conveyor for their water supply, demonstrating the ability satisfactorily to build and
operate that aspect of the investment. The risks to the system come not in the system
itself, but in the decision to leave major industrial dischargers outside of the system.
Continued, careful monitoring would be necessary to assure that those industries maintain
the quality of their effluent. The environmental protection bureau has responsibility for
this activity and has demonstrated capacity to undertake it.
Jincheng Paper NMiI-Wastewater Reduction and Water Savings
54.         Background. The Jincheng Paper Mill is located some 25 kxn northeast of
Jinzhou on the east bank of the Daling River, about 15 km upstream of a proposed
weilfield for Jinzhou water supply. The mill currently discharges all wastewater without
treatment, delivering a pollution load of some 3 million population equivalent, by far the
largest source of pollution in the Daling river basin. Discharge from the mill increases the
COD concentration in the Daling by up to 200 mg/I during the winter low flows. The
damage inherent in this discharge becomes apparent when contrasted with the allowable
maximum ambient COD concentration of 25 mg/l for the lowest usable surface water. The
Jincheng discharges prevent use of Daling water for irrigation, industrial, or drinking water
downstream of the plant and threaten aquifers through recharge with polluted waters.
55.         Economic Analysis. Mill managers rejected end-of-pipe treatment as
prohibitively expensive and instead invited design institutes to help them identify process
changes that could reduce wastewater discharge. Proposed changes involve two major
components. The first, for white-water recovery, reduces water consumption by some
22,000 m3/day, and allows the recovery of 8,000 tons per year of talc and 4,600 tons per
year of pulp, all of which were previously discharged to the Daling. The second, for red
liquor extraction and evaporation to produce lignosulfonate binder, reduces water
consumption by an additional 18,000 m3/day and permits binder production to increase
from the current 50,000 tons per year to 150,000 tons per year. The implementation of
these two programs would reduce pollution from 3 million to 1 million population
equivalent. The ERR from the white-water recovery is estimated at 37 percent and that
for red liquor extraction and binder production at 9 percent.
56.         A full discussion of the possible process changes for water saving can be
found in the consultant's reports in the Project File (Annex 16 . The white-water recovery
process recycles water used in the pulp-washing operation. It was chosen because it drew
on a known technology that offered substantial water savings as well as recovery of talc
and pulp. The high ERR is driven by the water savings and pulp recovery, where the
water is valued at marginal economic extraction costs as defined by costs in the new



- 169 -                       ANNEX 14
Jinzhou welfield using the same aquifer and pulp at the market price for pulp. It could,
but does not, include avoided damage to the Daling by controlling this important source
of pollution, so can be taken as a lower bound of the true ERR. The ERR would fall to
12 peicent if costs increased 40 percent and benefits fell by the same amount. The
analysis is presented in Table 4.
57.         A full discussion of the investment to increase lignosulfonate binder
production can be found in the consultant's reports in the Project File. The raw material
for the binder is the single most important pollutant from the paper mill. Process
improvements allowed additional water savings, but no reduction in the pollutant itself.
Alternative abatement strategies were to either treat the effluent in a wastewater treatment
plant or to use it to produce more binder. The technology currently used at the plant could
economically convert only the 50,000 tons per year of binder now sold. Energy costs for
additional production have been prohibitive. Ihe technology proposed would allow
production of 150,000 tons per year and a concomitant reduction in lignosulfonate
discharge to the Daling. The ERR of 9 percent (see Table 5) is derived from binder sales,
water savings, and the avoided costs of treating the waste stream. The latter calculation
assumes that the plant would otherwise carry out the EPB mandate to treat water to the
national discharge standard by building a treatment plant. The cost of treating the
wastewater reflect the real resource cost of the least-cost alternative in ameliorating current
damages. No attempt has been made to measure the damages themselves, which would
be a complex and costly exercise.
58.         The results are sensitive to assumptions about sales of binder.  The
calculation assumes that half of the additional output would be produced and sold in the
first year of production, increasing to 75 percent in the second year and full sales by 1998.
However, binder would be produced only to meet market demand, and, if binder is not
produced, the raw material would, following current practice, be discharged untreated to
the Daling River. If incremental sales reach only 68,000 tons, instead of the planned
100,000, the ERR falls to 0. Below that sales point, the treatment plant would have been
the preferred alternative.
59.         Risks. The white-water recovery process faces almost no risks. The
technology has been proven in similar production operations and the recovered water, talc,
and pulp would all be used in the plant itself and therefore do not depend on outside
markets. Conversion would require very little time and the operations and maintenance
are within the technical competence of the current plant staff.
60.         The binder production faces greater risks. Although all inputs are now
produced within the plant, the processing equipment would likely be imported and require
more sophisticated maintenance and operation than the current facility. More important
is the commercial risk already noted. Currently, almost all production goes to a nearby
zinc smelter that uses the product in smelting operations. The smelter is expanding its
production capacity using the current technology and has signed a letter of intent to
purchase an additional 50,000 tons per year of binder. In addition, two factories producing
fire-retardant materials for industrial use have signed letters of intent to purchase the



- 170 -                       ANNEX 14
remaining 50,000 tons per year. Due to high transport costs faced by all producers and
lincheng's close proximity to the smelter, Jincheng has a competitive advantage in
supplying the zinc smelter, which currently uses between 80,000 and 90,000 tons per year
of binder. Jincheng sales staff have detailed information on the seven other binder
producers in China and the only other planning expansion is doing so under a joint venture
with an Indian firm, producing a powdered version not competitive in smelting operations.
The current letters of intent and Jincheng's knowledge of the market minimize the risk of
not reaching the break-even sales point.
E. WATER SUPPLY
Jinzhou Water Supply
61.         Background. Jinzhou, a city with an urban population of some 930,000
people, meets all of its water needs through abstraction from local aquifers. In recent
years, water demand has been constrained through physical quotas as growth of industrial
and residential demand has outstripped supply. That supply has recently become more
precarious as infiltration of industrial pollutants via polluted recharge from the Nuer River
has forced the city to shut down some of the existing wells. In response to the growing
demand gap, Jinzhou has moved aggressively in the past year to control demand through
prices rather than physical quotas and to use the increased income to fund new sources of
supply.
62.         Jinzhou supply choices are further extraction from the Daling and Xiaoling
alluvial fans or the construction of a reservoir on the Daling. The city commissioned a
feasibility study on the latter option three years ago and found that incremental average
supply costs from that source would be approximately twice those from groundwater.
However, the city judges that the 100,000 m3/day supply available under the proposed
project is the last major field they can exploit in aquifers available to them and that fiuther
increases would have to come from either smaller fields or a reservoir, both of which
would be more costly.
63.         Hydrogeologists sited the proposed wellfield after considering the location
of existing wells and the recharge potential of various options. The placement and depth
of individual wells was dictated by the characteristics of the water-bearing strata and
recharge pattems. Alternative placements had virtually no affect on total project costs and
would not be further discussed. Engineering details and cost estimates can be found in the
consultant's reports.
64.         Economic Analysis. The economic analysis shows a 12 percent ERR,
assuming unaccounted for water (UAW) of 20 percent, and an economic price for water
of Y 1.00lm3 (the calculations are presented in Table 6). The utility reports UAW at
10 percent, and, indeed, losses in Chinese systems from malfunctioning meters or
unreported or unmetered connections are low by international standards. However, the
utility does not have a leak detection and repair effort aggressive enough to validate the
10 percent UAW, and the 20 percent rate was selected to be in line with experience in



- 171-                        ANNE  14
other areas with low commercial losses. The economic value of water was based on the
observation that under the current price regime, with an industrial tariff of Y 0.84/r3,
industrial demand continues to exceed use quotas. On the other hand, the response to the
recently established Y 1.5/m3 price for service industry water suggests that, were that
higher price more generally applied, the water company would have a water surplus.
Given this evidence, an economic value of Y 1.00/r3 was felt to be a conservative estimate
of the true value of water.
65.         RIsks. Operational risks are held at a minimum by the fact that the water
company has operated fields using identical technologies for some decades. Because of
extensive use of the aquifers, their geology is well understood and recharge rates could be
conservatively estimated. The most substantial risk would appear to be from pollution of
the aquifer reducing the useful life of the field. The Jincheng paper mill presents that
threat, although test wells have shown no evidence of Jincheng pollution infiltrating the
field. Pollution abatement at the paper mill is funded under this project and would
substantilly reduce whatever risk does arise from -hat source. The city would have to
carefuly monitor future industrial development upstream of the weilfield for pottially
damaging pollutants.
F. AIR QUALM MANAGEMENT-BENX
66.         Background. Benxi residents suffer from some of the most severe air
pollution in the world. The 1990 base year annual average SO2 concentration reached
0.16 mg/mr, a figure far in excess of the WHO standard of 0.06 mg/rn considered safe
for long-term human exposure. Moreover, SO2 concentrations during the winter months
range between 0.42 and 0.54 mg/mr. While the WHO standard for particulate is
0.09 mg/rn, the corresponding 1990 Benxi concentration was 0.39 mg/r3, ranging up to
0.66 mg/rn during the winter months in one city district.
67.         Aware of the damaging effects of these levels of pollution, Benxi adopted
a seven-year particulate abatement program for the cement industry (which contributed
94,000 tons/year of particulate, or one third of the total) in 1988 and an overall air
pollution abatement plan in August 1992. The latter plan specifies ambient particulate and
SO2 goals for 1995 and 2000, financed through a Y 700 million investment program.
Proposed interventions include substitution in residential use of coal gas and briquettes for
raw coal, increased use of cental heating, afforestation, and control of industrial SO2
emissions. lnitial results from the cement program have reduced particulate output there
by 63,000 tons/year (and dust fall in the city from a 1980 level of 110 tons/km2/year to
30 tons/km2/year in 1992); and from the larger program include the fitting of flue gas
electrostatic precipitators to the BENGANG power plant, reducing particulates from
27,400 tons/year to 2,400 tons/year and Benxi overall particulate discharges by more than
10 percent. A coke oven gas desulfurization plant to be commissioned in 1994 should
reduce SO2 by another 8,000 tonslyear, or 5 percent of all S02 emissions. Programs are
in place to further reduce SO2 from BENGANG by 60,000 tons/year by 2000.



- 172 -                       ANNEX 14
68.         Bank assistance was sought for expanding residential use of gas and central
heating and for an innovative program to retrofit coke ovens to reduce highly carcinogenic
fugitive emissions. As components of the broader program of emission controls, these
elements hold the particular attraction of reducing ground-level emissions, those that most
immediately affect householders and workers. The gas and central heating programs
rep1ace indoor stoves used for both cooking and heat, or, in the case of apartment
dwellers, stoves and building or district boilers that operate at low efficiency and with no
emission controls. The coke oven work reduces a substantial occupational health threat
with a technology more promising than the earlier control mechanisms tested in China-
most of which have failed.
Coke Oven Fugitive Emission Control
69.         Background. Coke oven fugitive emissions of benzopyrene and other highly
carcinogenic organic chemicals have not been subject to dose-response analysis, but of 100
coke oven workers at Benxi L-on and 1'eel Company who died from other than accidental
causes between 1957 and 1979, 50 died of cancer. A 1978 Chinese national study of coke
oven workers showed that they are 8.5 times more likely to develop cancer (primarily lung
cancer) than are other metallurgical industry workers. The US Environmental Protection
Agency has labeled coke oven emissions as the most hazardous industrial waste gases. All
of these findings argue for aggressive control of coke oven emissions. However, in the
absence of dose-response functions, it would not be possible to estimate the expected
number of averted deaths from alternative levels of protection. The problem was therefore
reduced to that of identifying the least-cost technology that would meet abatement
requirements.
70.         Economic Analysis.  The Benxi EPB has mandated a reduction of
98 percent of the current coke oven emissions. This high level of reduction necessitates
a combination of a sophisticated charging car design coupled with pushing emission
controls and redesign of the quenching towers. Few technical altenatives exist that meet
the criteria. The details of, and least-cost justification for, the particular approach chosen
can be found in the consultant's report.
71.         Risks. The technology chosen has been in use in Shanghai since 1986,
although there on a newly constructed coking oven, not as a retrofit. Familiarity with the
technology within China should provide valuable backup to the project engineers during
both construction and operation. The system would require high levels of attention to
proper operation and maintenance, although that would be aided by the strong worker
interest in plovidng a more comfortable and safer working envirment.
Central Heating
72.         Background. Benxi housing is heated through one of three sources: steam
drawn from industral boilers, heating approximately 3.2 million i2; steam from single-
purpose boilers supplying entire neighborhoods, heating approximately 600,000 en; steam
from individual apartment house boilers, heating approximately 5.6 million m2; and



- 173 -                       ANNEX 14
individual household stoves heating about 10,000 units. The neighborhood and building
boilers are inefficient and lack pollution control devices. Coal-stove heating of households
leads to high levels of indoor pollution and very inefficient combustion of very low-quality
coal. The existing boilers cannot be economically retrofitted with pollution control
equipment; nor, of course, can stoves. Although a program to upg-ade coal quality would
yield substantial benefits in pollution reduction with the existing boiler and stove stock, and
remains a long-term goal supported by technical assistance work complementary to the
proposed loan, it would require a difficult provincial restructuring of the coal market. A
research program funded through trust funds would begin in 1994 to address just that
issue.
73.         Economic Analysis. In the absence of radical provincial changes in coal
policy, Benxi considered as a base case expansion of the current building/neighborhood
boiler system to replace individual stoves still in use. While modestly reducing air
pollution and substantially increasing the amenity value of converted housing, such
expansion of the current technology would continue the relatively high levels of pollution
from small boilers. Other alternatives include moving to district heating, with heat
provided by high efficiency heat-only boilers (HOBs), and district heating through a
combined heat and power (CHP) system. The latter alternative depends on heat from a
power plant, supplemented by HOBs to meet peak demand. Either of the district heating
options would displace over 9,000 of the 10,000 individual stoves, 17 of the neighborhood
boilers and 9 of the very small building boilers. Particulate reduction has been estimated
at 25,576 tons/year (11.1 percent of all Benxi particulates) and SO2 reduction at
8,416 tons/year (5.8 percent of all SO2).
74.         The analysis of the above heating options for Benxi parallels that for the
same set of options in the Beijing Environrment Project (Credit 2312-CHA/Loan 3415-
CHA). The calculation worksheets for the average incremental cost (AIC) of heat supply
can be found in the Project File. They show little difference in the between the HOB only
and CHP/HOB options, with HOB only costing an estimated Y 41.9/GJ supplied and
CHP/HOB Y 39. 1/GJ supplied. Because the timing and inputs to both construction and
operation of the two processes are similar, sensitivity analysis on fuel price changes and
other operating and mainter..nce costs, and on changes in the relative prices of construction
material, show the choice to be insensitive to possible changes in those factors. The
CHP/HOB option was therefore chosen.
75.        Risks. As with the other components of the Liaoning Environmental
Project, other cities in China use the proposed technology. Thus, plant engineers have
ready access to Chinese language material on construction and operations and can easily
and cheaply engage consultants to help solve any problems that may arise. Operational
risks are therefore minimized.
76.         A risk does arise when considering affordability. The proposed heating
tariffs average about Y 400 per family per heating season, or well above the average Y 50
per year that the lowest 5 percent urban income families in Liaoning use for electricity,
water and fuel. However, this apparent issue of affordability on closer analysis turns out



-174 -                        ANNEX 14
to be one of risk to housing privatization rather than to the project component itself. The
housing market in Benxi, as in urban Liaoning and China as a whole, is dominated by
enterprise or municipal government owned apartments. Residents of those buildings do
not pay for central heating. This contrasts with water and electricity, which are both
metered and charged to households. The central heating system financed under this project
would replace heat sources for which residents do not pay (or would provide free heat for
those houses previously using stoves, fuel for which was often highly subsidized), nor
would they pay for project-provided heat. The affordability issue therefore does not arise
at the household level. Building n- ners would face, on average, a doubling of the heating
charge, thus further increasing tile housing subsidy already provided to urban residents.
77.         The fact that central heatinp costs are borne by building owners and not
reflected in building rents suggests an extra c>.allenge faced in housing privatization efforts
in north China. After privatization, when cnterprises no longer own apartments, it would
be difficult for them to justify paying the heating bills for those apartments. Efforts to
evaluate the true costs that would be faced by private apartment owners must capture this
important additional expense.
Blast Furnace Fmission Control-Town Gas Production
78.         Background. The refitting of BENGANG Xihu number 1 and 2 blast
furnaces with electrostatic precipitators in place of wet scrubbers would free up a
signitirant quantity of coke oven gas for municipal use by substituting cleaner blast furnace
gas having a higher sensible heat content for process consumption within the Xihu factory
area. It would also eliminate the annual discharge of 4.2 million tons of highly polluted
scrubber wastewater that contains an estimated 4.7 tons of cyanide and 2 tons of phenol
and would reduce carbon monoxide emissions. There would be little direct effect on
BENGANG particulate and SO2 emissions, but the town gas, supplied would displace coal
and coke in household use, reducing particulates by some 16,400 tons/year and S02 by
1,800 tons per year.
79.         Economic Analysis.  The estimated rate of return for the proposed
investment is 6 percent (see Table 7). The economic benefits of this activity are of five
types. First, there would be savings in water and electricity use compared to the current
technology. Second, significant quantities of iron dust would be recovered. Third,
damage to the environment previously experienced through untreated wastewater flows
would end. Fourth, town gas would be made available. And, fifth, the coke and coal
consumption displaced by the town gas would result in a significant decrease in particulate
and S02 production. The water and electricity savings were valued based on the economic
price of those two services in Benxi. Iron dust was valued at market.
80.        The averted environmental damage of the wastewater was estimated by
proxy as the cost of the secondary treatment that would be needed to remove the solids and
phenols from the wastewater. It does not reflect the additional cost of removing the
cyanide. The cost of secondary treatment was estimated based on the unit cost of
secondary ticatment from large-scale plants in China, so is a lower bound to what would



-175 -                        ANNEX 14
be required for a small-scale, purpose-built plant. The preferred measure would be direct
estimation of the environmental damage, which could be lower than, or much higher than,
the cost of avoiding the camage. Such estimates are difficult to make, especially for this
one source among many affecting the receiving waters. The proposed proxy is advanced,
not because it can accurately estimate environmental damage but because it reflects the cost
of avoiding that damage, an investment that the Benxi government now deems worthwhile.
81.         The town gas is valued at its sales price. This price is used because it is a
market-clearing price for current gas production and households not yet served (a
sufficiently large number to absorb all additional production at current prices) have
indicated a strong desire to receive such services. The current price can therefore be
accepted as a lower bound of the economic value of the gas.
82.         The averted environmental damage from reduced particulate and SO2 output
due to the substitution of gas for coke and coal in the home has not been given a value.
Although work has been done that allows estimates of such damage in Benxi, it was felt
that hi this case a substantial danger of double counting exists. That danger arises because
much of the pollution directly affects the household generating it through use of coke and
ooal their stoves. The willingness-to-pay for town gas can therefore be expected to reflect,
in part, the household relief from that pollution. Of course, the positive effects of
switching to town gas benefit those outside of the household and therefore (assrming that
altruism does not sufficiently alter the household demand fully to reflect externalities) the
household willingness-to-pay does not fully capture the benefit. This simply reinforces the
prior observation that the price of town gas is a lower bound on its economic benefit.
83.         The true economic rate of return is likely to be well above the estimated
6 percent due to the consistent use of lower-bound estimates for benefits and upper-bound
estimates for costs. In addition to the instances already noted, the benefits do not include
the averted maintenance costs from the wet scrubber system (although they do include
savings in water and power). The cost estimates include the full physical contingency on
all items. For the latter, then, true base costs up to 15 percent above the estimates would
have no impact on the analysis.
84.        Risks. The greatest risk in the proposed investment would arise from a
failure of the Benxi Gas Supply Company to complete its expansion plans as scheduled.
The revenue from gas sales provides an unusual incentive to properly operate the
precipitators and without that revenue, BENGANG could lower production costs by
shutting them down (although that would be a violation of law). The Gas Supply Company
has a two-decade record of successful operations and recent increases in their tariffs have
restored profitability. Their expansion plan appears to be well within their institutional and
financial capabilities and consumer demand is weU established.
85.         Tectlnical risks do not appear abnormal. The technology has been used
elsewhere, electrostatic precipitators are already in use in the BENGANG power plant, and
the company has a large cadre of sophisticated E&M engineers.



- 176 -                        ANNEX 14
G. SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
86.         Background. Dalian lacks, as do all other Liaoning cities, a sanitary
landfill. That lack results in uncontrolled leachate dispersion into groundwater or coastal
waters and direct dispersion into the atmosphere of methane, an important greenhouse gas.
Leachate from the present coastal landfill site contributes to the eutrophication of Suoyu
Bay, the most polluted part of Dalian Bay. Other solid waste-handling problems include
traffic congestion from an inefficient transfer station and transport system. The cost of the
latter problem is high in Dalian's highly congested traffic network.
87.         Economic Analysis. The landfill site is already in use, but the consultants
did investigate alternative locations. That investigation concluded that the current site
offered the least costly combination of transport time and environmental vulnerability.
Design alternatives for the sit: were based on different materials to control and collect
leachate, including impermeable clay layers and artificial membrane lining. The clay
barrier was selected as the least-cost alternative, augmented by a piped leachate collection
system, storage ponds ar.d recycling leachate back into the landfill (details may be found
in the consultant's report on file). The release of "greenhouse gases' would be reduced
by using extraction wells linked to pipes, blowers, and burners to flare the gas. The
system has been designed to allow future integration into an electrical generation system
once gas volume justifies that investment.
88.         Transfer station dusign altematives are linked to transportation constraints,
in this case of a maximum 20-ton load for trucks. Five alternative transfer station/
transport models were developed and are fully described in the consultant's report. The
choices represent different combinations of truck size and tipping floor versus containerized
waste handling, with compaction included in two alternatives. For these alternatives, the
average cost per ton handled ranged from a low of Y 22.1 per ton to a high of Y 28.0 per
ton. The selected alternative uses a three-level transfer station with a storage pit, loading
uncompacted waste to 20-ton transfer trucks. The cost of this alternative is estimated at
Y 22.8 per ton, slightly higher than the lowest cost alternative. This choice was made
because in contrast to the 3 percent less costly, two-level, station, this alternative allows
separation of district waste collection trucks from transfer trucks via a storage pit that can
be isolated to control dust and pests.
89.         Risks. The recommended alternatives use technologies widely implemented
elsewhere without notable operational difficulties. The current system utlizes transfer
stations and a hauling system differing from the proposed system primarily in detail rather
than concept. The landfill leachate and gas control is successfully used elsewhere in
China. The main risks associated with the improved solid waste management system
reside in proposed organizational and management innovations, rather than hi physical
operations. The project and subsequent transfer station and landfill operations would be
managed by an independent, self-financed company rather than the govemment bureau the
now provides these service. The company viability would be threatened were the
municipal government to block the introduction of institutional and administrative
independence or the proposed tariff changes. Furthermore, company staff would be able



- 177-                        ANNEX-14
to make the best use of their new powers only if trained in their possibilities. To minimize
the tariff risk, implementation of new tariffs has been agreed by the Dalian municipal
government, with introduction slated on June 1, 1994. Approval of any further increases
needed in 1995 would be a condition of effectiveness and maintenance of financial viability
would be covenanted in the loan. The technical assistance package contains a staff training
program for the solid waste company. Successful negotiations between the project office
and the preferred finn to manage that portion of the technical assistance would be a
condition of loan negotiation, minimizing the risk of delay in implementing the technical
assistance.
R. ENVIRONMTAL REBANIUTATION AND CONSRUCTON
90.         Background. Responsibility for the protection of cultural heritage-termed
cultural relics in China-is divided among national, provincial, and local-level agencies
according to the category of the relic. Traditionally, this responsibility has been carried
out with small budgets and little coordination among line agencies. However, awareness
of environmental issues now provides an opportunity to bring heritage conservation into
the national development agenda. This has become critical, for in Liaoning Province, and
in China in general, heritage protection has been equated with preservation of individual
monuments. Little attention has been paid to the physical setting and context of historic
structures. As a resu!*, the historic fabric has deteriorated rapidly. Witness the Imperial
Palace in Shenyang, whose integrity has been severely compromised by the adjacent
construction of a large, multistory shopping complex. As land markets become more
active and property prices in the centers of historic cities increase, the threat to heritage
would also intensify.
91.         Justification. Bureaus charged with heritage conservation have left largely
unexplored the use of financial instruments to fund their activities. At this critical juncture
in the move to a market-based economy, conservation activities would survive only if a
means to maximize revenue generation can be identified. Experience elsewhere has shown
that willingness to pay depends largely on offering the public quality presentation and
interpretation of archaeological and historical sites and museums.  Based also on
international experience, visits to cultural sites can be expected to rise with the rpid
increases in discretionary income and leisure time now enjoyed in China.
92.         The project is aimed at furthering scientifically sonmd, least-cost approaches
to heritage conservation. By promoting improved management, conservation, and financial
analysis, the project would encourage more efficient allocations of human and financial
resources. The contribution of cultural heritage to domestic and international tourism in
Liaoning, would be strengthened by the project activities that address presentation of
heritage sites and museum collections. Once these improvements are in place, pricing
policies for heritage sites can be evaluated so as to increase revenue. The project, in
supporting cultural heritage conservation, would also underline the importance of this
resource to Liaoning and the nation.



- 178 -                       ANNEX 14
93.         Project elements were chosen from a broad array of possible activities, with
the selection designed to cover representative conservation and management problems in
museums, archaeological sites, and historic structures. The component has four major
elements, each with associated training: improvement of services for the world-class
collection of the Liaoning Provincial Museum; protection of the Niuheliang archeological
site of the Hongshan culture; protection and presentation of the World Heritage Site at
Jiumenkou on the Great Wall; and site investigations at the Jieshi Palace, reputed to have
been occupied by one of China's greatest emperors. The experience gained from each
activity, reinforced through training provided under the project, would be replicable in
other Liaoning sites.



- 179-                                                      ANNEX 14
Table 1: ANSAN WASTEWATER TREATmENr PLANT WATER SALES
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN CALcULAnONS
witeO                     Operating &
Production,   Capitgl costs. mnantenance  Total cost,   genert.   Net benefit.
milion cubic  milDion yuan   CostS. milion  -inion yuan  mnllaon yun   n,-1hn yuan           Econonie rate
____  meters/year                     au n                                                               Of oeturn
..._ _ . ___ __                   23%
199S                0        1 1.8S            0        11.85         0 00        -11.5
t996                0        14.10             0        14 10         0.00        .14 10
t997          ~    ~ ~~0 13.93           a         13.93         0~ .C0      .13.93
J998             57.6         0.3           316 t        1 7         1728           5 49
0999             57.8         S.33          3.16         8.41        17.28       -a 79
2010             57.6                       3 16         3.16        17.28         14 12
2001             57.6                       3.16         3 .1        17.28         14.12
2002             57.6                       3.16         3 16        17.28         14 12
2C03             57.                        3 le        311.         1728          14.60
2014             57.6                       3.16         3.16        17 28         14 12
2C01             57.6 0                     3.16         3.16        17 28         14 12
2006             57.6                       3.16         3.16        1728          14 12
2017             57.6                       3.16         3.18        17.28         14.12
20108             7.6         83.16                     1161         17t28          62.0
2019             67.6                       3.16         3.16        17.28         14 12
202              57.6                       3.16         3.16        17.28         14.12
o20l             57.6                       3.16         3.16        17.28         14.12
-- 2015   i         -57.6                       3.16         3.16        17.28         14.12
2012             57.6                       3.16         3.16        17.28         14 12
2012             57.6                       3.16         3.16        17.26         14.t2
1-i 20t 6            57.bS                      3_tff         3.16        17 28        14 12
2025             67.6                       3.16         3.16        17.28         14.12
2026             57.6                       3.16         3.16        17.28         14.12
2021             57.6                       3.16         3.16        17.28         14.12
2023             57. _6                     3.tff        3 18        17.28         14.12
20242            67.66                      3.16         3t16 1_ t28               14.12
23-27        S~~~7 .f     2.011         3.161        Sm17        1 7.281      12.111
Table 2: CHUmLIU WASrEWATER TREATMET PLANr
ECONOMIC COSTS OF TREATMENT
Oae,atlnO &                  ~~~~~~~~Valu of     Net coat ot       Volwne at           Not
Ctp taw atenance                                          Water   |           tlreati8   I       e-we              tmentsw I
Cost              Col Imi               Total Coat         Sates             sewage              eated o           cntst
l ieWnt                        yu          st i |s lWan                     Itnat     Ienl      tonsl         I         (u&tnon)I
1964             ~~~~~~3.?                                3.7.                                  3 7                                  0.17
1196~~~~~~2                          24.7                                   24.7
21.7                                    21.7                                 21
_~~~~~~-              - a J   -          |4 l       |3   -0         1          30       _         |               14.
2026                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4.3   4.3                3.0                1.3               14.6
3.8            ~~~~~~.3   4         63                 0                4814.6



-180-                                                 ANNEX 14
Table 3: MALAN WASEWATER TREATET PLANT
NET ECONOMC COST OF TREATMENT
Op^aonq                                 VAlue of         Not cost of      Votu  of          Not
Cost            tCosts              Iota[ Cost       5                 .t               tmgwd (O         :o
_      _    t~~~~~md Yutnl    gm t11gd y.an}                      1md yua-l        tmd Wan)          tefl              yuVln
2023                                     136              136               6       J. f _
202        -    - 28         -           13.t-         1 43.6               6.6                       _      43 _
_ _ _ 136                                         a      13.6      _      _ae _             7.6              4 3.8 _ 
20201~                                   1360             13 6               07.6                            43.6
20026                                   13.6              1364              6.0              7.6            -43.6
SE0  t3.                                                                   6  0 7  -3 
2027           ~~~~       ~~10.2   1361             23 9          __   0               I17.9           -43.
Table 4: JINCHENG PUL ANS PAPER MI ECONOMIC ANALYIS
Wifim-WATER RECOVERY
f.sl   5s.nosoos                    slt   Tlt    ub                 ol43o
2011                         13 6        1    13 6            -6 0                7.t             4.8.            7
3?3.?                     4.18            288                             43.4
3?3?    .6                        08      2.6             6 s.0          -4.4
13  2.                    4.3 6    .6     6               0 .0            4.40
17                                                    6~~~3  2?4    _0      .0       .
-.4136                         06   2.                 76.             43.6



- 181 -                                                            ANNEX 14
Table 5: JiNCHENG PULP Am PAPR MA  ECONOM1C ANALYSLP-
RED LIQUOR PRoDucnIoN
co et     cm*                    Tot t Cost            5aw      S"         *t. osbm ledt {W
I(_ rwo  (_1 _A                        DM        i        lY _ d  Ini {ittw w4  (t4  _wV"                                t-4 _%W        E
Is                    9.1                                                                                                                 -9.7                 Z
is"             81.1        .3.62.83.                                           30          6836183.6
19        s    e -         -          e.:  si.e          _         _-Its  _::   -. .  31         30             3.4 37                           l    _ 31
1003                                     6                 216                   3?7      326.      6L6                  368.6
i00t.                                                      236                   3?I      261.04     t       -           30.5                  3.61
3006                    23.6                1~~~        ~        ~~~~     ~~~~2.8  3.7  362C 6            36.6                  3
301                                     3.                 21.6                  3.7      36.        6.                  36.5                 13.61
3006                     3.8                 3~~         ~        ~~~~     ~~~~~26   3.?1  301  6. a.                           13.6
3001                                    ._                12.8                   31       36.0       6.6                3.1                   13. _
3088                     .6                 3~~         ~        ~~~~     ~~~~        ~~26 a3.71  26.0  0.0  36.6              I3.6
3083                   33.6                 2~~~        ~        ~~~~     ~~~~~1.6  3.7  36.01 6.        36.s.6I
ttY10~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~2. _ _     _                                      2.0        Zt _                                     13 -= 1
2013                    33.6~~~~~~~~~~~2                       -           2   1      a'                                             
26                 . > 633 _                                           _ _ .7  60                      o6 -        -366   _                    36
zaFt    _-                                                      a- 3_7   26 0    668                                      366                        _         _
3085                                   33623                                      ?       360        6                   366 5.



- 182 -                                                     ANNEX I4
Table 6: JiNmou WATER SUPPLY PROJECr
ECONOMC RATE OF REiuRN CALcuLA1noNs
Increnrnute  swatr Iets of
water       tt*osres*ioo              Oparatra 5
I*o. cttot.  loots,). fflton CApAit leost. maattom,ce  Total cost.   Selit.  Not bomfit.
ditOn cb.o  cub-*        etn Yuon Costs, mton  n ioo-lt. yun   mIbon yuan   "W1I-f yusn              ILOotoC Rate
metetrsl eor  motrNew                                         _1 _tetin
1994                C                     1 07.8i        OC        tO-Fts        t00       *107.8                      12%
tSS6             23.f         20.i          t.          4.2        -1.S          20           9.
1007             38.5         29.21          .7         6.9    _      .-         29S2        20#1
2090             36.9         29 21                     69           6.9         29.2        22.3
2002             36.9         29.                       6.9          6.9         29 2        22.1
2009             36.          29.2                      69           6.9         29.2        22.3
tOOi             36.6          2S.2                     6S9          6.9         29          22.3
20081            36S.6        29.2         1183     6-.S            16.7         29.2        10.
202              38i.9        29.                       6.9          6.9         292         22.3
2003             36.1         29.2                      69           6.9 S29.                22-3
20t t            36S          29.2                      6.9          6.9         29.2        22.3
otos             36.6         29.2                      6.9          8.9_        292         22.3
2006             36.5         29            .8          6.9         WSi  22                  10.
2017             36.9         29.2                      6._          6.9         29.2        22.3
2008          -. 36.9         292           i           6I.          6.9    S 292            22. 3
2009             36.5         29.2                      6.9          6.9         29.2        22.3
2020         -  36.6          29.2                      69           6.69       292  _       22.3
i-oio            3S.6  __    2S.                     _  .S     S9 _87_           292S i      2.3
2021             36S          29.2                      6.9      -6.S 9           2          22.3
2022             3675    - 29.2                         6.9          6.9         29.2        22.3
2023             936.5        2t.2                      6.9          6.9         29.2        22.3
2024             38.6         29.2                      0.9          6.9         29.2        22.3
2020             36.5         29.2                      6.9          6t9         29.2        22.3
Table 7: !.VX BLAsr FUNACE EMSON CONTROL-
ECONOMIC RATE OF REIURN CALCELATION
Averte
Net                              wastewate, Revenue
Ctpitatl   opetn                            tritnttrt   fromn gas   TOtal                                        EC
cost       cotm       Total cost            costs   tmn  sales     benefits              Net Benefits            Rate of
(nuttl Yi    t ("l Yi    (mt Y)             Y1          (mdl Y)    (tmi. Yl              (M_  IAtun
1694                       19.3                  19.3                     0.0        0.0        0.0                     93
19t"                       36.61                 36.6                     0.0        0.0        0.0                    3.
15M                        48.1e                 4E.1                     2.2        6.3       10.05     __                      -8
-   2_       _           -28.9                     2.2-8.3   _  tO    S                        -18.3
2017t     .         _    _           _      __.___ _30                    4.4 9___ .7          146 t22.1
2016              _        23          *2.0      21.7 _______                        S.7__                             .7.6 _l l  _
2019-2028   _ _ _ _-___1__0734                                          1. 6.7                 14.1                     .1         _
2t   _             tS.0 _    -~~~~~~~~2.C  -2.0                 4.4        51.7      1 4.1 _    _            t.t    
201t  =          23.7        *~~~~~~~~2.0  -2t.0                4.4        9.7       14.1                    -7.t3     
201J  _          23.T  __~~~~~~2C0 = -2C0    4-_                .4 i- 9J             14.1                    ;8tS                _
*2.0      -2.C                     4.4       9.1       14.1t                   te.
20t8             23.T        *~~~~~~~~~2 C  -21.0               4.4        9.7       14.1                    *7.e            __
2017                         *~~~~~~~           ~       ~      ~~2.0  *2.0  4.4  9.7  14.1    _              t.1    
1018             23.71       *~~~~~~~~2.0  21.0t                4.4        9.7       14.1                    *7.tS
20t5F1028             I     ~~~~~~~~-2.0  *2.0                  4.4        9.7       14.1                    ltt.1     



- 183 -                        ANNEX 15
PROPOSED SUPERVION PL tN
(Proposed Bank Supervision Input)
Proposed              Activities                  Expected Skill        Staff
Date                                            Requirement          input
(SW)
09194    Proect Launch Workshop           Economist, Financial          8
Analyst, Engineer,
Review retroactive financing work,   Procurement, Cultural
project organization, procurement    Heritage Specialist
financial management and reporting
requirements.
02/95    Suprsion Mission                 Engineer, Finarncial          8
Analyst, Paper Specialist,
Review progress in financial man-   Mechanical Engineer,
agement, procurement, physical   Heritage Specialist
works.
06/95    Supervision Mission              Engineer, Mechanical          8
Engineer, Financial
Review construction management,    Analyst
procurement, municipal finances.
11/95    Sunervision Mission              Engineer, Financial          10
Analyst, Paper Specialist,
Review progress in treatment     Mechanical Engineer,
plants/infrastructure, air       Heritage Specialist,
management, solid waste, heritage.   Economist
02/96    Supervision Mission              Engineer, Financial           8
Analyst, Paper Specialist,
As above                         Mechanical Engineer,
Heritage Specialist,
Economist
09/96    Supervision Mission              Engineer, Financial          10
Analyst, Paper Specialist,
As above                         Mechanical Engineer,
Heritage Specialist
1997 -   At least one supervision/mission  To be determined
2000    year and last mission should discuss  depending on progress.
with borrower preparation of PCR.



- 184 -                              ANNEX 16
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN
THE PROJECT FILE
No.                       Subject                      Date            Prepared by
1     Linoning Enviomen  Project Inception Report    Jul 1993         Stanley Engieering
Consultants (Stanley)
2      Linoning Env ionmental Project Environmental    Jun 1993        Ecology and Environ-
Asessmnt Summay  Report                                         ment Cansultants (E8&E)
3     Outline of Concened Finance Talks For LEP Loan   Jul 1993       Lifoning Financial
Prom World Bank                                                 Bureau (LFB)
4     Liaoning Enrnmental Project Inception Report    Jul 1993         Stanley
S     Word Bank                                        F%b 1993        Stanley
Lniang Environmental Project \Vastewater Treat-
ment Study Final Report
6     Liaoning Province Financial Projections          Nov 1993        LFB
7     Water and Air Quality Stndards                   Nov 1993        LUCRPOIConsultants
8     Terms of Reforence for Consultamcy Studies: Pack-  Nov 1993      LUCRPO
ages A, B and C
dmhan
1     Watwater Treatment Feasibility Study  Final      Mar 1993       Stanley
Report
2     Institutional and Financial Performance, Volume 2    Jul 1993    Staley
3     Assumptions Employed in Financial Projevtions    Jul 1993        Stanley
4     Operational and Financial Projections            Jul 1993        Stanley
5     Ansban Municipality Income Statement Projections    Jul 1993     Stanley
6     Anshan Urban Municipal Construction Fund Projec-  Jul 1993       Staley
tion
7      Ansban EPB Fund Projections                     Jul 1993        Stnley
8     Establishment of Anshan Wastewater Company       Mar 1993        Anshan
9     Entetprise Leg  Pen Operating Licens             Mar 1993        Ansban
10    Anshan Municipality Financial Projections        Nov 1993        Anshan Finance Bureau
11    Anshan Wastea  Comipany Pinancial                Jan 1994        Stanley
Analysis-Vol. 1



-185 -                               . 4    16
No.                       Subject                     Date            Preared by
12    Anshan Wastewater Company Financial Projections   Jan 1994     Stanley/World Bank
Benxi
I     Preliminary Design Volume m Drawings of Benxi   Jun 1993       Liaoning Urban Con-
District Heating Project                                       struction Plnning and
Design Institaue
(LUCPDI)
2     Preliminary Design Volume III Budget of Benxi   Jun 1993        LUCPDI
District Heating Project
3     Preliminary Design Volurme I  formation For Heat-  Jun 1993     LtiCPDI
ing Water Pipeline Network of District Heating
Project on Dongfeng Area, Benxi City
4     Revised lnvestment Estimation of Feasibility Study              Anshan Coking and
Report on The Charging and Unloading Emission                  Refractory Engineering
Control For No. 1-4 Coke Oven Battenies of Benxi               Consulting Co., PRC
Municipal Coking Plant
5     Lisoning Environment Project, Benxi Air Pollution               E&E
Abatement Program
6       isoning Environmental Project, Benxi Air Pollution  June 1993  E&E
Abat.ment Program
7     Reply Approving Request to Establish Benxi Waste-               Benxi
water Company
8     Official Notice For Establishing Benxi Company                  Benxi
9     Benxi Iron & Steel Co. Ltd                                      Beuxi
10    Insttutional and Financial Performance, Volume 3    Jul 1993   Stanley
11    Assumptions Employed In Financial Projections                   Stanley
12    Operational And Financial Projections                           Stanley
13    Benxi Municipal Income Statement Projections                   Stanley
14    Benxi Urban Municipal Construction Fund Projec-                 Staley
tions
15    Benxi Municipality Financial Projections        Nov 1993       Benxi Finance umr
16    Benxi Wastewater Company Financial              Jan 1994        Stanley
Analysis-Vol. 2A
17    Benxi Wastewater Company Financial Projections    Jan 1994      Stanley/Word Bank
18    Benxi District Central Heting Financial         Jan 1994        Stnley
Analysis-Vol. 2B
19    Benxi District Ceral Heating Financial Projections  Jan 1994   Stanley/Woodd Bank
20    Benxi Iron and Steel Company Financial          Jan 1994        Stalmey
Analysis-Vo. 2C



- 186-                               AN-       16
No.                       Subject                     Date            Prepared by
21    Benxi Iron and Steel Company Financial Projections  Jan 1994    Stanley/World Bank
Dalian
1     Project of The Municipal Refue From The Central   Feb 1993     Dalian Sanitaxy Com-
Area of Dalian City Report of The Management                   pany
2     Cost Estimation of Preliminary Design of Intercept-  1993       Dalian Municipal And
ing Project For Dalian Chunliu Wastewater Treat-               Garden Design Ibstitut
ment Plant
3     Feasibility Study Report For Dalian Solid Waste  Jun 1993       E&E
Mmagent
4     Wastwater Treatment Final Report                Mar 1993        Stanley
S     Uaoning Environmental Project                                   E&E
Dalian Solid Waste Management Feasibility Study
Report
6     Business License of Dalian Wastewater Company                   Dalian
7     Dalian Municipal Income Statement Projections                   Stanley
8     Dalian Urban Construction Fund Projections                      Stanley
9     Dalian EPB Fund Projections                                     Stanley
10    Dalian Municipal Financial Projections          Nov 1993       DaLian Finance Bureau
11    D)aLian Wastewater Company Financial            Jan 1994       Stanley
Analysis-Vol. 3A
12    Dalian Wastewater Company Financial Projections    Jan 1994    Stanley/World Bank
13    Dalian Solid Waste Company Financial            Jan 1994       Stanley
Analysis-Vol. 3B
14    Dalian Solid Waste Company Financial Projections   Jan 1994    Stanley/World Bank
Fushun
1     Fusbun Municipal Sewer Purificatwtn Works       Oct 1992       Cha Northeast Munici-
pal Engineering Desig
Institute, Fushun Munici-
pal Engimnnbg Design
Institute
2     Approval To Set Up Fushun Wastewater Company                    Fushun
3      istitutional And Financial Performance         Jul 1993        Stanley
4     Assumptions Employed in Financial Prjections                    Stanley
S     Operational r-d Financial Projections                           Stanly
6     Fushun Municipal Income Statement Projections                   Stanley
7     Fushun Urban Construction Fund Projections                      Stanley
8     Fushun EPB Fund Projections                                     Stanley



- 187 -                             AB=. 16
No.                      Subject                     Date           Prepred by
9     Fushun Miuiicipality Financial Projections     Nov 1993       Fusbun Finance Burew
10    Fushun Wastewater Company Finacial            Jan 1994        Stanley
Analysis-Vol. 4
11    Fushw  Waswater Company Financial Projections   Jan 1994      Stanley/World Bank
1     Jinwthws Pulp And Paper MiDl                   Feb 1993       Stanley
2     Water Supply Project                           Mar 1993       Stanley
3     Drawing of Jinzbou
4        rL -ho Component                            Mar/Apr 1993
5     Feasibility Study Roport of Jincheng General Paper   May 1993  Lisoning Light idual
Mill Project For Polluted Water Treatment For                Design Iastitute
Potecting Daling River Water Resources
6     D ings                                                        Lianing Light Inustr
Design institute
7     Iditutional and Financial Performance, Volume 6,   Jul 1993   Stanley
8     Assumptions Employed In Fmncial Projections                   Stanley
9     Operational And Financial Projections                         Stanley
10    Jinzhou Municipality Income Statement Projections             Stanley
11    Jinzbou Urban Municipal Construction Fund Projec-             Stanley
tios
12    Jinizou EPB Fund Projections                                  Stanley
13   Jrnziou Municipality Financial Projections      Nov 1993       Jinzhou Finance Bureau
14    rnou Water Supply Company Financial           Jan 1994        Stanley
Analysis-Vol. SA
15    Tmzbou Water Supply Company Financial Projec-    Jan 1994     StalnyIWod Bank
tions
16    Jinchfleg General Paper MiU Fintncial         Jan 1994        Stanley
Analysis-Vol. SB
17    Jmcheng Geneal Paper Mill K.nancial Projections    Jan 1994   Stanley/World Bank
18    Tariff Adjustment Documents                    Apr 1994       LUCPRO



IBRD 2560E
I18       CHINA                             120                                       122                                          12                                            126
CHINA                                                                                                                                To Changchun
LIAONING ENVIRONMENT PROJECT                                                                                                               (
I]  PROJECT CITY                                                                                  TO Tongi/ o
A     HERITA.jE SITE                                         NEI  MONGOL
--ROADS                                                       P R    O V I N  C  E                                  Ko .gping.J I L I Nh
_RAILRO. og,gs_<4x        
RNERS                                                                                    ,F ku)                                          Kayo                     P >  9NC.E
PRFFACTURE BOUNDARIES
PROVINCE BOUNDARiES                                            _ei
-4 -INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                  nyo                     2
RU,ost       25    50    75 1000
|~~~~~~~_ P                       I O           S_ E7                     9                                         XnXO8/
ToCfng       H,Y~                                                                                                                        n ni t,o /       eghno,o y
t                      |            XSuiztong                                     ,/7  L                     MXiuyon               ,     / ChMoyRng                     C
^NFroEvroN 1 g ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nc9                                                                                                                 u   andn EOLS
_ SJ/l I V 4t higow tX > >_/ /} ~~~~~~~~~~~REPUBLIC -
To Chnd                                                                                                          SHAnogen/ ]  y1_,<O                                     O E
PROVINCEHo gon d s  os do                                                                                                                                              and any o     io tong
t ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~o d,  na imly ou then par    Th WZhudngan
S  t                                                                      X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~in; jf 
8 \ Ji~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n                                                                                                        DEMORAn TIC5e
fx   o   B o   H o;                      4        1                                     The h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Goup  nyjdgmient colo    the lelstausofo    n   any 4terr tr)for ainy
RU5                                                                                                                     GndEp,Aonr 40Dment or aeta e   RfEPUB  ICdares . hB
"gz6n~~~~~~~~~~~~~ W   18         1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1|22'                                                                         12,4                                      12,6
25608BKIMAS/6/1994                                                                                                                                                 MA^Y1994



CHINA
UAONING ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
ANSHAN AND BENXI CITIES
BENXI CITY
MIoC NO. I IRON KANT IJHU FACTORYI( -|
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N NO I - /                                            EC.STEEL P1ANTWH{X                                                                          \><                                                      {tg
PRO    E        EW     R                A                                                                               0   BI* CON /PTA (GONGYUAN FACTORY)                                                                                                                      FLOUR
a                                                                                                                         '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~K ~~~~~~~~~~~TREATMENT
S                                                                    CT  RI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~       ~        ~~~~~SC NO 2 IRON PIANOG~~"                                                                                        LN
4kw *f >                                                                                                (GONG  FACTORY)T                                                         P>NT
PEOPOSET CENTRAL HIETITNG
STATIN LOCATION
El  PROPOSER WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANTSF                                                          R
Ql  PUIRE WASIEWATER TREATMENT PLANTA
S                                                     5                                                     i2 't \ \ XY / \ /  \ . . FPROPOSER5EW AGEE PTOR . CEP_OR
-PROPOSES LINK SEWERS
-  \ PROPOSED DISTCT HEATING DISTRUTION PIPEUNES
URBAN AEAS
" AN ROADS
D& A/ ,XNS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HAN  CITY                                                                   FWRCOAD ' Mv\ 
X 7 X y X X E D~~~~~PROOSWASrEWAERTEATMENP- Tt   AXB  
- - - PROPOSEL REUSE PERUNE
READN MM                                                               Sudg
MAIN ROADS                                                            Dsro
-a-.    MOADS                                         PROPOSED              SI
< / / / f>_ / 7 -FD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WASTEWATERIT \                                                                                                                                                                            1  01S  IAD   / Y
S   ES   T,  IS    E 2_S
K1LOMETERS
FERRUARY 1994



1                         BSI_.    I I      '            *                         J                                                                      rV ~CH N
CHINA
LAIONING ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
DALIAN, FUSHUN AND JINZHOU ' c,
DAUAN CITY
j   PROPOSED WASTEWATER TREATMEN, ,.ANTS           }i,'zou                        SHENY /N NGDAYIAN                                                                                                                                           JINZHOU/JINCHENG
GEXISTING WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT                                J                                                  IE . -                                                                                           PE  I                         E WE T        E  P
UXISIRANG WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT                    -G                           A                                                          .                                                     JINCHENG O,-  'AND PAPER NULL             PROPOSED WATER TREATMENT PLA,
PROPOSED SEWER INTECEPTORS                       AONYINGD      '                                I                                          /                                                                                                    PROPOSEDROOSTERSTATON
-    EXISTING SEWER INTECEPTORS                        SILE                                                                                             , 1  1  /                                                                                     PROPOSED SVPPEY UNE
REUSE PIPELINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                             [    PROPOSED MIX EFFLUENT CONTROLS
i    EXISTING TRANSFER STATIONS                                                                                                                                                                                                                       URBAN AREAS
i    PROPOSED TRANSFER STATION                                                                                                             /
-MAiN ROADS
L LANDFILL SITE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RA Lr/ OAD| RJJUDS
MAIN ROADS
RALROADS                                                                                                                       n'         -
- - - DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                                                                                                        JINOU                            =
A                                                                                                / /   i                                                 N
* 1  /                   /                                                                                        |              89   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROPOSED
GAI' 1Id- )1tZ!                                                                                                                                                                     __                 --  sPrd WELEFIELD
STATION
DAMU TREATMENT PLAN
AND DISTRIEULON STATION
X  /4              A                                                                                                                                                               l                             l  l  l  l  l  l 2
KILOMETERS
,  {   -                    DALIAN    TAY
C UNXU                                                                                                          FUSHUN CITY
-TREAT  -                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROPOSEDi  MINE PITS
- TFEAT-                         _                        ElJ  WASTEWATER       _               UR3ANAREAS \
TREATMENT PLANT                  URA   RA
' -                                              -\1<& -                        4                            PUMPING STATIONS                  ROADS                                                                                                          9'b s * b ffi z | | | _ P IS NR
-                            MXNLLIPAL 5y55~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -    ~RAILROADSDA
> ~~~~~~~ w_ _ . ~~~~~~~~~~MUNCIPAI SYSTEM RIPAS/   A; 
_ - -  EXISTING INDUSTRIAL SYSTEM                                     C
:.r- -t]-.] i - ;! oK Mx1  D I57.bFIx  ,   ;  GUCHENG
-   -            ~~~~~MAIAN RIVER                                        NTT  CL
WATEWATER                                                Or                                                                                                                         KUANGDONG
TETETPLANT
7R. WMbS ibo Lo.  _
YELLOW   SEA                                                                                                                                           o         2 3 4"IT
____   _  oq,5Ao OP .                                                                                            iXlOMR\ER.
FEBRUARY 199A



