Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3781 CHA
Loan Agreement
(Liaoning Environment Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 16, 1994
LOAN NUMBER 3781 CHA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 16, 1994, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the  feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to  this Agreement, has requested  the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Province of Liaoning (Liaoning) shall carry out the Project, or cause 
the Project to be carried out, with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make available to Liaoning the proceeds of the Loan as 
provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of  the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
Page  2
Liaoning;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph (l) 
and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals 
under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 
provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's 
Articles of Agreement."
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"ANGANG" means the Anshan Iron and Steel Company, a state-owned 
enterprise established with the approval of the Borrower's State Council and operating 
pursuant to Business License No. 24-24142001 dated August 10, 1993, issued by the 
Anshan Bureau of Commerce and Industry.
(b)
"Anshan" means the Municipality of Anshan, in Liaoning. 
 
(c)
"AWC" means the Anshan Wastewater Company, a state-owned enterprise 
established with the approval of the Anshan Municipal Planning Committee and operating 
pursuant to its Charter approved on August 10, 1993 by the Anshan Municipal Bureau of 
Urban Construction, and to Business License No. 11887158 dated March 30, 1993, issued 
by the Anshan Bureau of Commerce and Industry.
(d)
"AWC Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between Anshan and AWC pursuant to Part C.1 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, as 
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
AWC Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(e)
"Basic Documents" means the Charters and Rules referred to in paragraphs 
(c), (f), (h), (k), (o), (q), (v), (aa) and (ee) of this Section.
(f)
"BDHC" means the Benxi District Heating Center, a state-owned enterprise 
established and operating pursuant to its Charter approved on March 28, 1994 by the 
Benxi Municipal Planning Committee, and to Business License No. 11966751 dated July 3, 
1993, issued by the Benxi Bureau of Commerce and Industry.
(g)
"BDHC Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between Benxi and BDHC pursuant to Part C.1 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, as 
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
BDHC Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(h)
"BENGANG" means the Benxi Iron and Steel Company, a state-owned 
enterprise established and operating pursuant to its Charter dated October 1992, and 
to Business License No. 11966000 dated August 15, 1989, issued by the Benxi Bureau of 
Commerce and Industry.
(i)
"BENGANG Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered 
into between Benxi and BENGANG pursuant to Part C.1 of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules to the BENGANG Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Page  3
(j)
"Benxi" means the Municipality of Benxi, in Liaoning.
 
(k)
"BWC" means the Benxi Wastewater Company, a state-owned enterprise 
established with the approval of the Benxi Municipal Planning Committee and operating 
pursuant to its Charter approved on November 10, 1993 by the Benxi Municipal Bureau of 
Urban Construction, and to Business License No. 11966839 dated November 13, 1993, 
issued by the Benxi Bureau of Commerce and Industry.
(l)
"BWC Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between Benxi and BWC pursuant to Part C.1 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, as 
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
BWC Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(m)
"Category" means a withdrawal category set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(n)
"Dalian" means the Municipality of Dalian, in Liaoning.
 
(o)
"DSWC" means the Dalian Solid Waste Company, a state-owned enterprise 
established and operating pursuant to its Charter approved on April 6, 1994 by the 
Dalian Municipal Bureau of Urban Construction Administration, and to Business License 
No. 24319449-5 dated November 10, 1993, issued by the Dalian Gan Jing Zi District 
Bureau of Commerce and Industry.
(p)
"DSWC Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between Dalian and DSWC pursuant to Part C.1 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, 
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to 
the DSWC Subsidiary Loan Agreement. 
(q)
"DWC" means the Dalian Wastewater Company, a state-owned enterprise 
established and operating pursuant to its Charter approved on April 6, 1994 by the 
Dalian Municipal Bureau of Urban Construction Administration, and to Business License 
No. 24113183-7 dated April 6, 1993, issued by the Dalian Shahekou District Bureau of 
Commerce and Industry.
(r)
"DWC Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between Dalian and DWC pursuant to Part C.1 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, as 
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
DWC Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(s)
"Financial Agency Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
pursuant to the provisions of Part A.3(a)(ii)(D) of Annex 2 to Schedule 2 to the 
Project Agreement, between LEF and the commercial bank referred to in said Part.
(t)
"Fiscal Year" means a calendar year commencing on January 1 and ending on 
December 31.
(u)
"Fushun" means the Municipality of Fushun, in Liaoning.
 
(v)
"FWC" means the Fushun Wastewater Company, a state-owned enterprise 
established with the approval of the Fushun Municipal Planning Committee and operating 
pursuant to its Charter dated November 2, 1993, and to Business License No. 11925199-1 
dated November 10, 1993, issued by the Fushun Bureau of Commerce and Industry.
(w)
"FWC Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between Fushun and FWC pursuant to Part C.1 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, as 
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
FWC Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(x)
"Implementing Agencies" means, collectively, AWC, FWC, BWC, BENGANG, 
BDHC, DWC, DSWC, JWSC and JGPM; and "Implementing Agency" means any of the 
Implementing Agencies.
(y)
"its respective Implementing Agencies" means, in respect of: (i) Anshan, 
AWC; (ii) Fushun, FWC; (iii) Benxi, BWC, BDHC and BENGANG; (iv) Dalian, DWC and DSWC; 
and (v) Jinzhou, JGPM and JWSC.
Page  4
(z)
"its respective Part of the Project" means, in respect of:  (i) Anshan, 
Part A of the Project; (ii) AWC, Part A thereof; (iii) Fushun, Part B thereof; (iv) 
FWC, Part B thereof; (v) Benxi, Part C thereof; (vi) BWC, Part C(1) thereof; (vii) 
BENGANG, Part C(2) thereof; (viii) BDHC, Part C(3) thereof; (ix) Dalian, Part D 
thereof; (x) DWC, Part D(1) thereof; (xi) DSWC, Part D(3) thereof; (xii) Jinzhou, Part 
E thereof; (xiii) JWSC, Part E(1) thereof; (xiv) JGPM, Part E(2) thereof; and (xv) 
Jinxi, Part F(2) thereof.
(aa)
"JGPM" means the Jincheng General Paper Mill, a state-owned enterprise 
established with the approval of the Committee for the Restructuring of the Economic 
System of Liaoning Province and operating pursuant to its Charter dated July 1, 1993, 
and to Business License No. 24203000 dated August 24, 1993, issued by the Jinzhou 
Bureau of Commerce and Industry.
(bb)
"JGPM Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between Jinzhou and JGPM pursuant to Part C.1 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, 
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to 
the JWSC Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(cc)
"Jinxi" means the Municipality of Jinxi, in Liaoning.
 
(dd)
"Jinzhou" means the Municipality of Jinzhou, in Liaoning.
 
(ee)
"JWSC" means the Jinzhou Water Supply Company, a state-owned enterprise 
established and operating pursuant to its Management Rules approved on April 10, 1992 
by the Jinzhou Municipal  Construction Commission, and to Business License No. 
12053696 dated January 15, 1993, issued by the
Jinzhou Bureau of Commerce and Industry.
(ff)
"JWSC Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between Jinzhou and JWSC pursuant to Part C.1 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, 
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to 
the JWSC Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(gg)
"LEF" means the environmental fund, to be established by Liaoning 
pursuant to Part H.1(a) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
(hh)
"LEF Subsidiary Financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered 
into between Liaoning and LEF pursuant to Part H.1(b) of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules to the LEF Subsidiary Financing Agreement; and "LEF Subsidiary Finance" 
means the loan provided for under the LEF Subsidiary Financing Agreement.
(ii)
"LEPB" means the Environmental Protection Bureau of Liaoning.
 
(jj)
"Liaoning" means the Province of Liaoning, a political sub-division of 
the Borrower.
(kk)
"National Wastewater Discharge Standards" means the Integrated Standards 
for Discharge of Wastewater, No. GB8978-88 issued by the Borrower's National 
Environmental Protection Agency.
(ll)
"Participating Enterprise" means an enterprise to which LEF proposes to 
make, or has made, a Pollution Control Sub-loan.
(mm)
"Pollution Charges" means fees for wastewater discharges established by 
the Decision on Collection of Fees for Wastewater Discharge No. [1993]87 issued 
jointly by the LEPB, the Liaoning Price Bureau and Liaoning Finance Bureau and 
effective as of July 1, 1993, as said decision may be amended from time to time.
(nn)
"Pollution Control Project" means a specific development project under 
Part G of the Project to be carried out by a Participating Enterprise utilizing the 
proceeds of a Pollution Control Sub-loan.
(oo)
"Pollution Control Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by 
LEF, in part out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to LEF under the LEF 
Subsidiary Financing Agreement, to a Participating Enterprise for a Pollution Control 
Page  5
Project
(pp)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and Liaoning of 
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement.
(qq)
"Project Municipalities" means collectively, Anshan, Benxi, Dalian, 
Fushun and Jinzhou; and "Project Municipality" means any of the Project 
Municipalities.
(rr)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means, collectively, the  AWC, BDHC, 
BENGANG, BWC, DSWC, DWC, FWC, JGPM and JWSC Subsidiary Loan Agreements; "Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement" means any of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements; and "Subsidiary Loan" 
means the loan provided for under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(ss)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
(tt)
"Yuan" means the currency unit of the Borrower.
 
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of one hundred ten million 
dollars ($110,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with 
each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for:  (i) 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts A, B, C, D, E, F, and H of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be 
paid) by LEF on  account of withdrawals made by a Participating Enterprise under a 
Pollution Control Sub-loan to meet the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for the Pollution Control Project in respect of which the withdrawal from the Loan 
Account is requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars, a special deposit account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest 
Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued 
on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated 
at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
Page  6
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding 
each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest 
Period in which this Agreement is 
signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank 
drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as 
the Bank has 
allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may 
be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%).  On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, 
calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
 
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the 
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, July 1 
or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 
February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, 
shall cause Liaoning to perform in accordance with  the provisions of the Project 
Agreement all the obligations of Liaoning therein set forth, shall take or cause to be 
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Liaoning to perform such obligations, 
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere 
with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make available to Liaoning the proceeds of the Loan 
under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include, without limitation, 
terms whereby (i) the principal amount thereof which shall be recovered from Liaoning 
shall be the equivalent in Dollars (determined on the date or respective dates of 
withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account) of the value 
of the currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid out, on account of the cost of 
goods and services for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, 
(ii) the principal amount so made available shall be recovered over a period of 15 
years, inclusive of a grace period of 5 years, (iii) interest shall be charged on the 
Page  7
principal amount so made available and withdrawn and remaining unrecovered from time 
to time, at a rate equal to 70% of the rate of interest applicable from time to time 
to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.05 of this Agreement, and (iv) a commitment charge 
shall be charged on the principal amount so made available and not withdrawn from time 
to time at a rate equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.
Section 3.02.  In furtherance of the objectives of the Project, the Borrower 
shall take all action necessary to ensure that ANGANG shall carry out a time-bound 
action plan, acceptable to the Bank, designed to upgrade its production processes so 
as to improve the efficiency of its utilization of water and reduce the levels and 
concentrations of effluents discharged by its facilities into the air and water.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by 
Liaoning pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, 
records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one year after 
the Bank has received the audit 
report for the Fiscal Year in which the last 
withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records.
 
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a)(i) of 
this Section and 
those for the Special Account for each Fiscal 
Year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months 
after the end of each such year the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested, including a 
separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and 
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Page  8
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Liaoning shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that Liaoning will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
Either party to the LEF Financial Agency Agreement or any of the parties 
to any of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall have failed to perform any of its 
respective obligations thereunder.
(d)
The Basic Documents shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of any of the 
Implementing Agencies to perform any of  its obligations under its respective 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(e)
The Borrower, Liaoning or any other authority having jurisdiction shall 
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of any of the 
Implementing Agencies or for the suspension of said entity's operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (a) or (c) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b)
any event specified in paragraph (d) or (e) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall have been 
executed on behalf of each of the parties thereto.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
Liaoning, and is legally binding upon Liaoning in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that each of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements has been duly authorized or 
ratified by the parties thereto and is legally binding upon said parties in accordance 
with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
Page  9
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA),
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC),
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Yang Jiechi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Nicholas Hope
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                 Amount of the
                                Loan Allocated          % of
                                 (Expressed in      Expenditures
          Category            Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
Page  10
(1)       Civil works               23,000,000      20%
(2)       Goods                     68,000,000      100% of foreign
                                                    expenditures and
                                                    65% of local
                                                    expenditures
(3)       Consultants'              11,000,000      100% of foreign
          services and                              expenditures
          training
(4)       Pollution Control          4,000,000      95%
          Sub-loans
(5)       Unallocated                4,000,000
                                   ___________
          TOTAL                    110,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made:
(a)
under Category (4) until the Bank shall have received evidence 
satisfactory to it that (i) the LEF has been established in accordance with the 
provisions of Part H.1(a) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement and (ii) the LEF 
Financial Agency Agreement has been executed on behalf of the parties thereto and is 
legally binding upon said parties in accordance with its terms;
(b)
under Category (4) in respect of a Pollution Control Sub-loan unless the 
Pollution Control Sub-loan has been made in accordance with the provisions of Annex 2 
to Schedule 2 to the Project  Agreement; and
(c)
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $11,000,000, 
may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2) and (3) on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after September 1, 1993.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for (a) expenditures under Category (4), (b) expenditures 
for training, and (c) other expenditures under contracts for goods, works and services 
not exceeding $300,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist in (1) protecting the quality of 
water resources in Liaoning, so as to allow for their sustained economic and safe use 
for drinking, industrial and agricultural purposes, (2) strengthening pricing policies 
and institutional capabilities in respect of environmental management of water and air 
resources in Liaoning and (3) strengthening institutional capabilities in respect of 
the management of Liaoning's cultural heritage.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
Page  11
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Anshan
 
Construction and upgrading by AWC of sewers, wastewater treatment and effluent 
reuse facilities in Anshan.
Part B:
Fushun
 
Construction and upgrading by FWC of sewers, pump stations and wastewater 
treatment facilities in Fushun.
Part C:
Benxi
 
(1)
Construction and upgrading by BWC of sewers, pump stations and wastewater 
treatment facilities in Benxi.
(2)
Carrying out by BENGANG of a program to improve air quality in Benxi, consisting 
of the provision and installation of equipment and facilities designed to reduce 
emissions from two blast furnaces and three coke ovens and to increase their energy 
efficiency.
(3)
Carrying out of a program by BDHC to provide district heating to approximately 
20,000 households over an area of approximately 300 hectares in Benxi, consisting of 
the provision and installation of boilers, heat exchangers, distribution pipes and 
auxiliary equipment and facilities and utility services.
Part D:
Dalian
 
(1)
Construction and rehabilitation by DWC of sewers, pump stations, wastewater 
treatment facilities and effluent reuse facilities in Dalian. 
(2)
Carrying out of a water conservation program in Dalian, consisting of: (a) 
carrying out of a study of losses from the water supply system, provision of leak 
detection equipment, water meters, and pressure gauges and collection of data on water 
loss; (b) retrofitting of water supply systems; (c) provision of equipment and 
facilities designed to recover and recycle by-products from a brewery; and (d) 
provision and installation of a chiller plant and related facilities designed to 
improve the efficiency of water and energy use at a steel plant.
(3)
Carrying out by DSWC of a program to (a) modernize the municipal solid waste 
collection and disposal systems in Dalian, including acquisition of collection 
vehicles, upgrading of a waste transfer station and development of a sanitary landfill 
site, and (b) provide for the collection and utilization of gas produced at the 
landfill site referred to in (a) above, including provision of equipment and materials 
required therefor.
Part E:
Jinzhou
 
(1)
Carrying out by JWSC of a program to develop groundwater resources in Jinzhou, 
consisting of (a) the construction of tubewells and related pipework, pumps and access 
roads, and provision of power utility connections, (b) construction of a booster pump 
station, (c) supply and installation of transmission lines, (d) upgrading of a water 
treatment plant, (e) construction of a concrete lined tunnel and (f) strengthening of 
water distribution systems.
(2)
Carrying out by JGPM of a program to improve the efficiency of its use of water 
and recovery of by-products from pulping operations, consisting of the provision and 
installation of equipment and facilities required for extraction and evaporation of 
red liquor, recovery of talc, fiber and water and production of boiler fuel from waste 
fiber.
Part F:
Cultural Properties
 
Carrying out of a program to protect and present cultural properties in Liaoning 
in a scientifically sound and financially efficient manner, consisting of:
Page  12
(1)
(a) renovation by Liaoning of its provincial museum in Shenyang, preparation of 
exhibits and publicity materials for said museum and provision of equipment required 
therefor, and installation and equipping of a center for the conservation of cultural 
properties and (b) conservation by Liaoning of excavated archeological sites in the 
Municipality of Niuheliang and preparation of a plan for the protection, future 
excavation and provision of infrastructure for said sites and provision of equipment
and materials required therefor; and
(2)
(a) conservation by Jinxi of  sections of the Great Wall at Jiumenkou and 
upgrading of facilities for visitors to said sections and preparation of site 
materials therefor and (b) investigation and
conservation by Jinxi of archeological sites in Jieshi Gong.
Part G:
Liaoning Environment Fund
 
The operation by LEF of a credit facility for the financing, through the 
provision of Pollution Control Sub-loans and other loans to industrial enterprises, of 
specific development projects to upgrade in-plant technology processes designed to 
further the objectives of the Project.
Part H:
Institutional Development
 
Carrying out by Liaoning of programs to strengthen the institutional 
capabilities of the Project Municipalities and Implementing Agencies in respect of 
environmental, cultural property, financial and utility management, consisting of the:
(1)
provision of technical assistance for the management and supervision of the 
Project implementation, including training in quality inspection of materials, 
operations of wastewater treatment facilities, solid waste management, project 
management, and wastewater investment planning;
(2)
(a) development of accounting and management information systems to be applied 
by the Implementing Agencies, including provision of training in the utilization of 
said systems for the staff of the Implementing Agencies; (b) development of financial 
management curricula to be provided by Liaoning to its employees, and provision of 
equipment and materials required therefor; (c) carrying out of a program to strengthen 
Liaoning's financial management capabilities; and (d) carrying out of studies to 
develop and introduce suitable pricing policies for the management of wastewater, 
solid waste and cultural properties and the supply of water and district heating; and
(3)
development and carrying out of a training program in environmental management, 
environmental economics, pollution control and environmental monitoring for staff 
involved at the county, municipal and provincial levels in environmental management, 
including provision of international study tours and equipment therefor; and
(4)
carrying out of feasibility studies for future investment projects in 
environmental management.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
February 15, 2000                              
2,085,000
August 15, 2000                                
2,160,000
February 15, 2001                              
2,240,000
August 15, 2001                                
2,320,000
February 15, 2002                              
2,405,000
August 15, 2002                                
2,490,000
February 15, 2003                              
2,580,000
Page  13
August 15, 2003                                
2,675,000
February 15, 2004                              
2,775,000
August 15, 2004                                
2,875,000
February 15, 2005                              
2,980,000
August 15, 2005                                
3,085,000
February 15, 2006                              
3,200,000
August 15, 2006                                
3,315,000
February 15, 2007                              
3,435,000
August 15, 2007                                
3,560,000
February 15, 2008                              
3,690,000
August 15, 2008                                
3,825,000
February 15, 2009                              
3,965,000
August 15, 2009                                
4,105,000
February 15, 2010                              
4,255,000
August 15, 2010                                
4,410,000
February 15, 2011                              
4,570,000
August 15, 2011                                
4,735,000
February 15, 2012                              
4,910,000
August 15, 2012                                
5,090,000
February 15, 2013                              
5,275,000
August 15, 2013                                
5,465,000
February 15, 2014                              
5,665,000
August 15, 2014                                
5,860,000
 
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of 
withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a
percentage per annum) applicable 
to the Loan on the day of prepayment
multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.15
before maturity
More than three years but
0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.55
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not
0.80
more than 16 years
before maturity
More than 16 years but not
0.90
more than 18 years
before maturity
More than 18 years
1.00
before maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
Page  14
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4);
 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, provided, however, 
that notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2(b) of Annex 2 to Schedule 2 to the 
Project Agreement, payments for expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of 
free-limit Sub-loans may be made out of the Special Account before the Bank shall have 
authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect thereof. Such expenditures, 
however, shall qualify as eligible expenditures only if the Bank shall subsequently 
authorize such withdrawals; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation"  means an amount equivalent to 
$7,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized  allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank 
requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested.  
On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower,  withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been 
shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid 
out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.
 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Page  15
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall,  promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
