Documenet of
The World Bank
Report No. 15768 -- MAI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
May 14, 1997
Environment and Agriculture
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                     =        Malawi Kwacha (MK)
US$  1.00                         =        MK  15 (as of October 1996)
SDR  1.00                         =        US$ 1.44 (as of October 1996)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
April I - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                    Country Assistance Strategy
CURE                   Coordinating Unit for the Rehabilitation of the Environment
DEO                    District Environmental Officer
DDC                    District Development Committee
EAD                    Environmental Affairs Department
EIA                    Environment lImpact Assessment
EIS                    Environmental Information Systems
EMA                    Environmental Management Act
EMP                    Environmental Management Project
ESP                    Environmental Support Programme
GDP                    Gross Domestic Product
GEF                    Global Environment Facility
IAPSO                  Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office
IPCC                   Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
MASAF                  Malawi Social Action Fund
MOREA                  Ministry of Research and Environmental Affairs
MNR                    Ministry of Natural Resources
NEAP                   National Environmenital Action Plan
NCE                    National Council for the Environment
NEP                    National Environment Policy
NGO                    Non-Governmental Organization
SOE                    Statement of Expenditure
TCE                    Technical Committee on the Environlmenlt
NRC                    Natural Resources Committee
l,NDP                  United Nations Development Programme
The preparation of this operation has been the work of many people in Malawi, and has been facilitated by Japanese Trust Fund
resources. The World Bank Appraisal mission which visited Malawi in June/July 1996, comprisecl Messrs/Mmes: Robert
Clement-Jones (Mission Leader, AFTEI), James Coates (Principal Economist, AFTAI), Pickford Sibale (Research Specialist,
World Bank Resident Mission, Malawi), Agnes Kavinya (NGO Liaison Officer, World Bank Resident Mission, Malawi), Jeri
Larson :(Operations Analyst, AFTAI), David Smith (Consultant, NGO Specialist), Robin Le Breton (Consultant, Natural
Resources Management Specialist). Project negotiations held in January 1997 also involved Elizabeth Adu (Principal Counsel,
LEGAF), Steve Gaginis (Disbursement Officer, LOAAF)3 Jaime Roman (Principal Procurement Officer, AFTSI) and Ella
,Bomsby (Task Team,Assistant, AFTEI).
VICE PRESIDENT                MR. CALLISTO MADAVO
COUNTRY DIRECTOR              MS. PHYLLIS POMERANTZ
TECHNICAL MANAGER             MS. CYNTHIA C. COOK
TASK TEAM LEADER              MR. ROBERT CLEMENT-JONES



REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
CREDIT SUMMARY
1. ENVIRONMENTAL SUPPORT PROGRAMME ................................................1
COUNTRY BACKGROUND ...............................................                                                                     I
IMPORTANCE OF THE ENVIRONMENT ...............................................                                                          I
ISSUES IN THE ENVIRONMENT ...............................................                                                             2
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK ................................................                                                    4
ENVIRONMENTAL AGENDA ...............................................                                                                   7
DONOR ASSISTANCE FOR THE ENVIRONMENT ...............................................                                                   8
LESSONS LEARNED ...............................................                                                                        8
RATIONALE FOR IDA INVOLVEMENT ...............................................                                                          9
2. THE ITF CONTRIBUTION TO THE PROGRAM ................................................                                                9
OBJECTIVES AND SUMMARY ................................................                                                                9
DETAILED DESCRIPTION ................................................                                                                 10
3. PROJECT COSTING  AND FINANCING ............................................... 13
C'OST ESTIMATES ................................................                                                                      13
F            ..INANCING .................................................14
PROCUREMENT ................................................14
DISBURSEMENT ............................................... 1 6
ACCOUNTS AND AUDITING ...............................................                                                                17
4. PROGRAM ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION ...............................................                                           17
PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ............................................... 1 7
MONITORING AND EVALUATION ................................................                                                            19
MID-TERM  AND IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REVIEW ................................................                                      19
IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT PLAN ................................................1  9
5. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ................................................                                                       20
PROGRAM IMPACT ................................................                                                                      20
RISKS ................................................ 20
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ...............................................                                                                    21
SUSTAINABILITY ................................................                                                                      22
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED ................................................                                                               23
AGREEMENTS REACHED DURING NEGOTIATIONS ................................................                                              23
CONDITIONS OF EFFECTIVENESS ................................................                                                         24
CONDITION OF DISBURSEMENT ................................................                                                           24
RECOMMENDATION ...............................................                                                                       24



ANNEXES
ANNEX 1     ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
ANNEX 2     ENVIRONMENTAL SUPPORT PROGRAMME - ROUNDTABLE
ANNEX 3     ENVIRONMENTAL SUPPORT PROGRAMME - INDICATIVE FINANCING COMMITMENTS
ANNEX 4     COMMUNITY MOBILIZATION AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICRO-PROJECTS
ANNEX 5     IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT PLAN
ANNEX 6     COST TABLES
ANNEX 7     PERFORMANCE MONITORING INDICATORS
ANNEX 8     MIDDLE SHIRE LAND DEGRADATION
ANNEX 9     PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN - TABLE OF CONTENTS



REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Credit Summary
Borrower:                   Government of the Republic of Malawi
Implementing Agencies:      Ministry of Research and Environmental Affairs, Ministry of Natural
Resources, Ministry of Transport (Meteorological Department), other
Government Departments, Non-Government Organizations,
Communities.
Beneficiaries:              Government and Non-Government Organizations, Communities.
Poverty:                    Not applicable.
Amount ITF/IDA:             SDR 8.7 million (US$ 12.4 million equivalent)
Terms:                      Standard with 40 years maturity
Financing Plan:             See Schedule A
Net Present Value:          Not Applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:     No. 15768 -- MAI
Map:                        IBRD 24575
Project Identification No.:   MW-PA- 1664



I



1. ENVIRONMENTAL SUPPORT PROGRAMME
COUNTRY BACKGROUND
1.1    With nominal per capita income of US$140 (1994), Malawi is one of the poorest countries in the
world. According to the recent Poverty Profile (1995), thirty percent of the population have incomes
which do not assure basic caloric needs. Malawi's population of about 11 million is growing at about 3.0
percent, and population density, at 170 inhabitants per km2, is among the highest in the region. The
population is predominantly rural (85%), dependent largely on subsistence agriculture, with over 55
percent having less than I hectare of arable land. Agriculture is mostly rainfed, and is highly susceptible
to climatic variability. Drought has occurred during three of the last four years. Malawi's social
indicators also reflect the level of poverty. Life expectancy is only 45 years, 7 years less than in
countries with similar income levels, and appears to be declining due to the impact of HIV/AIDS
prevalence which is one of the highest in the world. As much as 59 percent of the population is illiterate.
Water and sanitation and rural infrastructure are also inadequate with only half of the population having
access to safe water.
1.2    Malawi enjoyed healthy growth during the first years of independence, with per capita incomes
increasing between 1966 and 1980 at an annual average rate of 3 percent. However, during the last 15
years, Malawi has suffered from a series of shocks in the form of droughts, increases in oil prices and
interest rates, decreases in tobacco prices (Malawi's major export), and civil war in Mozambique which
significantly increased transport costs and brought more than I million refugees. Recent years have seen
a series of structural adjustment programs aimed at stabilizing the economy and removing impediments
to growth, including measures to enhance trade, improve agricultural pricing and marketing to increase
returns to smallholders, and most recently to tackle the pressing demand for land reform.
IMPORTANCE OF THE ENVIRONMENT
1.3    Malawi is endowed with a diversified natural resources base which includes some of the most
fertile soils for agriculture in Southern Africa. The country has substantial forest and water resources,
and a remarkably rich flora and fauna. If properly utilized, these resources can provide the basis for
sustainable development of the country. The total land area of Malawi is 9.4 million hectares. Of this,
about 3 million hectares is suitable for rainfed agriculture using traditional methods of management. At
present about 50 percent of the total land area is under cultivation, indicating that a significant proportion
of marginal land is being exploited. Malawi's forests and woodlands occupy about 35 percent of the
country's land area. Forest resources are vital in the Malawi economy, providing over 90 percent of the
country's energy needs in addition to timber and many other non-wood forest products.
1.4    The surface water resources of Malawi comprise a network of river systems and lakes covering
20 percent of the country's territorial area. Surface water is totally dependent on rainfall, with the river
systems drying up to a large extent in the dry season. Malawi contains some of the world's most
important wetland ecosystems, including the shoreline plains of Lakes Malawi, Chiuta and Chiulwa, a
diversity of dambo ecosystems, and the marshes of the Lower Shire River. The country's electricity is
derived almost exclusively from a series of hydroelectric schemes on the Shire River, and is vulnerable
to prolonged drought which can cause the level of Lake Malawi to fall with lower flows into the Shire
River. Lake Malawi has a rich biodiversity with 500-1000 endemic species of fish, and its fish catches
provide 70 percent of the animal protein consumed in the country. Endowed with a rich flora and fauna
-I-



Malawi has five National Parks and four wildlife reserves accounting for 11 percent of the country's
area, and in 1980 established the world's first fresh water national park at Lake Malawi.
1.5    The Government of Malawi has become increasingly concerned about the deterioration of the
country's environment, and the associated loss of natural resources. A participant in the Earth Summit in
1992, Malawi subsequently launched the preparation of a National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP)
which was adopted in late 1994. Malawi's new Constitution, adopted in May 1994, reflects the
commitment of the country to address its environmental problems. Chapter III, section 13 (d) calls upon
the State:
"To manage the environment responsibly in order to:
(a)    prevent the degradation of the environment;
(b)    provide a healthy living and working environment for the people of Malawi;
(c)    accord full recognition to the rights of future generations by means of environmental
protection."
ISSUES IN THE ENVIRONMENT
1.6    The National Environmental Action Plan identified nine key environmental issues: soil erosion,
deforestation, water resources degradation, high population growth, depletion of fish stocks, threats to
biodiversity, human habitat degradation, climatic change and air pollution. The underlying causes of
environmental degradation in Malawi are poverty and the growing imbalance of population to land
resources. Traditional land use practices that once helped preserve the integrity of natural resources are
no longer able to cope with the additional stresses placed upon them. With very limited access to land,
the poor place heavy demands on the natural resources base for subsistence and survival, and generally
lack the resources to intensify agricultural production. Forest products of all types (including charcoal,
fuelwood, bushmeat) are one of very few sources of cash income for the rural poor. The poor and
especially poor women are particularly vulnerable to the degradation of natural resources which provide
supplementary foods, medicines, water, and fuel. Women play a critical role as custodians of the
resources and educators of children. One quarter of the households in Malawi are headed by women.
About 42% of these female headed households cultivate under 0.5 hectares of land, and endure the
problems of the smallholder sector, such as limited land holdings, declining agricultural productivity and
low earnings and difficulties unique to women farmers. These include limited access to agricultural
extension services, differentials in wage rates for agricultural labor and more household tasks such as
gathering wood and water.
Land
1.7   Soil erosion is one of the principal types of land degradation, posing a threat to soil fertility, crop
production, food security and sustainable agricultural production. In Malawi, soil erosion is a major
cause of siltation with potentially disastrous consequences for hydro-electricity production. A lack of
reliable data and monitoring systems make it difficult to do a thorough quantitative analysis of the
impacts of land degradation and estimates vary considerably. The NEAP does single out soil erosion as
the first among nine important environmental issues.
Forest Resources
1.8    The rapid expansion of agriculture from the mid 1970s has led to extensive deforestation,
estimated at an annual rate of about 3.5 percent. Total forest cover is estimated to have declined by
- 2-



about 40 percent during the period 1970-90. Although clearing for agriculture has been the main source
of deforestation, this has been exacerbated by the increasing demand for woodfuels and timber products.
The legal and policy framework in the forestry sector has also contributed to uncontrolled exploitation of
woodland and forest resources. With all rights to these resources vested in the State, local communities
have lacked the appropriate incentives to manage and protect them. Weak public sector institutions such
as the Forestry Department, reinforced by often antagonistic, "command and control" policies, have led
to high levels of distrust between communities and public authorities.
Water
1.9    Although total water resources in Malawi are considered adequate to meet the needs of the
growing population, these resources are becoming increasingly degraded through sedimentation,
biological contamination and effluents. Silt loads in surface water runoff leads to significant problems in
water quality, including turbidity, increased suspended solids, water flow problems and water treatment
costs. As indicated above, high sediment loads have caused siltation of rivers and reservoirs, requiring
costly dredging to maintain water and electricity production.
1.10   Almost 50 percent of all illness in Malawi is attributed to water borne diseases. As a result of
inadequate sanitation facilities and other sources of organic pollution, the bacteriological condition of the
rivers is poor throughout the year. Three quarters of the rivers show fecal coliform counts in excess of
500 per 100 ml. in the dry season which is dangerously above WHO standards. In urban areas,
groundwater resources are becoming increasingly contaminated through poor sanitation facilities. The
chemical contamination of stream water in urban and peri-urban areas is becoming a common problem
due to the improper disposal of industrial waste. Eutrophication of water bodies and the growth of water
weeds including water hyacinth threaten fish resources and other economic uses. Bilharzia, long
endemic in parts of Malawi, has recently appeared in some locations along Lake Malawi, which could
threaten tourism in the country.
Fisheries
1.11   Although reliable data are not available, evidence suggests that Malawi's fish resources are
under threat from overfishing and declining water resource quality. Increased fishing efforts and
deteriorating water resources quality are associated with declining catch rates. In Lake Malombe fish
production dropped from 10,000 tons per year in 1986 to 200-300 today. Localized declines are being
observed in Lake Malawi, although it is difficult to assess the overall production potential of the entire
lake. The degradation of breeding areas and overfishing has also threatened entire species, such as the
Ntchila spp., which, abundant in the 1950s, is now almost extinct.
Biodiversity
1.12   Malawi's rich biodiversity, which includes more that 6000 species of flora of which many are
endemic or near-endemic, is under threat from forest and land degradation. The scientific, agricultural
and medicinal values of this biodiversity is only beginning to be appreciated. Many species are now only
found in forest reserves and conservation areas, although these too suffer from encroachment and
degradation. Wild fauna are also threatened by loss of habitat and poaching and this degradation of the
wildlife estate undermines efforts to develop and expand the tourism industry. In this sector, similar to
that of forestry, local communities have borne most of the cost of wildlife and conservation activities,
and yet legally have received only very limited benefits. Only recently has this begun to change with
much greater emphasis being placed on the role and rights of communities living in or near protected
areas.
-3 -



Human Settlement
1.13  In the rural areas, about 40 percent of the population do not use pit latrines, which has an impact
on surface and other water resources. Although predominantly rural, Malawi has annual urban growth of
about 7-10 percent in the four main urban areas - Blantyre, Lilongwe, Mzuzu and Zomba. These cities
are facing enormous problems in the face of this very rapid growth. Typical problems include:
inadequate waste disposal and water systems (with severe endemic and epidemic disease hazards) - only
30 percent of the urban population is connected to waterborne sewerage or septic tanks; few established
solid waste landfill sites; high degrees of informal settlement or "squatting"; rapid degradation of forest
resources in urban and peri-urban areas due to energy demand; a lack of recreational facilities; degraded
and polluted water courses, and above all, virtually no resources to tackle these urgent problems.
Institutional (community-based) structures to help address these problems are virtually non-existent. The
solutions currently being financed by the donors are often high cost - e.g., water borne sewerage systems
for Lilongwe when water availability is a major problem for many parts of the city. Also the general
ability to pay for operation and maintenance is very limited, particularly in the poorer areas. The
problems are serious and the situation is expected to deteriorate even further over the next several years
due to even more rapid population growth. Tackling these issues and planning for the future will require
a significant investment in capacity development at the local level, and a highly paLrticipatory process of
urban environmental planning.
Climate Change
1.14   As an agricultural economy, principally dependent on rainfed subsistence farming, Malawi is
highly vulnerable to drought and other extreme climatic events. If, as suggested by the
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), climatic variability increases over the coming
decades, Malawi will suffer from an increased incidence of drought and changing weather patterns.
Meteorological monitoring and drought proofing will become essential tools in helping Malawi to adapt
to longer term trends, and will also have short term benefits in helping to smooth out fluctuations in
agricultural output and GDP.
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
Background
1.15   The National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP), adopted in December, 1994, was prepared
using a highly participatory approach involving government, the private sector, non-government
organizations (NGOs) and traditional leaders. The NEAP identified the critical environmental issues
facing Malawi, and outlined a series of actions that should be taken in order to redress the problems of
resource degradation. The NEAP represented a crucial step towards establishing a policy and
institutional framework for environmental management, and identified the following elements necessary
to facilitate its implementation:
(a)    clearly defining institutional responsibilities and strengthening capacity;
(b)   formulating guidelines for Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) and instituting a
mechanism for their implementation; and
(c)    developing an Environmental Policy and Framework Law.
1.16   The NEAP, while identifying a list of priorities for investment and capacity building, did not go
into great detail or adequately address the tradeoffs between different interventions. The Government of
-4-



Malawi therefore decided to develop the Environmental Support Programme (ESP) which would have as
its overall objective to "integrate environmental concerns into the socioeconomic development of the
country". The ESP is intended to support the umbrella framework incorporating strategies, policies and
priority programs to address environmental problems. The ESP covers the actions of many different
actors (government, non-government, community level) all of which play a crucial role in environmental
management in Malawi. The ESP is also designed to solicit resources to tackle Malawi's key
environmental issues, while providing a framework to help reduce duplication of effort.
1.17   The design of the ESP has taken place in a highly participatory fashion, involving a number of
Task Forces, a series of consultative exercises for community-based pilot activities, technical inputs from
a broad array of local and foreign sources including expertise from other African countries. Successive
drafts of a synthesis report for the ESP have been prepared and used to define more precisely the policy,
institutional and investment priorities which can be supported by the Government and by the
international community. Although not covering every activity falling under the broad category of
environment and natural resources management, the ESP document (copy on file) includes the main
elements of policy reform and institutional development, and itemizes an investment program valued at
over US$120 million (over 5 years). In May 1996, an ESP Roundtable held in Lilongwe, brought
together a broad range of Government departments and agencies, including members of municipalities
and local government, NGOs and donors, to discuss the strategy contained in the draft report on the ESP
and provide feedback on program priorities and focus.
1.18   The brainstorming and priority setting exercises undertaken during the Roundtable underscored
the following three themes: (i) the need for community participation and involvement in any effort to
improve environmental management and encourage the sustainable development of natural resources;
(ii) the need for capacity building, at the community level, and in the agencies and NGOs charged with
improving environmental management; (iii) the need to improve coordination amongst the different
actors involved in improving environmental management. In addition, participants ranked the following
topics very high in designing interventions: (iv) environmental education, (v) land degradation; (vi)
water resources management; and (vi) pollution in urban settlements. Annex 2 contains a summary of
the workshop. Subsequent workshops have been held on watershed degradation in the Shire River
catchments, on environmental education for which a national strategy has been prepared, and on
community-based natural resource management.
Policy Framework and Legislation
1.19   The National Environment Policy (NIEP) (copy on file) was adopted by the Cabinet in February
1996. The NEP seeks to:
(a)    promote the efficient utilization and management of natural resources;
(b)   facilitate the restoration and maintenance of essential ecosystems and ecological
processes;
(c)   enhance public awareness of the importance of sound environmental management; and
(d)    promote cooperation between government, local communities, women's groups, NGOs,
and the private sector in the management of the environment.
1.20   To provide a sound basis for environmentally sustainable development, the NEP specifies
guiding principles and strategies for both national and sectoral policies. At the national level, the NEP
recognizes that poverty is one of the root causes of environmental degradation. Poverty alleviation is
therefore critical for natural resource conservation and sustainable utilization. Proper economic
incentives are more effective than enforcement to induce people to undertake sustainable resource use
- 5 -



and improved environmental management requires an enabling economic framework in which the
opportunity cost of using natural resources is reflected in their market prices. A key element in the NEP
is the recognition that communities have a right to benefits from sustainable utilization of natural
resources on all public and customary land.
1.21   The NEP sets out the principles for institutional coordination, focusing on advocacy, policy
formulation, authority to oversee compliance, and legal status derived from appropriate legislation. The
NEP outlines the generic requirements for improved environmental management, including framework
legislation, environmental planning, impact assessment, environmental education and public awareness,
private sector and community participation, demographic planning, and land tenure focusing on
empowering local communities to manage common property resources while protecting their rights. The
Policy also provides overall guidance on policies for agriculture, forestry, fisheries, parks and wildlife,
water resources, energy, industry, mining, and tourism.
1.22   The Environmental Management Act (EA-) (copy on file) was approved in June 1996. This
environmental framework law establishes the institutional and legal framework for environmental
management in Malawi. The Act sets out the duties and responsibilities of the Minister, the Director of
Environmental Affairs, the National Environmental Council, the Technical Committee and District
Environmental Officers. The EMA provides for the introduction of Environment Impact Assessment
(EIA) together with appropriate powers for the Minister and the Director of Environmental Affairs.
Other key elements of the legislation include: a series of provisions on environmental management,
pollution control, and legal sanctions, and; provision for the establishment of the Environmental Fund for
the "protection and management of the environment and the conservation and sustainable utilization of
natural resources".
1.23   Under the NEP and embodied in the EMA, provision is made for a review cf all sectoral policies
and legislation. To the extent that there are inconsistencies between sectoral legislation and the EMA,
the provisions of the EMA will prevail. This work has already started, commencing with a full review of
sectoral legislation to be followed by modifications where necessary to legislation and policies.
Present Institutional Arrangements
1.24   The NEP and the EMA establish the institutional structures for environmental management in
Malawi. The National Councilfor the Environment (NCE) is a high-level body whose Chairman is
appointed by the President. Membership includes the Principal Secretaries of Ministries, the General
Managers of the Bureau of Standards and the National Herbarium, and nominees from the private sector,
NGOs, the National Commission for Women in Development, and the University of Malawi. Meeting at
least four times per year, the NCE will have an advisory and watchdog role on environmental
management, on integrating environmental considerations in all aspects of economic planning and
development, and ensuring inter-agency coordination. The EMA also makes provision for a Technical
Committee on the Environment (TCE) designed to provide technical and scientific advice to the NCE,
conduct studies and propose standards and guidelines for environmental control and management. At the
District level, there is provision for the appointment of a District Environmental Officer (DEO) to work
through the District Development Committee (DDC). Other committees that have been established
include the Parliamentary and Cabinet Environment Committee.
1.25   The Environmental Affairs Department (EAD) within the Ministry of Research and
Environmental Affairs (MOREA) has the overall mandate for the coordination of environmental
programs. The specific responsibilities of the EAD are to:
(a)    act as Secretariat to the National Council for the Environment;
-6-



(b)   in close collaboration with line ministries, formulate environmental policies and
strategies and advise government;
(c)    assist line ministries to integrate environmental considerations in their sector strategies;
(d)    collaborate with macro-economic authorities to establish natural resources accounting
systems;
(e)    coordinate with all stakeholders in environmental management;
(f)    advise concerned ministries and other agencies on environmental regulations;
enforcement and compliance, assist in arbitration in environmental issues;
(g)    monitor adherence to international environmental treaties;
(h)    develop environmental information systems (EIS);
(i)    promote environmental training, education and public awareness;
(j)    support initiatives in decentralization as they relate to environmental management; and,
(k)    coordinate preparation of regular "state of the environment" report.
1.26   The Environmental Affairs Department is a "light" structure which has been restructured to
comprise four Divisions: Monitoring and Management, responsible for monitoring, environmental
impact assessments and pollution control; Education and Outreach; Policy and Planning and Legal which
includes legislation and regulations, compliance and enforcement, and international conventions (see
Annex 1). The EAD is being strengthened and its 18 established positions were fully staffed by
July/August 1996.
1.27   The EAD is responsible for coordination of cross-sectoral environmental matters.
Implementation of projects and programs is the responsibility of technical ministries, departments and
other implementing organizations. The Ministry of Natural Resources, comprising the Departments of
Forestry, Fisheries and National Parks and Wildlife are primarily responsible for these natural resources,
while the Ministry of Agriculture has responsibility for agricultural extension, research and soil
conservation. The Ministry of Irrigation and Water Development has primary responsibility for water
resources in Malawi, together with the national Water Resources Board. The Ministry of Energy and
Mining has overall responsibility for energy policy and planning.
1.28   A network of environmental focal points has been established in each of the appropriate
implementing agencies, consisting of senior staff who will be permanent contact points for EAD. These
focal points will have specific responsibilities for coordinating environmental activities and bring major
environmental issues to the attention of the EAD, and will receive specific training in environmental
planning, management and EIA. Linkages are also being developed with local governments
(municipalities and Districts). Agreement was reached during negotiations on the official designation of
the focal points (para. 6.1 (d)).
1.29  In parallel with the EAD, there is an apex environmental NGO, CURE (Coordinating Unit for the
Rehabilitation of the Environment). CURE provides a coordinating and information dissemination
function for environmental NGOs, many of which worked on refugee and relief programs. CURE has
also provided training in participatory appraisal techniques, and serves as a clearing house for
information on environmental activities being undertaken by NGOs and community-based organizations.
ENVIRONMENTAL AGENDA
1.30   The Environmental Agenda has been well identified in Malawi through the highly participatory
processes of the NEAP and the ESP. In the face of the many constraints, reversing or slowing down
-7 -



environmental degradation in Malawi will be a complex challenge for which there are no easy answers or
quick solutions. The process of tackling the policy and legislative issues is well advanced and much
progress has been made in establishing the institutional framework. Maintaining the momentum to
strengthen the institutions concerned is now essential to implement the new legislative framework. A
key element of the agenda will be to translate the good intentions expressed in the policy into the
effective empowerment of local communities.
1.31   As highlighted by the ESP Roundtable, the most critical points of emphasis on the agenda
include: effective participation of the population, requiring the implementation of new approaches to
environmental management which empower and provide capacity to communities; capacity building at
all levels (communities, government and non-government structures and organizations); improved
coordination to ensure that the many interventions by the different actors are working in the same
direction; significant emphasis on raising environmental awareness through education and
communication.
DONOR ASSISTANCE FOR THE ENVIRONMENT
1.32   The NEAP and ESP process has already engendered contributions from a range of sources
including notably, USAID, which has committed about US$40 million in both balance of payments
resources, in support of policy and institutional changes, and project funding for priority capacity
building and investment activities. Other donors including UNDP, Japan, EU, KfW/GTZ, UK-ODA,
DANIDA, Netherlands, and CIDA have contributed to preparation activities and/or have made funding
commitments to elements defined in the ESP. Total commitments or expressions of interest from donors
in the broad category of environment amount to about US$120 million over five years. Full details are
provided in the ESP document.
LESSONS LEARNED
1.33  IDA's participation in the Environmental Support Programme is based on a major multi-
stakeholder preparation effort following from a highly participatory NEAP process. This effort has
drawn from experience in other countries in Africa and elsewhere and from ongoing operations in
Malawi. Only the GEF/SADC Lake Malawi/Nyasa Biodiversity Conservation Project has been provided
directly for environmental purposes. However, much of the prior and ongoing IDA lending (agriculture,
forestry, social infrastructure, urban, water) has a direct impact on the environment. The main lessons,
including those from similar Environmental Support Programs are: (i) avoid overly ambitious goals and
try to minimize the inevitable complexity of this kind of program to the extent possible; (ii) set clear
priorities through a process of consensus building and enhancing ownership of program objectives on the
part of the relevant stakeholders; (iii) take a highly participatory approach to program preparation and
implementation; and (iv) start with a modest and flexible program to strengthen institutional capacity
and initiate the process of change. It has to be recognized that implementing a process of
environmentally sustainable development is a long-term challenge, particularly when the pre-conditions
are not favorable. Developing a strong policy, legal and institutional framework for environmental
planning and management is a critical element in this process. This framework can be expected to
evolve over time as institutions mature and as programs are implemented. In terms of overall
environmental management, the key lessons applied to this ESP include the principle that empowerment
of the groups most closely affected by environmental degradation is a sine qua non. Providing people
and local communities with the tools (intellectual, physical and legal) to face these challenges requires,
in most cases, changing traditional (usually top-down and hierarchical) attitudes and practices.
-8 -



RATIONALE FOR IDA INVOLVEMENT
1.34 The Government's request for IDA assistance is a logical outcome of the partnership between
Malawi, the Bank, and other donors which has been developed over the past years during the preparation
of the NEAP and the ESP. To date, the Bank's efforts have been focused on providing support to a
Malawian-driven process, rather than designing a specific IDA project. With IDA's role being one of
"lender of last resort", it is only at this stage that the definition of an IDA contribution to the ESP can be
achieved. Significant progress has already been made towards the development of a sound legal, policy
and institutional framework, a large measure of consensus and awareness-raising has been achieved, and
the level of ownership of the overall program is very high. Given the severity of Malawi's
environmental problems and the likely social and economic impact of continued deterioration of the
natural environment which could undernine Malawi's growth prospects, fully integrating environmental
considerations in Malawi's development process is essential. Continued support for environmental
management is entirely consistent with the Bank's central focus of poverty reduction as expressed in the
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). It is also consistent with efforts to decentralize decision-making
and empower local communities. Finally, ITF's contribution is designed to complement other donor
interventions in this area and other IDA operations (including National Water Development, Malawi
Social Action Fund, Agricultural Services, Local Government, and the ongoing adjustment operations).
2. THE ITF CONTRIBUTION TO THE PROGRAM
OBJECTIVES AND SUMMARY
2.1    The ITF contribution, the Environmental Management Project (EMP), designed to complement
the activities of other donors, will support the Government of Malawi's efforts to implement the ESP
which will focus on: (i) strengthening the coordination capacity of MOREA, the ESP's lead agency, and
improving its regulatory, information management, promotion and coordination capabilities; (ii) a
broad-based program of environmental education; (iii) promoting a shift in the responsibility for
sustainable resource management, and the reversal of degradation, to the community level; and (iv)
supporting initiatives in key areas of environmental degradation. Underpinning the ESP is the
environment and natural resources management policy and legislative review process supported by
USAID and UNDP. An important design element is the gradual transfer of the management of natural
resources from government departments to the local communities. In Malawi, this approach has been
called "co-management of natural resources". It has been tried on a pilot basis in parts of the country,
with reasonable success, and has been used more broadly in other countries in Southern Africa.
Although not proven to work under all circumstances, it presents perhaps the only remaining solution for
effective natural resource management in the situations of high population density, and weak
enforcement capability, which prevail in Malawi.
2.2   The ITF-financed Environmental Management Project, is estimated to cost some US$13.7
million. ITF would finance four main components (amounts include price and physical contingency
allowances): (i) Institutional Capacity Building and Strengthening of the Environment Information
System (US$ 3.0 million); (ii) Environmental Education (US$ 2.0 million); (iii) Community-Based
Environmental Management (US$ 6.1 million) and (iv) Environmental Actions and Studies (US$ 2.6
million).
9-



DETAILED DESCRIPTION
2.3   Institutional capacity building (US$ 3.0 million). The ESP will be coordinated and monitored
by MOREA. This component of the EMP would include support for training and operations, to enable it
to carry out its policy, monitoring and control functions. The training of persons selected as focal points
in line departments, regional and district administrations and NGOs would also be covered. MOREA's
information systems, financial and logistical management capabilities would be strengthened. Support
would include training courses, workshops, vehicles, equipment, technical assistance and operating costs
as needed. USAID and UNDP are also involved in these activities, in a fashion complementary to the
ITF. Agreement was reached during negotiations that a training program for MOREA, environmental
focal points and designated staff in other institutions, will be furnished to IDA by December 31, 1997
(para. 6.1 (b)). In order for MOREA to fulfill its mandate effectively it will require sufficient contiguous
office space to house the staff under recruitment. During negotiations the Government indicated that it
expected this issue to be resolved by December 31, 1997. In addition to general support for institutional
development, two specific areas of MOREA's activities have been identified for improvement:
* Environment Information System. A vital aspect of MOREA's role is to monitor the status
of the country's natural resources, the effectiveness of its resource management programs,
and to understand the causes of degradation and misuse. The USAID is providing support
for this function with a technical assistance team, training and equipment through its
NATURE program, focusing on the Middle Shire Valley. The ITF resources would
complement the USAID funded activities, and, based on an assessment of effective demand
for environment and natural resource information, broaden the scope of the information
system, including information provided by communities involved in formalized resource
management.
* Environmental Impact Assessment and Regulation. The regulations governing the
preparation of environmental assessments are under review by Parliament, and should be
approved shortly. ITF would support a unit in MOREA charged with reviewing, auditing
and participating in the environmental impact assessment process. Support would include
training, technical assistance and equipment necessary to provide the expertise and data
management capabilities to exercise this function effectively. This activity will rely on the
information provided through the Environment Information System as well as on the
awareness created through the Environmental Education component. Agreement was
reached at negotiations, that the guidelines and regulations for environmental impact
assessment will be published by December 31, 1997 (para. 6.1 (a)).
2.4   Environmental education (US$ 2.0 million). The component would draw on the strategy
developed in a USAID/UNDP/World Bank-funded study carried out in May 1996, and would provide
resources for both formal and non-formal approaches to building environmental awareness and educating
the population in the benefits of sound environmental management and the consequences of misuse of
renewable natural resources. The objectives of this activity are to: (i) increase public environmental
awareness and participation; (ii) integrate environmental education into the formal education system;
(iii) improve the quality of environmental information and access to such materials; and (iv) identify
formal and non-formal systems for dissemination of environmental information, decentralizing this to
the lowest level. Expenditures would cover such costs as preparing, producing and disseminating
publications, posters and audiovisual materials on environmental topics, holding workshops, and
providing input into curriculum design for public and private schools on environmental topics.
2.5    Community-BasedEnvironmentalManagement (US$ 6.1 million). The objective of the
component is to develop the capability of communities to manage the natural resources which they
- 10-



control and depend on for a livelihood. It is founded in the belief that many communities in Malawi
have the capacity to manage their commonly held resources sustainably, and execute their own
development projects, but lack the impetus and initial capital to get started. These activities would be
facilitated through both NGOs and line departments of the Ministries involved in natural resources
management. To enhance the sustainability of community level natural resources management, it will be
necessary for communities to benefit directly from these interventions. Agreement was reached at
negotiations that communities who have entered into co-management arrangements for forestry and
wildlife areas under the ESP to share the revenues earned from the sustainable exploitation of such
reserves (para. 6.1 (c)). Without fixing a specific percentage going to communities, it was agreed that
this would be based on experience to date where at least 30 percent of revenues earned are allocated to
communities.
2.6    Community Mobilization and Environmental Micro-Projects. This component, to be
implemented with support from NGOs, would focus on communities capacity building to improve
environmental management in both rural and urban areas. Small-scale environmental activities, based on
proposals originating in communities would also be funded. This component would operate under the
supervision of a Steering Committee. At afirst stage, community level activities would be initiated by
systematic client consultation and "community mobilization" provided by an NGO and funded under the
program. In the course of the community mobilization, community environmental management
committees or equivalent, would be identified or formed. These committees would prepare community
environmental management plans. At a second stage, these management plans would be financed from a
"micro-projects" window. These "micro-projects" would be put forward by the community committees.
As necessary, technical assistance would be provided from an appropriate source (NGO, Government or
other entity). Selection of communities would be based on a set of criteria indicating environmental
and/or natural resource problems, potential for successful resource management, and an indication of
community involvement. During the pilot phase, 16 communities are included in selected Districts.
Later on, groups of 8 to 10 communities in targeted Districts would be covered (see Annex 4 for details).
2.7   Forest Resources Co-Management. To overcome encroachment problems and to increase
production from the Forest Reserves and woodlands owned under customary tenure, communities
adjacent to the selected reserves and in areas of potential for forest development, would be encouraged to
enter into agreements with the Forest Department on the co-management of these resources. Such
communities would be "mobilized" using mechanisms outlined above. The co-management of some of
the smaller plantations within the Forest Reserves may also be included. On a pilot basis, communities
with forestry resources would be organized to put in place a sustainable wood production and marketing
operation. Also, under this component, limited support could be provided to the Forestry Department to
develop strategies for management of indigenous forests, implementing the Forestry Policy, and
developing a regional forestry planning capacity. Agreement was reached at negotiations that the
Government would carry out a functional and expenditure review of the Forestry Department by March
1998, focusing on disengagement from commercial plantation activities (para. 6.1 (e)).
2.8    Biodiversity conservation in Protected Areas in the Lower Shire. A system for the co-
management of wildlife in National Park periphery zones has been developed and practiced in pilot areas
in Northern Malawi. Using these techniques, ITF would support community capacity building to be
carried out under the community natural resources co-management program, for the communities
bordering Protected Areas at Lengwe National Park, Majete and Mwabvi Game Reserves and would
provide limited support for training of field staff in community-based management techniques.
Contingent on agreement on the role of the Department of National Parks and Wildlife in support of the
co-management approach to wildlife management, and on the basis of the community consultative and
planning process, minimal infrastructure would be rehabilitated in these areas.
- 11 -



2.9    Urban Environmental Management. Urban environmental problems were highlighted in the
NEAP, and in para. 1.13. IDA would support limited interventions in Lilongwe, Blantyre, Zomba, and
Mzuzu to complement IDA's current involvement in improving municipal management through the
ongoing Local Government Development Project. This component would complement other activities in
urban areas, by focusing on community mobilization through NGOs to develop strategic urban
environmental service plans, and drawing on the environmental micro-projects funds for community
based activities such as installation of public water kiosks to be managed by the communities, on-site
sanitation, urban open space and watercourse reclamation. Limited funding would be included for
emergency pollution abatement measures, such as the sewage treatment facility in Zomba.
2.10 EnvironmentalActions and Studies (US$ 2.6 million). IDA would support a series of targeted
actions in areas of high priority on the environment agenda. These resources are intended to support
planning and implementation of environmental programs or tackle critical problems, and will be
allocated through the Annual Work Planning exercise. Planning is well advanced for some of the actions
which could include:
* Climate Change and Long Lead Forecasting Pilot. Malawi's rainfed agricultural economy is
vulnerable to variations in precipitation and temperature. In recent years, dramatic advances
have been made in understanding the dynamics of the southern Africa climatic regimes and
how these regimes are connected to global phenomena such as the El Niflo/Southern
Oscillation (ENSO) events. Improvements in global climate modeling and new understanding
of ENSO "teleconnections" or links with climate forcing factors, is enabling climate prediction
to become a practical and applied science. Long lead climate forecasts are now being used in
various agricultural economies around the world. South Africa has taken the lead in climate
research and prognostic science. This component would enable the Meteorological Department
to develop such forecasts, tailored to the needs of key users, some of whom could be expected
to pay for tailored information.
*   Water Hyacinth Control. This fast growing weed, present for some years in the Lower Shire,
has now been sighted in southern Lake Malawi and in the northern portions of the Shire river.
It threatens to seriously affect fishing, hydropower generation, water transport, water supply
systems, tourism and biodiversity in the catchment. ODA is financing a thiree year research
program to establish the effectiveness of biological control methods. The project would
provide additional finance, to develop the institutional framework and supjport field operations
needed to deal with the threat. IDA support would be contingent on the commitment of the
Government to address this environmental problem in a vigorous and holistic manner. A first
step would be the identification of the appropriate coordination and implemnentation agency for
a control program which brought together all relevant stakeholders.
*  Bilharzia Control. This debilitating disease is endemic in parts of Malawi, and has recently
appeared in certain locations along Lake Malawi. Infection rates are high in water side
locations, especially among young people. The disease can be contracted at some of Malawi's
most valuable tourist sites. In addition to affecting the health of the exposed populations, the
disease will affect the revenue earning ability of lake-side resorts, an important source of
foreign exchange for the country. Eradication of bilharzia requires a multi-faceted approach
involving health education, fisheries regulation, snail habitat treatment, waiter supply and
sanitation improvements, and medical treatment of infected patients. A national program for
bilharzia abatement is under review by the World Bank, for funding under health related
operations and within the context of Malawi's overall health program. Support for further
preparatory and pilot activities could be funded from this project.
* Lake Malawi National Park. This park on the Nankumba peninsula requires improved
management and infrastructure. Studies of the park have been carried out with CIDA and GEF
- 12 -



financing. The project would provide additional finance to put in place the actions
recommended by the studies (such as improving waste treatment in the lakeside villages,
relocation of certain facilities). Such support would depend on agreement between
Govemment and the enclave communities on a suitable approach to park management.
*   Supportfor the Policy Planning Unit (PPU) in the Ministry of Lands and Valuation. With the
establishment and operation of the Presidential Land Commission, the demands placed on the
PPU, for policy, analytical and implementation of the Land Commission recommendations will
increase. In order for the PPU to be able to respond to this growing demand, resources will be
needed for additional logistical support and short-term assistance.
3. PROJECT COSTING AND FINANCING
COST ESTIMATES
3.1     The total cost of the EMP is estimated at US$ 13.7 million, including physical contingencies
estimated at US$ 0.6 million and price contingencies at US$ 0.7 million over the 5 year implementation
period. Cost estimates exclude taxes and duties. The base exchange rate was Kwacha 15 for one US
dollar (June 1996). The distribution of local and foreign costs by component is shown below.
Table 1: Project Cost Summary
(US$ millions)
% Foreign   % Total
Component                 Local  Foreign   Total   Exchange  Base Costs
MOREA Institutional Strengthening            0.2     1.3      1.6        85          13
Environment Information System               0.4     0.4      0.8        47          7
Environmental Impact Assessment              0.1      0.2     0.3        71          3
Subtotal Institutional Development           0.8      2.0     2.8        72         22
Environmental Education                      1_0 0.8          1.8        42          14
Subtotal Environmental Education             1.0      0.8     1.8        42          14
NGO-Based Community Environmental            1.6      0.5     2.1        24          17
Management                                              I
Forest Resources Co-Management               0.6      1.0     1.6        63          13
Wildlife Co-management                       0.7     1.1      1.8        59          14
Subtotal Community Environmental             2.9     2.6      5.5        47         44
Management
Environmental Actions and Studies            1.2     1.2      2.4        49         19
Subtotal Environmental Actions and Studies   1.2      1.2     2.4        49          19
Total Base Cost                              5.9      6.5    12.4        52         100
Physical Contingencies                       0.3     0.3      0.6        52          5
Price Contingencies                          04      0.3      0.7        46          6
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                          6.6     7.1    13.7         52         111
Note: Totals may not add up due to rounding
3.2     Contingencies. Physical contingencies vary between 5 and 10 percent, depending on the
expenditure item. On price contingencies, it is estimated that international inflation will be some 2.3
- 13 -



percent per annum over the 5 year life of the credit. It is assumed that the local exchange rate would
adjust to compensate for differences between local and international inflation.
FINANCING
3.3    The ITF would finance 90 percent of expenditures, with a credit of US$ 12.4 million. The
Government would contribute some 10 percent of total expenditures by providing an increasing share of
local costs, principally operating costs and allowances, and the costs of local training efforts. A
financing table, by type of expenditure, is shown below.
Table 2: Financing of Expenditures, by Category
Government  %    ITF    %      Total    _
_________________________  Amount  Amount    Amount
I Foreign              0.1      t     7.0  98.9     71      51.8
If   Local (Excl. Taxes)  1.3  19.5   5.3  80.5      6.6    48.2
Total Project            1.4  10.0    12.4  90.0    13.7    100.0
PROCUREMENT
3.4    Procurement of works and goods for all ITF-financed components shall be ijn accordance with
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits," published January 1995, and
revised in January 1996 and August 1996 and shall be subject to the restrictions for the Interim Trust
Fund (ITF). World Bank Standard Bidding and Contract documents shall be used for all ICB and
consultant contracts. Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.
3.5    Works. The Category of Works includes civil works for the construction of small buildings
within three protected areas and the rehabilitation of some 50 km of minor roads. Contracts are expected
to be small, and unlikely to attract interest from international bidders. Civil works contracts estimated to
cost equivalent of US$500,000 or less per contract up to an aggregate amount of US$1.2 million may be
procured through contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding (NCB), in accordance
with the procedures satisfactory to IDA.
3.6    Goods. Procurement of vehicles and equipment by several implementing agencies, wherever
practicable, shall be combined into single contract(s) of US$100,000 or more and would be procured
through ICB. Furniture, office equipment and supplies would be procured under NCB procedures for
contracts estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000 up to a total of US$300,000 in aggregate. Contracts on
goods estimated to cost less than US$30,000 may be procured using national shopping, up to an
aggregate amount of US$300,000. Goods, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to US$300,000 may be
procured through the United Nations Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office (IAPSO).
3.7    Consulting Services. Institutional, environmental, feasibility and other studies would be carried
out by consultants to be employed by the respective implementing agencies, whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to IDA. Consultants shall be
engaged in accordance with the "Guidelines for Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as an Executing Agency", published August 1981, and will also be subject to ITF
restrictions. Letter of Invitation (LOI) and Standard Form of Contract for Consultants' Services
(published by the World Bank in June 1995) or other similar forms shall be used wherever applicable.
Local and foreign experts may be recruited in specialized fields to assist in community mobilization and
-14-



co-management, environmental information systems, environmental education and other environment
related fields, finance and training. Recruitment of NGOs under the Community Mobilization
Component will be managed by the MOREA, and such NGOs will be contracted for the provision of
training and other services. No government salaries will be funded under the project. Where staff are
engaged in project related field work, personnel allowances (per diems) will be paid using Government
approved standards. No sitting allowances will be paid.
3.8     Micro-Project Grants. Goods and works, estimated to cost less than US$20,000 and up to an
aggregate amount of US$ 1,000,000 financed under the micro-projects grants component will be procured
directly by communities and NGOs in accordance with the provisions of para. 3.15 of the Guidelines and
the modalities set out in the PIP. These grants, authorized by the steering committee, would cover such
expenditures as: small-scale construction materials, inputs for establishment of nurseries, protection of
woodland areas and watercourse reclamation, improved drainage and sanitation, and installation of
public water kiosks.
Table 3: Procurement Method by Type of Expenditure
(US$ million)
Procurement Arrangements (US$ '000)
International    National
Competitive   Competitive |         Consulting
Bidding      Bidding    Other      Services    Total
A. Civil Works                   -           1.0          -    |               1.0
(0.9)  -            _       _    (0.9)
B. Vehicles and Equipment       1.8          0.3         0.6                  2.7
(1.8)       (0.3)       (0.6)                 (2.6)
C. Consultants                                            -         2.8       2.8
(2.8)    (2.8)
D. Training                                              4.1                  4.1
(3.3)    _          (3.3)
E. Community Grants              -      l                1.0                  1.0
_________________________________    j ________________   j   j___________  (1.0)  _____________   (1.0)
F. Operating Costs  X                                    2.3                  2.3
- X   1   1(1.8)      -        (1.8)
Total                           1.8           1.3        7.8        2.8       13.7
________________________       (1.8)        (1.2)       (6.7)      (2.8)     (12.4)
Notes: Totals may not add up due to rounding. (**) Includes IAPSO
3.9     Prior Review Procedures and Reporting. The Annual Workplan prepared each year by the
implementing agencies for review by IDA shall include details of the items to be procured (goods and
services) and the procedures to be adopted for such procurement within the limits given earlier and to be
agreed by IDA. Requirements for IDA's prior review of procurement are as follows:
(a)     Procurement of Goods. and Civil Works Contracts. Invitation for bidding, draft bidding
documents, bid evaluation and award recommendations, for all contracts exceeding
US$100,000 for each contract, would all be subject to prior review and no objection by
IDA;
(b)     Contracts with Consulting Firms and Individual Consultants (Technical Assistance
Personnel). Terms of reference for all consultant services would be subject to prior
review and approval by IDA. Budgets, shortlists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts estimated to cost US$100,000 or
more for consulting firms and US$50,000 or more for individuals would be subject to
- 15 -



prior review and approval by IDA. All sole source contracts and amendments to
contracts raising the contract value for firmns above US$ 100,000 and individuals above
US$50,000 shall be subject to prior review and clearance by IDA;
(c)    Specific training activities would be undertaken in accordance with an annual training
program reviewed and approved by IDA;
(d)    Contracts below the prior review threshold would be subject to ex-post review by IDA
on a selected basis (one in five).
DISBURSEMENT
3.10   The proposed ITF Credit of SDR 8.7 million would be disbursed over five years with an
expected Project Completion Date of June 30, 2002 and a Closing Date of December 31, 2002.
3.11   Disbursement Procedures. Disbursements from the Credit would be in accordance with the
normal IDA procedures set out in the Disbursement Handbook (November 1992). Once agreement has
been reached on the annual work program and budgets with the implementing agencies (MOREA, MNR,
NGOs) disbursements from the credit can be made following the standard procedures, including:
reimbursement of expenses incurred by implementing agencies against submission of disbursement
requests, direct payment to suppliers or replenishment of special accounts. Disbursement for
expenditures under the Micro-project component would require that appropriate arrangements had been
entered into between the Government and the community concerned (para. 6.3).
3.12   MOREA will centralize the disbursement procedures for the implementing agencies involved in
implementation of ITF-financed components. Agreement was reached during negotiations that a
Financial Controller and a Procurement Officer with expertise in the management of IDA-financed
projects will be stationed, by credit effectiveness, in MOREA's Administration and Gjeneral Department
for the initial years of the project to facilitate the management of the Special Account, as well as
procurement procedures and financial reporting (para. 6.2 (a)).
3.13   To facilitate disbursement, IDA will advance US$1,000,000 into a Special Account, in
convertible currency opened in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA. Upon effectiveness the advance
amounts will be deposited to the respective Special Account against disbursement application(s).
Reimbursements should be grouped for replenishment of these Special Accounts and submitted for
reimbursement every month or whenever the Special Account balances are reduced to one third of the
original amount, whichever comes first, through the standard channel of disbursement procedures for the
Special Accounts. The account may be used to pay for expenditures in either local or foreign currencies
through the commercial banking system, against any category of expenditure. All replenishments should
be fully documented except in the case where statements of expenditure (SOEs) are authorized.
3.14   The implementation agencies may claim reimbursements on the basis of Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs) for:
(a)    Civil works costing less than US$100,000 equivalent.
(b)    Goods costing less than US$ 100,000 equivalent.
(c)    Training, consultants contracts, studies and operating costs for single items costing less
than US$100,000 equivalent for firms, and less than US$ 50,000 for individuals.
- 16-



3.15   The respective implementing agency shall retain all the relevant supporting documentation for
reimbursements of SOEs for inspection by IDA. During the course of the annual audit of the Project
Accounts, the auditors shall certify that all expenditures claimed under SOE.
Table 4: Disbursement of ITF Credit
Amount
Allocated in         Percentage of Actual
Category of Expenditure       US$ 000          Expenditure Financed by ITF
1. Civil Works Contracts                   800                  90%
2. Vehicles and Equipment                2,400              100 % of foreign
100% of local (ex-factory cost)
90 % of local for other items procured locally
3. Consultants' Services                 2,500                  100%
4. Training                              2,800         100% through June 30, 2000,
60% through June 30, 2001 and
40% thereafter
5. Goods and works for Micro-projects      900                  95%
6. Operating Costs                        1,600         100% through June 30, 2000
60% through June 30, 2001 and
_________ _  _ 40 % thereafter
7. Refunding of Project Preparation Advance  800
8. Unallocated                             600
TOTAL                                    12,400  1
3.16   The disbursement categories for the ITF credit are presented in Table 4 above. Disbursement
percentages are calculated taking into consideration the identifiable taxes and duties.
ACCOUNTS AND AUDITING
3.17   The implementing agencies would maintain separate records and financial accounts for the ITF-
financed components, using generally accepted accounting principles. A set of consolidated financial
accounts would be prepared every year. Responsibility for preparation of the component accounts would
rest with the financial controller appointed for this purpose in the implementing agency for each
component. The ITF-financed Financial Controller in MOREA would consolidate the financial
statements for ITF-funded activities, and arrange for the annual audit of the accounts in MOREA and the
relevant implementing agencies. Agreement was reached during negotiations that the accounts for each
of the components would be audited by independent auditors satisfactory to IDA (para. 6.1 (g)). A
certified copy of the accounts, together with the auditors management report, would be submitted to IDA
within 6 months of the end of the financial year. The certificate would include a statement covering the
adequacy of the records and accounts used to support disbursements against Statements of Expenditure.
4. PROGRAM ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION
4.1    The National Council for the Environment will be a high level statutory body under the
Environment Management Act, empowered to "recommend to the Minister (of Research and
Environmental Affairs) measures necessary for the harmonization of activities, plans and policies of lead
agencies and non-governmental organizations concerned with the protection and management of the
- 17-



environment and the conservation and sustainable utilization of natural resources."1 The leader of the
Council will be appointed by the President. The Council will also include the Secretary to the President
and Cabinet, all the Principal Secretaries, a member from the Malawi Chamber of Commerce, a member
from the NGO community, and other high level officials. The Council will make recommendations to
the Minister on all key policy decisions related to environmental management, and set the stage for the
coordination of environmental activities under the Program, of which the proposed IDA project is a
portion.
4.2   In addition, a Technical Committee on the Environment (of between 10 and 20 members) will be
formed under the Council, to provide more detailed inputs into the Program, recommending on criteria
and standards for environmental control and regulation, and taking the lead in recommending studies or
mitigation actions. This will provide a "working forum" for members of the various agencies engaged in
the implementation of the ESP to resolve coordination difficulties and address common issues.
4.3    The Environmental Affairs Department in MOREA will have the main responsibility for
coordinating the ESP, including the IDA-financed activities. However, other than training its own staff,
developing capacity, enforcing Environmental Impact Assessment legislation and managing the
Environment Information System, this Department will not be responsible for the direct implementation
of any program components.
4.4    Project activities will be carried out by NGOs, by the line departments in the Ministry of Natural
Resources (Forestry, National Parks and Wildlife, and Fisheries), and by other agencies (e.g.,
Meteorology Department). The Water Hyacinth Component is likely to be implemented under contract
with an international research institute. The network of designated Environment Focal Point staff
(stationed in participating agencies) will be trained to deal with environmental issues and information
management, and will be responsible for the transmittal of environment and natural resource information
to MOREA. Other training, including community mobilization and co-management techniques will be
provided to the relevant field level staff in the line ministry departments, and to the NGOs participating
in the program.
4.5    The Community Environmental Mobilization and Micro-Projects component would be managed
through the Outreach Unit of MOREA, which would be strengthened for this purpose, and supervised by
a Steering Committee drawn from the public sector (including MOREA), the private sector, and the
NGO community. Agreement was reached at negotiations that proposals for NGO based "mobilization"
of villages, and for financing village environment and natural resource action plans and micro-projects
would be approved by the Steering Committee. Funds would be granted to the village, which would
contract services from NGOs or other providers as necessary. These activities are complementary to the
activities financed under Malawi's Social Action Fund (run by a Government department). Activities
would be reviewed to ensure that the interventions are sensitive to gender. Model contracts will be
prepared between MOREA and the NGOs for the community mobilization, training and micro-projects
activities, and the modalities for administration and management of this component will be spelled out in
the PIP. Agreement was reached at negotiations that, prior to disbursement of funds for the micro-
projects component, the Government and the communities would enter into arrangements set out in the
PIP covering the terms and conditions for the use of the grants (para. 6.3).
4.6   ITF/IDA funding will be allocated to the various components on the basis of an Environment
Management Project Annual Workplan and Budget, prepared by the participating agencies, and
submitted to MOREA (and the Ministry of Finance) for review and approval. This document would be
based on the Project Implementation Plan, adoption of which is a Condition of Effectiveness (para. 6.2
Environment Management Act, 1996, Section 12 (c).
- 18 -



(b). It will be reviewed annually by IDA and other participating donors, and this exercise, to be
completed by March 31 of each year, would be the key tool for ensuring focus, compatibility and
complementarity amongst the many activities supported under the program by the various donors.
Where feasible, funding will be based on the attainment of results specified in advance. Agreement was
reached at Negotiations that a draft of the Annual Workplan would be submitted to IDA for review and
comment by January 31 st of each year, and the final Annual Workplan would be submitted by March
31 st of each year. The Workplans for other activities under the ESP, which support and complement the
activities under the Project, would be submitted to IDA by January 31 of each year (para. 6.1 (f)).
MONITORING AND EVALUATION
4.7    A strong monitoring and evaluation system will be part of the program. The monitoring and
budgeting system would be linked to ensure that the successful activities receive continued support.
Disbursements of funds to implementing agencies would be linked to the fulfillment of monitorable
indicators. Methods for enhancing the sustainability of the program would be investigated and built into
implementation mechanisms where appropriate. One feature of the ESP will be to strengthen the
Environmental Information System, in order to track environmentally important features in hot spots
around the country. In addition, through the Annual Workplan exercise, a series of monitorable
implementation indicators will be established which will allow MOREA to track the implementation
effectiveness of the collaborating agencies and NGOs. One important feature will be to bring in the
communities involved in improved natural resource management under the program to contribute their
observations on natural resource status and use to the national monitoring system. Agreement was
reached at negotiations that the Government would submit progress reports on the implementation of the
Project every six months, and provide progress reports on the ESP every year starting December 31,
1997 (para. 6.1(h)). Agreement was also reached during negotiations on key indicators, for inclusion in
the progress reports. A set of draft performance indicators are shown in Annex 7.
MID-TERM AND IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REVIEW
4.8   The ESP and the ITF/IDA-financed contribution are inherently complex ventures, due to the
need to address environmental problems in a holistic fashion, and hence to engage a large number of
stakeholders in addressing such problems. There will be a large number of implementing agencies
supporting activities spread out in the "hot spots" for environmental action around the country. It is
essential that a thorough, zero-based, Mid-Term review of the Environment Support Program and the
ITF/IDA contribution, be undertaken with the participation of all the major stakeholders. This review
should assess the effectiveness of the activities designed to strengthen the institutional framework for
environment management (and the effectiveness of MOREA in particular), as well as the effectiveness of
the NGOs and the community level activities, and progress in carrying out the various studies, and
putting in place a response to recommendations. The outcome of this review should be brought to the
attention of the National Council for the Environment, as well as high level representatives in donor
organizations, so that measures can be taken to address fundamental problems, including adjustments in
implementation responsibilities, fund management and allocations as needed. Agreement was reached
during negotiations that preliminary documentation for a joint Mid-Term review would be prepared for
IDA review by December 31, 1999 (para. 6.1(i)). By June 30, 2000 a Mid-Term Review will have been
carried out and an action plan drawn up with a timetable for implementation of agreed recommendations.
IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT PLAN
4.9   The IDA commitment to implementation support of the ITF/IDA contribution to the ESP will
have to be very intensive, particularly at the early stages. The complexity of the decentralized
- 19-



implementation network, and the need to nurture the development of the lead agency, MOREA, require
that attention be paid to this project from persons with a range of environmental expertise. In particular,
support will be needed over the first three years in institutional strengthening (for MOREA), in the
establishment of the procedures for Environmental Impact Assessment, in the setting up of the
Environmental Information System, and in the implementation of the community nmobilization and co-
management activities. Also, given the lack of prior exposure to IDA procurement and disbursement
regulations in the lead ministry, implementation support missions should include expertise in these areas
to ensure that the appropriate systems are set up, and correct procedures followed from the start of the
project. The World Bank Resident Mission will play a critical role in this effort, complemented by three
implementation support missions planned for the first two years of implementation staffed to address
these issues (Annex 5).
5. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
PROGRAM IMPACT
5.1    The Environmental Support Programme is designed as a long-term response to the problems of
environmental degradation in Malawi. The purpose is to integrate environmental considerations in the
overall development of the country. This is essential to reduce the cost and impact of unsustainable
exploitation and deterioration of the natural environment which not only undermines Malawi's growth
prospects in all sectors - including agriculture, tourism, industry, fishing - but also jeopardizes current
production levels and diminishes the quality of life for the citizens of Malawi.
5.2   The proposed program will help Malawi face these challenges. It will contribute to the
strengthening of the institutional and policy framework, enhance public awareness, and promote pilot
community-based initiatives in environmental protection and conservation. The prcgram will help
Malawi implement the EIA process to ensure that environmental considerations are fully integrated in
future investment in Malawi. The ESP is also expected to contribute to the process already underway of
empowering local communities and developing new ways of doing business which have more direct
poverty reduction impact.
RISKS
5.3   The three major risks to program implementation are noted below. The first relates to the
relative newness and limited resources of the central coordinating unit - the EAD in MOREA. These
factors coupled with the weak overall capacity in the public sector, and the potential fragmentation of
effort induced by the plethora of donor interventions, could impede effective implementation of the ESP.
Key factors and specific measures to mitigate these risks include: maintaining a coordination-only
function for the EAD, with implementation the responsibility of sectoral ministries; capacity building
and institutional strengthening for the EAD and line ministries are included as explicit objectives of the
ESP, and funding for this will be assured by USAID, UNDP, IDA and other donors; decentralization to
the lowest possible level of all pilot investment activities, with specific focus on developing community-
based organizations and NGOs. On the question of fragmentation of effort, the ESP has been elaborated
with one specific objective being donor coordination. Willingness to pool efforts and contribute to an
overall process has been strongly manifested by the entire donor community. Maintaining this
willingness will require continued effort by the EAD, and coordination mechanisms have been developed
during the preparation of the ESP. It should also be noted that strong demand for an influential
environmental coordinating unit has been expressed at all levels of Malawian society.
- 20 -



5.4    The second refers to the nature of environmental programs, which are cross-sectoral and involve
many stakeholders. These features, together with the demands for institutional capacity development,
inevitably lead to some complexity and uncertainty in the design and implementation of specific
investments. Key mitigating factors include: design flexibility to accommodate changes as lessons are
learned from implementation experience; decentralization to the extent possible; operating agreements
between the different entities involved in program implementation (e.g., the Community Mobilization
and Micro-Project Pilot Activities); use of existing institutions rather than creating new ones.
5.5    The third relates to the fact that improving environmental management over the medium to long
term will mean changing the incentive structure with respect to the management of natural resources.
Inevitably there are competing interests in the use, ownership and benefits to be derived from natural
resources such as water, land, forestry, wildlife, and fisheries. However, it is by no means certain that
conflicting interests can always be reconciled. Policy changes which enable local communities to derive
much greater benefits from sustainable use of natural resources are a necessary condition to improved
environmental management, but effectively empowering communities requires more than a policy
decision, and does not happen overnight. The ESP aims to test and develop the concepts of community
management and empowerment, as perhaps the only remaining solution to improved natural resources
management in Malawi. Significant uncertainties, particularly over access to land and other resources,
remain, and long term political will is a critical determinant of success in this endeavor. The recent
creation of the Presidential Land Commission will help address the questions of ownership, but the
potential for conflict over natural resources remains high.
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
5.6    The proposed IDA project, which is directed largely towards institutional strengthening and pilot
programs, is not susceptible to detailed cost-benefit analysis and rate of return calculation. No attempt is
made to reorder or assign priorities to specific interventions in the ESP. However, several attempts have
been made to estimate the overall economic value of environmental products and damages in Malawi, as
a means of both highlighting the importance of natural resources to the Malawian real economy and of
helping to order priorities for intervention. The NEAP itself contains preliminary estimates of damages
related to environmental degradation, and the ESP document discusses the economic implications of a
"4no-action" state. The estimates present (in 1994 market prices) the annual costs of the four highest
priority environmental problems as follows:
*   soil erosion ($165 million)
* deforestation ($55 million)
* water pollution and lack of sanitation ($15 million)
* degradation of fisheries ($4 million)
5.7    These estimates are based on very sketchy data and extrapolation from data in other countries
(e.g., Nigeria), with the result that they are probably only of illustrative value. More recently, a review
of available data on soil erosion and deforestation in the analytical framework of "Genuine Savings",
indicates that the rates of genuine savings in Malawi, in a worst case scenario, have ranged from 7% to
19% since 1980. This compares to a savings ratio of about zero over the same period using the standard
measure (National Accounts) of net savings (i.e. national savings less the value of depreciation of
produced assets). Other environmental problems, particularly water resources degradation and
associated health impacts may, however, be of much greater significance.
5.8    Preliminary analysis, during the preparation of the ESP, has examined the damage costs of two
specific problems - water hyacinth infestation and bilharzia. Although difficult to fully quantify, the
gross economic value of the fisheries at risk from water hyacinth in the Middle and Lower Shire rivers is
-21 -



US$1-2 million. To this should be added the potential cost of clearing intakes for the hydropower plants,
and water supply schemes for domestic and industrial use, obstruction of waterborne transport, and
increased health hazards (mosquitoes, snakes, crocodiles). In the case of bilharzia, studies have
demonstrated the significant economic losses associated with infection (through loss of working days).
In addition, bilharzia is likely to have an impact on Malawi's tourism industry which is estimated to
generate about US$8 million per annum in value added. Since the Lake Malawi environment captures
about 70% of tourist time, the threat of bilharzia could have a major impact on tourism revenues, and
would at least dampen growth. Economic analysis of the problem of degradation of the Middle Shire
River catchment and siltation of the Shire River is included in Annex 8.
5.9    These examples only give a broad indication of the costs and likely benefits of environmental
damage and interventions. Much work is needed to determine the benefits which accrue to individual
households and to the economy at large. As an integral part of the ESP, training (e.g., in environmental
economics) and capacity building (e.g., in EIS) are included to help develop the data and analytical
capacity to improve the quantitative justification for tackling Malawi's environmental problems.
Through the use of analytical tools such as the "Genuine Savings" model, efforts will be made to "green"
national income accounts, as provided for under the Environmental Management Act.
SUSTAINABILITY
5.10   The highly participatory NEAP and the ESP preparation processes, have led to very broad
ownership of the objectives and principles contained within them, and the need for sustained support to
improving environmental management in Malawi. In the short- to medium-term, donor assistance will
be essential to implement the ESP, since Malawi is dependent on external financing for more than 95%
of the public investment budget. Ultimately, it will not be through the application of marginal additional
resources that sustainability will be achieved, but through the overall development process. There is
agreement that responsibilities need to be devolved to the lowest level possible, and that it is the duty of
all citizens and entities in Malawi to play a role in environmental management. Forging a path towards
environmentally sustainable development will require a continuing process of adjustment over a
prolonged period, together with a redirection of resource flows consistent with those actions. This
process is not likely to be a smooth transition because of its inherently political nature.
5.11   An important feature of the project is its focus on capacity building at the community level, and
the creation of the social capital and the incentive structure sufficient to induce sustainable use of
community natural resources. If this is successful, the pressure to continue Government-funded
programs will diminish. Once the "one off' investment in community mobilization has been made
(through NGOs), and small additional investments in community natural resource action plans have been
put in place, the returns in terms of behavior by community members, and the results in terms of the
sustainability of resource management should be visible. A key feature of the approach is that the
communities perceive, and receive, tangible benefits from adopting a more conservationist and
sustainable approach to resource management, on wildlife, forests, fish or soil. In particular, revenues
from eco-tourism, or harvesting of wildlife or forest products should be shared with the local
communities.
5.12   In the design of the ITF/IDA contribution to the ESP, care has been taken to ensure that the
recurrent costs associated will be minimized. Much of the capacity building expenditure represents one-
off training and complementary expenditure to support other donor activities in existing institutions.
Recurrent cost implications, while minimal, will be progressively taken over by the national budget. For
the line departments, particularly the Departments of Forestry and National Parks and Wildlife,
improving revenue flows can be accomplished through increased stumpage rates for commercial forest
exploitation, and through proceeds from enhanced tourism. Privatization or concession-leasing of forest
- 22 -



resources (e.g., Viphya), and of National Parks or Game Reserves (e.g., Mwabvi or Majete) together with
improved revenue retention and distribution mechanisms provide another model for financial
sustainability. No staff would be added to MOREA or MNR, although the filling of important vacancies
would be an important condition for continued IDA involvement. ITF/IDA funding would complement
Government's resources and improve the operational capabilities of existing institutions with training,
improved equipment and operating cost finance. The implication is that, after 5 years of implementation,
the current annual operating budget of MOREA (about US$ 300,000) would have increased by 70%. It
is expected that this additional resource requirement, in support of a new and important Government
function, will not be difficult to meet.
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED
AGREEMENTS REACHED DURING NEGOTIATIONS
6.1    During negotiations, the following agreements were reached:
(a)    publication of guidelines and regulations on environmental impact assessment by December 31,
1997 (para. 2.3);
(b)    preparation of a capacity building and training program for MOREA, environmental Focal Points
and designated staff in other institutions, acceptable to IDA, to be completed by December 31,
1997 (para. 2.3);
(c)   agreement would be obtained from the Ministry of Finance (by December 31, 1997) to allow
communities who have entered into co-management arrangements for Forestry or Wildlife areas,
under the ESP, to share in the revenues from the sustainable exploitation of these resources
(tourism fees, timber and forest products fees and sales) (para. 2.5);
(d)   that, by December 31, 1997, the Ministries and other agencies executing activities under the ESP
would formally designate staff with the appropriate qualifications and levels of authority as the
Environmental Focal Point for that Ministry (para. 1.28);
(e)    undertaking by March 31, 1998 a functional and public expenditure review of the Forestry
Department (para 2.7);
(f)   the Annual Workplan for the Project would be provided to IDA for comment by January 31 of
each year. Final versions of the Annual Workplans would be provided to IDA by March 31 of
each year. The Workplans for other activities under the ESP, which support and complement the
activities under the Project, would be submitted to IDA by January 31 of each year (para. 4.6);
(g)   the accounts of the main components would be audited by independent auditors satisfactory to
IDA. A certified copy of the accounts, together with the auditors management report, would be
submitted to IDA within 6 months of the end of the financial year (para. 3.17);
(h)   progress reports on the implementation of the Project would be provided to IDA every six
months, and for the ESP as a whole every year, starting December 31, 1997 using indicators
acceptable to IDA (para. 4.7);
(i)    by December 31, 1999 the Government will provide IDA with a detailed assessment, by
component, of implementation achievements, problems and proposed solutions of the ESP, and
the IDA contribution to the ESP, sufficient to support a joint Mid Term Review which would be
carried out by the Government and the Association by June 30, 2000 (para. 4.8).
- 23 -



CONDITIONS OF EFFECTIVENESS
6.2    The conditions of effectiveness are:
(a)   that a Financial Controller and a Procurement expert, with qualifications, terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA, be in place in the Administration and General Department of MOREA (para.
3.12); and
(b)    adoption of the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) with the detailed costings and implementation
schedules for the first year's Annual Workplan; satisfactory to IDA (para. 4.6).
CONDITION OF DISBURSEMENT
6.3   Prior to disbursement of funds for microprojects grants, appropriate arrangements (as set out in
the PIP) to have been entered into between the Government and the community concerned. These
arrangements will establish the responsibilities of each of the parties, the flow of funds, and the reporting
requirements of each of the parties (para. 4.5).
RECOMMENDATION
6.4    With the above assurances, agreements and conditions, the proposed project would be suitable
for an ITF credit of SDR 8.7 million (US$ 12.4 million equivalent) to the Government of the Republic of
Malawi.
- 24 -



Annex 1
ENVIRONMENTAL SUPPORT PROGRAMME
FUNCTIONAL ORGANOGRAM OF ENVIRONMENTAL AFFAIRS
DEPARTMENT
Nainl Coni fo|nSTYO                                               Cabinet Committee|
the Enviromnment       REEAVRCHMENDA                               for the Environment
AFFAIRS
l                                        Parliamentary
PRINCIPAL SECRETARY                               Committee for the
l1                    I                  Environment
Technical        ENVIRONMENTAL              Network of
Committee on the         AFFAIRS              Environmental
Environment         DEPARTMENT               Focal Points
1 x Director of Environmental Affairs
I
1 x Deputy Director of Environmental Affairs
|Education and    Moiorn and                              Policy and |
Outreach        Management        Legal Division       Plnin
Division          Division                             Division
Education_& Awareness  Inspection  - Legislation & Regulations    - Policy
_ Environmental Standards  - Compliance&Enforcement - Planning
_ Commutreacatn  - Environmental Monitoring - International Conventions  - Environmental Research
_Outreach
Env. Impact Assessment
Pollution Control






Annex 2
ESP - ROUNDTABLE
(Malawi Institute of Management - 7-8 May)
1.    The ESP Roundtable was attended by a broad group of representatives of agencies of local and
central governments, NGOs, donors and the media. The purpose of the Roundtable was to:
(a)    gain general understanding and acceptance of the programme approach to the execution
of the Environmental Support Programme - led by the Malawi Government - under a
common policy umbrella;
(b)    broaden an understanding of the various environment related programmes and projects
currently underway;
(c)   identify key issues in the execution of the ESP, and develop a consensus on how to deal
with them;
(d)   contribute to the development of a common approach to standard elements of the
programme (such as micro-projects, community natural resources co-management,
environmental education); and
(e)   identify donor support for different elements of the ESP.
2.    The Roundtable was professionally facilitated and involved the use of computerized groupware
to identify and discuss key issues. 1/ Priority issues were identified and working groups were established
to discuss the top seven in detail and make recommendations for action. These were:
*  Participation was identified as the top priority for improved environmental management.
Specific emphasis was given to facilitating the development of community action plans and
effectively empowering local communities. Key recommendations and proposed actions
included the need to change from the top-down planning approach, to inform and educate
local communities, through NGOs, and providing a mechanism to channel funds to
communities. It was recommended that the existing community structures be used to the
maximum extent possible, and that training be provided at all levels.
*   Capacity building: proposed actions included identifying and prioritizing skills gaps at all
levels including local communities, NGOs, MOREA and line ministries, followed by putting
in place training programs with intensive use of local training institutions. Capacity
development for the implementation of the Environmental Support Program should also be
tied to improved performance and the use of monitorable indicators. Funds for capacity
building at all levels should be disbursed on the basis of good performance. Information
management is central to the development of environmental management capacity.
*   Coordination of the different activities in environmental management was seen as critical
for the successful implementation of the ESP. The working group recommended that
A full Roundtable Report is available on file.



MOREA should be strengthened to carry out its functions, and that the ESP is the main tool
for MOREA to coordinate priorities. The key action proposed was for MOREA together
with the Ministry of Finance and EP&D to arrange regular meetings with donors. Other
recommendations included: reviewing MOREA's coordination capacity and preparing an
action plan for strengthening it; rationalization of working groups and cornmittees, and
provision of the resources to meet and to carry out their functions; organization of regular
coordination meetings with key stakeholders; strengthening links between CURE and
MOREA; more effort by CURE to work in the Northern and Central Regions; demonstration
of commitment by donors towards being coordinated; regularly updating the Environmental
Focal Point Directory; using the EIA process and Environmental Informat.ion Systems to
improve coordination and monitoring of the environment; examining opportunities for a
single monitoring and evaluation process and annual reporting system for the ESP.
* Environmental Education should be aimed at all levels of society, both through formal and
non-formal education channels. Specific actions proposed included: development of a
national environmental education strategy; promotion of innovative ways of informing the
population through audio-visual, radio, and traditional media, using daily life experiences;
establishment of environmental education steering committees; training and sensitization of
leaders at the local and national levels; MOREA to play a coordinating role for the
promotion of EE; donors should support the implementation of the strategy. (The
Roundtable was able to provide additional input for environmental education and
communication strategy developed and jointly funded by the UNDP, USAID, and the WB.
* Water Resources Management was one of three priority thematic areas of concern in
environmental management. The key recommendation was to consider the establishment of
a river basin management system, with catchment stakeholder groups. A combination of
regulation (policies, legislation and enforcement) and positive incentives was proposed for
catchment protection. Water quality control policies and regulations should be implemented
or established where they do not exist. Existing programmes for water hyacinth control and
Bilharzia eradication should be strengthened with increased resources.
i Land Degradation was the second major thematic area. The key recommendation for action
was to take a community development approach to combat land degradation and
deforestation, building on NGO and community based organization efforts. Critical areas
identified included the Middle Shire, the area around Lake Chilwa and the Nankumba
Peninsular. Rather than developing new Government run projects in the Middle Shire,
efforts should build on existing programs. Key actions included: making an inventory of all
NGO and government current activities in the areas identified; define target areas and
activities; identify stakeholders and establish coordination mechanisms; find financing for
these activities. Other recommendations focused on the need to use indigenous knowledge
and cultural practices, and to review existing training programs and facilities to maximize
use of local facilities and resources to develop capacity in this area. The need to improve the
national capacity to adapt to climate change and drought through the use oiF improved
meteorological information was also recommended.
* Urban Settlement environmental issues were highlighted. Key recommendations included:
the need to review the effectiveness of existing national policies on urban land tenure and
management of infrastructure and services; capacity building at the community level to



identify problems, and plan and manage urban infrastructure and services; financing of
future urban service provision to be tied to community and other lead agencies'
organization, participation and cooperation. These activities should be coordinated by the
Ministry of Local Government, MOREA, the Ministry of Housing and Local Authorities.
3.    Other issues raised (but not discussed in specific working groups) included decentralization,
population, gender concerns, alternative energy, and bush fires.
4.    Overall, the Roundtable highlighted the need to focus on institutional and capacity development
as critical constraints to tackling specific problems of environmental degradation. The implementation
of the ESP will require significant efforts to ensure that all stakeholders participate, that capacity building
takes place at all levels, that there is strong demand for a coordination function within Government and
among NGOs, and that environmental education and awareness underpin the entire process.



I



Malawi: Environmental Support Program - Indicative Financing Commitments
Components by Financiers
US$ Millions                                    GOM   IDA  IFAD  ADB USAID USAID USA ODA  JICA  KFW NORWAY   EU   UNDP UNDP  GEF   TBI   Total
UNEP
National Environmental Management Capacity Buildi  0.55  5.00           5.60        0.30                                     0.83   0.09          2.00    14.37
Soil Conservation and Fertility                0.20  0.92  0.66                0.17                                  20.74                        2.31    25.00
Forest Resource Conservation and Management    0.10  1.80         1.79  4.00              2.69                 0.05    0.23                       8.00    18.66
Water Resources Conservation and Management    0.15  0.78                                                                                         0.51     1.44
National Parks and Wildlife                    0.43  1.80                                             8.11                                                10.33
Fisheries Resources                                  0.02                                 1.49                                             5.50   2.50    9.52
Community Based Environmental Management             4.00
Human Settlements and Demographic Planning                                                      9.87                                                       9.87
Non-Project Assistance                                                 30.50                                                                              30.50
1.42 14.32  0.66   1.79 40.10   0.17 0.30  4.18  9.87  8.11    0.05   20.96  0.83   0.09   5.50  15.32   123.68
w4






Annex 4
MALAWI - ENVIRONMENTAL SUPPORT PROGRAMME
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
COMMUNITY MOBILIZATION AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICRO-PROJECTS
Concept
1.    The objective of the component is to develop the ability of communities to improve
environmental aspects of their lives, including manage the natural resources which they control and
depend on for a livelihood. It is founded in the belief that many communities in Malawi do have the
capacity to manage and execute their own development projects, but often lack the impetus and initial
capital to get started.
2.    This component will help promote the mobilization of communities to improve environmental
management in rural and urban areas. The component would be facilitated largely by NGOs with the
active involvement of line departments in Govemment. Activities under the component would be
initiated by systematic client consultations and "transformation training" provided by the NGO electing to
work with or chosen by the community. Follow up activities could be financed from "micro-projects"
funds, managed by MOREA, to support environment enhancing activities for the community.
3.    In environmental management, communities, while indirectly benefiting from the externalities of
improved resource management, may not perceive environmental degradation to be more important than
for example, schools or health clinics. Environmental problems thus have to be pro-actively targeted at
the community level. The community micro-projects would be designed, implemented and monitored by
the communities supported, if they so choose, by NGOs, the private sector or extension workers. Funds
would be administered by the Accounting Unit in MOREA, with the final review and approval decisions
to be taken by the Community Mobilization and Micro-projects Steering Committee.
4.    Theftrst stage of the process would be the capacity building, during which the community will
identify its needs and priorities through a participatory appraisal process, and formulate a community
environmental action plan. The plan will identify microprojects to be submitted to the Steering
Committee for approval. The plan would also identify the committee or group within the community
charged with carrying out the action plan, including the associated microprojects. The second stage
would be to finance implementation of those elements of the environment action plan approved by the
Steering Committee. This implementation phase would be led by the village committee identified for this
purpose, and could be supported by an NGO designated by the village. This could be the same NGO
which assisted in community mobilization.
5.    It must be recognized that although many of the concepts have been tested on a small scale in
earlier trials, this component is essentially an extended pilot operation. The concepts and structures
outlined below will be the subject of continuous monitoring during implementation and will be adjusted
as necessary following annual implementation reviews, and on the basis of regular consultation with the
communities, participating NGOs and Government line departments. Particular emphasis will be placed
on maintaining the community as the central focus of the program, and facilitating communities to
identify their own needs and challenges for environmental management, rather than prescribing certain
actions or activities for them. Monitoring will also aim to ensure that the administrative burden does not



become too great to enable this to be replicated on a larger scale, and to ensure that there is convergence
of approach among different schemes.
Structure and Governance
Steering Committee
6.    The Community Mobilization and Environmental Microprojects activity would have a Steering
Committee consisting of representatives of the Government (MOREA, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of
Natural Resources, Ministry of Economic Planning and Development), the NGO community, and the
private sector. The Steering Committee would review proposals on the basis of the criteria specified
below, its consistency with regional and sectoral priorities, and MOREA policy and guidelines. Where
necessary additional inputs would be sought from participating NGOs and communities.
Coordinating Body
7.    MOREA would provide the leadership in the implementation of this component, through a
special team constituted within the Outreach Unit of the Environmental Affairs Department. This team
would include a contracted Coordinator of Community Mobilization and Environmental Microprojects
(CMEM), supporting staff, a vehicle and office equipment. While the team is expected to provide
leadership in carrying out this component, actual implementation would be contracted out as follows:
*  entering into contractual agreements as required with an agency for the training of NGOs in
community mobilization (including Participatory Rural Assessment techniques);
*  entering into contractual agreements with NGOs for carrying out (i) community mobilization
activities; (ii) preparation of community environment action plans; and (iii) monitoring the
implementation of such action plans.
In addition, the CMEM Team in MOREA, under the guidance of the Steering Committee and other
parties, would be responsible for:
* registering the NGOs who would participate in the program;
* defining the areas to be targeted under the program;
* receiving and providing initial review and feed back (as needed) on commtnity mobilization
proposals, ensuring that each proposal met the required criteria, and would be carried out
according to standardized procedures;
* presenting the various proposals from the eligible communities and NGOs to the Steering
Committee for approval;
* collecting the reports and monitoring the NGOs as the community mobilization activities are
completed;
*  overseeing the administrative and financial requirements of the program; and
* commissioning periodic evaluations of the program by outside agencies.
Funding Mechanisms:
8.    The funds for this activity will be managed by MOREA. Activities would be carried out on a
contractual basis. One agreement, between MOREA and the training agency, will set out the procedures
for training NGOs in participatory rural assessment and preparation of community environment action
plans. A second set of agreements, between MOREA and each of the participating NGOs, would set out
the responsibility of the participating NGOs in mobilizing communities and in monitoring the
implementation of the community environment action plans once approved. A third set of agreements
-2 -



would be established between MOREA and the community and would specify the nature of the grant to
be provided to the community for the implementation of the approved micro-project, and would set out
the responsibilities of the various parties in ensuring this grant is correctly used. Funds for financing
community micro-projects would be paid (in cash or kind) directly to the community as a grant, upon
authorization by the Steering Committee. MOREA will establish and maintain an accounting system for
the implementation of this component, through its central accounting system (to be reinforced with an
accounts clerk who would focus exclusively on this task).
Capacity Buildingfor Communities
Implementing NGOs:
9.    Capacity building of the communities in environmental awareness (including natural resource
management) would be carried out by NGOs, in collaboration with the relevant line ministries (i.e.
Departments of Forestry, and Parks and Wildlife). After an initial publicity campaign, interested NGOs
could apply to MOREA's Environmental Microprojects Team to determine eligibility to be in the
program (see criteria below). Eligibility would be determined based on:
*  track record in community based activities;
*  experience, interest or commitment to natural resource management activities at the community
level;
*  administrative capacity (ability to carry out agreed tasks, manage funds and report on them
responsibly and accurately);
*  ongoing activities with communities in the geographic area of relevance to the ESP.
10.   The agreements for community mobilization would be standardized, and would be prepared on
the basis of negotiations between MOREA and representatives of the NGO community. Initial features
of such agreements have been developed in the course of project preparation, and were field tested in the
Pilot phase of this component. A key principle would be to reimburse the NGO for direct costs incurred
in carrying out the activity. Under the first (mobilization) phase of the agreement, the NGOs would carry
out a participatory rural assessment, and work with the community towards the formulation of a
community environmental action plan. This phase would conclude with the presentation of the action
plan by the community to MOREA.
11.   In view of the desire to keep MOREA at arms length from actual implementation activities, and
in light of MOREA's limited capacity to carry out community based activities, the responsibility for
monitoring implementation of approved community action plans at the village level would also be
contracted out to the NGOs involved in community mobilization. Under this second phase of the
contract, the NGO would monitor the community's efforts to use funds provided by MOREA to
implement the action plan, and assist where necessary to ensure a satisfactory outcome. Following
completion of village activities under the community environment action plan, the supervising NGO
would prepare a brief report on the activities completed.
Eligible Communities
12.   Criteria for communities to receive "mobilization" training and capacity building could include:
* they are located in one of the priority areas for environmental intervention defined by MOREA
under the ESP;
-3 -



* communities to be "mobilized" should have shown some interest in, and commitment to,
improving management of their natural resources;
13.   Interested communities would participate in the program through participating NGOs, DDCs and
other channels and request to be included in the CMEM program.
Community Based Environmental Micro-projects
14.   The second stage following community mobilization activities, and the formulation of the
environmental action plan, would be the financing of "micro-projects", i.e. activities or investments in the
community environmental action plan, which are related to improved environmental and natural resource
management. Communities could receive support and encouragement from the NGO which provided the
initial training. Technical assistance (from NGOs, line Ministries, or other sources) would be identified,
to assist the community in achieving its targets. Funds would be provided to the community on a grant
basis. Eligibility criteria could include the following to ensure that proposals:
*  are a relevant piece of a coherent environmental management plan prepared by the community
committee charged with environmental and natural resource management responsibilities;
*  include commitment by the community to behavior change and some kind of material
contribution in labor or materials (at least 10 percent of the total value of the proposed micro-
project);
*  include financial provision for outside "technical assistance" where necessary to ensure
successful implementation of proposed project. This assistance could be contracted from a local
NGO, or other source to be defined by community;
*  do not include items which could be funded under MASAF (i.e. heavy infrastructure such as
boreholes, water supply systems, school buildings, and health posts);
*  are graduated and iterative. The community will have to build credibility that it can indeed use
the resources effectively. In this sense, the first community "project" would be relatively small,
with an initial financial contribution of a maximum of, say, US$1,500-$3,000 for rural micro-
projects. On successful completion of this, the community would be eligible to apply for a
second or third project. These amounts are indicative and will be reviewed during the course of
implementing the program. A ceiling of US$5,000 is indicated for the set of microprojects to be
implemented under any given community environmental action plan in rural areas. A ceiling of
US$20,000 has been set for microprojects in an environmental action plan in urban areas;
*  include indicators of success, suggested by the community, for the micro-project to measure
progress during implementation. The community would also undertake to provide information
on the impact of the project (say on reforestation of areas, or reduction of soil loss, improved
waste management).
15.   The collaborating NGO would continue to work with the community, if requested, in
coordinating and supervising microproject implementation, under contract to MOREA. Communities
could, through the use of microproject funds, engage an NGO or other entity to provide more costly
technical support (say in the design of civil works) needed to implement the action plan. With the
experience gained, the community will then be empowered to seek finance for further projects from other
funding sources, such as MASAF and the EU Community Development Fund.
16.   The microproject proposals would be worked out by the community along with the NGO which
provided them with mobilization training. Once the environmental action plan was satisfactory, it would
be submitted to MOREA and the Steering Committee for review and approval. MOREA would maintain
a registry of projects and would contract an assessment of their execution, as warranted.
-4 -



Line Ministry Activities
17.   Within the context of the ESP, the line departments, including of Forestry, and Parks and
Wildlife, will be planning and implementing co-management activities which involve community
mobilization. The departments concerned have only limited capacity for doing the capacity building
work in communities and would therefore rely largely on NGOs and other organizations to carry this out.
In particular, the Wildlife Department is likely to use NGOs in working with the communities
surrounding the Protected Areas to develop co-management arrangements. This could be done either
through direct contract, and financed out of the Departmental allocations for the co-management
activities, or otherwise through the community mobilization component. This will allow the Departments
to ensure that the activities are carried out in the priority areas that they have selected (e.g., forest reserve
areas). Subsequently, the communities may wish to implement activities using the microproject funds. In
this case they would apply for the funds in accordance with the same criteria as those established for
NGO initiated activities. Training should also be provided for staff in line Departments in capacity
building for communities.
-5 -



I



Annex 5
MALAWI ENVIRONMENTAL SUPPORT PROGRAMME
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT: IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT SCHEDULE
Project      Mission       Activity                                               Skill Requirement
Year        N0                                                                                                SW
PYI            I        Launch: review of organization and management,         - Task Team Leader          2
accounting system, procurement arrangements and plan,  - Financial                2
Sept. 1997    service contracts, training program, community based  Analyst/Disbursement        2
environmental management, work plans PYI.             - Procurement Specialist    2
April.                                                                            - Institutional Specialist  2
19971                                                                             - Community/Natural
March.                                                                            Resource Specialist
1998
2        Review of procurement, accounting, training
M & E system, EIS, donor coordination, community based    - Task Team Leader
Feb. 1997    environmental management, ElAs and enviromnental      - M & E/EIS Specialist       2
education.                                            -Sociologist                2
- Environmental Education   2
Specialist                  2
- EIA Specialist            2
3        Review of field activities, training, procurement,
disbursements, accounting, M&E, donor coordination.   - Task Team Leader          2
June 1998    Discuss PY1 perfornance and PY2 work program.         - Procurement Specialist     2
-Community/Natural          2
Resource Management
Specialist
PY 2
4
Oct. 1998    Review of field activities, training, procurement,    - Task Team Leader          2
April                      accounting, disbursements, M&E/EIS.                    - Ecologist                 2
1998/                                                                             - Institutional Specialist  2
March                                                                             -M&E/EIS Specialist         2
1999                                                                              Financial Analyst           2
5
- Task Team Leader          2
March 1999   Review of field activities training, procurement, accounting   - EIA Specialist     2
and disbursements. Discuss PY2 performance and PY3    -Climate Change Specialist    2
work program.                                                    ..2
-Health Specialist          2
-Procurement Specialist



Sept. 1999    Review of activities, procurement, disbursements,  -Task Team Leader           2
financial perfonnance, and donor coordination.      -Financial Analyst          2
7                                                             -Sociologist/Ecologist
April
March         Feb. 2000    Mid-term review and discuss annual work plan for PY4.  -Task Team Leader        2
2000                      -Project Design                                      -EcologistVSociologist      2
- progress in institutional development             -M&E Specialist             2
- effectiveness of training programs                -Institutional Specialist   2
-effectiveness of policy and legal frarnework       -Procurement Specialist     2
- effectiveness of the NGO and community level activities    -NGO Technical Expert  2
-progress in carrying out the various studies
-monitoring and evaluation
-Procurement
-Financial Performance
-Audits
-Disbursements
-Donor Coordination
PY4           8
Aug. 2000    Review of activities, procurement, disbursements.     - Task Team Leader         2
- Ecologist/Sociologist    2
- Procurement Specialist   2
April
2000/           9         Review of activities. Discuss PY 4 performance and PY5  - Task Teamn Leader      2
March                     work program.                                        - Financial Analyst         2
2001        Feb. 2001
- M&E Specialist           2
PY5
0 O        Review of activities, procurement, disbursements.    -Task Team Leader           2
2001/       Aug. 2001                                                          -Ecologist/Sociologist      2
March                                                                          -Procurement Specialist     2
2002           11                                                                                                l
Feb. 2002     Review of PY5 activities, procurement, disbursements.  -Task Team Leader        2
-Financial Analyst         2
l_________                                                                      -M&E Specialist             2
12
April
2002/         Dec. 2002    Program Closing Date.
June 2003
13          Review of activities, disbursements, implementation  -Task Team Leader          2
June2003      completion report
June2    J-



Malawi
Environmental Management Project
Project Cost Summary
(Kwacha '000)                                       (USS '000)
%  Total                                      %          Total
Foreign    Base                                  Foreign    Base
Local    Fortign    Tntal    xhange    Costs    Local   Fortign   Total   Exchange  Costs
A. Institutional Development
MOREA Institutional Strengthening                 3,SS5.0  20,137.5  23,692.5          85         13    237.0  1,342.5  1,579.5          85        13
Environment Information System                    6,532.5   5,767.5  12,300.0          47          7    435.5    384.5    820.0          47         7
Environmental Impact Assessment                   1.469.3   3.679.5   5.148i8          71          3      98.0    245.3    343.3         71         3
Subtotal Institutional Development                  11,556.8  29,584.5  41,141.3          72         22    770.5  1,972.3  2,742.8          72        22
B. Environmontal Zducation
Environmental Education                          15.301.2  11256.0  26.557.2          42         14  1.020.1    750.4  1.770.5          42        14
Subtotal Environmntal Education                    15,301.2  11,256.0  26,557.2          42         14  1,020.1    750.4  1,770.5          42        14
C. Commanity Environmental management
NGO-Based Community Environmental Management  23,178.8   7,533.8  30,712.5             25         17  1,545.3    502.3  2,047.5          25        17
Forest Resources Co-Management                    9,130.1  15,347.6  24,477.8          63         13    608.7  1,023.2  1,631.9          63        13
Wildlife Co-management .                         11.,067.4  15,750.8  26.818.1         59         14    737.8  1.050.1 1.7.87.9          52        14
Subtotal Community Environsental Management         43,376.3  38,632.1  82,008.4          47         44  2,891.8  2,575.5  5,467.2          47        44
D. Environmental Actions and Studies
Environmental Actions and Studies                 8,617.5   6,907.5  15,525.0          44          8    574.5    460.5  1,035.0          44         8
Climate Change                                    2,425.5   4,602.0   7,027.5          65          4    161.7    306.8    468.5          65         4
Water Hyacinth Control Program                    6,311.8   4,117.0  10,428.8          39          6    420.8    274.5    695.3          39         6
Natural Resources Policy Formulation                94s.0   2,130.0   3_.0750          69          2      63.0    142.0    205.0         69         2
Subtotal Environmental Actions and Studies          18.2q998  17,756.5   36,056.3          49        19  1.220.0  1.13.8  2.403.8          49        19
Total BASELINE COSTS                                 88,534.0  97,229.1 185,763.1           52       100  5,902.3  6,481.9 12,384.2          52       100
Physical Contingencies                              4,653.1   5,110.5   9,763.6          52          5    310.2    340.7    650.9          52         S
Price Contingencies                               59395,5  48.784.5 108.179.9           45         58    374.8          314.4     689.1   46         6
total PROJECT COSTS                                 152,582.5 151,124.1 303,706.6           50       163  6,587.2  7,137.0 13,724.2           52      111
Thu Jan 23 18:12:32 1997
19-1 Project Cost Summary



Malawi
Environmental Management Project
Project Cost Summary
(Kwacha '000)                                        lUSS 1000)
t      % Total                                    t     % Total
Foreign    Base                                   Foreign    Base
Local    ForeigU    IoLal   Exchange    Soats    LocaL  Eoreiga   Total   BxehanLg   Costa
I. Iavetment Coat.
A. Materials                                  70.5       70.5      141.0         50          -       4.7       4.7      9.4        50
D. Civil Works
Rehab.of Park Buildings                 3,675.0   1,575.0   5,250.0           30          3    245.0    105.0    350.0          30         3
Construction Buildings                  3,136.9   1,344.4   4,481.3           30          2    209.1      89.6    298.8         30         2
Rehab.of Park Roads                      292.-5   i,282.5   4,27S.0           30          2    199.5       BS.A    285.0        30 _      2
Subtotal Civil Works                       9,804.4   4,201.9  14,006.3           30          8    653.6    280.1    933.8          30         8
C. Vehiclea                                1,668.0  15,012.0  16,680.0           90          9    111.2  1,000.8  1,112.0          90         9
D. 8quipment&Furniture                       838.1   7,547.9   8,386.5           90          5      55.9    503.2    559.1         90         5
S. Technical AsJidtasce
Technical Assistance International             -  21,720.0  21,720.0         100         12         -  1,448.0  1,448.0        100        12
Technical Assistance National           5.821.9          -   S.821.9           -          3    388.1               388.1         -3
Subtotal Technical Assistance              5,821.9  21,720.0  27,541.9           79         15    388.1  1,448.0  1,836.1          79        15
F. Training
Study Tours                                   -   2,625.0   2,625.0          100          1         -    175.0    175.0        100         1
In Country Courses                      7,555.1   7,555.1  15,110.3           50          a    503.7    503.7  1,007.4          so         8
External Courses                              -   7,668.0   7,668.0          100          4         -    511.2    511.2        100         4
Workshops                              11,521.2          -  11,521.2           -          6    768.1          -    768.1         -         6
Publications and Materials                859.5          -     8S9.5           -          -     57.3          -     57.3         -         -
Community Mobilization(Rural)          12656.3 _ 1.406.3  14-062.5            10          8    843.8      93.8    9375         10       _a8
Subtotal Training                         32,592.1  19,254.4  51,846.5           37         28  2,172.8  1,283.6  3,456.4          37        28
G. Studies                                 5,853.8   5,853.8  11,707.5           50          6    390.3    390.3    780.5          50         6
V. Micro Projects Grants
Rural Community Projects                7,087.5      787.5   7,875.0          10          4    472.5      52.5    525.0         10         4
Urban/Peri Urban Communities            2,812.5   2.812.5   5.625.0           50          3    187.-5   187.5 37 5.0            so         3
Subtotal Micro Projects Grants             9,900.0   3,600.0  13,500.0           27          7    660.0    240.0    900.0          27         7
I. Other Investment Costs                  5,715.0   5.715.0  11.430J.           so          6    381.0    381.0    762.0          so         6
Total invetaent Coats                         72,264.2  82,975.4 155,239.6           53         84  4,817.6  5,531.7 10,349.3           53        84
II. Recurrent Coots
A. OperatingMNaintenance Costs
O0M for Vehicles                        3,795.7   8,856.8  12,652.5           70          7    253.1    590.5    843.5          70         7
OLM Other                                 333.3      777.0   1.110.0          70          1     22.2 5.1.8          74.0        70         1
Subtotal Operating&Xaintenance Coat.    4,128.7   9,633.8  13,762.5              70          7    275.2    642.3    917.5          70         7
B. Supplies&Materials                      4,620.0   4,620.0   9,240.0           50          5    308.0    308.0    616.0          50         5
C. Allowances&Perdiems                     7.521 Q1-   7                          - 7 24 .50;                    -    501.4         -         4
Total Recurrent Costa                         1S.269.3  14.253.j  _.523Ji 47                    16  1,084.7    950.3  2,034.9          47        16
Total BASELINE COSTS                           88,534.0  97,229.1 185,763.1           52        100  5,902.3  6,481.9 12,384.2          52       100
Physical Contingencies                        4,653.1   5,110.5   9,763.6           52          5    310.2    340.7    650.9          52         5
Price Contingencies                          S9.39S 5  48.784.S  108.179.9          45       s5   374.8    314.4    689.1             46         6
Total PROJXCT COSTS                           152,582.5 151,124.1 303,706.6           50        163  6,587.2  7,137.0 13,724.2          52       111
Thu Jan 23 18:12:34 1997
20-1 Project Cost Summary



Malawi
Environmental Management Project
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
(us$ '000)
Commninity Environmental Management
Institutional Development          Environmental   NGO-Based
MOREA      Environment  Environmental   Education      Community       Forest
Institutional  Information      Impact     Environmental Environmental   Resources      Wildlife
Strengthening    System      Assessment      Education    Management   Co-Manacement Co-management
I. lnvestment Costs
A. Materials
S. Civil Works
Rehab.of Park buildings                                       -              -             -              -              -         394.1
Construction Buildings                                        -              -             -              -          13.1              -
Rehab.of Park Roads                             -             -              -             -              -              -         309-3
Subtotal Civil Works                               -             -              -             -              -          13.1          703.4
C. Vehicles                                    165.0          55.6              -          70.6           31.9         459 0          316.9
D. Equipnent&Furniture                          98.6         147.8           18.1          14.7            5.3          79.4           91.1
B. Technical Assistance.
Technical Assistance International          616.0             -          130.8         361.7          117.4          21.2          195.6
Technical Assistance National                   -              -           2.4          40.1              -          63.8            4.8
Subtotal Technical Assistance                  616.0             -          133.2         401.8          117.4          85.0          200.4
F. Training
Study Tours                                 163.0             -              -          27.2              -              -             -
In Country Courses                          169.2          33.0          100.8         155.8           28.9         201.3          272.6
External Courses                            250.1             -           43.3          96.7              -         100.3              -
Workshops                                       -          32.7           26.1         763.1              -          38.5              -
Publications and Materials                                    -              -          63.5              -              -             -
Community Mobilization(Rural)                   -             -              -             -        1.0S9.i              -             -
Subtotal Training                              582.3          65.7          170.2       1,106.2        1,088.1         340.1          272.6
G. Studies                                     127.5         112.2              -          13.3            6.7              -          98.6
R. Micro Projects Grants
Rural Community Projects                                       -             -             -          587.5              -             -
Urban/Peri Urban Communities                    -             -              -             -          418 9              -
Subtotal Micro Projects Grants                                   -              -             -        1,006.3              -             -
I. Other Investment Costs                          -             -           37.2         363.8              -              -             -
Total Investment Costs                           1,589.4         381.3          358.7       1,970.4        2,255.6          976.5       1,683.0
II. Recurrent Costs
A. OporatingsMaintenance Costs
O&M for Vehicles                             51.0          17.0              -             -           17.0         490.2          250.7
O&  Other                          __ _                                            _                      __
Subtotal Operating&Maintenance Costs            51.0          17.0              -             -           17.0         490.2          250.7
B. Supplies&Materials                           56.7         315.9           13.8             -            5.7         140.6           39.7
C. Allowances&Perdiems                          42 5         198.5              -             -           17 0         196-2              -
Total Recurrent Costs                              150 2         531.5           13.8             -           39 7         827 0          290.4
Total PROJECT COSTS                               1,739.6         912.7          372.4       1,970.4        2,295.3       1,803.5        1,973.4
Taxes                                                 -             _              _             _              _              _             _
Foreign Exchange                                1,478 .6        425.4          266.2         828.7          557.2       1,123.8        1,154.4
Thu Jan 23 18:12:38 1997
21-1 Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies



Malawi
Environmental Management Project
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Coutingencias
(us$ '000)
Enyixm yLa1ign^anL
Water         Natural
Environmental                   Hyacinth       Resources
Actions and      Climate        Control        Policy
studies        Change        Proaram      Formulation- Total
I. Invustuant Costs
A. Materials                                                        -           10.0              -      10.0
D. Civil Works
Rehab.of Park Buildings                                          -              -              -    394.1
Construction Buildings                        305.0              -            1.9              -    319.9
Rehab.of Park Roads                 -_-__                                       -      -       -    3093
Subtotal Civil Works                             305.0              -            1.9              -  1,023.3
C. Vehicles                                          -           31.9           66.9              -  1,197.8
D. Equipment&Furniture                               -           70.3           78.8            5.3    609.4
Z. Technical AmLstance
Technical Assistance International                -           81.9              -           64.3  1,589.0
Technical Assistance National                     -            9.6         308.1               -    428.7
Subtotal Technical Amistane-                        -           91.5          308.1           64.3  2,017.7
P. Training
Study Tours                                       -              -              -              -    190.2
In Country Courses                                -         100.1               -           48.9  1,110.6
External Courses                                  -              -          44.9            26.9    562.2
Workshops                                                        -              -              -    060.4
Publications and Materials                                                      -              -     63.5
ComAunity Mobilization(Rural)                     -          --_-               -       __-    059 1
Subtotal Training                                    -          100.1           44.9           75.8  3,845.9
G. Studies                                       390.0           69.9           36.7              -    855.0
R. Micro trojecta grants
Rural Cowmunity Projects                          -              -              -              -    587.5
Urban/Peri Urban Communities         -_-_-_-_418- 
Subtotal Micro Projects Grants                                      -              -              -  1,006.3
I. Other Investment Costs                       450 1               -              -              -    851.1
Total Sinveatent Conte                             1,145.1          363.7          547.4          145.4 11,416.5
SS.  lcurrant Coste
A. OperatingAMaintenanc- Costs
001 for Vehicles                                              17.0           86.1           28.3    957.3
06M Other                                         -           M 8           28 3               -      6:1
Subtotal Operating&Kaintenance Costs                 -           71.8          114.4           28.3  1,040.5
B. Supplies&Naterials                                -           56.7          39.3            28.3    696.7
C. Allowances&Perdiems                               -           25-5           6981           22.7    570.6
Total Recurrent Coats                                    -          154 0          221.a           794  2,307-7
Total PROJlCT COSTS                                 1,145.1          517.7          769.2          224.8 13,724.2
Taxes                                                   _              _              _              _         _
Foreign Exchange                                    511.2          337.4         299.7           154.4  7,i37.0
21-2 Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies



Malawi
Environmental Management Project
Project Componenta by Year
(us$ '000)
Totals Including Contingencies
1997     199A     1999      2000     2Q   Ttal
A. Institutional Davelopment
MOREA Institutional Strengthening                 513.1    405.3    321.3    368.5    131.4  1,739.6
Environment Information System                    235.1    272.6    156.6    137.3    111.3    912.7
Environmental Impact Assessment                   175.5      91.4     76.8      22.8      5.9    372.4
Subtotal Institutional Development                   923.7    769.3    554.7    528.6    248.6  3,024.8
A. Environmental Education
Environmental Education                           214.2   566.3    453.2    386.1 .3S, 350Q.  -1-.922.4
Subtotal Bnvironmental Education                     214.2    566.3    453.2    386.1    350.6  1,970.4
C. Community Environmental Management
NGO-Based Community Environmental Management    234.2    303.1    464.1    581.8    712.1  2,295.3
Forest Resources Co-Management                    655.7    435.3    284.5    222.2    205.8  1,803.5
Wildlife Co-management                            528.3    558.9    260.7    481.3    144.2  1.973. .
Subtotal Community Environsental Management        1,418.2  1,297.2  1,009.3  1,285.3  1,062.1  6,072.2
D. Environmental Actions and Studios
Environmental Actions and Studies                 212.5    337.2    250.3    170.7    174.4  1,145.1
Climate Change                                    179.6    110.6      79.8      81.6     66.0    517.7
Water Hyacinth Control Program                    279.6    111.5    149.1    130.5       98.5    769.2
Natural Resources Policy Formulation            _7     ....            32.6   _ 162       16 ._C  _22Lt
Subtotal Environmental Actions and Studies           7s9.6    G30.8    SllB       399.1    355.5j i2_656.8
Total PROJECT COSTS                                 3,315.7  3,263.6  2,529.0  2,599.1  2,016.8 13,724.2
Thu Jan 23 18:12:42 1997
22-1 Project Components by Year



Malawi
Environmental Management Project
Project Components by Year -- Investment/Recurrent Costs
(US$ 000)
Totals Including Contingencies
1997     199SJL    1999      2O000     2001    Tot Mw
A. Institutional Development
YORSA Institutional Strengthening
Investment Costs                                          484.4    376.0    291.3    337.7    100.0  1,589.4
Recurrent Costs                                        _ 287         29-4      30.1      30.7     31.4 4   1502
Subtotal MOREA Inetitutional Strongthening                   513.1    405.3    321.3    368.5    131.4  1,739.6
Environment Information System
Investment Costs                                          107.3    175.0       56.7     35.3       7.0    381.3
Recurrent Costs                                           127.8      97.6      99L8    102.Q    104. 3     51.315
Subtotal Environment Information System                      235.1    272.6    156.6    137.3    111.3    912.7
Environmental Impact Ase-sment
Investment Costs                                          175.5      88.0      73.4     19.3       2.3    358.7
Recurrent Costs                                                -      33        3.4            3     .36    L138
Subtotal Environmental Impact Assessment                     175 5      91 4      76. 8 ._22_Q         5 9    372.A
Subtotal Institutional Development                               923.7    769.3    554.7    528.6    248.6  3,024.8
S. *nvironmntal 7ducation
nvironmental Education
Investment Costs                                          214-2    566. 3    453i2    386.1 .350.6  1970.      4
Subtotal gnvironmental Education                                 214.2    566.3    453.2    386.1    350.6  1,970.4
C. Community Environmental Management
NGO-Based Community Environmental Management
Investment Costs                                          226.6    295.3    456.2    573.7    703.8  2,255.6
Recurrent Costs                                             7.6       7.8       7.9       8 1       8-3     39.7
Subtotal IGO-Eased Community Environmental Management    234.2    303.1    464.1    581.8    712.1  2.295.3
Forest Resources Co-Management
Investment Costs                                          521.3    278.8    119.0       43.7      13.8    976.5
Recurrent Costs                                           1345    1565    1 1i5-    178.5    19  0.    227
Subtotal Forest Resources Co-Management                      655.7    435.3    284.5    222.2    205.8  1,803.5
Wildlife Co-management
Investment Costs                                          485.5    499.0    199.5    418.7        80.2  1,683.0
Recurrent Costs                                            42.8      59.8      61.2     62 6      64-0    290-4
Subtotal Wildlife Co-management                              528.3    558 9    276Q7    481 A       144 2  1 971 4
Subtotal Community Rnvironmental Management                   1,418.2  1,297.2  1,009.3  1,285.3  1,062.1  6,072.2
D. Environmntal Actions and Studies
Environmental Actions end Studies
Investment Costs                                          212.5    337.2    250.3    170.7    174.4  1,145.1
Climate Change
Investment Costs                                          137.0      83.7      52.3     53.5      37.2    363.7
Recurrent Costs                                            42. 5     26_2      27.6               28.       S40282  28 B
Subtotal Climate Change                                      179.6    110.6       79.8      81.6     66.0    517.7
Water Hyacinth Control Program
Investment Costs                                          233.0      65.0    107.1      87.6      54.6    547.4
Recurrent Costs                                            46.6      46-5      42.0     4292    43.8    221-8
Subtotal Water 8yacinth Control Program                      279.6    111.5    149.1    130.5        98.5    769Q2
Natural Resources Policy *ore lation
Investment Costs                                           72.8      56.0      16.7         -         -    145.4
Recurrent Costs                                            15.2      1.5R5    15.9      162       16.6      72_4
Subtotal Natural Resources Policy Formulation                 87-9      71 -      326S L" 162 1L.6.   2aa  8
Subtotal Environmontal Actions and Studies                      7S9 .6    630.8    511.8    399.1    355 .5  2,656-1
Total PROJECT COSTS                                            3,315.7  3,263.6  2,529.0  2,599.1  2,016.8 13,724.2
Total Investoent Costs                                       2,870.2  2,820.3  2,075.7  2,126.3  1,524.1 11,416.5
Total Recurrent Costs                                          445.5    443.3    453.3    472.8    492.7  2,307.7
Thu Jan 23 l8:12:44 1997
23-1 Project Components by Year -- Investment/Recurrent Costs



Malawi
Environmental Management Project
Expenditure Accounts by Years
(US$ '000)
Totals Including Contingencies
1997     1998      1999      2000     2001    Total
I. Tnvetment Costs
A. Materials                                  8.5      0.8       0.8         -         -     10.0
B. Civil Works
Rehab.of Park Buildings                  55.8      10.9         -    315.8      11.6    394.1
Construction Buildings                  214.4    105.5          -         -        -    319.9
Rehab.of Park Roads                      8.0          168.6  557          -        -     309.3
Subtotal Civil Works                       355.2    285.0       55.7    315.8      11.6  1,023.3
C. Vehicles                                690.4    382.5       11.1    113.7         -  1,197.8
D. Equipment&Furniture                     229.0    199.4       64.5      93.2     23.3    609.4
F. Technical Agdstance
Technical Assistance International    437.6    467.2    342.3    206.9    134.9  1,589.0
Technical Assistance National           132.3      60.6      93.1     87.9      54.9 ...A2D.L
Subtotal Technical Assistance              569.9    527.8    435.4    294.8    189.8  2,017.7
P. Traiaing
Study Tours                              53.1      81.5      55.6         -        -    190.2
In Country Courses                      258.3    297.1    270.8    162.8    121.6  1,110.6
External Courses                         93.8    186.1    166.5    113.5         2.3    562.2
Workshops                                51.3    208.7    220.6    183.6    196.2    860.4
Publications and Materials                3.7      21.7     26.6       7.4       4.1      63.5
Community Mobilization(Rural)            66.4         136.0     208.8     284.5    363.3  1.059.1
Subtotal Training                          526.7    931.1    948.8    751.8    687.5  3,845.9
G. Studies                                  307.6    197.9    176.9       84.2     88.4    855.0
H. Micro Projects Grants
Rural Community Projects                 36.8      75.5    115.8    157.8    201.5    587.5
Urban/Peri Urban Communities             39.95     40.4      S2.7    126.B    129.6    418.2
Subtotal Micro Projects Grants               76.3    115.8    198.5    284.6    331.1  1,006.3
1. Other Investment Costs                  106.2    179.9    184.0    188.2    192.3 ___1.1J_
Total Investment Costs                        2,870.2  2,820.3  2,075.7  2,126.3  1,524.1 11,416.5
II. Recurrent Costs
A. OperatingaMaintenance Costs
O&M for Vehicles                        163.1    191.9    196.3    200.8    205.3    957.3
O&M Other                                29.0      13.1      13.4     13,7      14.0      83.1
Subtotal Operatipg&Maintenance Costs       192.2    204.9    209.7    214.4    219.3  1,040.5
B. Suppliesh&aterials                       160.0    133.9    131.3    134.3    137.2    696.7
C. Allowances&Perdiems                       93 4    104.5    112.4    124.1    136.2    570-6
Total Recurrent Costs                           44S.5    443.3    453.3    472.8   _A.22.2  2,307.7
Total PROJRCT COSTS                            3,315.7  3,263.6  2,529.0  2,599.1  2,016.8 13,724.2
Thu Jan 23 18:12:47 1997
24-1 Expenditure Accounts by Years



Malawi
Environmental Management Project
Procurement Accounts by Financire
(US$ '000)
Local Duties
The Government          IDA      _         Total         For.   (EXcI.    &
2AmlC_nL   t      Amonut      t      Amount      %      Exch.  Taxes)  Taxes
1. Civil Works               102.3    10.0    920.9       90.0  1,023.3        7.5   306.7   716.6        -
2. Vehicles and Equipment    61.2       2.3  2,607.1      97.7  2,668.3       19.4 2,056.6   611.7        -
3. Consultants                    -       -  2,872.7    100.0  2,872.7        20.9 2,016.2   856.5        -
4. Training                  713.2    18.5  3,132.7       81.5  3,845.9       28.0 1,413.2 2,432.8        -
S. Community Grants               -       -  1,006.3    100.0  1,006.3         7.3   268.0   738.3        -
6. Personnel Allowances      131.4    23.0    439.2       77.0    570.6        4.2       -   570.6        -
7. Operating Costs           353.4    20.3  13.33.8       79.7  1.737.1       12.7 1.076.3   660..        -
Total                         1,361.5      9.9 12,362.7       90.1 13,724.2    100.0 7,137.0 6,587.2         -
Thu Jan 23 18:12:29 1997
17-1 Procurement Accounts by Financiers



(US$ 000)
Costs
Financing to be
Availabl  Financed    The Government
1DA    Project              Cumulative
Amqunt    Costs   cash Flow  Cash Flow
1          -  1,657.9   -1,657.9   -1,657.9
2    1,632.6  1,657.9        -25.2   -1,683.1
3    1,632.6  1,631.8          0.8   -1,682.3
4    1,610.1  1,631.8        -21.7   -1,704.0
5    1,610.1  1,264.5       345.6   -1,358.3
6    1,256.7  1,264.5         -7.8   -1,366.1
7    1,256.7  1,299.6       -42.8   -1,409.0
8    1,033.1  1,299.6      -266.4   -1,675.4
9    1,033.1  1,008.4        24.7   -1,650.7
10     648.8  1,008.4    *-359.6   -2,010.3
11     648.8         -      648.8   -1.361.5
Total  12,362.7 13,724.2   -1,361.5   -1,361.5
Thu Jan 23 18:12:30 1997
18-1 Disbursements by Semesters and Government Cash Flow






ENVIRONMENTAL SUPPORT PROGRAM - PERFORMANCE MONITORING INDICATORS
Narrative                     Indicators                  Measurement                     Assumptions
Project Development Objectives
Improved Policy and Institutional  Adoption of National      NEP adopted in February 1996,    Improved policies will actually
Framework                         Environment Policy and     EMA enacted in June 1996. EMA   make a difference and that there
Environment Management    sets out role of EAD, and Public  will be sufficient capacity and
Act. Role of MOREA and    Services Commission expedites     political will to implement the
EAD established and agreed   recruitment of staff           new policies
Promulgation guidelines and   By December 1997
regulations under the EMA
Revision and review of     forestry 9/98
sectoral policies and      fisheries 9/98
legislation                parks and wildlife 9/98
soil conservation 9/98
land tenure 9/99
water/irrigation 9/98
Improved capacity to manage natural  Increased staffing for  Full staffing complement achieved   Capacity development will be
resources and environment at all  MOREA                      and maintained 12/96, and annually  sustainable - staff turnover,
levels                                                       monitored thereafter             political support for institutions
concerned remains high. Must
Effective coordination of:  Frequency of meetings           maintain momentum through
training and replacement of staff
*  National Council for the   Twice per year                when turnover occurs.
Environment
*   Parliamentary Committee During each Session             Availability of Funding.
*   Technical Committees on  At least three times per year
the Environment        regular with focal points - specific
*   ministries             agenda
*   NGOs                   regular organized by CURE
*   donors                 monthly - thematic



Preparation of annual      Annual Review process
WorkPlans
Effective establishment of  Official designation of focal points
environmental focal points    by 12/97
network
EIS - Establishment of     Demonstration pilot for Shire River  Incentives for data collection and
effective EIS              system - mapping and data input    supply sufficiently strong for
accomplished (12/98)            focal points and others to supply
data
Training                   Establishment and implementation
of training programs for MOREA,
line Ministries, NGOs,
Communities
12/97. Annually thereafter,
numbers of training course and
people trained
Effective empowerment of          Areas of forest and public  Forest resources co-managed     Community empowerment
communities for CBNRM             land brought under effective   Hectares/Numbers of Communities  provides sufficient incentive for
management by communities  mobilized and empowered annually  communities to take control of
their resource base
National parks and wildlife areas
co-managed, numbers of          Government commitment to co-
communities mobilized.          management remains strong.
Agreement by Ministry of Finance
on revenue sharing by communities
12/97
Enhanced Environmental Awareness   Greater public awareness and   Surveys, active participation of all  Continued support at political
informed population        levels of society in environmental   level and active participation by
management                      groups including
Newspapers, radio, dance groups,   parliamentarians, Ministers,
environmental clubs, choirs     traditional leadership structures



Outputs
Improved environmental capacity and  Functioning lead Ministry,   Efficient allocation of resources,  Very efficient financial
coordination                        functioning committees (e.g. client satisfaction. Records of    monitoring and control system
NCE), donor groups, NGOs  meetings, and account of
decisions taken
Functioning Environmental  Quantitative: numbers of EIAs    Sufficient trained personnel to
Impact Assessment Process  approved                    conduct and analyze EIAs
Functioning Environmental  Quantitative: number of users,
Information Systems      size of databases, number of
projects using system
Better trained groups working on     Numbers of people,       Qualitative: surveys, client  Timely delivery of high quality
environmental management in Malawi   communities trained      consultation, continued flow of   training courses
resources
Enhanced Environmental Education     Quantities of materials  Quantitative: Numbers of training  Effective coordination of effort
distributed              courses (to be included in training  among different Government
program to be developed during   agencies, NGOs and donors to
Materials prepared and   1997). Qualitative: training  minimize duplication of effort
disseminated through formal effectiveness (post-course  and maximize leverage of
and non-formal education    evaluation). Annual Report on  ESP resources
channels                 training
Enhanced Community Mobilization and    Numbers of communities    Quantities: Effectiveness  Maintenance of Government
Implementation of Local Environmental    mobilized for natural  (To be evaluated during annual   commitment to community
Activities                          resources/environmental   work review and planning      empowerment
management               exercises). Community
satisfaction
Numbers of communities    Annual evaluation (numbers) of
implementing co-         communities, projects and
management and           participants
environmental micro-
projects



Components
Institutional Capacity Building and  Procurement and           Annual Report on progress and    Maintaining the momentum of
Strengthening of the Environmental   distribution of inputs,   procurement and disbursement    capacity development, with
Infonnation Systems                  provision of training     indicators                    necessary staff. Continued
resources                                              commitment of resources.
Effectiveness of capacity to
procure inputs and manage
financial systems
Maintain commitment and
resource application. Sufficient
capacity to implement
programs. NGOs are
sufficiently motivated and
organized to continue work.
Environmental Education              Development and supply    Annual Report and Work Plan   Full collaboration with all
of materials                                           elements of formal and non-
formal education system,
synergy with other initiatives
Community Based Environmental        Timely supply of financial   Annual Report and Work Plan    Efficient management of
Management                           resources                                               program and line Departments
Environmental Actions and Studies    Diverse                   Annual Report and Work Plan



Annex 8
MALAWI - ENVIRONMENTAL SUPPORT PROGRAM
MIDDLE SHIRE LAND DEGRADATION
Objective
1.    The purpose of this annex is to review the currently available information on land degradation of
the Middle Shire catchments and siltation of the Shire River. Some indication of the economic
significance of the siltation is given. The efficiency of countermeasures are discussed, and ongoing
efforts by the World Bank and/or other donors in collaboration with domestic institutions are discussed.
Land Degradation and Rehabilitation
2.    Land degradation takes on many forms, but the one in focus in Malawi is soil erosion. This has
been identified as the main environmental problem in the National Environmental Action Plan. While
the cost estimates of environmental damage due to erosion provided in the NEAP can be questioned,
there is no doubt that there is considerable scope for investment in low-cost, manual conservation
techniques. This annex only deals with the siltation in the Middle Shire River Catchment.
Benefits and Costs of Middle Shire River Catchment Management
3.    The Shire River is of vital economic importance to Malawi as it:
* contains almost all of the country's power generating capacity
* supplies water to major urban centers such as Blantyre and Limbe
* supports a locally significant artisanal fishery
* supplies irrigation schemes for valuable crops.
4.    The problem in the Middle Shire River Catchment is one of long-standing siltation in
combination of low water level in Lake Malawi. As a result, the Shire River actually stopped flowing
from 1915 to 1937. While this gives some perspective to the current reported problems, it should be
recogized that new installations of hydropower and water supply makes the economic damage of
interrupted or diminished water flows greater than ever.
5.    In late 1995, the Lake reached its lowest level since 1954, and the flow dropped to about 129
cumecs, compared to a required base flow of 170 cumecs. It has been estimated that a further fall in the
lake level of only one more cm would have caused the flow to cease entirely, as the lowest lake bar at
Samama (the outlet of the lake into the Shire) has been rising to clog the water channel. This build-up of
sediment at entry is related to the siltation in the Upper Channel from Mangoche to Liwonde. In view of
this, an emergency project including pumping of up to 70 cumecs from the Lake and into the Upper
Channel (which will reduce lake level with about 7.5 mm), dredging at Nkula Falls and combined with
long-tern catchment conservation, is under way.
6.    Sizing the magnitude of the problem, a recent study2 has estimated that gross field erosion in the
7,350 km2 Middle Shire River study area is in the order of 25 million tons per annum. On the basis of



subjective but explicitly specified sediment delivery ratios for each of the ten catchments, the net
sediment delivery into the Shire River is estimated to about 3.3 million tons per annum.
7.    The urgency of catchment protection should not be driven by the magnitude of sunk costs--which
have been referred to in the debate about protective measures. Rather, the future potential losses of
economic values at stake should be considered.
8.    First, consider the value of hydropower. The total hydropower sales in 1 995 (as projected in
1992) amount to about GWh 844, while the projected tariff was USc6.64/Kwh.3 T'his implies a total
projected (full collection) revenue of about $56 million. Adding a provision for some consumer surplus,
say up to USc1O/kWh we arrive at about $84 million in annual gross value of hydiropower production.
Most of the costs of hydropower are fixed, making the net loss of power interruptions approach the gross
value. In fact the cost of unforeseen power outages would be even higher per Kwh than indicated above.
9.     Second, consider urban water supply. Data on gross sales of water are culTently not available,
but there is some information about the defensive expenditures that are incurred as a result of siltation for
the major water urban water user; Blantyre (pop. 0.5 million). The costs fall into four categories:4
*   Installation of dredging machinery used in emergency clearing of the water intake
(installation cost about $30,000)
-   Installation and running of a pontoon dredging system that evacuates sediment into
downstream water 0.5 km below intake (installation about $50,000 plus running costs about
$7,000 per year, mostly for fuel).
*   Adding of polymers, a liquid coagulant used to decrease water turbidiity (about $330,000 per
year);
-   The potential construction of a sediment barrier with a scraping mechanism. While this is
still under study, a guesstimate is that it would cost in the order of $30,000-$70,000 to
construct.
Hence the major defensive expenditures are not sunk costs.
10.   Third, fisheries are affected by both the level of water flow and the level of turbidity in the
water. In the worst case scenario, flow would be entirely clogged, and marshes would gradually dry out.
The latest available data5 shows that the catch of fish in Lower and Middle Shire amounted to about
3,000 tons in 1992 and 1993. This was a significant decline from the peak year of 1989, with about
12,000 tons of catch. Applying the national average unit price, the value of 3,000 tons in 1993 was about
MK5.55 million. Using the exchange rate for 1993 (World Bank, 1993), this equals $1.4 million. While
this is a gross value, the major input cost is labor, and shadow price of this factor of production must be
considered low.6 Hence, the net values at stake are not considerably lower than that. In terms of
employment, the statistics only show results for the Lower Shire. This indicates a population of
fishermen and assistants (i.e. fishermen that do not own their boats) of about 2,000 in 1994-5.
11.   Given this list of actual and potentially significant costs of increasing sedimentation, one must
explore possible solutions. Green et al (1996:8) states that a reduction of erosion will depend mainly on
the introduction of conservation farming on the 4,900 km2 of land that is under cultivation in the study
area, but that "The slow improvement likely to result from the measures involved would have little or no
effect on sedimentation in the short, or probably even in the medium-term.". The report, however, goes
on to make the case for selective conservation interventions, based on-site damage considerations, i.e. the
soil loss impact on farm productivity.
-2 -



12.   Technically, there are ways and means to drastically reduce the soil loss from cultivated land.
Amphlett (1986)7 studied soil loss and a set of other parameters in four catchments with comparable size,
slope, altitude and soil type, during 3-4 years. The results show a drastic average reduction in soil loss
from almost 11 t/halyear for the "traditional cultivation" catchment, via 3 tlha for the "physical
conservation" treatment, to about 0.1 t/ha for the "full land use plan" catchment. While reservations
about the accuracy of these measurements have been pronounced by a source close to the study, the
sediment yield could be reduced substantially with a simple package of soil conservation measures.
13.   The crucial issue is: how much this would cost? The absence of "model" conservation
catchments outside Agricultural Research Stations indicate that financial rationality is insufficient to
drive such measures. The poor economic performance of large-scale mechanized conservation works in
Malawi has been documented by Mwakalagho (1 985) . Later projects, however, have developed
manually based low-cost techniques. Even so, the overhead costs tend to be high, and it is vital to
integrate other farm improvements to raise productivity with conservation.
14.   Detailed cost estimates developed for the proposed "Promotion of Soil Conservation and Rural
Production Project" (GFA, 1996) 9, which benefit from the implementation of a pilot project, show a total
cost of about $23 million for the agricultural component. The project document assume that some
100,000 to 200,000 farmers will have joined the project at its closure.10 Assuming an average farm size
of 1 ha per household, this implies a unit cost of $115-230/ha, including donor contributions,
Government of Malawi counterpart funds, and local labor. It should be emphasized that the project will
not only promote soil and water conservation measures (expected to contribute directly to only some
20% of the project's benefits) but also a package of yield improving measures including new varieties of
maize, legumes and agroforestry techniques.
15.   Using these figures for the Middle Shire River catchment, a rough calculation could illustrate the
magnitude of the problem. If all the 490,000 ha of cultivated land in the Middle Shire River were to be
treated at a unit cost of $150, the total cost would be staggering ($73.5 million). Targeting only one third
of the most erosion-affected areas of the cultivated land above Nkula would then amount to some $21
million in investment cost.
16.   The exact impact of this type of targeted intervention cannot be foreseen with any precision, but
a numerical example can serve to illustrate the magnitudes involved. Assuming that this type of
conservation would reduce the sediment yield with a 75% efficiency on treated land, i.e., areas with very
severe and severe erosion above Nkula, the order of magnitude in overall reduction could be about
1 million tons of sediment per year. The annualized cost of the investment of $21 million (at 10% over
20 years) is about $2.5 million. Ignoring the time profile of the project, the unit cost would therefore be
about $2-3 per ton of sediment retained.
17.   The cost of sediment retention through soil conservation can be compared with the cost of
dredging. For the Nkula pondage, this has been estimated to $3-6 per m3, much depending on the
dumping site. l Assuming the bulk density of surface soil is about 1.4 g/cm3, this corresponds to a
dredging cost of about $2-4 per ton.
18.   Far from all sediment that is released into the Shire River is trapped in structures below,
however. There is very little information on the "trap efficiency" of dam structures, but Green et al
(1996:7) report that the Nkula Falls reservoir may have lost half of its 3 million m3 storage over the last
15 years, which implies an annual rate of about 140,000 tons. This is only about 7 percent of the total
sediment delivery estimated to enter the River above Nkula Falls.12 Using this assumption, the cost for
- 3 -



preventing one ton of sediment to be trapped in Nkula pondage through watershed conservation would be
$29-43 ($2-3/0.07). With such a low trap efficiency, it appears more cost-effective from an off-site
damage perspective, to dredge the sediment that settle into the dam, rather than invest in soil
conservation measures.
19.   The point remains, however, that there could be localized areas that (a) are above the pondage
that (b) yield considerable sediment per hectare due to steep slopes and local and highly erodible soils,
and (c) have a high sediment delivery ratio into the river due to proximity to the River and local drainage
conditions, where the off-site benefits of conservation would make a significant contribution to the
economic rationale to conservation.
20.   Translating this off-site externality into a financial rationality for the farmers would require a
transfer mechanism. This can only be established in an institutional environment where a holistic view
of the catchment is taken. The downstream beneficiaries could then pay for the service of upstream
catchment protection. This would not be a "subsidy" but an integral part of payment for ensured water
and power supply.
21.    So far, the discussion has taken an off-site damage perspective on soil erosion. Obviously, there
would be some on-site benefits to soil conservation measures. How significant could they be? The
answer depends very much on (a) assumed initial levels of productivity and (b) the soil loss yield decline
function applied.
22.   The initial yield level can be illustrated with data adapted from the Agricultural Support
13
Programs farm models
Table 1: Baseline Gross Margins
Cultivation type          Crop yield (kg/ha)      Gross margiin ($/ha)
Local maize                                800                      55
Local maize w. fert.                      1,500                     67
Hybrid maize w. fert.                     2,750                    104
23.   Assuming that the most common type of cultivation in the area is local maize, as in the rest of
the country, the base line gross margin is only about $55 per hectare. If it is assumed that all input costs
are taken ex-ante, that is that there is no saving in costs due to lower yield (which is not literally true),
the losses in gross margin can serve as a measure of net economic losses.
24.   As intervention would be selective in the larger catchments, we need to relate the prevented
losses to explicit baseline conditions of erosion. Targeting an area of about one quarter of the land
would cover the areas most affected, as shown in the table below.
-4 -



Table 2: Erosion Severity Classes in the Middle Shire River
Erosion severity      Avg. loss t/ha     % of Area
Slight                            10              28
Moderate                          30              41
Severe                            55              23
Very severe                       75               8
Source: Adapted from Green et al (1996:16).
25.   A soil loss of 75 t/halyear equals about 0.54 cm. (140 t/cm/ha, i.e. assuming a bulk density of
1.4g/cm3 and 55 tons corresponds to about 0.39 cm. Applying the Boj6 & Hamilton (1996: 14-15)
values of a yield loss of 3% per centimeter, implies an annual yield loss of about 1-2% per year. This
equals a dollar or less per annum in gross margin loss per hectare. Even allowing for the accumulated
impact of consecutive years of erosion, this is not enough to justify anything but very low cost
investment in soil conservation. This may be a reason why so little spontaneous conservation activity
can be observed.
Ongoing Soil Conservation Projects
26.   It should be added that there are already considerable efforts underway to combat land
degradation, sponsored mainly by the EU, UNDP/FAO and IFAD, as well as many NGOs. With regard
to the World Bank's involvement, there are two projects of particular relevance.
27.   First, the comprehensive Agricultural Services Project (ASP)14 identifies "land resources and
conservation" as one of its five main areas of activity in its extension component. In the financing plan a
total of about US$1.8 million (2.8% of total costs) is specified under the conservation component. ADB
is listed as contributing almost all of this, while GOM contributes the rest. Hence, there is no direct IDA
contribution, but the project harbors undisbursed resources which could contribute to conservation
activities in priority areas.
28.   ASP aims to train all extension staff in the country in low cost soil and water conservation
practices so that it becomes a mainstream activity in all Extension Planning Areas (EPAs). This process
is not organized by watershed, and will be disseminated to any individual or group that is interested.
Hence, targeting specific catchments in the Middle Shire River would require an additional and separate
effort, but would be possible to achieve within the framework of the program.
29.   Second the recently effective National Water Development Project'5 which specifies soil
conservation measures in selected catchments: Lunyangwa River, Chifuga/Chitete Rivers,
Mpamadzi/Mariku Rivers, Mwanza River and Mzimba River. (The second to last is a tributary to the
Shire River). The measures will include restricting cultivation on steep river banks and other unsuitable
locations, revegetation and farmer education in 15 catchment basins for these measures. The costs are
specified as a total of US$1.6 million, of which 1.0 million constitute the local contribution. The total
comprise only 2% of the project cost of US$130 million.
30.   The principle for selecting target catchments is that they are directly delivering water to an
intake for an urbanized area. A list of 56 rural catchments and a few urban ones has been established for
-5-



the project. Only some of them are in the Middle Shire River, and the exact extent of intervention in
each one has not been defined. The extension message will be developed in collaboration with MOALD,
FD and MOREA. A special Task Force involving them will be formed, but so far contacts have been
limited to discussions held during the time of project design.
31.    The conclusions to be drawn from this review are that:
*   significant economic values are at stake in preserving an uninterrupted and less sediment-
laden flow in the Shire River;
*   based on off-site impacts only, the scope for cost-effective soil conselvation measures,
which could complement dredging to ensure sufficient water supply, iis very limited;
*   translating the economic rationale for control of off-site damage due to soil erosion into a
financial incentive for farmers would require an institutional entity capable of managing
payments from downstream users to upstream managers;
*   there are already significant activities on-going to address land degradation that utilize
existing domestic capacity to a high degree, and some of these could target selected areas in
the Shire River;
* the World Bank has two projects that can be used to apply limited resources to this problem;
*   further targeted interventions could also be sponsored by the financial mechanism for
community-driven projects included in the ESP;
*   the analysis to date demonstrates the need for a much improved system for gathering and
analyzing environmental information as a basis for policy and strategic decision-making.
See Bojb and Hamilton (1996) Malawi: Genuine Savings. World Bank (processed)
Green, R.I., V.A.L. Mkandawire, H.L. Kandaya and M.I.M. Kapila (April, 1996) Study to Identify Sources of
Siltation in the Middle Shire river Catchment Area. MOREA and British High Commission. Lilongwe.
3 World Bank (May 19, 1992) Malawi Power V Project. Staff Appraisal Report. Report No. 10055-MAI. World
Bank, Washington, D.C.
4 Estimates made on the basis of data from the Blantyre Water Board (May, 1996).
5 Department of Fisheries, Economic Report (1993) and Frame Survey Results (1994, 1995), unpublished data.
6 See World Bank (May 24, 1993) Republic of Malawi: Agricultural Services Project. Staff Appraisal Report.
Washington, D.C. which puts the shadow price at zero.
7 Amphlett, M.B. (1986) Soil Erosion Research project, Bvumbwe, Malawi. Hydraulics Research, Wallingford.
Report OD 78. In collaboration with the Ministry of Agriculture, GOM.
8 A Critical Appraisal of Physical Soil Conseration in the Lilongwe Rural Development Project. MSc Thesis.
University of East Anglia, Norwich, UK.
9 GFA (1996) Promotion of Soil Conservation and Rural Production. Working Draft Report (February).
Financing Proposal and background Documents of the Project.
10 GFA (1996) Background document 6, p. 15. See annex 2 for average holding size per household and relative
distribution. The derived national average is 1.12 halhousehold. If 200,000 hectares are affected by the project at
its completion, this is only 4 % of the total of 4.6 million hectares under cultivation in 1990 (Ibid., Background
Document 1: p. 2)
" Shepherd, J. Malawi: Sediment and Siltation. Briefing note for Mr. Wolfensohn, dated August 14, 1995.
12 Green arrives at only 4 percent using different assumptions.
13 World Bank (May 24, 1993) Republic of Malawi: Agricultural Services Project. Staff Appraisal Report.
Washington, D.C.
14 World Bank (May 24, 1993) Republic of Malawi: Agricultural Services Project. Staff.Appraisal Report.
Washington, D.C.
15 See World Bank (June 1, 1993) Republic of Malawi: National Water Development Project. Staff Appraisal
Report. Washington, D.C.
-6 -



Annex 9
MALAWI - ENVIRONMENTAL SUPPORT PROGRAMME
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT: IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1.    Introduction
2.    The Program
(a)    Scope
(b)   Objectives
(c)    Description
(d)   Risks
(e)    Costs
3.    Implementation Arrangements
(a)    MOREA Organizational Structure
(b)   ESP Implementation Agreements with other Donors
(c)    Management Responsibilities
4.    Planning
5.    Procurement
6.    Procedures
(a)    Procurement Procedures
(b)   Implementation Procedures
7.    Financing
(a)   IDA
(b)   Government
(c)    Others
8.    Disbursements
(a)    Accounts Management
(b)    Schedule of Disbursements
9.    Accounting and Audits
10.   Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
ANNEXES






MAP SECTION






IBRD 24575
33 o           To Dor Es So 1am                                                                                                                  36
MALAWI
r    Noekee
K4gKrg ...            'ADMINISTRATIVE
ohis-h+   t9                       \  >                             DIVISIONS                                     12
K                         Nkhwowo          \     .
This mop  hos been  prepored                                                                 7 ',hitombo  L 7              REGIONS
by The  World  B. k's  staff                   r                                  b6                                        AE IN         S
eof-eders  and  is  fo, the'e
intereol use of ToeWorld Bank                                                                                             DISTRICTS
Groop.The denomirnions used -lL snstono                                                   6
end  the  boundorieo  shoono
on thisrmop do not imply, onhe feRUMPHI
porr of The World Book Group,                _           . K6
aony Iodyent on the laq                             Koro.oo
statis ot ony terrtoy or any cmR.-                                                                                       PRINCIPAL ROADS
endorsement or.acceptance of
such boundaries.
E N                                                  J   RIVERS
k Endee i,    LtC Ta    \                               TOWNS
Meuzu  Nkhbto                              (3      DISTRICT CAPITALS
OS;  ?   8)95t. AcEustrai         * 10)   NATIONAL CAPITAL
{      \       I\Kf'A                    /      
Muoroo       ,oo<a2Y                   IM/ALAWI  )                        DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
'2   <X  }    Cf*sumofo IU 1         -           REGION BOUNDARIES                          1
Z AM  B IA                                                                          Lik( -V                           INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
KILOMETERS 0        20    40    60    80    1 00
MILES 0          20        40         60
t  t   \/  Kesungu  t g ,, e   ~Nkh.t.kota 
M(0 'AMroc
JZIM,NSNGWE MO   cc                         ><I          < L0,,
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     1
SAMlBayX                                                                                 N
K/           (<   Yt  \\> <           T. N-1.
N.           LIn              THERN
\_   9__  .>JMACHINGA                           3
R W             A  N    <IA         I  -<w                                                            o            >
XZ>MB~~~~~1IA                                                                                                       ULAj \s
I    <-ZIMBABWE   p   MOAL e       IS KI -_,                                                                                              B.E    
rl    OTSWAN                                                                              -- 
|   <       \         *        MA9~~-AGAS AR                                               4
,      SOU:TH  )     /                                         4\\                                       t     8
J.--Oy 1 993






IBRD 24575
To Dor Es S oom
0 M                               .                            MALAWI
rises          f .Korongo  \                         AADMINISTRATIVE
-kh   h> >;;                           DIVISIONS                                
This "op hcs bees  prepored t, 2                                                'p|                       REGIONS
e.clsieIyorthe conerence  ---                                                                                AN D
of readers  -nd  is for the                                                                                  AND
i,,terna Ise of Tooe World Book                                                                          DISTRICTS
Gr-P.Thne de-onitiooris used                      0            jLtingstaoni
cnd  the  bo-cdares  shownr
o- this mop do -ot imply, oo the                RUMPHI
part of The WodId Bark Group,
any judBment as the eg9                   Katowo
stotas of any territory or any                    Rum                                        -          PRINCIPAL ROADS
endorsement or.accoptrnce of
such boundries.
<N2 ,9RT iE N  ;                                    >w- uRIVERS
//J   'yt EkWnoes' \  nka                    0    TOWNS
M0g    ,'        M zasu  Nktrotoi         G\ i)              DISTRICT CAPITALS
G   (j W  \ AO)st Augustini         1       6e)     NATIONAL CAPITAL
ndainroo }     6 AY   flz         /                            DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
(>   uwelez  r(       /<MALAWI) /
1MB2A ''i J                                  Lcg4hIee   / > AChisumulu 1                         REGION BOUNDARIES
ZAn,$M B A                     )-                  1           J    Liko-c                -          INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
// - ll < e      AlalO'';,    B  KILOMETERS 0    20   40   60   90   100
MILES 0       20       40        60
Nshookotak
,7fet'De~~~~~~~~0-ZA.   i Q   `:
,/ j X           9  NTCm                         \    MO'AZ  M4SWftQi- 4
-i Cf NJI                         Do                           7     \
T. Lusk .. k.                       LI2hmp                                        Mney
LIL NGWE            .             *5or\ \
Lsse~~~~~~~~~~~~~
<<l
30G00 ~ ~  ~        ~       ~        ~ ~ ~                    > (MAAW      I kS'T Eo RN                       o
MOZAMBIQUzI                                                           .N
"A    CENY   Q   AOLJA
_                                                         X mr ai A >$G 1 0 .3".
ZAIRE     t        r2      <T. Tele                                                              IRADC} A ZU  MU
I       iSWANo TANZANIA
ANGOv at @ \ A~~~~~~~~~~CHIKW)t  T er
NA. RIA       BOTS                                           3                                                              33
I   ,  \   A MADAGAsstAa                                                                                   -993
J--uay 1 993









IMAGING
Report No.:       1W6i8  MA}
Type:     SAR



