Report No. PIC835
Project Name              Malawi-Environment Support
Region                    Africa
Sector                    Environment
Project ID                MWPA1664
Implementing Agency       Office of the President
Ministry of Forestry and Natural Resources
Ministry of Agriculture
Department of Water Resources
Date Prepared             March 1994
Projected Board Date      July 1995
Objectives
The main objective of the Environment Support Project (ESP) will be
to help the Government implement the priority environmental actions
emerging from the NEAP and the Forestry Policy Review (1993). It is
also the intent of the ESP to provide a strategic framework for
environmental investments involving all relevant sectoral ministries and
interested donors.
Description
The project consists of four components: a) conservation and
planning for the Mulanje Mountain area, which is noted for its
biodiversity and endemism. This component would address the incentive
structure for resource use and forestry activities, among other issues.
A trust fund mechanism may be established to generate income for
activities which demonstrate the linkage between sustainable economic
development and biodiversity conservation; b) management of miombo
woodlands in customary and government forest reserves; c) protection of
key catchment areas through pilot projects with communities; d)
regeneration of the former refugee areas, addressing the problems of
deforestation, natural resources degradation and soil erosion at these
sites.
Implementation
The main implementing bodies will be the Office of the President
for the rehabilitation of the refugee areas, the Ministry of Forestry
and Natural Resources, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Department of
Water Resources for catchment management, and the Ministry of Forestry
and Natural Resources for miombo woodland management program, and the
Department of Forestry and Mulanje Mountain Trustees for the Mulanje
Mountain Conservation component.
Financing and Cost
The project cost is estimated to be US$ 38 million. IDA
contributions will be approximately US$ 20 million. Donors such as ODA,
GTZ, USAID, and UNHCR have expressed an interest in collaborating and



co-financing the implementation of the program.
Environmental Aspects
This project has been classified as a category B project. The
overall impact on the environment will be beneficial as each component
is designed to mitigate environmental degradation through soil
conservation, community environmental awareness and participation in
management, seedling care and planting, water pollution and
deforestation prevention activities and monitoring.
Contact Point: Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information based on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 2 -



