                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 25785

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                         (IF-N0250; PPFI-Q0110)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

           IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 8.7 MILLION (US$ 12.4 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                 TO THE

                                        REPUBLIC OF MALAWI

                                                 FOR AN

                            ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT




                                              June 16, 2003




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective May 16, 2003)

                            Currency Unit = Malawi Kwacha
                                MWK 100 = US$ 1.09
                                    US$ 1 = MWK 91.48

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                                 April 1  March 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL          Adaptable Lending Program
BA           Beneficiary Assessment
CBNRM        Community Based Natural Resources Management
CIDA         Canadian International Development Agency
DFID         Department for International Development
DNPW         Department of National Parks and Wildlife
DoF          Department of Forestry
EE           Environmental Education
EI           Environmental Information
EIA          Environmental Impact Assessment
EIS          Environmental Information System
EMP          Environmental Management Project
ESP          Environmental Support Programme
EU PROSCARP  European Union Soil Conservation and Rural Production Program
FD           Department of Fisheries
GEF          Global Environmental Facility
GIS          Geographic Information System
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
ITN          Insecticide Treated Net
LIL          Learning and Innovation Loan
MAGIC        Malawi GIS Committee
MONREA       Ministry of Natural Resources and Environmental Affairs
MOREA        Ministry of Research and Environmental Affairs
MTR          Mid Term Review
NRM          Natural Resources Management
ODA          Overseas Development Administration
PIU          Project Implementation Unit
PPU          Policy Planning Unit in the Ministry of Lands and Valuation
PRSP         Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSR          Project Supervision Report
QAE          Quality at Entry Assessment
QAG          Quality Assurance Group
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report

                 Vice President:  Callisto Madavo
             Country Director:    Hart Schafer
               Sector Manager     Richard Scobey
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Agi Kiss

                                           MALAWI
                                   ENV. MANAGEMENT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            19
6. Sustainability                                                                20
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 21
8. Lessons Learned                                                               23
9. Partner Comments                                                              25
10. Additional Information                                                       25
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             26
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             27
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             29
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             30
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             34
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                35
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            36

Project ID: P001664                                                      Project Name: ENVIRONMENTAL
                                                                         MANAGEMENT
Team Leader: Agi Kiss                                                    TL Unit: AFTES
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 17, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT                                 L/C/TF Number: IF-N0250; PPFI-Q0110
   Country/Department: MALAWI                                                              Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Other social services (44%); Central government administration
                            (42%); General education sector (14%)
                  Theme: Environmental policies and institutions (P); Biodiversity (P); Civic
                            engagement, participation and community driven development (P);
                            Other rural development (P); Decentralization (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    02/03/1995                                        Effective:                         12/08/1997
   Appraisal:    07/21/1996                                            MTR:                           02/14/2000
    Approval:    06/12/1997                                         Closing:                          12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Government of Malawi/Ministry of Natural Resources and Environmental Affairs
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                      Current                                             At Appraisal
Vice President:            Callisto E. Madavo                                  Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:          Hartwig Schafer                                     Barbara Kafka
Sector Manager:            Richard G. Scobey                                   Cynthia Cook
Team Leader at ICR:        Agi Kiss
ICR Primary Author(s): Martin Fodor


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:U

                     Sustainability:UN

Institutional Development Impact:N

               Bank Performance:U

           Borrower Performance:U


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: U                                 U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The overall project objective was to support the Borrower's efforts to implement the Environmental
Support Programme (ESP). ESP was a $120 million framework program seeking to operationalize the
1994 National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) through actions of different stakeholders including
government, NGOs, and communities. ESP served as a vehicle for raising donor resources to tackle
Malawi's key environmental issues and was supported by multiple donors including ADB, DANIDA, ODA
(DFID), EU, GEF, IDA, IFAD, JICA, KFW, UNDP, UNEP, USAID and others.

The project had four specific objectives: (i) strengthening the coordination capacity of the Ministry of
Research and Environmental Affairs (MOREA) (later subsumed by the new Ministry of Natural Resources
and Environmental Affiars), the ESP's lead agency, and improving its regulatory, information management,
promotion and coordination capabilities; (ii) creating a broad-based program of environmental education;
(iii) promoting a shift in the responsibility for sustainable resource management, and the reversal of
degradation, to the community level; and (iv) supporting initiatives in key areas of environmental
degradation.

The Environmental Management Project (EMP) and ESP objectives were highly relevant from the
perspective of both Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and the environmental and natural resource
management (NRM) sectors. From the CAS perspective, EMP objectives responded to the "grave
concerns" that serious environmental degradation threatened livelihoods of the poor and that severe
deterioration of the country's natural resource base jeopardized the viability of the Government's
development strategy. EMP focus on capacity development for environmental management and
participatory approaches to NRM reflected the emphasis on capacity building and decentralization that
CAS envisioned for all Bank operations in Malawi.

From the perspective of the Malawi environmental and NRM sectors, EMP objectives were aligned with a
coordinated effort of the Government and multiple donors to address the top priorities of the ESP, namely:
(i) support community participation in effort to improve environmental management and encourage
sustainable use of natural resources; (ii) support capacity building at the community, NGO, and
government levels for improved environmental management; and (iii) improve coordination amongst the
different actors involved in improving environmental management. Other priorities included environmental
education, land degradation, water resources management, urban pollution, watershed degradation, and
community based natural resource management (CBNRM).

Project objectives were general enough to accommodate a flexible design approach to project
implementation and allow fine-tuning of the EMP focus as necessary to maintain its compatibility and
integration with other ESP activities as the program progressed. The general nature of the objectives,
combined with an absence of practical performance indicators and quantitative targets, however, made the
focus of the project unclear and subject to interpretation. It also obscured the fact that the principle reason
behind EMP and ESP was to urgently arrest and reverse physical environmental degradation, not just
improve institutional capacity for environmental management. Finally, it did not sufficiently reveal the
learning and experimental nature of the project and associated risks.

Notwithstanding the high relevance, responsiveness, and timeliness of EMP, the project was exceedingly
complex. While it nominally consisted of four components, it effectively involved thirteen (later fourteen)
self-standing sub-components implemented by eight different agencies in six sectors. The challenging
coordination and monitoring functions were taken on by the Ministry of Natural Resources and



                                                        - 2 -

Environmental Affairs (MONREA) Environmental Affairs Department (EAD), which was neither
sufficiently staffed nor equipped nor politically endowed for these functions. Placing the responsibility for
EMP coordination on the limited capacity of EAD at the time when it was also coordinating a plethora of
donor activities under ESP was a high risk approach, which resulted in EAD not adequately handling its
roles despite the project's strengthening effort.

It must be noted that the project was significantly and detrimentally affected by the `flavor of the day'
promoted at the time. First, the project arose from the NEAP process which was effectively mandated as a
pre-requisite of obtaining IDA funding. NEAPs, while useful in identifying environmental issues, did not
adequately prioritize among them, and did not identify which environmental interventions would be most
effective. EMP design reflected both these conceptual deficiencies and the `must-have' approach, and led to
a poorly prepared operation targeting excessive number of issues across multiple sectors. Second, the
project mainstreamed project implementation within government agencies rather than establishing a Project
Implementation Unit. This non-PIU approach was considered desirable at the time, but proved to
considerably hamper implementation and is now not generally considered a good practice.

3.2 Revised Objective:
There was no revision of project objectives; the original objectives were formulated quite broadly and
therefore did not require revision to accomodate changes that were made in specific implementation targets.

3.3 Original Components:
The project had four original components which consisted of thirteen sub-components. These components
and sub-components were:

Component 1: Institutional Capacity Building ($3.0 million)
This component was to strengthen, in the context of the ESP, the institutional capacity for environmental
management in Malawi. It included three sub-components.

EAD Institutional Capacity Building
This sub-component was to strengthen the EAD capacity to manage the ESP; improve financial and
logistical capabilities in EAD and other line departments, regional and district administrations, NGOs and
other institutions through provision of training, technical assistance, equipment and vehicles.

Environmental Information System
The EIS sub-component was to complement the USAID funded Malawi Environmental Monitoring
Programme (MEMP) by broadening the scope of the information system based on an assessment of the
effective demand for information, and by including information provided by communities involved in
formalized resource management.

Environmental Impact Assessment
This sub-component was to support the EIA unit in EAD in providing expertise and data management
capabilities necessary for effectively exercising the EIA functions including reviews and audits.

Component 2: Environmental Education ($ 2.0 million)

This component was to create a broad based program of environmental education including increasing
public environmental awareness; integrating environmental education into the formal education system;
improving the quality of environmental information and access to such materials; and identifying formal
and non-formal systems for dissemination of environmental information, decentralizing to the lowest level.



                                                      - 3 -

Component 3: Community Based Environmental Management ($6.1 million)

This component was to promote a shift of capacity and responsibility for sustainable resource management
and the reversal of degradation to the community level. The component included the following four
sub-components.

Community Mobilization and Environmental Micro-Projects
This sub-component was to mobilize selected urban and rural communities to formulate environmental
management plans to address the key local environmental problems. It also provided grants to implement
the proposed solutions and funded training, NGO facilitation, and equipment.

Forest Resources Co-Management
This sub-component was to develop and test co-management of forest resources in Forest Reserves and on
customary land in selected districts. The Forestry Department and communities were to enter into formal
co-management agreements that would govern joined preparation and execution of forest management
plans and sharing of the revenues generated from the co-managed forests.

Biodiversity conservation in Protected Areas in the Lower Shire (Wildlife Co-Management)
This sub-component was to establish a collaborative management of the Lengwe National Park, Majete and
Mwabvi Game Reserves by DNPW and the communities bordering the protected areas. The communities
were to establish community based organizations (CBOs) which were to enter into formal agreements with
DNPW to manage designated areas.

Urban Environmental Management
This sub-component was to complement the activities of the IDA Local Government Development Project
in urban areas in Lilongwe, Blantyre, Zomba and Mzuzu through community mobilization for development
of strategic urban environmental service plans and provision of grants for community based activities such
as public water kiosks, watercourse reclamation and open urban space. The sub-component was to also
fund emergency rehabilitation of the sewage treatment plant in Zomba.

Component 4: Environmental Actions and Studies ($2.6 million)

This component was to support targeted actions in areas of high priority on the environment agenda. The
following five particular activities were envisioned by the SAR.

Climate Change and Long Lead Forecasting Pilot
This sub-component was to enable the Meteorology Department to develop long lead (seasonal) forecasts
tailored to the needs of key users.

Water Hyacinth Control
This sub-component was to complement an ODA (DFID) research program on biological control methods
by providing additional finance to develop institutional framework and support field operations on water
hyacinth.

Bilharzia Control
This sub-component was to support preparatory and pilot activities preceding a national bilharzia
abatement program contemplated at the time.




                                                     - 4 -

Lake Malawi National Park
This sub-component was to implement actions recommended by GEF and CIDA funded studies of the park
e.g., improving waste treatment in the lakeside villages or relocation of certain facilities. Communities and
the Government were to enter into legal agreements on suitable approach to park management.

Support for the Policy Planning Unit (PPU) in the Ministry of Lands and Valuation
This sub-component was to provide logistical support and short-term assistance to the PPU to strengthen
its ability to meet the demands associated with the activities of the Presidential Land Commission.

The components and sub-components corresponded well with the original project objectives and the push of
the project for community based environmental management reflected lessons learned from northern
Malawi. In most cases, however, the components and sub-component activities did not correspond with the
limited capacity of the respective implementing agencies, including the administrative and financial
management capacity.

3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not formally restructured during implementation, although some modifications and
revisions did take place. The urban environmental sub-component was narrowed down to a single activity
of rehabilitating sewage line and treatment plant in Zomba and effectively became a part of Component
Four (Environmental Actions and Studies). The Lake Malawi National Park sub-component focused on
reducing the conflict over the use of the park resources and did not support the originally envisioned
infrastructure improvements.
An additional sub-component on malaria control was added to this component in 1999, after the bilharzia
control sub-component ended. The new malaria control sub-component was to reduce the incidence of
malaria through promoting the use of insecticide treated mosquito bed nets in the Mchinji district and test
the distribution of the nets through a revolving fund mechanism.

The environmental educational component was narrowed down to reflect that the planned integration of
environmental education into the curriculum had already existed.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry is rated unsatisfactory. The rating is based on the following: (i) unnecessarily complex
design and broad scope; (ii) over-optimistic assumptions about the implementing capacity of EAD as the
lead implementing agency; and (iii) insufficient readiness of project components for implementation.

(i) First, the design of the project was exceedingly complex. The project set out to achieve four
development objectives (five, after informal revision of objectives) through funding thirteen (fourteen, after
the MTR) sub-components in six sectors implemented by eight implementing agencies. While the high level
of complexity is understandable given the cross-sectoral nature of environmental management, the project
would have benefited from a simpler design and narrower focus better corresponding with the capacity of
the implementing agencies.

The broad scope of the project, especially enhanced by the boundless objective to "support initiatives in key
areas of environmental degradation" allowed the project to engage in a large number of small and disparate
activities, and provided insufficient guidance to the implementing agencies on what was the principal thrust
of the project. The broad scope made it difficult to distinguish the highest priority activities from others and
eliminate the more tangential activities from the project. The large number of activities across sectors
required cooperation of many partners and inevitably increased the susceptibility of the project to
performance of various agencies and parallel activities of other donors.



                                                      - 5 -

(ii) Second, the design of the project was based on an assumption that the lead implementing agency, EAD,
would be able to meet the challenges of coordinating such a complex, cross-sectoral project, while at the
same time building its own coordination and technical institutional capacity, partnering with a number of
other donors to implement a number of other ESP activities. The assumption ­ possibly based on an
inaccurate appraisal of the EAD institutional capacity during project preparation ­ was questioned early
during implementation and remained unfulfilled as implementation progressed. The negative consequences
of the unfulfilled assumption were magnified absence of a Project Implementation Unit (PIU), a project
design feature that the Bank management promoted at the time. (A PIU was later established in an attempt
to improve project implementation.)

(iii) Third, the preparation of components and sub-components was insufficiently advanced at the start of
the project. Most components and sub-components were sketched out too broadly to give the Borrower
clear guidance for their implementation. Key details were left for elaboration during the implementation
phase or remained subject to interpretation and later complicated the supervision of the project.

Quality Assurance Group (QAG) and the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) both recognized the complexity
challenges of the project design. SAR pointed out that both the ESP and the project are: "inherently
complex ventures, due to the need to address environmental problems in a holistic fashion, and hence to
engage a large number of stakeholders..." and called for a strong monitoring and evaluation system for the
project.

The QAG review of quality at entry (QEA1) on January 7, 1998, flagged the project as a high risk ­ high
return operation and rated its overall quality as marginal. QAG noted that EAD was young and the
approach to its strengthening was risky; the project quickly slipped behind schedule; institutional risks were
high and materialized despite mitigation measures put in place; and the preparation costs were very high.

QAG's assessment found five of eight aspects of the project marginal. These were: (i) project concept,
objectives and approach; (ii) readiness for implementation; (iii) risk assessment and sustainability; (iv)
institutional capacity analysis; and (v) quality of bank inputs and processes. QAG rated as satisfactory the
remaining three aspects: (i) environmental, technical and economic; (ii) poverty and social; (iii) and
financial management.

It is important to note that QAG concerns were followed on during project implementation by an Action
Plan that attempted, albeit with limited success, to remedy the design weaknesses. (See Section 7 for more
information on supervision.)

Despite the design shortcomings discussed above, the rationale for the project was strong. The project was
highly consistent with priorities of the Government and objectives of the CAS. It was timely given the
momentum for addressing environmental improvement that existed at the time. It was also highly
complementary with parallel activities and priorities of other donors.

Importantly, the project emphasized community based environmental and natural resource management.
Such an approach to environmental management promoted shifting away from traditional, ineffective
exclusion of communities from resource management toward modern, de-centralized, participatory
management. Although such a shift proved to be a challenge to implement during the project, it is
nonetheless broadly recognized as a promising approach to environmental management in the long term.
The QAG review also recognized potential high returns of the project and central significance of the
community based environmental management to achieving project objectives.


                                                      - 6 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The achievement of project objectives was unsatisfactory. The project fell short of achieving the overall
objective of supporting ESP because, although most of the project individual activities supported ESP
priorities, the project diverted the limited coordination and implementation capacity of the Government
from the long-term focus on ESP to the short term, more immediate focus on EMP.

The project support for ESP priorities delivered many tangible benefits, e.g., provision of training, vehicles
and equipment to a number of agencies, however, its outcomes were limited and sustainability is unlikely.
The outcomes were limited geographically as most activities were of a pilot nature, making no substantial
contribution to achieving nationwide environmental improvements on the ground. The outcomes were also
limited in the temporal sense as many activities were either one time interventions with no significant
follow-up (e.g., building a limited number of pit latrines and refuse bunkers) or long term interventions
whose continuation is uncertain (e.g., wildlife or forest co-management).

Concerning the key specific objectives ­ building institutional capacity of MONREA and EAD and
building capacity of communities for environmental management ­ project achievements were modest when
judged either against the original indicators suggested at appraisal, revised indicators updated during
supervision, or detailed work plans developed during project implementation. Weak achievements of the
key objectives outweigh the good results of the project's several smaller activities (e.g., water hyacinth
control, malaria control and rehabilitation of the sewage facilities in Zomba).

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: Institutional Capacity Building

The overall objective of the component was to build institutional capacity in the Government to support the
implementation of ESP. Specific objectives of the component were to (i) strengthen EAD capacity to
coordinate ESP; (ii) build EAD capacity for EIA; and (iii) strengthen the EIS in EAD and other agencies.
The component did not satisfactorily achieve its objectives as the institutional capacity of EAD remained
inadequate. The component did achieve some progress toward all three specific objectives, particularly EIS.
The objectives were implemented through three self-standing sub-components discussed as follows.

EAD Institutional Capacity Building

This sub-component was to strengthen the EAD capacity to coordinate the ESP. The main outputs of the
sub-component include (i) an EAD training program with activities ranging from short courses to overseas
graduate education; (ii) training and awareness raising activities for the districts, sectoral, judiciary, and
elected officials and staff; (iii) provision of vehicles, computers, office machines, and other equipment for
EAD and other departments of MONREA; (iv) a 2002 - 2006 Strategic Plan for MONREA including a
Strategic Plan for EAD; and (v) provision of a secretariat to the National Council on Environment.

The sub-component did not deliver some of its other key planned outputs, e.g., harmonization of various
policies governing environmental and natural resource management. It also failed to adequately follow on
some of the key recommendations of the MTR, including the following: integration of environmental
considerations into the district development planning process; clarification of the role and authority of the
District Environment Officer; establishing a facility for financing environmental management investments
through the District Development Fund; and exploring mechanisms for multi-sectoral planning at



                                                        - 7 -

community and sub-district levels.

The overall performance of the sub-component was unsatisfactory. The EAD capacity to coordinate both
the EMP activities and the implementation of ESP remained inadequate. The EAD ability to coordinate
ESP and its donors fell short of the needs and its inability to implement EMP eventually required
establishment of a dedicated project implementation unit (PIU).

Two factors contributed to the poor performance of this sub-component. First, it suffered by a lack of
distinction between (i) the administrative and coordination function of EAD as the lead bureaucracy
responsible for EMP coordination (i.e., its capacity to effectively handle financial management and
procurement; effectively convene and coordinate other implementing agencies; facilitate preparation of
annual work plans; monitor their implementation; report to the World Bank; channel funds and
information; etc.); and (ii) the substantive technical function of EAD as a national authority on
environmental affairs (i.e., its capacity to advance environmental management in Malawi; develop,
implement and harmonize policies; mainstream environmental consideration into development; raise
environmental awareness; etc.)

As a result, EAD struggled to adequately focus on building sufficient capacity for either of the two
functions. It neglected the first, administrative function, when designing its training program and focused
the training effort primarily on development of technical skills. EAD also failed to balance in absentia staff
training with adequately staffing the department for project implementation. With staff on training for
extended periods of time, administration of the project suffered. EAD neglected the second, technical
function, when it kept an introverted focus on its own material and training inputs rather than focusing on
building partnerships with other government agencies and the non-governmental sector in mainstreaming
the environment.

Second, the sub-component proliferated EAD's narrow understanding of capacity building as provision of
training, vehicles, and equipment rather than acquiring applied ability to plan and undertake effective
environmental management and coordinate environmental interventions. Training and procurement of
inputs became the most enthusiastically funded and implemented activity of the sub-component. Emphasis
on other producing outputs and achieving impact lagged behind and lead to repeated postponements of the
planned non-training activities (e.g., harmonization of policies or preparation of the Strategic Plan). Despite
the emphasis on training, an assessment of training impacts on EAD capacity was inconclusive.

Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA)

The purpose of this sub-component was to support the EIA unit in EAD to provide expertise and data
management capabilities to effectively exercise the EIA functions including reviews and audits. EIA
strengthening was one of the key priorities of EMP. The sub-component funded training, technical
assistance, and equipment and included a number of specific activities.

Importantly, the sub-component was successful in supporting the EIA review function. By the end of the
project, the EIA review process in EAD was well established, and the EIA unit processed about fifty EIA
documents per year.

The progress in other planned activities was modest. At negotiations, the Government agreed to publish
guidelines and regulatory standards for environmental impact assessment by the end of 1997. At the end of
the project, the sub-component was short of this target, although it made some progress toward it. The
sectoral EIA guidelines for three sectors -- mining, waste management, and irrigation ­ were developed and


                                                       - 8 -

ready for printing. The standards needed for meaningful application of the guidelines were prepared only
for water quality, but these were not yet reviewed and accepted. Air and soil standards were not prepared.

The other main activities planned within this sub-component included preparation of a strategy for
streamlining EIA, production of EIA information pamphlets in local languages, procurement and use of
equipment for environmental monitoring, sponsoring an EIA course at the Chancellor College, formation of
an EIA association, and publishing of an EIA expert directory. At the time of ICR mission, streamlining
strategy was reported completed, however, the prospect of the strategy implementation was uncertain. The
EIA course took place, however, only seven students ­ only government officials ­ attended, and the course
was a short EIA introductory overview rather than the intended in-depth technical training. EIA information
pamphlets were translated but not yet reviewed and produced. The EIA association was formed and initial
funding for it provided, however, the association was not legally registered. The directory of EIA experts
was published, however, it listed persons with no regard to their EIA expertise. Procurement of air and
water quality monitoring equipment and training for its use was delayed in the Internal Procurement
Committee and unlikely to be completed by the end of the project. Progress was also limited in following
key MTR recommendations.

Since a functioning EIA system is key to the future effective environmental management, four concerns for
the future of EIA arise. First is the sustainability of EIA activities after the closure of the project, especially
since the number of EIA submissions is expected to grow by 60 percent. EIA activities received significant
support from the EMP, e.g., EIA reviewers fees were funded by the project, and it is unclear how EAD
would fund these activities in the future, although some options have been discussed, e.g., collecting fines
and various fees into the existing Environmental Fund, and using the revenue to fund EIA. Second, the EIA
unit has been chronically understaffed throughout the project. Its functioning hinges on leadership of
critical staff and may be significantly impaired should this staff leave. Third, the EIA process remains
cumbersome because the authority to approve an EIA is unnecessarily elevated to the level of the Minister
of MONREA rather than a placed with the EAD technical staff. Finally, the current emphasis is on EIA
procedures and processes rather than on EIA efficacy in influencing design of developmental projects and
minimizing their negative environmental impacts.

Environmental Information System

The EIS sub-component was to complement the USAID-funded Malawi Environmental Monitoring
Programme (MEMP). Specifically, the sub-component aimed to broaden the scope of the information
system based on the assessment of effective demand for information. It envisaged that the broadened EIS
would incorporate environmental and natural resource information provided by communities involved in
formalized resource management.

Since the MEMP was phased out early in ESP implementation, the sub-component re-focused on the
following objectives: (i) supporting the development of an institutional framework for enhancing data
sharing among data custodian agencies and data access by the users; (ii) supporting the updating of critical
data sets; and (iii) strengthening EAD capacity to carry out policy-oriented data analysis and articulate
EAD demands for data from sector agencies. Overall, the sub-component was to enhance the national
capacity to meet data needs for effective environmental management.

The sub-component was implemented by four agencies (1) EAD, (2) Department of Surveys, (3)
Department of Forestry, and (4) the National Research Council of Malawi under the leadership of EAD.
The guidance was provided by an EIS Oversight Committee and based on an EIS development strategy and
a user needs assessment that were outputs of the sub-component.


                                                        - 9 -

Each agency involved in the EIS managed a separate set of activities. (1) EAD key activities included
establishment of a computer network in the EAD and the Departments of Forestry and Surveys,
development and hosting of an EAD website, and development of databases for EIA and Policy and
Planning Divisions. The EMP final progress report indicates that these activities were either at a stage of
procuring consulting services or dropped.

(2) Department of Surveys activities included conversion of basic topographic maps into digital format,
development of the Malawi Digital Spatial Data Standard, establishment of a computer network, provision
of services related to use and distribution of digital data, and necessary training. At the time of the final
progress report, only digitization of maps, which was also supported by a DANIDA project, had advanced
substantially. Other activities were in early stages of implementation e.g., there was one workshop on
development of the digital spatial data standard.

(3) Department of Forestry activities were focused on updating the land cover maps utilizing satellite
imagery and ground verification, and strengthening the capacity of the department to perform analyses of
land cover changes. Planned activities included procurement of GIS hardware and software, training, and
organization of data validation workshop to review the updated land cover maps with interested
stakeholders. At the time of the final progress report, the ground verification work was 85% complete and
two people received training to use GIS technology. Other activities, including procurement of GIS
hardware and software and its use to analyze changes in land cover were not implemented.

(4) National Research Council of Malawi activities aimed to establish a national environmental information
referral center. The planned activities included inventory of existing environmental information (EI) sources
in Malawi, establishment of electronic database and printed directory of EI, preparing a national policy on
library, documentation and information services, and training. By the end of the project, most activities
were reported to be substantially advanced.

Overall, the sub-component did not satisfactorily achieve its objectives. The key planned activities became
fragmented among four implementing agencies and did not progress. Exceptions were activities
concurrently supported by other donors (e.g. EU PROSCARP support for the DoF). The EAD lead EIS
Oversight Committee did not provide adequate coordination and its functions had to be transferred to the
Malawi GIS Committe (MAGIC) which represented user groups. Procurement of computer equipment was
significantly delayed.

The sub-component design, while conceptually sound, did not reflect the tentative demand for
environmental information and low capacity to use it for policy making. Most activities were driven by
supply of modern technology or data rather than demand for it and hinged on oversight by an experienced
EIS coordinator that left the project and was not replaced.

Component 2: Environmental Education ($2.0 million)

The overall objective of the component was to create a broad based program of environmental education.
The SAR listed the following specific objectives of this component: (i) increasing public environmental
awareness and participation; (ii) integrating environmental education into the formal education system; (iii)
improving the quality of environmental information and access to such materials; and (iv) identifying
formal and non-formal systems for dissemination of environmental information, decentralizing this to the
lowest level.




                                                      - 10 -

After a slow start ­ until mid 1999, the component figured in the PSRs as a candidate for cancellation ­ the
component was restructured at mid-term to address two key issues. First, MTR found an "overabundance
of uncoordinated and unfocused environmental messages going out to the same audiences through the same
channels" in Malawi. MTR recommended that EAD develops priority messages and coordinates a focused,
systematic national communication campaign. To this end, the component funded development and
implementation of a national environmental education (EE) and communication strategy; evaluation and
continued support to the existing environmental radio programs; and development and dissemination of
public awareness messages through various media, sensitization of twenty musicians on environmental
issues, sensitization workshops for various target groups and production of promotional materials (e.g., one
thousand T-shirts, two thousand stickers, three sets of environmental posters), although it is unclear to
whom these materials were disseminated.

Second, a project-funded curriculum review found that the planned integration of EE in the formal
education system had already been in place. The focus then shifted to supporting EE indirectly through
extracurricular activities to compensate for generally ineffective education and poor general teaching skills.
To this end, the component funded material support (e.g., bedding, tires, TV and video equipment,
photocopiers) to the already established EE centers, outreach visits of environmental officials to twelve
schools in the southern region, support for Environment Day celebrations, and similar events. It also
supported development of supplemental educational material such as Environmental Education Training
Manual and review of supplementary EE readers.

The component also funded various training courses for Environmental Education Officers, although some
courses were not related to environmental education (e.g. accounting and advanced computing courses).

Despite the numerous outputs the component is rated unsatisfactory, because there is little evidence of its
activites having any significant impact on behavior, although a project-funded survey of radio listeners that
preceeded additional funding for radio broadcast confirmed that listeners were generally familiar with
broadcasted environmental jingles. The rating also reflects the fact that EAD did not provide sufficient
technical input in developing the messages and communication strategies. The sustainability of EE
activities without external funding is unlikely.

Component 3: Community environmental management ($6.1 million)

The objective of this component was to promote a shift of capacity and responsibility for sustainable
resource management and the reversal of degradation to the community level. The SAR performance
indicator for this component was the number and size of areas brought under effective management by
communities. Although based on this indicator, the component did not satisfactorily achieve its objective
(the target areas were managed neither effectively nor were they managed by the communities), it advanced
demonstrably toward it and yielded valuable experiences and lessons on challenges of such community
based approach.

The component was the core part of EMP. It was based on the precept that the authority and responsibility
for environmental management must devolve from the government to the community level, because it is the
community that most directly affects the local environment. To capture lessons learned from
implementation of this component, and to better evaluate the component, the Bank, at the end of the project,
commissioned an independent Beneficiary Assessment (BA). The findings of the BA are reflected in this
ICR (the full BA report is in the ICR file).

The component comprised of three self-standing sub-components assessed as follows.


                                                    - 11 -

Community Mobilization and Environmental Micro-projects

This sub-component was designed as an extended pilot operation aimed to improve the environmental
management capacity of about 24 ­ 26 selected urban and rural communities. The pilot envisaged two
generations of activities. The first generation was to test the approach in 16 urban and rural communities in
selected districts. Based on the lessons learned, the second generation was to include an additional 8 ­ 10
communities.

The activities in each community were to be implemented in two stages: capacity building and
implementation. In the capacity building stage, the communities with the assistance of NGO facilitators
were to establish environmental management committees or similar bodies, identify priority environmental
problems, and prepare environmental management plans to address the problems. In the implementation
stage, the communities were to implement some of the management plan activities through micro-projects
funded by EMP. A cross-sectoral Steering Committee was to review community proposals and ensure that
funding was channeled to the eligible activities.

An independent evaluation of the first generation of activities concluded that EAD made a correct strategic
choice to contract the role of community facilitator to the NGOs; NGOs had adequate skills to facilitate
community mobilization; and out of 16 communities involved, 12 implemented micro-projects. The
evaluation, however, also found that despite the NGO involvement, there was a low level of participation in
the decision making by the communities; all twelve micro-projects that received funding were forestry
activities, although some communities had other priorities (e.g., access to drinking water); occasionally, the
funding for micro-projects became a vehicle for political propaganda; micro-project monitoring and
follow-up were neglected; the flow of resources and facilitation from EAD to the umbrella NGO CURE to
local NGOs to communities was slow and cumbersome; and the community mobilization was understood
as a facilitated, one-time activity rather than a long-term process.
By mid-term, 20 rural and 12 urban microprojects were under implementation however, MTR found that
these took place without the envisioned capacity building; were prepared without sufficient input of the
communities; and lacked clear connection with the local environmental priorities.

In response to these findings, the Task Team refocused the sub-component to bring the emphasis of the
CBNRM activities in the second set of communities back on the originally envisioned planning and
capacity building for community environmental management. The refocusing also responded to the
decentralization trend promoted by the Government to bring the community mobilization and environmental
planning under the umbrella of village, and district development planning facilitated by the local
authorities.

The second generation CBNRM activities led to a good assessment of priority environmental issues and
preparation of community environmental management plans in all 45 villages involved. The interventions
proposed in the plans, however, veered generally to interventions in the form of externally funded
microprojects rather than self-help measures, making their implementation less likely. As the project ended
in December 2002, none of the proposed interventions progressed beyond the planning stage and no
microprojects were implemented.

Overall, the component's micro-projects focused primarily on forestry activities with some planting of
medicinals, construction of pit latrines, construction of refuse bunkers and bee keeping. The success of
individual microprojects varied from complete failure (construction of refuse bunkers that were never used)
to likely sustainability (planting of medicinals by an herbalist association). The impact of the


                                                      - 12 -

sub-component on alleviating local environmental problems was not systematically monitored or evaluated.

The end-project BA collected feedback from eight communities of which five belonged to the first
generation. It found that community members played a minimal role in identifying priority environmental
problems or devising ways to address them. These roles were assumed by the traditional leaders, committee
members, local government and NGO officials who also received the majority of the training provided
under this sub-component. Despite their limited role, the community members reported increased
understanding of environmental issues and acquisition of new skills.

The sustainability of the sub-component activities in their current form is unlikely because of their
dependence on external funding and facilitation.

Forest Co-management

The objective of this sub-component was to develop and test co-management forest resources in Forest
Reserves and on customary land at nine co-management sites in three districts. Under the sub-component,
the Department of Forestry and communities were to enter into formal co-management agreements
governing joined preparation and execution of forest management plans, sustainable wood production and
marketing operations and, importantly, sharing of the revenues generated from the co-managed forests.

The sub-component made demonstrable progress toward establishing forest co-management. Most
importantly, it changed the relationship between the DoF staff and the communities from traditionally
hostile to cooperative and mutually respectful. It also strengthened the stewardship attitude of the
communities to the forests. Finally, it lead to some tangible positive changes such as provision of bee
keeping training and bee hives, establishment of joint forest patrols, small-scale tree planting, and improved
dissemination of forestry know-how to the communities (e.g. nursery establishment and management, seed
collection and preservation, mushroom growing, etc.).

Despite the progress, the sub-component fell short of establishing a full-fledged operational co-management
regime in the target areas. By the end of the project, only three communities entered into approved formal
co-management agreements with the DoF. The joint forest management plans, while under preparation,
were not completed. Revenue sharing was limited to communities retaining 30% of the revenue they
generated through fines and sale of illegally harvested forest products that the community forest patrols
confiscated. The sustainable community wood production and marketing operations were not developed.

At the end of the project, the majority of the co-management activities comprised of either activities that
had always been going on, but were now sanctioned by the DoF (e.g. firewood, grass, and mushroom
collection by the communities), or other activities which were the DoF responsibility but that were
sponsored by free community labor (e.g., demarcation of forest boundaries, forest surveys, reforestation,
patrolling).

The BA collected feedback from five out of seventeen communities involved in the forest co-management
sub-component. It found that communities appreciated increased understanding of ecological functions of
the forests and forestry management; most community members gained improved access to firewood, grass,
mushrooms, fruit, medicinals, honey and grazing land as well as cash revenue; and there was general
appreciation of improved relationship with the DoF and some willingness to continue cooperation with the
DoF in the future.

The BA also found that DoF raised considerable expectations of long-term benefits, which were unlikely to


                                                     - 13 -

materialize; some members of the communities lost livelihoods based on illicit access to firewood for
charcoal burning; the co-management activities were disproportionately driven by the DoF; training was
allocated inequitably to community principals and DoF officers; some community members perceived
co-management as a DoF scheme to obtain free community labor; communities considered the revenue
sharing unfair; and communities noted some cases of alleged corruption of DoF staff.

The design of the sub-component was sound but it could have been improved by ensuring equitable
allocation of the sizeable training element between DoF senior staff, junior staff and communities;
monitoring and evaluating impacts of the co-management on the state of the forests against quantitative
targets; and not engaging in activities unrelated to its objectives, e.g. end-project funding of an international
training course in executive management for a secretary.

Sustainability of the sub-component and the continued transition toward co-management is possible,
however, the DoF will need to provide communities with the originally envisioned equitable access to the
benefits from forest resources.

Collaborative Management of Protected Areas in Lower Shire (Wildlife Co-management)

The objective of this sub-component was to establish a collaborative management of the Lengwe National
Park, Majete and Mwabvi Game Reserves by the Department of National Parks and Wildlife (DNPW) and
the communities bordering the protected areas. Under the sub-component, communities were to establish
legally constituted community based organizations (CBOs) for entering into formal agreements with
DNPW to manage designated areas. The sub-component was to support the building of necessary capacity
for collaborative management in both the communities and the DNPW.

The sub-component achieved a demonstrable degree of progress toward collaborative management. DNPW
and the communities largely ameliorated their previously unfriendly relationship and established
cooperation in most of the 30 communities involved (a notable exception is Kanzimbi where a DNPW
scout shot to death a villager allegedly poaching in the reserve, which flared up animosity and halted all
sub-component activities and any DNPW attempts to manage that area). At the time of the ICR mission,
the target communities were at various stages of establishing formal legal structures necessary for entering
into an official co-management relationship with DNPW. DNPW and the communities agreed on controlled
access to previously strictly off-limit sections of the protected areas to gather honey, grass, and other
products.

Despite the progress in improving the relationship between the DNPW and the communities, the
sub-component did not establish a genuine collaborative management regime. Its activities increased legal
community access to previously legally inaccessible resources but stopped short of active participation of
the communities in making and implementing protected area management decisions. The cooperation
between the DNPW and the communities was skewed toward trying to create alternative income generating
activities (e.g. raising guinea fowl) rather than focusing on management of the protected areas.

The sub-component provided significant operational support to the DNPW in the form of vehicles, fuel,
computers and other equipment. It also funded limited rehabilitation of infrastructure such as boreholes,
ditches preventing wildlife migrating into agricultural areas, staff houses and entry gates in the Lengwe
National Park. Some of these activities, e.g., construction of houses and park gates, were not closely related
to the sub-component objectives. In addition, these construction works were misprocured and therefore
halted. At the time of the ICR mission visit to the park, the ruins of incomplete structures littered the park
entrance area, substracting substantially from the visitor's enjoyment of the scenery.


                                                      - 14 -

The BA conducted in five out of thirty communities involved in the sub-component found that the
community understanding of the importance of protected areas increased, and the access to resources
within protected areas improved. BA, however, also found that there is a significant discrepancy between
the high expectations DNPW raised in the communities and the benefits communities have been able to
obtain; the progress toward co-management and trust of communities to DNPW are tenuous; four out of
five communities perceive the co-management arrangements as unfavorable; abuse of power by DNPW
scouts decreased but remains a concern to the communities; and the fear of authorities, rather than the new
co-management regime, remains a significant driver behind decreased poaching and deforestation in the
protected areas.

The sustainability of the co-management activities is not likely unless significant external funding for this
purpose continues.

Component 4: Environmental Actions and Studies

The objective of this component was to support initiatives in key areas of environmental degradation. The
component was designed loosely to finance various environmental activities or studies that dealt with a
broad range of priority environmental issues.

The component is rated satisfactory because it achieved a majority of its planned outputs, although with
some significant shortcomings. Given the heterogeneity of the component activities and a lack of
performance indicators, the rating cannot be considered robust.

The component supported the following sub-components:

Long-Lead Forecasting

The objective of this sub-component was to develop capacity in the Meteorological Department to produce
long-lead (seasonal) forecasts tailored to specific users, particularly agricultural, and start providing them
to some users at charge.

The sub-component produced climate a data user needs assessment, climate information dissemination
strategy, meteorological department capacity assessment and intervention program, Cabinet-approved
meteorological data policy, fee schedule, meteorological observer's handbook. It also funded various
long-term and short-term training of departmental staff; procured equipment, climate data banking software
CILCOM and online connectivity; accelerated data processing to produce meteorological bulletins; and
disseminated of long-term and short-term forecasts in TV, newspapers, and via EM.

Despite progress in achieving the planned outputs, the sub-component impact on capacity building for
long-lead forecasting was not satisfactory. Only two staff were trained for long-lead forecasting instead of
eight called for by the department's plan; the willingness of domestic institutional users to pay for long-lead
forecast remained negligible; and the dissemination of the department's short term and long-term forecasts
was dependent on the purchased TV time and newspaper space. The sub-component's training effort was
dispersed and included training not directly related to long-lead forecasting (e.g., training on presenting TV
forecasts, general computer skills, and basic meteorological skills training). The majority of the technical
reports were prepared by external consultants rather than staff.

Sustainability of the sub-component accomplishments without continued external funding is unlikely


                                                     - 15 -

because the department was unable to establish a fee-for-service regime, and its capacity to produce
long-lead forecast is represented by only two staff.

Water Hyacinth Control

The purpose of this sub-component was to develop an institutional framework and support field operations
to control water hyacinth, a fast growing noxious aquatic weed. The funding and activities through this
sub-component were designed to be incremental to a three year research program financed by ODA
(DFID).

The sub-component accomplished most of the planned outputs and objectives despite a slow take-off and
erratic flow of funding between the EAD and the implementing agency, Department of Fisheries (FD). On
the institutional front, the sub-component focused on strengthening of the existing FD institutional
framework for water hyacinth control, e.g., by supporting a training program for FD staff, producing a
national assessment of socio-economic impact of water hyacinth, carrying out land-based infestation
surveys and producing infestation maps for some districts, and establishing a rapid response program.

On the field operations front, the sub-component promoted progressive biological and mechanical control
methods. It provided five communities with tanks for rearing the insect for water hyacinth control, funded
training, produced information leaflets in local languages, and demonstrated application of the bio-control
agent. It also mobilized communities for manual removal of water hyacinth and supported FD to carry out
rapid response activities in all districts.

The sub-component also supported a broad awareness and information campaign aimed at fishing
communities, youth groups, and general population in the affected districts. The campaign disseminated,
through various channels and media, information about the risks from water hyacinth and methods to
control it.

While the sub-component satisfactorily executed planned activities and demonstrated possibilities for
effective biological and mechanical control of water hyacinth, effective control of the infestation will be
possible only after the scaling up of the pilot activities throughout Malawi. The sustainability of these
activities depends on continued government funding, although the immediately affected communities are
likely to continue to control infestation in their vicinity to maintain access to open water and fishing
grounds.

Bilharzia Control

The stated objective of this sub-component was to support preparatory and pilot activities for a national
bilharzia abatement program. The national bilharzia abatement program was contemplated at the time of
EMP preparation as a part of the Malawi's overall health program but did not materialize. The
sub-component, implemented by Save the Children under the auspices of the Ministry of Health, funded
training of 25 medical personnel in bilharzia diagnosing, prevention and control; training of 18 extension
workers on prevention; training of 6 district health workers in operational research techniques; training of
35 local leaders and members of the village health committees on bilharzia awareness; and sensitization of
55 artists to bilharzia issues and production of songs and plays. The sub-component also funded a baseline
survey and removal of host plants (reeds) from the habitat of the bilharzia-carrying snail, construction of
improved latrines, and distribution of bilharzia medication.

The sub-component did not test a preventive multisectoral approach to tackling bilharzia envisioned during


                                                       - 16 -

the EMP project design (e.g. change of fishing methods to avoid reducing the population of snail-eating
fish).

The Save the Children sub-component activities were completed before the MTR. There was no evidence of
any evaluation or scaling up of bilharzia control activities by the Ministry of Health later in the project.

Lake Malawi National Park

This sub-component aimed to fund implementation of activities recommended by CIDA and GEF studies
and acceptable to the Government and affected communities. It was expected that the activities were to
focus on improvement of management and infrastructure (e.g. waste treatment infrastructure in lakeside
fishing villages).

The sub-component was inactive until MTR and considered for cancellation. At mid-term, DNPW
requested that the sub-component focuses on reducing conflict between the Lake Malawi National Park and
local communities. Subsequently, the sub-component focused on empowering rural communities through
establishment and operation of Village Trusts that would enter into legal agreements with DNPW and
private sector on management of natural resources, and improving management of the 100 meter aquatic
zone of Lake Malawi NP.

The outputs of the sub-component were two workshops on establishing Village Trusts and draft
constitutions for the trusts, and a consultant's report recommending a management regime for the 100
meter aquatic zone which was being circulated to the stakeholders. Other planned activities, such as the
formal establishment of the Village Trusts and planned training of the trust members or implementation of
the management regime for the 100 meter zone, did not take place.

The sub-component activities were hampered by a lack of collaboration between DNPW and the Fisheries
Department (both in MONREA), which disagreed on the balance between conserving and exploiting the
fisheries, and the repeated efforts of DNPW to use the sub-component for procurement of vehicles and
boats not clearly related to sub-component objectives.

The achievement of the planned outputs and objectives of this sub-component was unsatisfactory, and the
sustainability is unlikely.

Support for the Policy Planning Unit (PPU) in the Ministry of Lands and Valuation

The objective of this sub-component was to help the PPU to support development of a Land Policy and
relevant legislation, regulations, and administrative procedures in response to recommendations of the
Presidential Land Commission.

The sub-component funded a consultancy that contributed to preparation of the Land Policy. The
consultancy satisfactorily provided the necessary support, however, it lead to no capacity building in EAD.

Urban Environmental Management (Zomba Pollution Abatement)

This sub-component consisted of emergency rehabilitation of a defunct sewage treatment plant and sewage
lines in the city of Zomba. Despite considerable delays caused by procurement problems and contractor's
irregularities, by the end of the project, the rehabilitated infrastructure was fully functional and operating
up to the standard, and 16 operators received training in waste-water treatment. The sub-components


                                                       - 17 -

achievements were satisfactory, although concerns remain about sustainability of the improvements
vis-à-vis sporadic vandalism and a lack of maintenance funds.

Malaria Control

The purpose of the malaria control component, added to the project in 1999, complementing the National
Malaria Control Programme, was to reduce incidence of malaria through promoting the use of insecticide
(pyrethroid) treated mosquito bed nets (ITN). The nets were to be distributed free of charge in sixteen pilot
villages in the Mchinji district to village committees. The committees were to on-sell them to community
members, using revenue to purchase additional nets and insecticide on a revolving basis. The
sub-component planned to finance the procurement of bed nets, insecticide, malaria awareness campaign
for the communities, and various training activities for the village committees, district health workers,
volunteers and health education groups. The training activities included proper insecticide handling and
disposal practice.

The sub-component largely accomplished the key activity of procuring 10,000 bed nets of which 8,500
were distributed at the time of the ICR mission. The rest was expected to be distributed by the end of the
project. The method of distribution for about 5,500 of the nets, however, did not follow the agreed scheme.
The nets were sold, rather than donated to the village committees. The health authorities planned to use the
revenue to expand the program to other areas in the district, which would following the spirit, if not the
form, of the original sub-component design.

The sub-component carried out the training of volunteers on impregnation, distribution, and use of nets,
however, other planned training did not take place due to inadequate funding. Dissemination of information
materials at the time of the ICR mission also did not take place, however, the printing was underway. The
actual contribution of the sub-component to reducing malaria incidence is uncertain, as there was no
evidence of the planned follow up by the health authorities to ensure that the distributed nets were properly
used and re-impregnated.

Given the lack of information, the sustainability of the sub-component is difficult to assess, although it is
likely that at least some effective ITN use will persist.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
As common for this type of operation, no economic or financial indicators were determined at the outset of
the project. Given the lack of baseline, the large number of small project activities, poor records, and a lack
of quantitative evaluation of project impacts, an economic or financial evaluation of the project for ICR
purposes was considered impractical and was not attempted.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
See above.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact on the project is positive but significantly less than envisioned at
appraisal. The government departments involved in the project received training, technical assistance,
equipment, vehicles, and operating funds, which can enhance their functioning in the short to medium term.
The DoF and DNPW gained some hands-on experience in moving toward co-managing natural resources
with selected local communities. NGOs and government agencies gained some experience in working
together on facilitating community mobilization for environmental management and enhanced their
partnership in implementing other project activities. The Government produced a PRSP with above average



                                                     - 18 -

consideration of environment and natural resources, which may be attributable to EAD input.

Importantly, the project lead to establishment of new, legally codified community institutions ­ village
trusts, village environmental management committees, and village natural resource management committees
­ in selected communities. These institutions, if supported after the project, may become valuable
instruments in partnering the government agencies with communities in managing local natural resources
and the environment.

Institutional development fell short of building adequate capacity of EAD to coordinate environmental
activities across sectors; moving from establishing EIA procedures to using them for effective
mainstreaming of environmental and social concerns in country's development; and strengthening EAD's
analytical capability to carry out key strategic and policy work in-house. For example on the latter, even
the EAD strategic plan for the post-project period was prepared by consultants rather than EAD staff.

Institutional development is rated as negligible which incorrectly implies that almost nothing of
consequence was achieved. It would be more accurate to rate the institutional development impact between
negligible and modest, however, such rating is not available.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The project was implemented against the background of overall economic decline, growing HIV/AIDS
epidemics that seriously affected all segments of the population, and extended periods of drought and
hunger. These factors had a substantial negative impact on the commitment and ability of the stakeholders
to implement the project.

The implementation of the project was also negatively affected by the premature withdrawal of some
donor's support from the ESP activities.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Several factors subject to government control contributed negatively to project implementation. First, low
compensation in the public agencies led to persistent vacancies, low morale, and undue attraction of
government workers to per-diem generating activities such as workshops, training and study tours. Second,
abandonment of the obligation of government workers to return to service after obtaining government
sponsored training led to flight of some of the newly trained staff from public service. Third, coordination
of donor activities by the government was insufficient, creating conditions for inefficient allocation of donor
resources. Fourth, declining Government commitment to the environment exhibited through the sub-optimal
placing of EAD in MONREA as a peer to more mature sectoral departments, significantly delayed
provision of office space to EAD, poor staffing of the PIU and weak oversight of the project at the
ministerial level negatively affected project implementation.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Several factors subject to the control of EAD as the lead implementing agency had substantial negative
effect on project implementation. First, EAD did not realistically assess its ability to deliver on its
commitments, leading to systematic over-planning and under-delivering. Second, EAD had difficulties to
retain qualified financial management and procurement staff as well as technical and project staff, leading
to reduced ability to handle financial and procurement irregularities and coordinate other implementing
agencies. Third, EAD did not provide adequate quality control of the progress reports it issued on behalf of
other implementing agencies and itself, leading to extremely poor record of project activities.




                                                     - 19 -

Factors subject to control of other implementing agencies include poor accounting practices that frequently
impaired cash flow to project activities (e.g., DoF), poor procurement practices that resulted in
misprocurement (e.g., DNPW) and a resistance to disbursing funds from the headquarters to the field
offices (e.g. DoF).

5.4 Costs and financing:
The actual costs of the project did not change significantly against the expected costs. The disbursement
was slower than expected, primarily because a number of planned activities was not implemented. The
end-project disbursement lagged 22 per cent behind projections. The project disbursed close to SDR 7
million while the projected disbursement was SDR 8.7 million.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the project is unlikely. The crux of the project was institutional capacity building for
environmental management. Since the Borrower understood capacity building largely as provision of
vehicles, equipment and training, the project's impacts may be expected to last while the equipment remains
operational and qualified staff do not find better career opportunities elsewhere. The EAD inability to
effectively coordinate environmental activities across sectors while supported by the project leaves little
hope that such cross-sectoral cooperation will take place in the future in the absence of external funding.
End-project interviews with the principals of EAD and other implementing agencies indicated that their
vision of the future is based largely on an assumption of continued external funding although there the
likelihood of significant external funding is negligible.

The prospects of maintaining the limited institutional progress achieved under the project are further
dimmed by pull-outs and declining activity of ESP donors; complete removal of the prepared World Bank
follow-up operation from the pipeline (Lake Malawi Ecosystem Management Project); and insufficient
recognition of the importance of natural resources and environmental quality received by the Government's
Poverty Reduction Strategy. In face of AIDS epidemics and food shortages, the Government's commitment
to adequately focus on improving natural resource management and environmental quality is likely to
diminish despite the fact that these remain central to the poverty reduction agenda.

Despite overall unsustainability of the project, individual pockets of project activities are likely to continue,
especially in a few cases where dependence on external funding is low and incentives for continuing project
activities are adequate, e.g., the following: planting of medicinal trees by active herbalist associations;
forest co-management activities with immediate benefits to the communities; community water hyacinth
control in fishing communities; and use of insecticide treated nets in malaria stricken areas.

The enabling environment for continuation of such activities is strengthened by Malawi's updated
environmental and NRM policies, widespread environmental awareness and increasing recognition of
community based environmental management by government agencies.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The project mainly supported regular functions of the implementing agencies and therefore does not require
special transition arrangements. It is desirable, however, that the Government continues to monitor and
evaluate project activities and their impacts to maximize learning opportunities created by the project. In
particular, the Government should derive lessons from continued evaluation of the key project activities
including co-management pilots; staff training; and EA capacity development.

To enhance Bank learning and quality of future environmental lending operations, it is desirable that OED


                                                      - 20 -

evaluates this project and other similar environmental projects implemented in Africa in the 1990s to derive
broadly applicable lessons, particularly on effectiveness and sustainability of various approaches to
building institutional and political capacity for environmental management, and impacts these projects had
on environmental improvements on the ground.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The identification and preparation of the project was fully consistent with the Government programs,
NEAP priorities, other donor activities and the need to arrest and reverse the continuing degradation of
natural resources in Malawi.

High responsiveness of the Bank to the demands of the Borrower and effort to avoid overlap with activities
of other donors, however, lead to an exceedingly complex and cumbersome project with multiple overly
ambitious objectives and considerable overestimation of the Borrower's capacity to fully understand and
satisfactorily implement the project in compliance with Bank policies.

The Bank recognized at the outset the risks the project faced ­ e.g. the infancy of the lead implementing
agency; complexity of the multi-sector, multi-agency, multi-donor program; and difficulties in changing
incentives at the community level ­ nonetheless, it proceeded with project implementation without taking
adequate risk mitigation measures.

In addition, the Bank did not fully foresee at preparation other risks including inability of the Government
to fully deliver on its commitments to the project (e.g. failure to provide adequate office space to EAD on
time); withdrawal of donor support to ESP activities related to the project (e.g., phaseout of the Malawi
Environmental Monitoring Programme, which significantly influenced the design of the EIS sub-component
of the project); and unwillingness of the Borrower to adhere to the flexible project design by canceling
non-performing activities. These risks then seriously hampered project implementation, despite the
technical soundness of project activities, good technical expertise of staff involved in the project design, and
good cooperation with other donors.

The lending instrument ­ a short-term, one-time lending operation ­ was unsuitable for addressing the issue
at hand ­ a long-term, continuous challenge of building institutions, changing incentives and modifying
culture to reverse environmental degradation in Malawi. LIL or APL, lending instruments not available at
the time of preparation, would be better suited for this type of intervention.

The performance monitoring and evaluation aspect of the project, while recognized by the Bank at
preparation as crucial, was not adequately developed. The project lacked practical performance indicators
and quantitative targets despite some effort to develop them during preparation and revise them during
implementation. Impractical performance indicators, together with vague development objectives, left
project activities open to misinterpretation, hindered meaningful tracking of project performance, and
provided poor grounds for the originally envisioned cancellation of under performing activities during
implementation.

7.2 Supervision:
The supervision of the project was intensive. It was probably the key driver behind the project maintaining
implementation momentum despite the weak performance of the implementing agencies. Apart from
canceling the project or its components, the supervision team employed practically any measure available
to keep the project on track. The measures included the following: generous supervision budget; frequent


                                                      - 21 -

and adequately staffed supervision missions; special implementation review missions; project visits by the
TTL in addition to the regular supervision missions; QAE follow-on action plan; in-depth MTR; refocusing
of components; temporarily suspending components with procurement or financial management
irregularities; re-designing project management by creating a PIU and transferring the project coordination
function from EAD to it; initiating appointment of a full-time senior project coordinator; opening additional
project accounts to accelerate flow of funds to implementing agencies and to field level; detailed
discussions of annual work plans and quarterly reports; and attempting (albeit with limited success) to
develop integrated annual work plans that incorporated the numerous non-EMP activities that EAD was
implementing in parallel, in order to avoid over-stretching staff capacity.

In addition, towards the end of the project, supervision commissioned an independent Beneficiary
Assessment of the three key sub-components dealing with community based environmental and NRM
management in an effort to enhance the learning from the project, and to contribute to objective evaluation
of the project at ICR. (Normally, beneficiary assessment is not a feature of a core ICR such as this one).

Given the persistent implementation difficulties, a significant portion of the supervision effort was directed
at addressing implementation delays and procurement and financial management irregularities, sometimes
at the cost of focusing on development impacts and capturing lessons from the project's pilot activities. At
mid-term, a detailed review of the project generated detailed and technically strong recommendations
toward achieving development impacts, however, many of these were not implemented.

Acceding to the Borrower's reluctance to drop any components or sub-components, the supervision failed to
insist upon doing so, thus undermining failing to take advantage of the flexibility measures designed into
the project. The strong resistance of sectoral agencies to cancel their sub-components is understandable,
since in many cases the support from EMP often represented their only source of capital investment and
most of their operational funding. EAD, in its role as project coordinator, also did not support such
cancellations, probably in part because EAD regarded the distribution of funds to other agencies as an
important instrument for building the cross-sectoral relationships needed to implement the Government's
Environment Support Program.

In the spirit of "listening to the client," rather than canceling the under-performing sub-components or
delayed activities, the supervision team permitted them to be carried over from year to year, and even
allowed addition of one sub-component. In retrospect, it appears that instead of the continued intensive
supervision, it could have been a better alternative either to drastically restructure the project and cancel of
most components except the few key ones, as suggested at QAE, or even to completely cancel the project
and design a new one. The supervision team did consider canceling or restructuring the project early in the
last project year. However, in consultation with regional management, this was not done because it would
not have been meaningful at this late stage.

Supervision is rated satisfactory based on the intensity, persistence, and dedication of the supervision
effort, although it is recognized that not pursuing more aggressively restructuring or cancellation may be
considered a shortcoming. This rating is consistent with the QAG assessment of supervision quality
(QSA2) which rated supervision as satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank performance is rated unsatisfactory, based on the discussion on the serious shortcomings of
project design.

Borrower



                                                        - 22 -

7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower prepared the project at the time of increased national attention to environmental degradation
and emerging broad consensus that sustainable use of natural resources was essential for the development
of the country. The preparation followed on the priorities identified through participatory processes under
NEAP and ESP. The design of the project, however, lacked realism. The urgency of addressing the
environmental degradation and inaccurate assessment of his own capacities led the Borrower to an
over-ambitious and complex design that proved difficult to implement.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The government performance was mixed. On the one hand, the Government created a conducive
environment by introducing progressive policies on decentralization and land registration; promulgating
modern sectoral policies and legislation for environment and natural resources; and following on the NEAP
priorities by launching a cross-sectoral, long-term Environmental Support Programme. The Government
also provided counterpart funding in a generally timely manner. On the other hand, the Government
weakened the EAD coordination capacity by placing it sub-optimally in the structure of the MONREA as a
peer to the sectoral agencies it was supposed to regulate; substantially delayed provision of the office space
for EAD; and did not provide adequate donor coordination.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of EAD as the lead implementing agency was unsatisfactory. It significantly contributed
to the under-performance of the project. EAD, despite improvements in the course of the project, remained
ineffectively managed; inadequately staffed; insufficiently assertive toward sector agencies it was to
regulate; and ineffectual in cultivating productive relationship across sectors. It failed as a coordinator of
EMP activities, contributing to persistent implementation delays frequently pointed out in progress reports
from other implementing agencies and the Bank supervision reports.

The unsubstantial EAD implementation capacity was further undermined by EADs own management
interventions. For example, EAD allowed or even initiated frequent re-assignments of desk officers for
individual components and sub-components, leading to a lack of administrative continuity and extremely
poor quality of monitoring, evaluating and reporting to the Bank on project activities. EAD resisted
creation of the PIU even though it was unable to handle the PIU functions itself. EAD's training regime,
which did not balance the training program with the work program, and EAD inability to retain quaified
staff, lead to disruptions in project administration.

The performance of other implementing agencies varied but was only marginally better. Generally, the
sectoral agencies focused on the simpler project activities and out-contracted or avoided the more
complicated ones.

Financial and Procurement Management

Deficiencies in financial management and procurement also contributed to the slow implementation of the
project. The financial management issues that bore negatively on the implementation included the
following. First, EAD had persistent difficulties to obtain adequate timely reconciliation and financial
reports from other implementing agencies. Without these, it was unable to replenish the IDA special
account and make funds available to individual components. The scheduled increase in size of the IDA
special account at mid-term only partially alleviated this problem. Second, the central offices of sectoral
agencies, e.g., Forestry Department, were slow in making funding available to their district offices for
project implementation. At Bank's urging, this issue was alleviated by opening local accounts at district
level, and directly transferring funds into these accounts. Third, financial management suffered by a lack of



                                                     - 23 -

skilled financial personnel in implementing agencies and a lack of continuity in the position of the project's
financial controller which was staffed by four different people or vacant for extended periods of time. One
result was a high incidence of withdrawal applications rejected for incompleteness or other problems.

However, while the regular revies of Statement of Expenditure reviews did identify problems to be rectified,
none of these pointed to major accounting deficiencies, and all but one of the annual (later semi-annual)
audits were unqualified. The issues identified in the one qualified audit were satisfactorily resolved.

Procurement management hampered project implementation through lack of understanding of procurement
rules and procedures; poor staffing of the procurement position in the PIU; poor handling of procurement
records; difficulties in managing large numbers of small contracts; persistent long delays in obtaining
goods; misprocurement of civil works in the Protected Areas; and substantial delays introduced by the need
to channel procurement through the government Tender Board. Poorly prepared specifications for goods
and Terms of Reference for consultants often led to delays due to the need for repeated revisions before the
Bank's no-objection was obtained. In addition, procurement issues were magnified by the failure to
maintain adequate balances in the Special Account, which led to delayed payments to the contractors.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, the Borrower performance is rated unsatisfactory, based on the discussion in the preceding
sections.

8. Lessons Learned

During design and preparation:

Resist the `flavor of the day' in project design. Some trends in project design can lead to implementation
problems when applied in inappropriate circumstances, such as avoidance of PIUs in countries with
particularly low implementation capacity in the public sector. Similarly, projects requiring coordination of
activities across multiple sectors is unlikely to work when the coordinating agency and the sectoral agencies
have low capacity, little history of cooperation, and potentially conflicting interests. Considerable
convening authority, in addition to project funding, is required to bring the agencies together into
cooperation.

Avoid omnibus projects. Avoid the `Christmas tree' projects attempting to tackle all important issues at
once through many components and complex design. (Note: NEAP-based projects have tended to be of this
kind). Don't assume that non-performing components can easily be dropped during implementation.
Prioritize and focus on a limited number of clearly defined issues.

Assess institutional capacity. In projects with a significant institutional development aspect, base the
project design on a realistic assessment of the Borrower's existing and potential future institutional
capacity. Remember that both the Bank and the Borrower typically overestimate Borrower's current and
potential capacity.

During implementation:

Respond effectively to risks identified at entry. Ensure that risks identified at entry are tracked and
mitigated on an ongoing basis, and that responses are commensurate ­ in timing and magnitude ­ to the
seriousness of the risks.




                                                     - 24 -

"Upstream" an in-depth implementation review. Carry out a detailed implementation review early
(before mid-term) to allow ample time for identifying and addressing potential problems, and ensuring that
measures mitigating against risks identified at entry are adequate.

Focus on building applied capacity. Clarify the objectives of any capacity-building activities in terms of
enhanced ability to perform in specific areas, rather than simply gaining knowledge. Base indicators of
capacity building on application of new skills (output/outcome) rather than training or equipment/facilities
provided (inputs). Stress practical hands-on experience and targeted skills-building over general academic
training. Stretch capacity-building budgets by emphasizing in-country and on-the-job training over
external courses.

Consider risk of failed donor coordination. Effective coordination of support from different donors may
fail because it is beyond the capacity of the Borrower or, sometimes, against the interests of particular
agencies or individuals. While donor coordination is the Borrower's responsibility, donors should also take
care to promote complementarity and consistency of their support, avoid overwhelming government
agencies, and avoid creating opportunities and incentives for "double-dipping" (two or more donors funding
the same activity) or other inefficient use of resources.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower has prepared his own evaluation of the project. The evaluation report is in the ICR file. The
report confirms the relevance and timeliness of the development objectives. Recognizing implementation
difficulties, it identifies some of the same issues as this ICR, including: (i) "very demanding and complex
project" which did not take into account limited EAD capacity; (ii) obstacles associated with absence of a
PIU during the first three years of the project; (iii) poor flow of funds to implementing agencies; and (iv)
difficulties in retaining qualified staff and maintaining community involvement in the project. The report is
critical of the Bank for (i) overwhelming EAD with a complex, multi-sectoral and non-PIU project; (ii)
insufficient support from the Country Office in making or approving decisions, particularly on procurement
and implementation plans; and (iii) short time to review draft Aide Memoirs before mission wrap-up
meetings. Nonetheless, the report rates all aspects of project performance as satisfactory and considers
sustainability of all project components and sub-components likely. Given the obvious discrepancy between
the Borrower and the Bank ratings, the Bank invited the Borrower to comment on this ICR, however, the
Bank did not receive any comments.


(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable as this project was not co-financed.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
The ICR mission interviewed local representatives of the following donors that supported the ESP and that
still maintain offices in Malawi: DFID, EU, UNDP, and US AID. The representatives were either unaware
of the project or not familiar with its performance and thus unable to provide specific comments. They
pointed out, however, the following relevant issues: (i) declining activity of the donor group on environment
since 2001 when its chairmanship was transferred from donors (US AID and later UNDP) to the
Government (MONREA); (ii) reluctance of the MONREA departments to progress with implementation of
decentralization and natural resources co-management activities to the phase when the departments would
transfer some of the resource control to the communities (e.g., reluctance to sign co-management
agreements with communities); (iii) concerns about implementability of the new land policy due to a lack of
implementing legislation; and (iv) generally weak implementation of donor funded projects. For the future,
donors anticipated scaling down of activities focused on environment and natural resources management.


                                                       - 25 -

10. Additional Information




                              - 26 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                     1
               Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
Implementation of EIA process, including       EIA process being followed consistently,       EIA process is in place, though somewhat
promulgation of overall EIA guidelines and     effectively and efficiently (in timely manner) inefficient. Sectoral guidelines and standards
development of sectoral guidelines and                                                        developed in a few sectors.
standards
Revision of sectoral policies and legislation  Forestry, Fisheries, Parks & Wildlife, Water   Forestry, Fisheries, Parks & Wildlife, and
(Forestry, Fisheries, Parks and Wildlife, Land and Irrigation, Land Tenure legislation all    Land Policy updated; subisidiary legislation
Tenure, Water/Irrigation) incorporating        revised; subisidiary legislation and           developed for some (not developed for Parks
environmental aspects. Development of          regulations completed.                         & Wildlife and Land)
regulations for implementing the revised
legislation
Establish coherent, effective institutional    Strong and effective institutional framework   Little progress in building institutional
framework for environmental management,        with clear roles for MNREA, EAD, sectoral      capacity except training, mainly at EAD/HQ.
including: multi-sectoral coordination by EAD Ministries, District/Local Governments,         Little evidence of multisectoral coordination;
(updating and implementation of ESP;           NGOs and Private Sector. (Note: framework ESP cannot be considered under
environmental capacity in sectoral ministries must reflect GOM decentralization policy)       implementation at this time.
and District/local government,
Collaborative Management approach in areas Co-management based on                             Co-management not in place but
adjacent to Protected Areas.                   Constitutions/Bye-laws in place and under      demonstrable progress toward understanding
                                               implementation in at least 3 FRs and 3         and acceptance of co-management concept
                                               communal forest areas; Co-management           around parks, game reserves and forest
                                               activities (beyond training) ongoing at Lengwe reserves has been achieved.
                                               NP, Majete and Mwabve GRs
Implemention of co-management of plans.        Modest infrastructure rehab. & construction    Some co-management activities under
                                               completed; Mgmt. Plans under                   implementation and co-management plans
                                               implementation                                 under preparation in some forest reserves; no
                                                                                              co-management plans approved for parks
                                                                                              and game reserves.
Strengthen community capacity to identify      CEMPs prepared by at selected communities
and deal with environmental problems,          in at least 10 Districts, appropriate
including developing sustainable NRM (with     micro-projects identified based on these and
support in the form of environmental           being supported by EMP channeled through
micro-projects)                                District Development Funds
Effective, sustainable user-oriented system    Effective, sustainable user-based EI network
and capacity in place for collecting,          in place, including EAD as an active and
analyzing, disseminating, using                effective member (generator and user of
environmental information                      info).
Increased awareness and knowledge of the
importance, status and threats to
environment at all levels of society, achieved
through an effective environmental education
and communications program led by EAD
Reduce incidence of certain environmentally    Pilot Bilharzia and Malaria control programs
related diseases (on pilot scale, to be        completed; being followed up/replicated
replicated beyond EMP).                        outside the EMP.
Improved capacity for "long lead" climate      Met. Dept. suitably staffed and equipped and
forecasting (i.e. to next growing season),     providing reliable forecast; initiated partial
enabling farmers and other key stakeholders cost recovery through charging for
to plan based on likely weather conditions;    specialized data products
Demand built for tailored information
products to be provided on charge basis
Alleviate selected urgent environmental        Significant reduction in WH infestation in
problems (Water Hyacinth infestation in Shire Shire River, sustainable control program in
River; implementation of emergency pollution place; Zomba Municip. sewerage system
abatement measures)                            functioning properly, no longer polluting
Build capacity for environmental management Institutional framework functioning well; each
in Env. Affairs Dept.                          actor implementing well defined roles and


Output Indicators:
                                                                                     1
               Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate




                                                                   - 27 -

Lead Ministry, EAD, key committees          Training impact assessment completed,            MONREA, EAD and National Council on
functioning; good donor coordination based  showing positive impacts to date and             Environment functioning regularly, albeit with
on agreed Environmental Support Program     providing guidance for future; EAD sections      uncertain effectiveness, with key staff
                                            staffed with qualified professionals applying    vacancies at EAD, much training done
                                            their new/enhanced skills.                       without strategy and some trainees leaving
                                                                                             public service upon completion of training.
                                                                                             Donor coordination largely disintegrated.
Functioning EIA system in place             At least 2 well qualified full-time EIA Officers One qualified officer in place, another in long
                                            plus junior staff in place; streamlined EIA      term training, inadequate sectoral guidelines,
                                            system providing sound review and decision       EIA review cumbersome and time
                                            within 2 months of submission; process           consuming, funding donor-dependent,
                                            costs covered by fees; capacity to monitor       compliance monitoring not in place.
                                            compliance in place.
Functioning EIS system                      User-based EIS network operating, with EAD Little substantial progress -- user community
                                            participation and support                        at very early stages, some equipment and
                                                                                             training provided but no evidence of of
                                                                                             enahnced use of environmental information in
                                                                                             policy or decision making
Env. Educ. & Communication Strategy under                                                    Strategy continues to be implemented ona
implementation                                                                               piecemeal basis with little likelihood of
                                                                                             continuation.
Community Environmental Management                                                           45 villages in 3 districts completed
structures in place                                                                          community level environmental management
                                                                                             plans with good assessment of issues but
                                                                                             proposed actions are generally externally
                                                                                             funded micro-projects and no self-help
                                                                                             measure.

1End of project

The indicators above were used in an effort to clarify the original set of performance indicators project
during supervision. The original set of performance indicators did not lend itself well to monitoring project
implementation (see below).

Original Performance Monitoring Indicators (from SAR)

          Narrative                        Indicators                        Measurement                         Assumptions
 Project Development
 Objectives

 Improved Policy and               Adoption of National              NEP adopted in February            Improved policies will
 Institutional Framework           Environment Policy and            1996, EMA enacted in               actually make a difference
                                   Environment Management June 1996. EMA sets out                       and that there will be
                                   Act. Role of MOREA and role of EAD, and Public                       sufficient capacity and
                                   EAD established and               Services Commission                political will to implement
                                   agreed.                           expedites recruitment of           the new policies.
                                                                     staff.

                                   Promulgation guidelines           By December 1997
                                   and regulations under the
                                   EMA.

                                   Revision and review of            forestry 9/98
                                   sectoral policies and             fisheries 9/98
                                   legislation.                      parks and wildlife 9/98
                                                                     soil conservation 9/98
                                                                     land tenure 9/99



                                                                 - 28 -

                                                     water/irrigation 9/98

Improved capacity to     Increased staffing for      Full staffing complement   Capacity development will
manage natural resources MOREA                       achieved and maintained    be sustainable - staff
and environment at all                               12/96, and annually        turnover, political support
levels                                               monitored thereafter.      for institutions concerned
                                                                                remains high. Must
                                                                                maintain momentum
                                                                                through training and
                                                                                replacement of staff when
                         Effective coordination of:  Frequency of meetings      turnover occurs.

                         l National Council for      Twice per year             Availability of Funding.
                            the Environment
                         l Parliament Committee      During each Session
                         l Technical Committees      At least three times per
                            on the Environment       year
                         l ministries                regular with focal points -
                                                     specific agenda
                         l NGOs                      regular organized by
                                                     CURE
                         l donors                    monthly - thematic


                         Preparation of annual       Annual Review process
                         WorkPlans

                         Effective establishment of  Official designation of
                         environmental focal points focal points by 12/97
                         network

                         EIS - Establishment of      Demonstration pilot for    Incentives for data
                         effective EIS               Shire River system -       collection and supply
                                                     mapping and data input     sufficiently strong for focal
                                                     accomplished (12/98)       points and others to supply
                                                                                data.
                         Training                    Establishment and
                                                     implementation of training
                                                     programs for MOREA,
                                                     line Ministries, NGOs,
                                                     Communities

                                                     12/97. Annually
                                                     thereafter, numbers of
                                                     training course and people
                                                     trained.

Effective empowerment of Areas of forest and public  Forest resources           Community empowerement
communities for CBNRM    land brough under           co-managed                 provides sufficient
                         effective management by     Hectares/Numbers of        incentive for communities
                         communities                 Communities mobilized      to take control of their
                                                     and empowered annually.    resource base




                                                 - 29 -

                                                     National parks and wildlife Government commitment
                                                     areas co-managed,            to co-management remains
                                                     numbers of communities       strong.
                                                     mobilized.

                                                     Agreement by Ministry of
                                                     Finance on revenue
                                                     sharing by communities
                                                     12/97


Enhanced Environmental    Greater public awareness   Surveys, active              Continued support at
Awareness                 and informed population    participation of all levels  political level and active
                                                     of society in environmental participation by groups
                                                     management                   including parliamentarians,
                                                     Newspapers, radio, dance     Ministers, traditional
                                                     groups, environmental        leadership structures.
                                                     clubs, choirs


Outputs

Improved environmental    Functioning lead Ministry, Efficient allocation of      Very efficient financial
capacity and coordination functioning committees     resources, client            monitoring and control
                          (e.g. NCE), donor groups, satisfaction. Records of      systems
                          NGOs                       meetings, and account of
                                                     decisions taken.

                          Functioning                Quantitative: numbers of     Sufficient trained personnel
                          Environmental Impact       EIAs approved.               to conduct and analysze
                          Assessment Process                                      EIAs

                          Functioning                Quantitative: number of
                          Environmental              users, size of databases,
                          Information Systems        number of projects using
                                                     system

Better trained groups     Numbers of people,         Qualitative: surveys, client Timely delivery of high
working on environmental  communities trained.       consultation, continued      quality training courses
management in Malawi                                 flow of resources

Enhanced Environmental    Quantities of materials    Quantitative: Numbers of Effective coordination of
Education                 distributed                training courses (to be      effort among different
                                                     included in training         Government agencies,
                          Materials prepeared and    program to be developed      NGOs and donors to
                          disseminated through       during 1997). Qualitative: minimize duplication of
                          formal and non-formal      training effectiveness       effort and maximize
                          education channels         (post-course evaluation).    leverage of ESP resources.
                                                     Annual Report on training.

Enhanced Community        Numbers of communities     Quantities: Effectiveness    Maintenance of
Mobilization and          mobilized for natural      (To be evaluated during      Government commitment
Implemenation of Local    resources/environmental    annual work review and       to community
Environmental Activities  management                 planning exercises).         empowerment.



                                                 - 30 -

                                                      Community satisfaction

                          Numbers of communities      Annual evaluation
                          implementing                (numbers) of communities,
                          co-management and           projects and participants
                          environmental
                          micro-projects

Components

Institutional Capacity    Procurement and             Annual Report on progress Maintaining the
Building and              distribution of inputs,     and procurement and       momentum of capacity
Strengthening of the      provision of training       disbursement indicators   development, with
Environmental Information resources                                             necessary staff. Continued
Systems                                                                         commitment of resources.
                                                                                Effectivness of capacity to
                                                                                procure inputs and manage
                                                                                financial systems

                                                                                Maintain commitment and
                                                                                resource application.
                                                                                Sufficient capacity to
                                                                                implement programs.
                                                                                NGOs are sufficiently
                                                                                motivated and organized to
                                                                                continue work


Environmental Education   Development and supply      Annual Report and Work    Full collaboration with all
                          of materials                Plan                      elements of formal and
                                                                                non-formal education
                                                                                system, synergy with other
                                                                                initiatives


Community Based           Timely supply of financial Annual Report and Work     Efficient management of
Environmental             resources                   Plan                      program and line
Management                                                                      Departments

Environmental Actions and Diverse                     Annual Report and Work
Studies                                               Plan




                                                  - 31 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                            Appraisal     Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                            Estimate       Estimate      Appraisal
                       Component                            US$ million   US$ million
Institutional Capacity Building and Strengthening of the       3.00             3.00           100
Environment Information System
Environmental Education                                        2.00             2.40           120
Community-Based Environmental Management                       6.10             6.10           100
Environmental Actions and Studies                              2.60             2.60           100

Total Baseline Cost                                           13.70           14.10
                          Total Project Costs                 13.70           14.10
                   Total Financing Required                   13.70           14.10


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                      1
                                                  Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB              NCB               2        N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                 Other
1. Works                            0.00              1.00         0.00          0.00        1.00
                                    (0.00)           (0.90)      (0.00)          (0.00)     (0.90)
2. Goods                            1.80              0.30         0.60          0.00        2.70
                                    (1.80)           (0.30)      (0.60)          (0.00)     (2.70)
3. Services                         0.00              0.00         0.00          2.80        2.80
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (2.80)     (2.80)
4. Training                         0.00              0.00         4.10          0.00        4.10
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (3.30)          (0.00)     (3.30)
5. Community Grants                 0.00              0.00         1.00          0.00        1.00
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (1.00)          (0.00)     (1.00)
6. Operating Costs                  0.00              0.00         2.30          0.00        2.30
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (1.80)          (0.00)     (1.80)
   Total                            1.80              1.30         8.00          2.80       13.90
                                    (1.80)           (1.20)      (6.70)          (2.80)    (12.50)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                      1
                                                 Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB              NCB               2      N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                 Other
1. Works                            0.00              0.41        0.00           0.00       0.41
                                    (0.00)           (0.34)      (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.34)
2. Goods                            0.59              0.15        0.06           0.00       0.79
                                    (0.33)           (0.12)      (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.45)
3. Services                         0.00              0.00        1.09           0.00       1.09
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.71)         (0.00)     (0.71)
4. Training                         0.00              0.00        0.00           0.00       0.00


                                                  - 32 -

                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Community Grants                      0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Operating Costs                       0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                0.59               0.56              1.15             0.00              2.29
                                           (0.33)             (0.46)            (0.71)            (0.00)           (1.50)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Institutional Capacity          3.00                                  3.00                               100.0
Building and
Strengthening of the
Environment Information
System
Environmental Education         2.00                                  2.40                               120.0
Community-Based                 6.10                                  6.10                               100.0
Environmental
Management
Environmental Actions and       2.60                                  2.60                               100.0
Studies




                                                           - 33 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Economic analysis of the project was deemed impractical and was not prepared. Please see section 4.3 for
additional discussion.




                                                - 34 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              02/27/1995                6    TTL (1); CONSULTANTS (5)
              05/07/1995                1    TTL (1)
              08/28/1995              12     TTL (1); NATURAL
                                             RESOURCE ECONOMIST (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                             FORESTRY SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PRIVATIZATION SPECIALIST
                                             (1); AGRICULTURAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1); SOIL AND
                                             WATER CONSERVATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1); NATURAL
                                             RESOURCE SPECIALIST (1);
                                             AGRICULTURAL
                                             ECONOMIST (2).
              10/29/1995                4    TTL (1); OPERATIONS
                                             ANALYST (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); AGRICULTURAL
                                             ECONOMIST (1).
              01/29/1996                2    TTL (1); ECONOMIST (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              04/29/1996                9    TTL (1); CO-TTL (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             AGRICULTURE AND
                                             ENVIRONMENT
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                             (1); NATURAL
                                             RESOURCES
                                             MANAGEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1); URBAN
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             ORGANIZATION AND
                                             MANAGEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST AND
                                             FACILITATOR (1);
                                             TECHNOGRAPHER (1).
              06/30/1996                6    TTL (1); CO-TTL (1);
                                             AGRICULTURE AND



                                              - 35 -

                            ENVIRONMENT
                            OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                            OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                            NATURAL RESOURCES
                            MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                            (1); NGO AND FUND
                            SPECIALIST (1).
            09/26/1996    3 TTL (1); CO-TTL (1);
                            AGRICULTURE AND
                            ENVIRONMENT
                            OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)

 Supervision

            02/05/1999    6 TTL (1); OPERATIONAL          S    S
                            SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                            ANALYST (2); SOCIOLOGIST
                            (1); ECOLOGIST (1)
            06/11/1999    3 TEAM LEADER (1);              S    S
                            ENVIRONMENTAL SPECIALI
                            (1); AG RESEARCH
                            SPECIALIST (1)
            10/25/1999    3 TEAM LEADER (1);              S    S
                            AGRICULTURE RES. SPEC.
                            (1); PA
                            PLANNING/INFRASTRUC (1)
            10/25/1999    4 TEAM LEADER (1);              S    S
                            FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1);
                            AGRIC. SPECIALIST (1);
                            PROT.AREAS SPECIALIST (1)
            07/01/2000    4 TEAM LEADER (1); EIS          S    U
                            SPECIALIST (1);
                            INSTITUTIONAL SPECIALI
                            (1); FINANCIAL SPECIALIST
                            (1)
            03/28/2001    5 TEAM LEADER (1); ENV.         U    U
                            ASSESSMENT SPEC. (1);
                            FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1);
                            PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                            (1); SR. OPERATIONS SPEC.
                            (1)
            03/22/2002    1 TEAM LEADER - ENV. SPEC.      U    U
                            (1)
            11/03/2002    1 TEAM LEADER - (1) (combined   U    U
                            with the ICR mission)

 ICR
            11/03/2002    1 ENV. SPECIALIST (1)           U    U
                            (combined with the last
                            supervision mission)



(b) Staff:




                            - 36 -

    Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                              No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation          447.6                     998.200.00
Appraisal/Negotiation                48.5                     119,200.00
Supervision                         143.2                     363,300.00
ICR                                    8.0                     30,395.00
Total                               647.3                   1,511,095.00




                                         - 37 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M      N     NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M      N     NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M      N     NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M      N     NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M      N     NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M      N     NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M      N     NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M      N     NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M      N     NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M      N     NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M      N     NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M      N     NA
Institutional development is rated negligible which implies almost nothing of consequence achieved. It
would be more accurate to rate the institutional development impact between negligible and modest,
however, such rating is not available.




                                                    - 38 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU
The rationale for the ratings is discussed in section 7.
6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU
The rationale for the ratings is discussed in section 7.




                                                     - 39 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Beneficiary Assessment for the Malawi Environmental Management Project (March 2003)
2. Project Progress Reports (multiple volumes)
3. Government's Project Evaluation Report (October 2002)




                                                - 40 -

- 41 -

