Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N-025 MAI
Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement
(Environmental Management Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as Administrator of the interim 
trust fund established with funds contributed by certain members of 
International Development Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 
of the Board of Governors of International Development Association
Dated September 12, 1997
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N-025 MAI 
INTERIM FUND DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 12, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF MALAWI (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) as administrator (the 
Administrator) of the interim trust fund (Interim Fund) established with funds 
contributed by certain members of the Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 
(the Interim Fund Resolution) of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on 
June 26, 1996.
WHEREAS (A) by the Interim Fund Resolution the Interim Fund has been 
established, constituted of the funds contributed by certain members of the 
Association and administered by the Association acting as Administrator of the Interim 
Fund, in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution; and
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Administrator to assist in the financing of the Project through the provision of 
resources from the Interim Fund, and the Administrator has determined that such 
assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution;
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Interim Fund Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The term “Association”, wherever used in the General Conditions means the 
International Development Association acting as Administrator of the Interim Fund 
referred to in the Preamble to the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement;
(b)
The terms “Development Credit Agreement”, “Credit” and “Credit Account”, 
wherever used in the General Conditions, are amended to read “Interim Fund Development 
Credit Agreement”, "Interim Fund Credit” and “Interim Fund Credit Account”, 
respectively;
(c)
A new paragraph, numbered 15, is added to Section 2.01 to read as 
follows:
“15.
“Participating Country” means any country that meets the 
requirements set 
forth in Section 5 (e) of Resolution No. IDA 184 of the 
Board of Governors of the 
Association, adopted on June 26, 1996, as 
determined by the Administrator as of the date on 
which the Interim Fund Credit was 
approved pursuant to Section 5 (c) of said Resolution; and 
“Participating Countries” 
means, collectively, all such countries;”
(d)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(e)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Administrator and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not 
a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of 
any payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Administrator, is prohibited by 
a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations.”.
(f)
In Sections 6.02 and 7.01 of the General Conditions, the term 
“Association” shall also mean the International Development Association acting in its 
own capacity.
(g)
Section 6.03 is modified to read as follows:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Administrator.  If: (a) the right of 
the Borrower  to make withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account shall have been 
suspended with 
respect to any amount of the Interim Fund Credit for a 
continuous period of thirty days, or 
(b) at any time, the Administrator determines, 
after consultation with the Borrower, that an  amount of the Interim Fund Credit will 
not be required to finance the Project’s costs to be  financed out of the proceeds of 
the Interim Fund Credit, or (c) at any time the 
Administrator 
determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the 
Interim Fund Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Interim Fund Credit 
during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower 
having taken timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the Administrator to 
remedy the situation, and 
establishes the amount of expenditures in 
respect of such contract which would otherwise 
have been eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, or (d) at 
any time, the 
Administrator determines that the procurement of any contract to be financed 
out of 
the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit is inconsistent with the procedures set forth 
or referred to in the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement and establishes the 
amount 
of expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise have 
been eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, or 
(e) after the Closing Date, an 
amount of the Interim Fund Credit shall remain 
unwithdrawn from the Interim Fund Credit 
Account, the Administrator may, 
by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of the 
Borrower to make 
withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of such notice, 
such 
Page  3
amount of the Interim Fund Credit shall be canceled.”.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the Project preparation advance 
granted by the Administrator to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters, dated 
September 18, 1996, and October 10, 1996 between the Borrower and the Administrator ;
(b)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(c)
“ESP” means the Borrower’s Environmental Support Programme which provides 
the support for the implementation of the strategies, policies and priority programs 
set forth in the NEAP (as hereinafter defined) to address environmental problems;
(d)
“NEAP” means the Borrower’s National Environmental Action Plan launched 
by the Borrower in December 1994, outlining environmental strategies, measures and 
programs necessary for promoting the protection and management of the environment and 
the conservation and sustainable utilization of natural resources;
(e)
“EMA” means the Borrower’s Environment Management Act, 1996, (No. 23 of 
1996);
(f)
“MOREA” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Research and Environmental 
Affairs;
(g)
“MNR” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Natural Resources;
(h)
“NCE” means the National Council for the Environment, established under 
EMA;
(i)
“NGO” means a non-governmental organization, established and operating in 
the territory of the Borrower;
(j)
“Micro-project” means a specific environmental development project 
financed or proposed to be financed through a Grant (as hereinafter defined) extended 
under the Project;
(k)
“Beneficiary Community”, means a community which meets the criteria 
specified in paragraph 12 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, to whom or for whose 
benefit a Grant is made or proposed to be made, for a Micro-project under the Project;
(l)
“Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made to finance a 
Micro-project under Part C.1 or Part C.4 of the Project; and 
(m)
“Project Implementation Plan” or “PIP” means the plan referred to in 
paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement containing, inter alia, workplans, 
training plans, monitoring and performance indicators and procedures to be used for 
the purpose of implementation of the Project, as they may be amended from time to 
time, in consultation with the Administrator, and such term includes any schedules to 
the Project Implementation Plan.
ARTICLE II
The Interim Fund Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement, 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to eight million seven hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 8,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Interim Fund Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Interim Fund Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be 
Page  4
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Interim Fund Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Administrator, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Administrator shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Interim Fund Credit Account and pay to the Association 
the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance 
withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The 
unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall 
thereupon be canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002, or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit not withdrawn from time to time at 
a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the 
rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Interim Fund Credit Account or canceled; 
and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and 
at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph 
(a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Interim Fund Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit in semiannual installments 
payable on each March 15 and September 15 commencing September 15, 2007, and ending 
March 15, 2037. Each installment to and including the installment payable on March 15, 
2017, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Administrator may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by the Administrator of the development of the Borrower’s economy, 
modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the 
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment  not yet due until the 
principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring 
the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit 
as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six 
Page  5
months or more after the date on which the Administrator notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there 
shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Administrator may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Administrator on the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the 
Administrator, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Administrator may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project, through MOREA, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial and environmental practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Administrator, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
Page  6
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator, as soon as available, but in any 
case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Administrator shall 
have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Administrator 
shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Interim 
Fund Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Administrator has 
received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Interim Fund 
Credit Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Administrator’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association and the Administrator
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified , namely, that EMA has been amended so as to 
make it improbable that MOREA can effectively carry out its responsibilities under the 
Project.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after 
notice thereof shall have been given by the Administrator to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Designation of Administrator
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of 
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has appointed a Financial Controller and a Procurement 
specialist in the Administration and General Department of MOREA in accordance with 
the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and
(b)
the Borrower has adopted the PIP.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
Page  7
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03.  In the event that the Executive Directors of the Association 
decide to terminate the functions of the Association as administrator of the Interim 
Fund pursuant to Section 7 of the Interim Fund Resolution, all of the rights and 
obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement shall be assumed by the 
Association in accordance with the Interim Fund Resolution and such decision of said 
Executive Directors, as of a date to be notified by the Administrator to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 30049
Capital City
Lilongwe 3
Malawi
Cable address:
Telex:
FINANCE
44407 MI
Lilongwe
For the Association and the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, DC
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
By /s/ Willie Chokani 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the interim trust fund established with
funds contributed by certain members of 
Page  8
International Development Association pursuant to
Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board of Governors of
International Development Association
By /s/ Callisto E. Madavo 
Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Interim Fund 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed 
in each Category:
Amount of the
Interim Fund
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works 
600,000
90%
(2)
Vehicles and
     1,700,000
100% of foreign
equipment
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures 
(ex-factory cost)
and 90% of local
expenditures for
other items 
procured locally
(3)
Consultants’
     1,750,000
100%
services
(4)
Training
     1,950,000
100% through
June 30, 2000,
60% through
June 30, 2001
and 40% 
thereafter
(5)
Goods and works
600,000
95%
for Micro-projects
(6)
Operating
     1,050,000
100% through
Costs
June 30, 2000,
60% through
June 30, 2001
and 40% thereafter
(7)
Refunding of
600,000
Amount due pursuant
Project Preparation
to Section 2.02 (c)
Advance
of this Agreement
(8)
Unallocated
450,000
    __________
     8,700,000
TOTAL
    ========== 
Page  9
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “Operating Costs” means the incremental costs involved in 
carrying out the Project including supplies, travel expenses and allowances, vehicle 
and equipment and operating and maintenance expenditures.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made:
(a)
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and
(b)
in respect of payments made for expenditures under Category (5) for 
Micro-projects until the Borrower has entered into the arrangements referred to in 
paragraph 14 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
4.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account 
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods, works 
and consultant services for firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 
equivalent each, and consultants services for individuals under contracts costing less 
than $50,000 equivalent each, under such terms and conditions as the Administrator 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to support the Borrower’s efforts to implement 
the Environmental Support Programme through: (i) strengthening the coordination 
capacity of MOREA; (ii) creating a broad-based program of environmental education; 
(iii) promoting a shift of responsibility for sustainable resource management to the 
community level; and (iv) supporting initiatives in key areas of environmental  
management.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Administrator may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Institutional Capacity Building
1.
Strengthening MOREA’s capacity to manage the ESP, its financial and logistical 
capabilities and that of the Borrower’s line departments, regional and district 
administrations, NGOs and other agencies and institutions, through the provision of 
training, and technical advisory services and the acquisition of equipment and 
vehicles.
2.
(a)
Strengthening of MOREA’s information systems through the provision of 
technical advisory services and training, and the acquisition of equipment and 
vehicles.
(b)
Broadening the scope of MOREA’s environmental information system, 
including information provided by communities.
3.
Strengthening MOREA’s capacity to review, audit and participate in the 
environmental impact assessment process through the provision of training and 
technical advisory services and the acquisition of equipment.
Part B:
Environmental Education 
Page  10
1.
Preparation, production and dissemination of publications, posters, radio 
programs and other audiovisual materials on environmental topics.
2.
Holding workshops and other events on environmental topics.
3.
Provision of inputs into curriculum design for schools and other educational 
institutions on environmental topics.
Part C:
Community-Based Environmental Management 
1.
Mobilization of communities to formulate community environment management plans 
designed to improve environmental management in both rural and urban areas, and the 
provision of grants to communities to carry out environmental Micro-projects designed 
to improve the environment.
2.
Co-management of forest resources by and with communities, by inter alia 
providing the Forestry Department of MNR with training, technical advisory services 
equipment and vehicles, to support the process.
3.
Capacity-building for communities bordering wildlife conservation areas at 
Lengwe National Park, and Majete and Mwabvi Game Reserves, to co-manage these natural 
resources, through the provision of training, technical advisory services and limited 
logistical support for the improved management conservation areas; and the provision 
of equipment and vehicles to the Department of National Parks and Wildlife of MNR.
4.
Development of priority environmental mitigation action plans in urban and 
periurban areas, and the provision of grants to communities and local authorities for 
environmental services in urban and periurban areas, including installation of public 
water kiosks, on-site  sanitation facilities, water course reclamation and other 
emergency pollution abatement measures.
Part D:
Environmental Actions and Studies
Carrying out activities including, inter alia:
1.
Strengthening the Meteorological Department’s capacity to develop long-lead 
forecasts through the provision of technical advisory services, vehicles, equipment 
and furniture.
2.
Development of the institutional framework and support field operations to deal 
with water hyacinth in Lake Malawi and Shire River.
3.
Support for preparatory and pilot activities for bilharzia control.
4.
Implementation of actions to improve management and infrastructure of the Lake 
Malawi National Park.
5.
Provision of logistical and technical support to the Policy Planning Unit of the 
Ministry of Lands and Valuation.
6.
Carrying out studies and other activities to support the achievements of the 
objectives of the Project.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Subject to the eligibility restrictions set forth in Section III of this 
Schedule, goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of 
Page  11
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,200,000 equivalent and goods estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$300,000, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Goods, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $300,000, may be procured through 
the United Nations Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office.
4.
Community Participation
Goods and works required for Part C of the Project estimated to cost less than 
$20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 
shall be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Administrator, as 
set out in the Project Implementation Plan.
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Administrator for its 
review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance 
with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Administrator, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
Page  12
shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
1.
Subject to the eligibility restrictions set forth in Section III of this 
Schedule, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of the “Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World 
Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency” published by the Bank in 
August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such 
contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants’ services 
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the 
Administrator. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Administrator shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Administrator review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts, shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $ 100,000 equivalent each or (b) 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $ 
50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Administrator review shall 
not apply to (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source 
selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably 
determined by the Administrator, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms raising the contract value to $ 100,000  equivalent or above, or (e) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the 
contract value to $ 50,000 equivalent or above.
Section III.
Eligibility Restrictions
1.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1.6 of the Guidelines, the proceeds 
of the Interim Fund Credit may only be withdrawn on account of expenditures for goods 
and works provided by nationals of, and produced in or supplied from, Participating 
Countries; consequently, nationals of countries that are not Participating Countries 
and bidders offering goods and works from such countries shall be disqualified from 
bidding for such contracts, and the bidding documents shall so specify.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1.02 of the Consultant Guidelines, 
only consultants from Participating Countries shall be eligible to provide services 
financed out the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Environmental Affairs Department in MOREA shall have the main responsibility 
for coordinating the ESP, including the Project activities.
2.
(a)
Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, in 
carrying out the Project, apply the guidelines and procedures specified in the PIP and 
shall not amend the PIP or waive any provision thereof, which, in the opinion of the 
Administrator, will materially or adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall: (i) not later than January 31, of each year, furnish 
to the Administrator for approval the draft annual workplan for the Project; and (ii) 
by March 31 of each year, furnish to the Administrator the final annual workplan.
(c)
The Borrower shall, not later than January 31 of each year, furnish to 
the Administrator for information and comments, copies of the workplans for other 
activities under the ESP, which complement and support the activities under the 
Project.
Page  13
3.
The Borrower shall, commencing December 31, 1997, furnish to the Administrator: 
(a) every six months progress reports on implementation of the Project; and (b) every 
year progress reports on the ESP.
4.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Administrator, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator, not later than December 31, 1999, a report integrating 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Administrator, by June 30, 2000, or such later date as 
the Administrator shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Administrator’s views on 
the matter.
5.
The Borrower shall, by not later than December 31, 1997, publish guidelines and 
regulations on environmental impact assessments.
6.
The Borrower shall, by not later than December 31, 1997, designate staff in the 
Ministries and other agencies executing activities under the ESP, with appropriate 
qualifications and levels of authority as representatives of that Ministry or agency 
for purposes of the ESP.
7.
The Borrower shall, by not later than December 31, 1997, furnish to the 
Administrator a capacity-building and training program for MOREA, the staff designated 
in paragraph 6 above and environmental focal points in other institutions designated 
by MOREA from time to time.
8.
The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1997, agree to allow communities 
who have entered into co-management arrangements for forestry and wildlife areas under 
the ESP to share the revenues earned from the sustainable exploitation of such 
reserves.
9.
The Borrower shall, by not later than March 31, 1998, complete a functional and 
public expenditure review of its Forestry Department and furnish such review to the 
Administrator.
Part C of the Project
10.
The Borrower shall maintain, until completion of the Project, a Steering 
Committee for Part C of the Project; with representatives from MOREA, Ministry of 
Finance, MNR, Ministry of Economic Planning and Development, NGOs, and the private 
sector. The Steering Committee shall approve each community environment management 
plan and proposal for a Micro-project on the basis of the criteria specified in 
paragraphs 12 and 13 below, its consistency with regional and sectoral priorities and 
MOREA’s policy and guidelines.
11.
The Borrower shall make appropriate arrangements within MOREA to enable it to 
coordinate the implementation of Part C of the Project, by inter alia:
(a)
entering into contractual arrangements with an agency for the training of 
NGOs in community mobilization; and
(b)
entering into contractual arrangements with NGOs for carrying out: (i) 
community mobilization activities; (ii) preparation of community environment action 
plans; and (iii) monitoring the implementation of said action plans to ensure they 
Page  14
meet the requirements in paragraph 14 below.
12.
Eligibility Criteria for Communities
No community shall be eligible to receive any Grant from the proceeds of the 
Interim Fund Credit unless the Steering Committee shall have determined that they 
satisfy the following criteria:
(a)
the community is located in one of the priority areas for the 
environmental intervention defined by MOREA under the ESP; and
(b)
the community has shown interest in improving the management of their 
environment and natural resources.
13.
Eligibility Criteria for Micro-projects
No Micro-project shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the 
Interim Fund Credit unless the Steering Committee shall have determined, in accordance 
with the procedures and guidelines set forth in the Project Implementation Plan, that 
the Micro-project satisfies the eligibility criteria specified in detail in the PIP, 
which shall include that:
(a)
the Micro-project shall form part of a coherent community environmental 
management plan; and
(b)
the Micro-project proposal shall include commitment by the community to 
make a contribution of at least 10% to the estimated costs of the Micro-project in the 
form of cash, materials, labor or other services.
14.
Terms and Conditions of Grants made for Micro-projects
For purposes of financing Micro-projects, the Borrower shall enter appropriate 
arrangements with Beneficiaries, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Administrator, which shall include the following:
(a)
financing to be on a grant basis and, unless otherwise agreed by the 
Administrator, not to exceed the equivalent of $5,000 for Micro-projects under Part 
C.1 of the Project and the equivalent of $20,000 for Micro-projects under Part C.4 of 
the Project;
(b)
the obligation of the Beneficiary Community to carry out the 
Micro-project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound 
technical, financial, environmental and managerial standards and to maintain adequate 
records to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Micro-project;
(c)
the requirement that : (i) the goods, works and services to be financed 
from the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit shall be procured in accordance with the 
procedures set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, and (ii) such goods, works and 
services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Micro-project;
(d)
the right of the Borrower to inspect by itself, or jointly with the 
Administrator, if the Administrator shall so request, the goods, works, sites, plants 
and construction included in the Micro-project, the operations thereof and any 
relevant records and documents;
(e)
the right of the Borrower to obtain all information as the Borrower or 
the Administrator shall reasonably request regarding the administration, operation and 
financial conditions of the Micro-project; and
(f)
the right of the Borrower to suspend or terminate the right of the 
Beneficiary to use the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit for the Micro-project upon 
the failure by the Beneficiary to perform any of its obligations under the 
Micro-project Agreement.
SCHEDULE 5
Page  15
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Interim Fund Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to 
an amount equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Interim Fund Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 4,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Administrator shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Interim Fund Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Administrator requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Administrator shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Administrator the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the 
Administrator shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Interim Fund 
Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents 
and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from 
the Interim Fund Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and 
in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Interim Fund Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator, within 
Page  16
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said Section 
in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Borrower of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Interim Fund Credit allocated to 
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Interim Fund Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Interim Fund Credit allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so 
request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Administrator shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Interim Fund Credit Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions 
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
