Report No. PID7022
Project Name                     Yemen-Public Sector Management Adjustment...
Credit
Region                           Middle East and North Africa
Sector                           Public Sector  Management
Project ID                       YEPE62837
Borrower                         Republic of Yemen
Implementing Agency              PSMAC Steering Committee
Contact: Mutahar Al-Abbasi
Deputy Minister
Ministry of Planning and Development
Sana'a, Republic of Yemen
Telephone: (967-1) 250-114
Fax: (967-1) 250-605
Initial PID prepared             October 29, 1998
Project appraisal date           November 7, 1998
Project Board date               January 1999
Country and Sectoral Background
1.          The Government of Yemen (GOY) has requested World Bank support for
its efforts to improve public sector performance so that it can make better
use of scarce financial and human resources. Deficiencies in the public
sector currently threaten to undermine Yemen's hard won macroeconomic
stability and to jeopardize the effective implementation of Yemen's growth-
oriented structural reforms. Tackling these deficiencies, along with measures
to diversify the oil-dependent economy, are critical for ensuring a fiscally
sustainable economy. Such reforms will also enhance the prospects for
sustaining economic growth (at least 5t per annum), which is critical in light
of Yemen's high employment rate, high population growth, and widespread
poverty.
The Proposed Project
2.          The PSMAC program aims to: (i) begin to redefine the role of the
state to focus attention and resources on essential functions while developing
an incentive framework for civil servants to carry out their new mandates;
(ii) strengthen budget implementation, monitoring, and control by introducing
new procedures and systems for monitoring expenditures and for increasing the
transparency and coherency of budgetary procedures; (iii) improve the
efficiency, effectiveness, and poverty focus of public expenditures; and (iv)
improve the tax administration system to increase transparency and enhance and
diversify domestic resource mobilization. This credit is the first of a
proposed series of public sector management adjustment operations. The first
operation will support specific actions that start the process of
institutional and policy change which is required to meet the program's
objectives.
Cost and Financing



3.          US$ 50 million equivalent, disbursed based on policy actions taken
by the government, in a single tranche upon credit effectiveness.
Risks and Benefits
4.          Potential benefits include improved management of Yemen's economy,
modernization of human resource and financial management practices, support to
private sector development by starting to reduce cumbersome bureaucracy; and
improved public services. More appropriate allocations of public resources
will also benefit the population as a whole, and the poor in particular, who
currently suffer from the lack of coherence in the public expenditure program
targeted to and delivery of essential services such as public health,
education, and safety net programs.
5.          The reforms envisioned under this program are inherently risky.
Specific risks include: (i) faltering commitment; (ii) insufficient inter-
ministerial cooperation; (iii) political resistance from vested interests
(both within and outside the civil service); and (iv) shallow human resources
capacity to implement reforms. Further, sustainability of the reform program
requires the implementation of a labor force restructuring program. These
risks have been addressed during the preparation of the Credit. To minimize
implementation risks, the PSMAC is designed to focus on prior actions while
specifying a clear program for follow-on actions.. To address potential
inter-ministerial conflicts, the program elicits a clear enunciation of the
respective roles of various agencies (in the budget process, in expenditure
rationalization, and civil service reform.) The lack of adequate human
resources capacity is being addressed through the preparation of a proposed
civil service modernization credit that would provide resources for the
training and technical assistance required to implement the reform agenda--
including a fair labor force adjustment program
Implementation
6.          The Borrower would be the Republic of Yemen.    The project would be
implemented by line ministries, the Ministery of Civil Service and
Administrative Reform, the Ministry of Planning and Development, and the
Ministry of Finance.    Activities will be supervised by PSMAC steering
committee.
Poverty Category
7.          Not applicable.
Environmental Category
8.          This project is likely to be classified under category C (no
significant environmental impact).
Program Objective Categories
9.          The project would support the economic management program
objective.
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
- 2 -



Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Ms. Linda Van Gelder
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW,
Washington DC, 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5761
Fax: (202) 477-0432
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending November 6, 1998.
-3 -



