Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22311
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-3 1780)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 35.8 MILLION (US50 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR A
PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
04/10/2001
Social and Economic Development Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 1998)
Currency Unit = Yemeni Rials (YR)
YR142 = US$ 1
US$ 1 = YR142
FISCAL YEAR
January 1-December 1
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFMIS         =      Accounting and Financial Management Information System
CAS           =      Country Assistance Strategy
CSM           =      Civil Senrice Modeniization
ERC                  Economic Recovery Credit
FSAC          =      Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
GDP           =      Gross Domestic Product
GST           =      General Sales Tax
IDF                  Institutional Development Fund
IMF           =      International Monetary Fund
GOY           =      Government of Yemen
MOCSAR        =      Ministry of Civil Service and Administrative Reform
MOF           =      Ministry of Finance
MOPD          =      Ministry of Planning and Development
MTEF          =      Medium Term Expenditure Framework
PRSP          =      Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PRSC          =      Poverty Reduction Support Credit
PSMAC         =      Public Sector Management Adjustment Credit
TOR           =      Terms of Reference
Vice President:   Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:    Mahmood A. Ayub
Sector Director:    Mustapha K. Nabli
Task Manager:    Monali Chowdhurie-Aziz



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YEMEN, REPUBLIC OF
PSMAC
CONTENTS
Page No.
I Project Data                                                                              1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                             1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                   1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                      5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                        7
6. Sustainability                                                                            8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                            9
8. Lessons Learned                                                                         10
9. Partner Comments                                                                        11
10. Additional Information                                                                 11
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                       19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                       20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                       21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                       22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                       23
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                          24
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                      25
Annex 8. Policy Matrix                                                                     26
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P062837                                      Pro ect Name: PSMAC
Team Leader: Monali Chowdhurie-Aziz                      TL Unit: MNSED
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 11, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: PSMAC                                          L/C/TFNumber: IDA-31780
Country/Department: YEMEN, REPUBLIC OF                                  Region: Middle East and North
Africa Region
Sector/subsector: BB - Public Sector Management Adjustment
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  10/28/1998                              Effective: 09/09/1999         09/09/1999
Appraisal:  02/01/1999                               MTR:
Approval:  03/23/1999                              Closing: 03/31/2000          03/31/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT OF YEMEN/PSMAC Steering Committee
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jean-Louis Sarbib                         Kemal Dervis
Country Manager:     Mahmood A. Ayub                           Inder K. Sud
Sector Manager:      Mustapha Kamel Nabli                      John Page
Team Leader at ICR:   Monali Chowdhurie-Aziz                   Sudhir Chitale
ICR Primary Author:   Monali Chowdhune-Aziz
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome. S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Developnment Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time:
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Country and Macroeconomic Context. Following the resolution of civil strife towards the end of 1994,
the Government of Yemen launched a reform program supported by a series of operations by the Bank and
the IMF. The broad objectives of the Government's reform program were to stabilize the economy and
stimulate sustainable growth. It had 3 main components:
*   to achieve macroeconomic stability, with a market based exchange rate system, a balanced budget, and



supporting monetary policies.
*   to lay the basis for sustained growth by implementing a series of structural reforms in trade,
privatization, finance and other areas.
*   to assist the poor who would be affected during the adjustment period.
The Government's program between 1994-97 was successful (and has been maintained since through
2000): macroeconomic stabilization was achieved (inflation dropped to single digit levels, the exchange rate
stabilized, budget deficits were virtually eliminated); structural reforms gathered pace; and social
protection was strengthened by protecting social spending, public works, and a social fund for
development.
Immediate Context of the Credit: In 1998, Yemen experienced a sharp deterioration in its budget and
balance of payments position, because of the drop in oil prices. Despite this shock, the Government
remained committed to its adjustment program. It took strong measures to keep expenditures in line with
available resources by cutting the budget, and in June 1998, even after strong public concems, it carried
through a phase-out of most administered prices. However, the Government was concemed that a
continuing squeeze on the economy and cuts in expenditures would delay reaching a path of sustained
growth and adversely effect the expansion of basic public services, particularly health and education.
Broad Original Objectives of the Credit. The PSMAC was timed to assist Yemen with its exceptional
financing requirements while the medium term reforms it initiated take root and begin to bring results.
Further, the credit proceeds would at least provide a "safety net" for critical public expenditures if oil
prices failed to firm up in 1999 in line with projections, thereby minimizing the impact on the poor and
ensuring continued attention to the formulation of human capital which is critical for Yemen to reach a
sustainable, high-growth path.
Specific Original Objectives. The credit aimed at improving management of the public sector, which was
seen as the heart of addressing the Government's priorities in accelerating growth, alleviating poverty and
protecting the environment. Such a program was seen to consist of allocating expenditures to activities that
had the highest returns, complemented by improvements in administrative processes to efficiently utilize
resources and deliver quality public services, and facilitate private investment to deliver growth. Weak
public administration was inherited due to a number of factors, including unification of North and South
creating a much larger civil service that duplicated functions, return of nearly one million refugees from the
Gulf which led to creating public sector jobs for social reasons, and declining real wages. At the same time,
the budget process was ineffective due to absence of a proper framework, and fiscal stress. The
Government and all development partners saw these public sector management reforms as urgent, requiring
reforms to be implemented in a step-by-step approach over a number of years, and a strong political will,
patience and public support. Critical specific elements or objectives of the Credit:
*   Public Administrative Strengthening---clearer definition of role of state demonstrated by initiating
re-engineering of four ministries; improved human resource management system; adjustment of the size
of the civil service; and a better climate conducive to greater professionalism.
*   Budget and Financial Management Reformn---better budget formulation processes to reflect sector
priorities within resource constraints, and unification of capital and current budgets; and more timely
information on budget execution and monitoring through an accounting and management information
system;
*   Public Expenditure Rationalization---starting to develop a medium-term expenditure framework;
improving sector priorities in public investment; and providing a better balance between recurrent and
investment spending.
-2 -



*   Revenue Mobilization and Administration---Consistent with the IMF's ESAF framework, strengthen
tax reforns to improve transparency and enhance and diversify revenues.
Assessment: The objectives of the Credit were clear and important for the country and the Bank's
Country Assessment Strategy. It was designed to be the first of a proposed series of public sector
management adjustment operations. The first operation supported specific actions that started the process
of institutional and policy changes that were judged to be required to meet the program's objectives. The
latest CAS which was discussed two months after the PSMAC was approved, specifically focused on
reform efforts directed towards good public administration being supported through, inter alia, a series of
PSMACs. Specific activities included under the PSMAC such as streamlining agencies and introduction of
a new personnel system would assist in meeting country performance indicators in the CAS discussed on
May, 25, 2000. The previous CAS presented on February 20, 1996 and updated October 14, 1997 also
highlighted the fact that in tandem with legal and judicial reform, financial sector reform, and privatization
(supported under separate operations), a well functioning public admninistration was central to establishing
a permanent foundation for accelerated and sustainable growth.
Nevertheless, the Credit was demanding and complex. It also raised substantial risks. Seventeen Broad
Purposes were listed in the policy matrix, covering many agencies and ministries, requiring close
coordination and a high degree of implementation capacity, and spanning a wide range of government
activities. The Credit recognized the risks from faltering commitment, insufficient coordination
mechanisms, political resistance, and limited institutional capacity---which were sought in part to be
addressed through prior actions, clear delineation of responsibilities, a civil service modernization project
and ownership of the program. A single-tranche operation was undertaken, rather than a multi-tranche one,
to reduce the inherent risks emanating from political and technical uncertainties, with up-front actions.
However to sustain progress, this also required that the Government reconfirm its commitment and
ownership of the reform agenda each year (to increase the likelihood of programn success). In principle, a
series of such operations, as planned, might have addressed such concems. In practice, sharply higher oil
prices in 2000 reduced the need for a subsequent adjustment operation, with the budget in very large
surplus. This weakening of demand for adjustment support was unanticipated.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Project objective was not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
To achieve its overall objective, the PSMAC envisioned various objectives and actions in the areas of
Public Administration Strengthening, Budget and Financial Management Reform, Public Expenditure
Rationalization and Revenue Mobilization and Revenue Administration Reform.
Public Administration Strengthening
Strengthening public administration was addressed under the broad rubric of streamlining the
government, enhancing human resource management and implementing labor force adjustment. The
prior actions envisaged under streamlining the government intended to redefine the role of the state,
clarify responsibilities, reduce the size and improve the organization of ministries, authorities and
agencies and systematize and standardize govemment procedures. In order to improve human resource
management the prior actions aimed to lead to systematic management of personnel records, movement
towards a merit based civil service and an increased focus on training needs within the civil service.
The prior actions designed under labor force adjustment intended to enhance the productivity of the
civil service and permit adequate compensation levels.
- 3 -



Budget and Financial Management Reform
Budget and Financial Management Reforms included reforming budget formulation and strengthening
budget execution and monitoring. The prior actions designed under reforming budget formulation in
addition to fulfilling the objective of strengthening budget formulation were also intended to develop a
Medium Term Expenditure Framework. Budget execution and monitoring was intended to be
strengthened through implementing an Accounting and Financial Management Information System.
Public Expenditure Rationalization
Public Expenditure Rationalization was addressed through improving the budget process and
improving the effectiveness of the sectoral expenditure programs. Improvements in the budget process
included formulation of the budget through an agreed macroeconomic framework and financial
aggregates. To improve the effectiveness of the sectoral expenditure programs, their budgets were to be
made consistent with sector strategy, investment resources in 6 priority sectors were to be prioritized,
and measures to ensure the sustainability of these investments were to be instituted.
Revenue Mobilization and Revenue Administration Reform
Revenue Mobilization and Revenue Administration Reform was to be addressed by improvements in
direct and indirect tax efforts and improved Revenue Administration. The prior actions envisaged under
improvements in direct tax mobilization sought to improve the overall tax effort and the efficiency of
the income taxes while indirect tax efforts were addressed by developing an efficient general sales tax
system as the main source of revenue.
Assessment of the Design
Project components were closely related to the goals as articulated. The design adopted was to initiate the
first set of up-front steps, in a planned series of reforms. By themselves, these components allowed
institutionally complex reforms to be split into a series of simpler steps that were well suited to the limited
capacity of the implementation agencies. If implemented sequentially, as articulated in the medium-term
reform strategy over the span of three single-tranche loans, these might have had a high development
impact and lowered the likelihood of reversal. In practice, however, there remained some uncertainty over
sustainability of the reforms and their full expected impacts if all components were not implemented as well
as expected, over a number of years.
The project took into account the lessons of previous adjustment lending in the country such as the ERC
and FSAC whereby single-tranche operations were more likely to keep the debate focused on the substance
of the reforms. The second lesson from the ERC and FSAC that was incorporated into the design was that
whereas inter-ministerial coordination was important during implementation, the responsibility for
implementation had to rest with the concerned agency. The credit also built on the recommendations of
yearly Public Expenditure Reviews as well as complementary reforms initiated by the IMF. It took into
account the ongoing dialogue on civil service reform which culminated in technical assistance for a Civil
Service Modernization Project. Aspects of the CSM Project which provides support for the implementation
of the public administration and financial management reforms were included in the design of the PSMAC.
However, since the CSM Project was approved by the Board later than had been originally planned, this
delayed the process of all the actions taking place according to the schedule that had been planned, although
they were all eventually implemented.
-4 -



3.4 Revised Components:
Project components were not revised.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project was not selected for a quality at entry assessment by the Bank's Quality Assurance Group. The
ICR rating for "quality at entry" is satisfactory. The rating is based on the fact that the objectives of the
PSMAC were relevant and appropriate, in that they addressed the issues that could be achieved in the
short-run, while setting the stage for reforms that needed to be addressed in the long-run. The operation
provided a timely response to the country's needs and circumstances and was consistent with the CAS and
the Government's development priorities. The risks were clearly identified and follow-up support provided
via technical assistance for civil service reform. The design of the credit, in that it was the first in a series
of single-tranche operations, allowed for a clear identification and understanding of the outputs, making
imnplementation easier.
Where the Credit was weaker was in the failure to sequence some of the actions properly, provide
alternatives where capacity was limited, and anticipate the risks of delayed follow-up reforms (due to
higher oil prices reducing the need for sustaining reforms). In hindsight, wider grounding of ownership of
the reforms with all the stakeholders with reforms tied to more visible expected results on the ground might
have been better. Nevertheless, certain basic and crucial foundations for a medium-term reform were in fact
provided in the design in terms of assessing quality at entry: (a) the focus on need to strengthen public
administration and rationalize the civil service, which has stood the test of sustainability (civil service
reforms continue, and the size has fallen); (b) the focus on strengthening the budget formulation framework
and expenditure rationalization to stay within a given resource envelope, which has also stood the test of
sustainability (budget deficits were contained, and temporary budget surpluses have not been misspent);
and (c) the continuing and ongoing gains in resource mobilization (tax reforms continue). Therefore, an
assessment of overall satisfactory quality at entry is justified.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Significant progress was made towards achieving the stated objectives and outcomes. The project's overall
outcome was therefore rated as satisfactory. The project helped the Government of Yemen redefine the role
of the state and streamline government. It led to significant improvements in the process of budget
formulation as well as in setting the stage for improvements in the effectiveness of sectoral expenditure
programs by developing a database for all capital investment projects. Nonetheless, reflecting the design of
the program, whereby the sequential implementation of all the steps would lead to the eventual fulfillment
of the objectives, the first series of outputs, though necessary, are not sufficient in and of themselves to
achieve the program's objectives.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Detailed comments on the status of each output is provided Annex 8.
Public Administration
Most of the actions under this component have been completed successfully. Some lags in the
reforms are due to the design, whereby a couple of prior actions are linked to measures that were
planned for later, such as establishment of a merit based salary structure which is linked to a revision
of job and grade classification. Preparatory actions that were designed to streaniline the government
were fully completed and for some, steps were taken beyond those required for the first tranche. Prior
- 5 -



actions under enhancing human resource management were mainly fulfilled. Some delays occurred,
since the technical assistance being provided under the Civil Service Modernization Project experienced
a slight delay in going to the Board. The actions designed to achieve the objective of labor force
adjustment, were difficult to implement but were mainly successfully completed. The completed actions
have laid the groundwork for actual labor force adjustment via removal of double-dippers. Upon
identification, several thousand double-dippers, have voluntarily relinquished their jobs.
Budget Formulation and Financial Management
Progress has been made in reforming budget formulation. Not only has reclassification of the
budget been completed, the consolidated budget circular issued for the Year 2000 covered all budget
components and established expenditure envelopes. This was an indicative measure for the second year.
Some measures such as establishing a basic system for consolidating budget estimates (using standard
software packages) in MOF, MOPD and MOCSAR have taken longer than usual because of the need
for resources. Although instructions have been issued by the Ministry of Finance to all public
enterprises that they maintain financial records of sufficient quality to meet accepted accounting
standards, there are no accepted accounting standards, as such, in Yemen. This is now being addressed
by the drafting of accounting standards. Several measures that would fulfill the objective of
strengthening budget execution and monitoring have been taken. These include approval of a proposal
and action plan to develop and implement a comprehensive AFMIS. This experienced a delay due to
the delay in negotiating the Civil Service Modernization project with the World Bank but is now
underway. Notably, the budget is discussed in its entirety by a Committee that includes senior
representatives from MOF, MOPD, and MOCSAR.
Public Expenditure Rationalization Policy Matrix
Reforms in Public Expenditure Rationalization included improvements in the Budgetary Process
discussed before. Actions designed to fulfill the objective of improving the effectiveness of the sectoral
expenditure programs were partially completed. Sector strategies in key sectors (agriculture, health,
education, transport, power and urban water) were prepared in consultation with the Bank as required,
although the one on agriculture needs to be revisited. These strategies, however, were not made
available to the relevant actors in the MOF. The preparation of the sector strategies laid the
groundwork for the other actions that would facilitate prioritization of 1999 budget submissions, in the
pilot ministries of health and agriculture. Although a fair amount of information was provided by the
Ministry of Agriculture regarding projects and their strategic importance, improvements could be
made, in this regard. Despite much progress being achieved in 1999, revisiting the investment budget of
the Ministry of Agriculture suggests that further work is required on shifting projects that are used to
finance the upkeep of existing facilities from the investment budget to the recurrent budget. The
requisite information with the budget submission provided by the Ministry of Health was more useful
and accurate. In addition this process has been extended to the education, electricity, urban water
supply, roads and transportation sectors.
Revenue Mobilization and Revenue Administration
All prior actions required to fulfill the objective of improvements in direct tax effort and indirect
tax effort as well as improving revenue administration were successfully completed and as a result the
overall tax effort and the efficiency of the revenue administration saw significant improvements.
Significant measures included implementing amendments to the income tax law, including
consolidation of all income for tax purposes, and rationalization of rates, brackets, exemptions,
- 6 -



deductions, and coverage. Significant reforms in direct taxes included implementing amendments to the
excise tax law, implementing ink-stamped packets for domestic cigarettes and a bandroll system on
imported cigarettes, and elimination of all stamp taxes. The bandroll system on imported cigarettes has
not, however, prevented cigarettes without the bandroll from being available, widely. Revenue
administration has been improved, via the introduction of a taxpayer identification number, a campaign
for increased tax compliance and training that was provided to tax collectors as well as an agreement
with the IMF on an action plan to implement tax administration reforms for both income taxes and the
production, consumption and services tax.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable
4.4 Financial rate of return.,
Not Applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Each component contributed in some measure to the concerned agency's ability to make effective use of its
resources. Taken together they contributed in some measure to the country's ability to make effective use of
its human and financial resources. Commendable progress has been made in some areas of reform targeted,
especially public administration, revenue mobilization and revenue administration. The groundwork for
further reforms in budget and financial management and public expenditure rationalization has been laid.
The reforms in budget and financial management need to be deepened further before their full impact can
be realized. In addition, the reforms in public expenditure rationalization have not taken root. The
institutional development impact has therefore been modest.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The volatility of oil prices has had a major impact on the budget, and in turn, the ability and incentives to
implement public sector management reforms. Sharply lower oil prices in 1998 continuing into 1999 were
factors that precipitated urgent need for the credit, which in turn gave impetus to an accelerated reform
program. By the same token, the sharp and unanticipated rise in oil prices and budget surpluses in 2000
eliminated the need for a second credit and reduced, in part, the pressure to maintain the pace of reforms.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Delays were experienced in the component related to strengthening the civil service. As discussed, some of
the delays experienced were due to the delay in negotiating the complementary Civil Service Modernization
Project with the Bank. The preparation of that project was slow, due to the limited implementation capacity
of the govemment. This was discussed during the appraisal mission for the PSMAC. The sustainability of
the reform program required the implementation of a labor force restructuring program. The social risks
associated with this related to the fact that, de, facto, the transfer of income to the general population
through civil service wages and an extended family support structure, functioned as a part of a welfare
system. This entailed resistance from vested interest (both within and outside the civil service). The
sequencing and design of reforms in public administration have dealt with possible problems that could
arise as a result of these. Nevertheless, progress even if delayed continues to be made in several key areas.
A civil service fund has been set up which will enable transfer to the fund of surplus staff within
restructured agencies. Implementation of measures leading to labor force adjustment including enforcing
retirement rules, designing methods to remove ghost workers and double dippers have been transparent,
thus guarding against possible problems due to perceived unfairness. They have also addressed the specific
- 7 -



risks associated with this aspect of the program which required designing an effective program that retained
high productivity, well-qualified staff and prevented dismissed workers from creeping back on the payroll.
The delayed implementation of the AFMIS is now being addressed.
The implementation of reforms in budget formulation and budget execution and monitoring involved greater
inter-ministerial cooperation and coordination than was the usual practice. Although considerable progress
has been made, it should be noted that this is a process of learning that will take some time.
Recruiting and retaining skilled staff required to run the MTEF unit in MOF, while being addressed, is still
a problem. Training newly hired staff is an avenue that is being explored.
With regard to establishing a basic system for consolidating budget estimates (using standard software
packages), the Central Bank has the software and the resources to do so. However, by a new decree passed
in 1999, the MOF executes and implements the budget. These two agencies need to coordinate for the
consolidation to take place smoothly. In the meanwhile the deployment of the AFMIS might provide a
better solution.
Technical assistance being provided by the IMF is addressing the problems that are arising due to the lack
of human resources capacity to implement budget reforms and reforms in revenue mobilization and
administration.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Supervision of the PSMAC program was under a Steering Committee composed of members from the
Ministries of Civil Service and Administrative Reform, Planning and Development, and Finance, and the
office of the Minister of State for Cabinet Affairs. However, individual implementation responsibilities
rested with each of these ministries as well as line agencies. The Steering Committee was supposed to
monitor progress, report when implementation lagged, and propose remedial actions. The initiative for
corrective action rested mainly with the steering committee which was unable to influence other agencies
responsible for reforms. This failure was due to the lack of a mechanism that would institutionalize and
therefore, assure inter-agency coordination.
5.4 Costs and financing:
Not applicable
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Public Administration: The reforms have been formally enacted, and are therefore likely to be sustained. As
pointed out in several cases GOY has gone beyond the actions required for the first tranche. As noted above
many double-dippers have been removed despite the political difficulty of implementing this action. Strong
conmmitment to these reforms has been expressed and shown by the govemment throughout. The Bank has
provided the necessary support via the Civil Service Modemization Credit. This project is now being
supervised by the Bank and implementation is being monitored.
Budget and Financial Management: Most of the reforms have been formally enacted and are likely to be
sustained, and in some instances the GOY has gone beyond the actions required for the first tranche.
Although the key reforms have been initiated, the reforms need to be deepened further and the pace kept up
if the objectives are to be fully met. Since coordination between several ministries and agencies is required
for these reforms to work, the consolidation of the reforms over time is subject to risks.
- 8 -



Public Expenditure Rationalization: The reforms in expenditure rationalization have lagged and their full
impact has not been realized. Unless followed up these are not likely to be sustained.
Revenue Mobilization and Administration: The reforms have been formally enacted and are likely to be
sustained. Support to this component is provided by the IMF. Implementation of the GST was an indicative
measure for the second phase of reforms and although the GST has been passed, it needs to be revisited and
is being pursued by the IMF.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
IDA staff have developed a positive relationship with counterparts in Yemen, especially in the Ministry of
Civil Service and Administrative Reform and the Ministry of Planning and Development. The supervision
of the technical assistance provided by the Bank for Civil Service Modemization is also a mechanism by
which these reforms are being supported and monitored. In support of the reforms being undertaken by the
PSMAC, the Country Department added a headquarters economist position to the resident mission. The
Bank's dialogue on these issues is also carried out in the context of other analytical activities such as the
PER. This relationship is a crucial and effective instrument for continued reform and should be continued.
A follow-up operation should look to deepen reformns in budget management and public expenditure issues.
It is heartening to note that the Interim PRSP placed importance on several elements of the Government's
strategy to improve institutions of public sector governance including acceleration of civil service reforms,
improvements in judiciary, implementation of local government institutions and continued efforts to
increase the transparency of the public budgeting process and accountability for public funds. A PRSC
could also be an instrument to provide support for reforms in budget management and public expenditure
issues that are germane to reducing poverty and improving service delivery to the poor.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.] Lending:
Bank performance in preparation-appraisal was thorough. The reforms designed were based on years of
preparatory work and were consistent with the government's development strategies. They were also
consistent with the CAS.
The design took into account the findings of previous ESW by the Bank as well support being provided to
civil service modernization. The Bank has carried out public expenditure work in Yemen since 1996. The
1998 PER specifically focused on areas where Bank involvement would prove to be strategic. As a result
sector colleagues were involved in the work and brought in their sectoral experience to design specific
recommendations. The actions for public expenditure rationalization were based on this. In addition the
budget reforms focused on policy reforms that were already underway and for which there was a
consensus.
The government had requested support for civil service reform since 1995. The Bank waited till it was sure
of the Government's commitment and a credible champion for the reforms could be found. An IDF grant
supported building an action plan for civil service reform and a conference was held in June 1998 to build
consensus. The Bank adequately appraised the commitment of the Government and took cognizance of the
risks as is evident from the President's Report
7.2 Supervision:
The overall reform effort was reviewed by regular Bank missions in close coordination with the IMF. As
noted in section 6.2, to strengthen the Bank's monitoring and supervision and in order to support the
-9-



reforms undertaken by the PSMAC, the Country Department added a headquarters economist position to
the resident mission. Nevertheless, it should be noted that the most successful component of the credit, for
civil service and revenue mobilization and administration were those which received technical assistance
from the Bank and IMF respectively. This was due in part to the closer supervision that was required by
the technical assistance as well as the support provided by the technical assistance itself. The quality of
supervision was therefore more satisfactory for some components than others.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance.
Overall Bank performance was satisfactory. The preparatory work drew on several years of bank
involvement in the defined areas as discussed in section 7.1 and utilized a competent bank team with
appropriate skills. The Bank made a valuable contribution to the overall quality of the project by including
strategic interventions which were already underway and were necessary to provide a basis for further
reforms.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance in lending was satisfactory. There was sustained dialogue and close cooperation
built on several years of work in these areas. Given the context of scarce administrative resources and
shortage of skilled personnel, the government's performance in design and preparation was a notable
achievement.
7.5 Government implementation performance.
As discussed earlier, supervision of the PSMAC program was done by a steering committee composed of
members from the Ministries of Civil Service and Adrninistrative Reform, Planning and Development, and
Finance, and the office of the Minister of State for Cabinet Affairs. Individual implementation
responsibilities, however, rested with each of these ministries as well as line agencies. While coordination
issues affected performance adversely, Borrower performance in implementation was satisfactory overall.
The Borrower expressed ownership and commitment to the project in several ways, including setting in
motion several difficult areas of policy reforms. Implementation was sometimes delayed due to factors
discussed elsewhere in the report.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Implementing agencies performed to the best of their abilities and adequately managed the work, within the
context of limitations of staffing and resources. Their performance was therefore satisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance.
The Borrower's overall performance was satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
General lessons: Public administration reforms require serious government commitment and ownership
and are likely to succeed if they are homegrown---as they were in this case. Reforms that require
coordination between several agencies require a change in work practices and culture that takes time. The
single-tranche disbursement mechanism is useful, since it provides a clear understanding of the prior
actions that the govemnment needs to undertake. Implementation capacity constraints also need to be
addressed consistently. An operation with a better defined set of implementation and outcome goals might
have produced better results. Reforms also need greater support beyond the general willingness to reform
from the top.
- 10 -



Country-Specific Lessons. Coordination arnongst agencies to achieve a common objective or goal is
difficult in practice everywhere; it is especially so in a country with a poorly developed bureaucracy such
as Yemen. Better coordination between the Ministry of Finance and other agencies has not been
forthcoming and incentives and pressures to bring this about need to be developed. Moreover, the process
of reforms needs to be discussed with all the stakeholders in the process.
In a country with relatively low technical capacity, a policy-based adjustment credit also needs to be
complemented by technical assistance that supports all affected agencies. Actively engaging resident
mission staff for follow-up for all components of the credit with all the stakeholders in the process whose
cooperation was necessary in order to achieve the intended objective would have had a greater impact.
The other lesson learned is to set realistic objectives that are clearly associated with Credit conditionality.
While it is understood that objectives are long term in nature, and unlikely to be met in full, especially since
this was envisaged as the first in a series of single-tranche credits, nevertheless prior actions that in a large
number of instances involved initiating studies and developing action plans may have had little effect on the
achievement of objectives. Had the actions been tied to fulfilling some outcome indicators that could have
been achieved in the short term fuller achievement of objectives would have been more likely. In addition,
the Bank could have pressed more actively in on-going country and sector dialogues for fulfilment of the
action plans.
Recommendations
The reforms initiated by the PSMAC operation need to be deepened and consolidated for the full impact to
be realized. The Bank should continue with its dialogue on these and if necessary provide support for
further reforms. But in view of the lessons now learned during this Credit, several major changes are likely
to be needed for better success in the future:
* a focus on outcomes, especially in terrns of results in delivery of key public services;
* a focus on poverty reduction objectives in setting expenditure priorities;
* greater attention to incentives, competition and public participation in order to elicit behavior changes
in public institutional reforms;
* more access to technical assistance in implementation of certain areas;
* engaging civil society and political leadership in owning and pursuing reforns to ensure sustainability
over time.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Borrower's contribution was provided by GOY while the ICR was being drafted and is included in Section
10 as additional information. Fornal comments on the ICR were received from GOY on the 3rd of June.
They concurred with the findings of the ICR. The comnents are attached.
f6t44000.PDF
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable
- 11 -



10. Additional Information
BORROWER CONTRIBUTION
Public Support Management Adjustment Credit
Republic OF Yemen
I. Introduction
1.    Following unfavorable events effective 1990, which ended by civil strife 1994, the events
resulted in encouraging economic and financial indicators, which affected the development process. The
government of Yemen consequently, launched a reform program supported by the World Bank, and the
International Monetary Fund. The broad objectives of the reform program were to stabilize the
economy and stimulate sustainable growth. The main reform program components are, first, to achieve
macroeconomic stabilization through moving to a market determined exchange rate regime, a
sustainable level of budget deficit, and supporting monetary policies, second, to lay the basis for
sustained growth by implementing a series of structural reform, and third, to assist the poor who would
be affected during the adjustment period.
Amongst priorities set out by the Yemeni government within the reform program, the improvement
of the management of the public sector, being supported by this credit is at the heart of addressing
the government priorities. Yemen's public administration was severely impacted by a series of
events since 1990, whereby two different systems had to be merged, which in turn resulted in a
surplus in the civil service. In the meantime, with the return of nearly one million Yemenis from the
Gulf, following the Gulf War, large numbers had to be absorbed into the civil service. The
economic turmoil through 1990-1995 caused civil service wages to decline substantially in real
terms. The overall result was a very large, poorly trained and poorly paid public administration that
lacked adequate knowledge of civil service process and procedures.
At the same time, the budget process was not as effective as it should have been. Planning of
expenditure and revenues was not always done within a proper framework as well as absence of a
smoothly operating budgets system; cuts were not always careful targeted across different
expenditure categories. Maintenance expenditures have suffered particularly.
2.    The Government Reform program achievements have been successful in laying a sound
foundation for the credit aims and objectives which were signed. Macroeconomic stabilization was
achieved. The inflation rate dropped from about 71% in 1994 to around 8.0% in 1999. The Riyal
stabilized at the rate of about $160. The environment for trade and investment improved. The success
in achieving macroeconomic stabilization is reflected in the reduction of the fiscal deficit from 17% of
GDP in 1994 to only 0.1 % of GDP in 1999. The budget deficit was fully financed by non-bank
borrowing. Broad money supply increased only by about 13.8 % in 1999 compared to about 20% in
1995. Trade policy witnessed open and transparent trade regime, reforms include a simplified and less
protective tariff structure, elimination of all import, export restrictions and import licensing, and
streamlined customs procedures, and documentation requirements.
On the other hand financial sector reform include improved prudential regulation of banks, and
accounting procedures, etc. abolishment of special courts for loan recovery.
- 12 -



The investment regime reform includes adoption of a new policy of uniform treatrnent domestic or
foreign.
II. Description And Obiectives of PSMAC
Description
I .    This credit is the first of a proposed series of public sector management adjustment operations.
The operation will support specific actions that start the process of institutional and policy change,
which is required to meet the program's objectives.
The project focuses on strengthening public administration (including personnel policies and
human resources management), improving the budget formulation process, strengthening
monitoring of budget execution, rationalizing public expenditures and enhancing non-oil
revenues through changes to tax policy and tax administration.
Objectives
2.    The PSMAC program aims to achieve the following objectives:
*   To redefine the role of the state to focus attention and resources on essential functions while
developing an incentive framework for the civil servants to carry out their new mandates.
*   To strengthen budget implementation, monitoring, and control, through, introducing new
procedures and systems for monitoring expenditures and for increasing the transparency and
coherency of budgetary procedures.
*   Improve the tax administration system to increase transparency and enhance and diversify domestic
resource mobilization.
Other Issues
3 .    To complement ongoing reform program the Govenmment is aware of the importance and the
role of delivery of public services in order to accelerate growth and alleviate poverty, through
administrative process and the ensuranc of utilizing available resources efficiently.
Second, public expenditures must be contained within the overall resource envelope which
is consistent with the macroeconomic framework, and allocated to activities that have
maximum returns, through, strengthening public administration, budget financial
management reform, public expenditures rationalization, and revenue mobilization and
administration.
The Government has already made substantial progress towards meeting the objectives of
the medium term reform program through assistance provided by the World Bank to
modemize the civil service.
Proiect Implementation
Macroeconomic Context
- 13-



By and large the Government's Reform program has been successful. Macroeconomic stabilization
was achieved. The inflation rate dropped from about 71 percent in 1994 to around 27.3 percent in
1996, and further to only 8.0 percent in 1999. The Riyal stabilized at the rate of about YR 160/US$.
The environment for trade and investment improved, resulting in a regeneration of growth, and the
basic elements of a social safety net for the poor were implemented.
The success in achieving macroeconomic stabilization can be credited to the strong fiscal and monetary
policies implemented by the Government over 1994 - 1997. The fiscal deficit was reduced from about
17 percent of GDP in 1994 to only about 2.3 percent of GDP in 1997 through a combination of tax
reform and expenditures restraint exercised during 1995 - 1997, and by the improvement in the price of
oil beginning in 1996. These fiscal measures were supported by monetary policies, which included an
increase in the benchmark interest rates to achieve positive real rates. The budget deficit was fully
financed by non-bank borrowing through the successful introduction of three and six month treasury
bill auctions.
Measures and Policy
Public Administration
Steps have been initiated in the field of public administration as follows:
*  The re-structuring issue occupied major attention in the course of reform and particularly within
the public support management adjustment credit (PSMAC). Law No. (291), was issued in 1998,
identifying pilot agencies to undergo a process of restructing namely, Civil Service, Public Health,
Labor and Vocational Training, Inssurance and Socials Affairs Ministries, Tax Authority, Civil
Aviation Authority, and Central organisation for Auditing and Accounting. The Yemeni
Government had furnished an action plan to the Association detailing the guidelines pursuant to
which said restructuring shall take place.
D Based on law No. (33), 1999 issued by the Cabinet, measures have been initated by the Yemeni
Government in the area of illegal entries from the civil service payroll through submitting a
suitable time-bound action plan detailing the process of removal of illegal entries, and
implementation thereof has commenced. Amongst the measures taken by the government an offer
was made available to civil servants to choose the appropiate position and a convenient location in
the different govemorates. Such an offer resulted in a record of a number of illegal entries.
Government's efforts were also followed by fonning working committees that resumed the
concensus process according to law number (13), 2000 issued by the cabinet.
* Implementation in this regard covered the civil service and security agencies, while efforts are
taking place to cover the military sector.
Human Resource Management
In this area considerable achievements have been realized as indicated below focused on systematic
management of personnel records, movement toward a merit based civil service, and to meet training
needs within the civil service.
*  The Issue of personnel as stated in (PSMAC) is one of the major areas that is receiving high
- 14 -



attention. Consequently, the Yemeni Government initiated arrangements and took measures in this
regard. The first step was the implementation of the census process in September, 1998 for civil
servants followed by preparation of workers files through adoption of a unified system and
completion of 95% of the civil servants files which included the initial documents.
*   Also, to achieve the desired goals in the personnel area namely recruitment, implementation of new
recruitment was based on announcement and competition principles for the the period 1999/2000.
However, the Government currently is focusing on reviewing the existing public recruitment
regulations, besides establishing a database relating to this issue including responsibilities and
requirements of public posts. In addition, the issue of salaries is being addressed through forming a
ministerial committee for salaries policies.
*   Developed an employee database, together with implementing procedures for the maintenance of
said database, featuring key data contained in personnel files.
*   Submitted a suitable time-bound action plan detailing the process of removal of illegal entries from
the civil service payroll, and commenced implementation thereof.
-   Due to the effects of pension issue on salary policies as stated within the Public Support
Management Adjustment Credit, the Yemeni Government initiated measures in this regard through
issuance of Presidential Decree No. (1), 2000 to replace Law No. (25), 1991 on pension and
insurance affairs.
Implementation of the recent pension Law took place where the number of workers shifted
to pension recorded (3000) persons during the period (Jan. 2000 - July 31. 2000).
Measures relating to other workers subject to pension is proceeding.
O   Completion of computerization of civil service census records towards establishment of
management database.
*   Linking of personnel management database to computerized payroll system.
*   Establishment of regional personnel management information centres have taken place. Besides,
revision of job and grade classification systems are progressing towards implementation.
*   Established a ministerial committee for salaries whose main responsibility is the development of a
revised, fiscally sustainable, merit-based salary structure, and implemented a freeze on civil service
salary increases, other than cost of living increases an increase which the Borrower has already
decided upon but not yet implemented, until such time when said structure is in place.
*   In order to tackle the surplus workers, Law No. (1), 1999 has been issued, besides implementing
regulations Law No. (314), 2000 to establish a civil service fund. However, transformation of
surplus workers to benefit from the fund did not start yet due to its relationship to implement the
re-engineering process.
Implementation of labor force adjustment
In order to increase civil service servant's productivity, and permit adequate compensation levels,
several steps have been initiated as illustrated below:
- 15 -



* Considerable measures had been taken to remove ghost and double dippers from the payrolls.
Continuation of efforts are under process. Also, retirement issue is progressing gradually.
* Put in place a suitable legal framework creating a civil service fund through which the Borrower's
staff reduction initiative shall be implemented.
Budget and Financial Management Policy
The budget and financial management policy aims to develop a medium termn expenditure framework,
and strengthen budget formulation, as well as, strengthening budget performance. In this achievements
realized are as follows:
* Set up a unit within the Borrower's Ministry of Finance to develop a medium-term expenditure
framework. Preparation of revenue and expenditures forecast for the year 2000 is conducted.
Other forecasts for the year 2001-3003 are proceeding.
* Appointed a technical committee, whose responsibility shall include oversight functions of a unified
budget preparation process, and furnished the Association with an action plan designed to ensure
the introduction of reformed and unified budget procedures for the upcoming budget cycle.
* Submitted to Cabinet a draft finance law setting out, among other things, the roles of the Ministries
of Finance, Planning and Development, and Civil service and Administrative Reform in the budget
process.
- Submitted to the Association a new budget classification and a revised budget manual.
*   The appointment of a Technical Committee for the budget, which discusses the entire budget had
been formed and is conducting its tasks according to plans.
- Provision and maintaining of financial records by public enterprises and other requirements is
progressing considerably, according to Ministry of Finance instructions.
In the area of strengthening budget execution and monitoring, the following is being achieved:
* Developed suitable specifications for an accounting and financial management information system;
submitted an action plan to the Association detailing the guidelines pursuant to which said system
shall be implemented and commenced the implementation process in accordance with the
aforementioned action plans.
* The working committee to review issues relating to budget is progressing. Training programs for
line ministries staff is taking place.
Public Expenditure Rationalization Policy
The public expenditure rationalization policy is aiming to develop budget formulation process,
consistency with sector strategy projects and programs in the budget. On the other hand, the policy
emphasizing prioritization of investment resources, besides improverments relating to issues mentioned
- 16 -



above, are as follows:
*   Developed and submitted to the Association suitable expenditure strategies for the agriculture,
health, education, road transport, electricity and urban water supply sectors.
*   Established a public investment database featuring the cost and resources required to complete
existing projects in the sectors referred to above, together with data on progress achieved in
carrying out said projects.
*   Prioritized the Borrower's investment program for fiscal year 1999 in the agriculture and health
sectors, in line with the strategies referred to above. Also undertaken to begin a similar
prioritization process to cover, at a minimum, the education, road, transport, electricity and urban
water supply sector; and
* Prepared terms of reference and suitable work programs to carry out studies on operation and
maintenance requirements in the agriculture, health and education sectors with a view to
commending implementation of the recommendations of said studies during fiscal year 2000.
Revenue Mobilization and Administration
The revenue mobilization and administration process focused on tax effort and efficiency of income
taxes, in addition to efficient general sales tax system development, and revenue efficiency and
admninistration improvement. In this context, several measures have been undertaken as indicated
below:
*   Amendments took place on income tax law, consolidation of all income for tax purposes,
rationalization of rates, brackets, exemptions, deductions and income coverage.
* The Government has taken necessary measures in the context of taxation, through issuance of Law
No. (27), 1998 replacing the previous law No. (45) ,1991 . The new Law deals with charging
transport means through lump-sum amount included within the petrolum products prices.
*   In addition, a presidential decree was issued No. (12) ,1999 relating to income tax, consequently,
ensuring sound tax revenues being levied, removal of tax smuggling, and unification of principles
in different govemates being realized.
* Law No. (5), 1998 eliminated the Stamp tax.
* Amendments on investment law proceeded adequately.
*   Implementation of ink-stamped packets for domestic cigarettes and bandroll system has been
executed.
* General sales tax (GST) to replace the production tax applied is considerably progressed
* Issues relevant to revenue administration improvement are achieving progressive steps.
Taxation:
- 17 -



*  The Government had initiated in the area of taxation by issued several presidential decrees No. 70,
1991 (decrees No. 4, 1995, No. 14, 1996, No. 4, 1997, No. (13), 1999). The above mentioned
decrees aimed at making necessary amendments and corrective on procedures, to achieve
transparency. Efforts are undertaken to approve general tax, which has been submitted to
parliament for approval. Also, the Government eliminated the stamp tax according to law No. (5),
1998.
*   The Government has issued Law No. (141), 1998 to organize Depreciation and fixed assets
percentage and rules, in order to simplify accounting process.
*   In addition an initiative has been taken by the Government through a presidential decree No. (140),
2000, to establish public administration for taxation in order to implement reform process through
sound procedures, and unified accounting rules. The Government also initiated by establishing
Monitoring and Inspection Departments in all governmental tax offices.
- 18 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Not applicable
- 19 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Not Applicable
- 20 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable
- 21 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
|StageiPro@l;  g; ; 0: 00:u0:0:;   ;: N.ofPerons adSpecialty                   Per         Ratg
(e-&. 2t cooist I   S  tc)Iplementatio   Developmen
:   nt-/Yea_   Countitii      Specialty                      Progres        Obetv
Identification/Preparation
10/30/1998                 3   Economists                           S               S
Appraisal/Negotiation
02/01/1999                  3   Economists                          S               S
Supervision
03/23/1999                  2   Economists                          S               S
ICR
04/10/2001                  1    Public Sector Specialist          HS              HS
(b) Staff:
Stage of Poject Cyce         Actual/atest Estimat
__50p_____________*__   0 7 SNo. Staff* eeks                    US CO0i 
Identification/Preparation               11.7                        74.5
Appraisal/Negotiation                    17.6                       119.0
Supervision                              14.2                        81.0
ICR                                       5.1                        29.0
Total                                    48.6                       303.5
- 22 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                          O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
OSector Policies                           O H  O SU * M  O N  O NA
E Physical                                 O H  OSUOM  0 N  * NA
G Financial                                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
N Institutional Development                0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
El Environmental                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
F Poverty Reduction                 O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
Ol Gender                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
El Other (Please specify)           0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
O Private sector development               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
Z Public sector management                 0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)                   O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
- 23 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
N Lending                                            OHSOS OU OHU
N Supervision                                        OHS OS   OU   OHU
Z Overall                                            OHS OS  O  U  O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                             Rating
Z Preparation                                        OHS *S  O  U  O HU
 Government implementation performance              O HS * s  0  U  0 HU
 Implementation agency performance                  OHS OS   0  U  O HU
Z Overall                                            OHS OS   0 U  O  IU
- 24 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Report and Recommendation of the President on a proposed Public Sector Management Adjustment
Credit to the Republic of Yemen.
2. Project Appraisal Document on a proposed credit for a Civil Service Modemization Project to the
Republic of Yemen.
3. Borrower's contribution.
- 25 -



Additional Annex 8. Policy Matrix
Annex 1: POLICY MATRIX (INCLUDING DETAILED NOTES ON PROGRESS)
Purpose              Board Conditions              Comments          1   Measures during                Comments
Second Year
(Indicative)
Satisfactory macroeconomnic framework, preservation of essential development expenditures, adequate institutional framework to
monitor program implementation.
A. Public Administration
1. Streamline Government
Redefine the role of state,   Compile description of  Completed               On the basis of study, and
clarijy responsibilities  current roles and         Location-MOCSAR           taking into account        Done
responsibilities of each                            reengineering
ministry, agency, authority,                        recommendations, outline
etc. (including laws,                               new functions of
organizational structure                            ministries/agencies
and/or membership)
Reduce the size and improve Initiate study on       Study completed
organization of ministries,   organizational structure of
authorities, agencies, etc.   govemnment (TOR agreed,
consultant selection initiated)_
Systematize and standardize Agree on re-engineering  Done                     Re-engineering process
governmentprocedures      framework and scope of                              initiated in 4 sectors,    Have defined the basis for
consulting services required                        ministries, agencies, or  re-engineering. Have
for re-engineering                                  authorities; progress     identified people who will
satisfactory as defined in  work in the re-engineered
re-engineering work plans.   departments.
Agree on 4 sectors,       Done for Cabinet, Mfinistries
ministries, agencies, or  of Labor, Social Affairs and
authorities in which a    Civil Service, Tax Authority,
re-engineering process will be PM's Office.
initiated, appoint
re-engineering teams in each,
and retain consultant services
for preliminary work in each.
Implement process         Not in legal agreement    Processes simplified and
simplification for at least 2   Current process has been  made more transparent in    Process made transparent in
public processes (e.g., small  mapped for drivers licenses   original 2 plus at least 3  the initial two.
business licensing, drivers    and passports and posted  additional service areas.
licenses, passports, request   publicly in the agencies.  Identification of remaining
for utility connection).                            areas to which the
methodology can be applied.
2. Enhance human resource management
Systematic management of  Complete at least 95% of the Completed. Files kept in  100% of the civil servants    Completed
personnel records         civil servants with personnel  MOCSAR and the concerned with personnel files that are
files with core documents and agencies              complete with core
in a known location                                 documents and in a known
location
Movement towards a merit  Complete computerization of Completed               Issue pernanent, personnel   Boiometric identification
based civil service       civil service census records to                     identification cards based on  being instituted.
form the core personnel                             biometric identification
management database
Attention to training needs   Operational systems in place  Personnel file system set up   Core personnel management
within the civil service  to continually update the core such that any action generates database maintained and
personnel management      an update.                up-to-date
database
- 26 -



Purpose              Board Conditions               Comments               Measures during               Comments
Second Year
(Indicative)
Establish regional personnel  Established in govern-orates  Link personnel database to   Pending necessary action
management information    via cabinet decree. (Not in   computerized payroll system  from MOF
centers, including the    every govemorate due to lack
definition of responsibilities,  of capacity). Currently
identification of staff and  operational.
initiation of training
Establish a ministerial   Done. Govt. decree to revise
committee responsable for    wage structure signed. See
developing a revised, fiscally note on establishment of  Agree on revised job and
sustainable, merit-based  merit-based structure,     grade classification systems,
salary structure by June                             actions plans for their
1999, and implemented a                              implementation, and initial
freeze salary increases                              implementation according to
(except cost of living and                           action plans.
those already agreed) until
the new structure is
implemented.
Agree on revised target wage
structure
Develop a training plan for
civil servants and initiate  Training plans under
training in accordance with   development.
that plan.
Identify changes required in  Note. Job classification needs
civil service laws and    to be completed before
regulations to sppor a    merit-based system can be put
professional, merit-based civil in place.
service. Necessary legal
changes approved by Cabinet
and submitted to Parliament.
3. Implement laborforce adjustment
Increase productivity of civil Agree on and begin to  Agreed on and names       Remove from the payroll, on
service and permit adequate remove ghost workers and   identified, Decree issued,    a permanent basis, all ghost  Biometric identification is
compensation levels       double dippers from the    Several voluntarily        workers and double dippers,  underway.
payrolls on basis of census   relinquished one job.  based on unique biometric
results                                              identification of all staff.
Aided by census results,  DONE. Iiformation from                                Close to strict enforcement
begin to enforce retirement  employee database being                            acheived
rules                     used to identify retirees.  Retirement rules strictly
enforced.
Develop action plans to   Action Plans developed.
remove from the payroll   Database used to identify
groups that are not employed  people collecting salaries but
in accordance with the    not working for that position.
current civil service law  Once biometric completed
will be shifted to C.S. Fund
Establish the legal basis for   Legislation passed by  Civil service fund operating   Underway. Being addressed
civil service fund;       President. Parliament had    satisfactorily including (i)   by Civil Service
option to reconsider in a year transfer to the fund of Civil   Modemization Project.
- did not. Civil Service Fund  service fund operating
established               surplus staff within
restructured agencies and
transparently identified
surplus or unqualified staff,
and (ii) agreement on buy-out
packages.                         ._.
-27 -



Purpose              Board Conditions               Comments               Measures during               Comments
Second Year
(Indicative)
Agree on TOR and select    Done
consultant for assistance in
developing operating rules
and regulations for civil
service fund
Any new recruitment,       All job advertisements are for Continued progress
including contract        highly skilled workers. Since
employment, limited to    reengineering process not yet
highly skilled workers, linked completed, identification of
to identification of needs  needs based on its results is
based on reengineering    still pending.
process                                             I
B. Budget and Financial Management Policy Matrix
1. Reform budget formulation
Development of Medium     MTEF unit to be set up in the Unit has been established  Revenue department of the
Term Expenditure          MOF to develop                                       MOF to establish capacity to
Framework (MTEF)          macroeconomic framework                               undertake 3-year forecasts for
linking revenue and                                  revenues, set targets, and
expenditures to growth and                           monitor collections.
key macro variables.
Strengthen Budget                                                               MTEF to prepare revenue
Formulation                                                                     and expenditure forecasts for
the Year 2000 budget.
Budget envelopes to be
established for the year 2000
for incorporation in the
Budget Circular (see below)
Appoint a Technical       Committee established -    Budget submissions to be
Committee for the Budget    budget in its entirety was    reviewed in the TCB
(TCB), with senior        discussed last year by the  meetings, leading to a
representatives from MOF,  committee.                preparation of the draft
MOPD, and MOCSAR,                                    budget by the MOF for
which discusses the budget in                        approval Cabinet and
its entirety.                                        Parliament.
MOF to issue instructions to  Instructions have been issued Public enterprises to submit
all public enterprises    - however, there are no    their financial to the MOF
requiring that beginning in   accepted accounting    prior to the submission of
1999, they maintain financial standards as such. This is    their budget estimates.
records of sufficient scope    being drafted. Requests for
and quality to meet accepted  resourees from budget were
accounting                made by the state enterprises,
standards and to substantiate  using an unified format.
requests for resources from
the budget.
MOF to complete action on   Completed. Training      One consolidated budget    Done
Teclassification of the budget. established for GFS system.  circular to be issued for the
1700 staff in govemorates    Year 2000 Budget covering
and headquarters trained.    all budget components --
personnel expenditures,
current expenditures and
revenues, and capital
expenditures -- and
establishing expenditure
I envelopes.
- 28 -



Purpose             Board Conditions              Comments              Measures du_ng               Comments
Second Year
(Indicative)
Establish basic system for    The software that can be used
consolidating budget     to do so, is located in Central
estimates (using standard  Bank, however, via new law
software packages) in MOF, issued in 1999, MOF
MOPD and MOCSAR          implements and executes
budget.
MOF to revise Finance Law   Done                   Finance law approved and
for submission to Cabinet                          MOF to implement revised
budget manual.
MOF to revise Budget     Done
Manual to reflect the new
budget classification.
Agreement on an action plan  Completed
designed to ensure that a
unified, reformed budget
circular is issued for the year
2000 budget.                             .
2. Strengthen Budget Execution and Monitoring.
Strengthen budget Execution MOF to set up a Treasury    Committee set up. Review    MOF to establish budget
througfh implementing an   Working Committee (TWC) completed.                execution rules for the Year
Accounting and Financial  to review (i) budget execution                     2000 Budget.
Management Information   rules, including procedures
System (AFMIS)           for the release of funds and
for reallocation of
appropriations, and (ii) the
budget execution control
system.
Agreement on proposal and   Delayed due to delay in Civil Work on the AFMIS to
action plan to develop and    Service Modemization,  proceed according to the
implement a comprehensive  Project negotiated with the   agreed implementation plan.
AFMIS to be approved;    Bank. Delays In MOF as
terms of reference for the    well.
software, hardware and
training consultants to be
developed, and consultants to
be identified.
MOF to implement a system
of quarterly budget reviews.
Training of staff in MOF,
Line Ministries and
Budgeting Units for AFMIS
implementation to
commence in accordance
with a training plan.
C. Public Expenditure Rationalization Policy Matrix
1. Improve the budget process
Develop a budget         For details on the steps and
formulation process based n institutional arrangements to
an agreed macroeconomic  achieve this see the section B
framework andfinancial    on budget and financial
aggregates.              management. The roles and
responsibilities of the MOPD,
MOF and line ministries are
clarified in the attachment.
- 29 -



Purpose              Board Conditions               Comments               Measures during               Comments
Second Year
(Indicative)
2. Improve the effectiveness of the sectoral expenditureprograms
(1) Consistency with sector  Prepare sector strategy in key Done.               Refine sector strategies in
strategy                  sectors (agriculture, health,                         light of experience.
Projects andprograms      education, transport, power
included in the budget are   and urban water) in
consistent with sector    consultation with the Bank.
strategy.
(ii) Prioritization of    Develop a data base for    Done. Database labeled"    Further refine data base and
investment resources      projects, including        Details of Capital Investment prioritization based on the
Focus scarce investment    information on the extent of  projects for the Year 2000".  retums from the line
resources on the highest    physical completion of the                          ministries based on the new
priority projects, and defer  ongoing projects in the                           circular.
lowerpriorityprojects. This investment program, the
exercise will be done for six  amount of money and time
priority sectors. (see    required to complete the
attachmentfor the roles of  projects.
line ministries, MOPD, and
MOF in this process).
Identify a list of high priority Done for all sectors.
ongoing and planned projects However, this list has not
(list P) in major sectors  been made available to the
consistent with the sector  MOF.
strategies.
As a pilot, in agriculture and  Prioritization of budget
health prioritize the 1999  submissions accomplished in
budget submissions        Health. Agriculture also
including:                done but needs to be
*      Shift all "projects"  revisited. Further work on
which, in reality finance the  shifting projects to recurrent
upkeep of existing facilities to budget required.
the recurrent budget.     Since the list has not been
*      Ensure high priority  made available to MOF, this
projects (identified in list P)  is yet to be accomplished.
receive full annual funding to
enable quick completion in
line with project design; and
*      Defer other, lower
priority projects
Agree on timetable for    MOF has requested
prioritization in other sectors. agreement from the Cabinet,
however, the details need to
be provided by MOPD.
(iii) Sustainability      Prepare TOR and            TORs have been prepared    Studies completed and action
Improve the overall tax   commission studies in      and studies have been      plans agreed for
effort the efficiency of the    agriculture, education and    commissioned.     implementing
income taxes.             health, with senior                                   recommendations.
representatives of the MOF,
MOPD and the line ministly,
to review the O&M needs of
existing facilities and those
coming on stream in
1999-2000.
- 30 -



Purpose              Board Conditions               Comments               Measures durng                Comments
Second Year
(Indicative)
D. Revenue Mobilization and Adminstration
1. Direct taxes
Improve the overall tax effort IImplement amendments to    Completed.           Eliminate provisions of the
the efficiency of the income   the income tax law including                     investment law for
taxes                     consolidation of all income                           exemptions from profits tax,
for tax purposes, and                                business income tax, and
rationalization of rates,                            import duties.
brackets, exemptions,
deductions and income
coverage.
2. Indirect taxes
Develop and efficient general Implement anendments to    Done                   Begin the implementation of  GST passed. However, needs
sales tax system as the main  the current excise tax law.                       the general sales tax (GST) to to be revisited and is being
source of revenue.                                                             replace the production tax    revisited. Dialogue being
applied at the manufacturing  pursued by IMF
or import level.
Implement ink-stamped     Done, although this has not
packets for domestic      stopped unmarked packets
cigarettes and a bandroll    from being available.
system for imported
cigarettes.
Eliminate all stamp taxes.    Done
3. Improved revenue administration
Improve the efficiency of    Introduce a taxpayer    Done                      Increase the efficiency in  Done
revenue administration    identification number (TIN).                         implementing the income tax
law and extend enforcement
of use of TIN by requiring its
use in all tax and customs
transactions.
Campaign for increased tax   Done. Training provided.    Continue to implement a
compliance and train tax  Increased levels of        program for customs reform.
collectors.               compliance observed. 
Agree with the IMF on an    Done
action plan to implement tax
administration reforms for
both income taxes and the
Production, Consumption,
and Services Tax.
- 31 -



REPUBLIC OF YEMIEN
MINISTR OF PLANNING & DEVELOPMENT
OFFICE:   -.               .                 -                         ....................
Dae: 3 le/
Mr. Musitafa Nabli,
Chief Economist and Director,
Social and Economic Development GroUP.
Middle East and North Africa Region,
Washington, D.C.
Fax(202) 477-0432.
Dear Mustafa,
Subject: Yemen Public Sector Moderufratiol Adiustment Credit
World link' Dr--t  pimr entationx Compti  Renort (ICfl
With reference to your letter dated May 24, 2001 regarding the above subject-mattr,
we would like to thank you for sharing with us the draft of the mentioned report
which was prepared jointly betwen the World Bank staff and offeicials from
concerned Ministries and Agencies.
As we are all aware PSMAC contributed positively to the reform process undertaken
by GOY in the area of Public Administration Strigthenin gBudget and Financil
Management Reform, Public Expenditure Rationalizaton and Revenue Mobliization,
and Rcvenuc Administration Reform. Hence, the ClOY is commited to the reform
programme  and seeks your continuous support in acievig susaiable growth,
creating a lean and modern civil service, and alleviating povety.
We believe that this draft provides a well considerd jew of all parties, and we
recommend its submission to the Board.
Once again, we tbank you for your continuing assisumce and effots in implementing
the rcform programme currently procedeng in Yemen.
Ahmedd
Minister of P g  and Developent
*Y'VI                  ,<_sv 1" - AL. -    ~ - 0  vo):-}a
P.O. Box :(175) - Sana'a -Tel.: 250101 - Faxmel :251503 -Telex: 2266
NINNVId JO N3SNIWd                  19 90ZTL96 E5:EZ  t/0Z/ZQ/9G



