Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P- 7291- YEM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 35.8 MILLION (US$50 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
February 25, 1999
Social and Economic Development Unit
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Currency Eguivalents
(As of December 31, 1998)
Currency Unit: Yemeni Rials (YR)
Exchange Rate: US$1 = YR142
Yemen Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFMIS   =    Accounting and Financial Management Information
System
CSF       =    Civil Service Fund
CSM       =    Civil Service Modernization
EDB            Employee Database
EFF       =   Extended Fund Facility
ERC       =   Economic Recover Credit
ESAF     =   Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
FIAS     =    Foreign Investment Advisory Service
FSAC      =    Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
GDP      =    Gross Domestic Product
GST      =    General Sales Tax
IMF      =    International Monetary Fund
GOY      =    Government of Yemen
MOF      =   Ministry of Finance
MOPD    =   Ministry of Planning and Development
MNA      =   Middle East and North Africa
MTEF    =   Medium Term Expenditure Framework
NGOs    =   Non-Governmental Organizations
O&M      =    Operations and Maintenance
PCS       =   Production, Consumption and Services
PPF       =   Project Preparation Facility
PSMAC   =   Public Sector Management Adjustment Credit
PWP       =   Public Works Project
TIN      =    Taxpayer Identification Number
Vice President      Kemal DerviE
Country Director    Inder K. Sud
Sector Director     John Page
Core Task Team      Linda Van Gelder, Sudhir Chitale,
Jayanta Roy



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (PSMAC)
CONTENTS
Credit Summary .......................................................................                                  ;
1.  INTRODUCTION.I
11.   COUNTRY AND MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT .......................................................................          2
A. SUCCIESS OF REFORMS TO D)ATI .......................................................................              2
B. GOVERNMENT PRIORITIES .......................................................................                     4
C. TliE IMPORTANCEI OF GOVERNANCE AN) PUBlIC SECTOR MANA(IMIENI ...............................        ................... 5
D. MACROECONOMIC PROSPECTS ANI) EXTEIRNAL. DEI31 ............................ ........................................... 6
111.  THE PROGRAM  SUPPORTED BY THE PSMAC .......................................................................        9
A. PtJI3LIC ADMINISTRATION STRENGIIEINING. ................................................       .................................    9
B. BUDjET r ANI) FINAJNCIAL MA-NAGENITF.XI R.F:ORM ................................13.......................................  13
C. PU xI3C EXPENI)TURE RArIINAL.IZA(TioN ................1........ ... .......................   ........... 14
D. REVENUE MOBILIZATION ANI) REVI.VNtT1.  Al)MINISTRAIION                                                           1 7
IV. THE PROPOSED CREDIT.                                                                                               18
A.  OBJECTIVI1 8...............                                                     ,...... I 
B. LINKTOTIIE . CAS .                                                                                               18
C. DL-'SCRIP'I'ION ..........  ,   ,  ...,            . ,   ,             ,.,      ..        .    ,. ,,      ..    19
D. TECIINICAL ASSISTANCE REQUIRE-MEN I S.                                                                         19
E. BENEFITS ANI) RISKS.                                                                                             20
F. IMPLEMENTATION, MONITORING, ANI SUPERVISION....                                                                  21
G. COORI)INA'I'ION WTl I IMF ......................,, ..,  21
H. FIN.ANCING, PLAN .2.............                              ,                                               , 22
1. DISBURSEMENIt .............,,,,,,, ...           ,          .         . .,,, 22
V RECOMMENDATION .22
ANNEX 1: LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY .23
ANNEX 2: POLICY MATRIX .30
ANNEX 3 STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS .32
ANNEX 4: YEMEN AT A GLANCE .39
ANNEX 5: SUPPLEMENTARY CREDIT DATA SHEE'r .41
STATISTICAL ANNEX .42
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (PSMAC)
Credit Summary
Borrower:            Republic of Yemen
Amount:              SDR 35.8 million (US$50 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity
Objectives:          The PSMAC program aims to (i) begin to redefine the role of the state
to focus attention and resources on essential functions while developing
an incentive framework for civil servants to carry out their new
mandates; (ii) strengthen budget implementation, monitoring, and
control by introducing new procedures and systems for monitoring
expenditures and for increasing the transparency and coherency of
budgetary procedures; (iii) improve the efficiency, effectiveness, and
poverty focus of public expenditures; and (iv) improve the tax
administration system to increase transparency and enhance and
diversify domestic resource mobilization.
Description:         This credit is the first of a proposed series of public sector management
adjustment operations. The first operation will support specific actions
that start the process of institutional and policy change which is
required to meet the program's objectives.
The project focuses on strengthening public administration (including
personnel policies and human resources management), improving the
budget formulation process, strengthening monitoring of budget
execution, rationalizing public expenditures, and enhancing non-oil
revenues through changes to tax policy and tax administration.
Benefits:            Potential benefits include improved management of Yemen's economy,
modernization of human resource and financial management practices,
support to private sector development by starting to reduce
cumbersome bureaucracy; and improved public services.  More
appropriate allocations of public resources will also benefit the
population as a whole, and the poor in particular, who currently suffer
from the lack of coherence in the public expenditure program targeted
to and delivery of essential services such as public health, education,
and safety net programs.
jI



Risks:                 The reforms envisioned under this program  are inherently risky.
Specific risks include: (i) faltering commitment; (ii) insufficient inter-
ministerial cooperation; (iii) political resistance from vested interests
(both within and outside the civil service); and (iv) shallow human
resources capacity to implement reforms.
Further,  sustainability  of  the  reform   program   requires  the
implementation of a labor force restructuring program. Specific risks
associated with this aspect of the program require: (i) guarding against
non-transparent implementation; (ii) designing an effective program
that retains high productivity, well-qualified staff and prevents
dismissed workers from creeping back on the payroll; and (iii)
addressing social risks related to the fact that, die facto, the transfer of
income to the general population through civil service wages and an
extended family support stracture currently functions as a part of a
welfare system.
Disbursements:         The PSMAC would be disbursed based on policy actions taken by the
government, in a single tranche upon credit effectiveness.
Poverty Category:      Not applicable.
Rate of Return:        Not applicable.
Project Identification  62837
Number:
Map:                   Not applicable.
jjI 



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Public Sector Management Adjustment Credit (PSMAC) to the Republic of Yemen (ROY) for
SDR 35.8 million (US$50 million equivalent). The Credit would be on IDA terms with 40 years
maturity, including a ten-year grace period. The Credit would be quick-disbursing and would
proved balance of payments and budgetary support. It would be disbursed as a single tranche for
specific conditions completed prior to Board presentation. The proceeds of the Credit would be
used for financing the foreign exchange costs of general imports, except for a short list of
ineligible goods.
I.  INTRODUCTION
2.    The Government of Yemen (GOY) has requested World Bank support for its efforts to
improve public sector performance so that it can make better use of scarce financial and human
resources. Deficiencies in the public sector currently threaten to undermine Yemen's hard won
macroeconomic stability and to jeopardize the effective implementation of Yemen's growth-
oriented structural reforms.' Tackling these deficiencies, along with measures to diversify the
oil-dependent economy, are critical for ensuring a fiscally sustainable economy. Such reforms
will also enhance the prospects for sustaining economic growth (at least 5% per annum), which
is critical in light of Yemen's high employment rate, high population growth, and widespread
poverty.
3.    The proposed Public Sector Management Adjustment Credit (PSMAC) supports such a
package of reforms. Key aspects of the program include: (i) streamlining and reprofessionalizing
the civil service so that it no longer acts as a bottleneck to private initiatives, both domestic and
foreign; (ii) making the budget and financial management process more clear and transparent;
(iii) rationalizing public expenditures to focus on growth-oriented and social priorities; and (iv)
enacting policies to step up non-oil revenues and improve tax administration. For the past two
years, the Bank has worked closely with the Government in the areas of civil service and public
expenditure reform. The proposed credit consolidates these efforts into a medium-term (three-
year) framework. It also draws on complementary work spearheaded by the IMF on reform of
the financial management system  and tax policy and administration.  Because of global
economic developments (oil price movements) and growing political challenges, the
Government needs to retain some flexibility in the pace and design of reforms in individual
components. Hence, we propose a series of single tranche operations. The specific actions in
the first operation are clearly defined along with the end results that are expected in about a
three-year time frame. However, some flexibility is retained in the speed and design of reforms
in the intervening period.
Adjustments to public sector management are an integral part of the country's economy-wide reform program,
which has been and continues to be supported by the Bank and the IMF. The Bank has extended a set of policy-
based loans, including an Economic Recovery Credit (ERC approved in 1996) and a Financial Sector
Adjustment Credit (FSAC approved in 1997). The IMF provided a Stand-By Arrangement in March 1996 and
has been supporting Yemen through an Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) since October 1997.



The Republic of Yemen                  - 2 -
4.    Because of the drop in oil prices in 1998, Yemen experienced a sharp deterioration in its
budget and balance of payments position. Despite this shock, the Government has remained
committed to its adjustment program. It took strong measures to keep expenditures in line with
available resources by cutting the budget, and in June 1998, even after strong public reactions, it
carried through with a phase-out of administered prices. However, the Government is concerned
that a continued squeeze on the economy and cuts in development expenditures will delay
reaching a path of sustained growth and adversely effect the expansion of basic public services,
particularly health and education. The credit is timed to assist Yemen with its exceptional
financing requirements while the medium term reforms it has initiated take root and begin to
bring results. Further, should oil prices fail to firm up in 1999 in line with projections, the credit
proceeds will at least provide a "safety-net" for critical development expenditures, particularly in
the social sectors, thereby minimizing the impact on the poor and ensuring continued attention to
the formulation of human capital which is critical for Yemen to reach a sustainable, high-growth
path.
II. COUNTRY AND MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT
A. SUCCESS OF REFORMS TO DATE
5.    Following the resolution of the civil strife towards the end of 1994, the Government
launched a reform program supported by a series of operations by the Bank and the IMF. The
broad objectives of the Government's reform program were to stabilize the economy and
stimulate sustainable growth. The reform program had three main components:
* to achieve macroeconomic stabilization through movement to a market determined exchange
rate regime, a sustainable level of budget deficit, and supporting monetary policies,
* to lay the basis for sustained growth by implementing a series of structural reforms; and
* to assist the poor who would be affected during the adjustment period.
6.    By and large, the Government's program  has been successful.  Macroeconomic
stabilization was achieved (see Table 1). The inflation rate2 dropped from about 71% in 1994 to
around 27.3% in 1996, and further to only 6.3% in 1997. The Rial stabilized at the rate of about
YR130/US$. The environment for trade and investment improved, resulting in a regeneration of
growth, and the basic elements of a social safety net for the poor were implemented.
7.    The success in achieving macroeconomic stabilization can be credited to the strong fiscal
and monetary policies implemented by the Government over 1994-97. The fiscal deficit was
reduced from about 17% of GDP in 1994 to only about 2.3% of GDP in 1997 through a
combination of tax reform and expenditure restraint exercised during 1995-97, and by an
improvement in the price of oil beginning in 1996. These fiscal measures were supported by
monetary policies, which included an increase in the benchmark interest rates to achieve positive
real rates by 1996. The budget deficit was fully financed by non-bank borrowing through the
successful introduction of three and six month treasury bill auctions. Since there was no
Government borrowing from the banking system in 1997, broad money supply increased only by
about 11% in 1996 compared to about 20% in 1995, and the inflation rate was kept low.
2 As measured by the Consumer Price Index (CPI).



The Republic of Yemen                              - 3 -
Table 1: Macroeconomic Trends
1994     1995    1996    1997       1998
iL:.: g i  :   :                                       r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(rov.)   (Est
((Change in percent)
Real GDP                                       -(.5      8.6     5.6     5.2        2. 7
Oil                                         49.6     15.3    13.5      4.7       1.2
Non Oil                                     -6.3      7.3     4.1      5.3       3.()
Inflation'                                     71.3     62.5    27.3     6.3       11.1
(1h Percent of (GD91' Inless othlerwi-ise, 11,lmd')
Investment                                      9.7     25.4    25.3    21.2       21 .5
Private                                      7.6     22.1    18.2    13.4       15.1
IPublic                                      2.1      3.3     7.1      7.8       6.4
Revenues (inicludiig granits)                  13.8     21.3    38.4    37.7       30.6
Oil Revenues                                 3.9      10.4    27.2    25.8      16.2
Expenditures                                   31.3     24.9    41.9    40.0       36.8
13udget Deficit (accrual basis)              -17.5      -7.0    -3.4    -2.3       -6.1
Current Account B3alance                       5.1       4.0     1.9    (04        -5.2
Dl)O/GDP                                      196.0    189.0   172.0   157.0       84.0
Total )ebt Service (scheduled)/Exports (goods and    40.0  38.6    33.0    13.6    17.5
services, including remittances)
1.1 Consumer Price Index (CPI).
Source: MOF lMFI World Bank stajf estumoates.
8.      Similarly, the Government has also made substantial progress in implementing structural
reforms.
*   Trade Policy.  As a result of the measures implemented in this area, today Yemen has a
more open and transparent trade regime. Reforms include: a simplified and less protective
tariff structure; elimination of all import bans, export restrictions and import licensing; and
streamlined customs procedures and documentation requirements.
*   Privatization and Public Enterprise Reform. By early 1996, in consultation with IDA, the
Government established a Technical Privatization Office to support its privatization program.
In addition, about sixteen enterprises in industry, tourism and trade were offered for sale.
Further reforms leading to the privatization of the larger public enterprises will be
implemented under a Bank-supported operation currently under preparation.
*   Investment Regime Reform. T he Government adopted a new policy of uniform  treatment
of all investors whether domestic or foreign. Actions have started to change the focus of the
General Investment Authority from regulation to promotion.
*   Financial Sector Reform.  The objective of Government's financial sector reforms is to
increase the soundness of the banks and strengthen their role in the mobilization of financial
resources. Reform measures in the sector are supported by IDA, through a Financial Sector
Adjustment Credit (FSAC). Reforms include: improved prudential regulation of banks,
technical assistance to commercial banks to improve their accounting procedures,
establishment of special courts for loan recovery, and launch of preparation work for the
privatization of the two largest public sector banks: The National Bank of Yemen and the
Yemen Bank for Reconstruction and Development.



The Republic of Yemen                   - 4 -
9.    Social Protection.  As an integral part of its reform  program, the Government
implemented three measures to protect the poor during the adjustment period. First, despite the
severe squeeze on overall expenditures required as a part of the strong fiscal adjustment
measures, the successive budgets maintained expenditures on health and education at the 1995
level as a percentage of GDP. Second, in parallel with the adjustment program. the Government
is implementing a Public Works Project (PWP). Although the employment generated by the
PWP is modest, the Government feels that it significantly enhances the political acceptability of
the adjustment measures.3  In addition, it creates useful infrastructure and an innovative and
efficient institutional structure for carrying out public works in the future.  Third, the
Government has created a Social Fund for Development. Under this project, assisted by IDA,
the Government is financing a large number of microenterprises which directly create
employment amongst the poorest.
B. GOVERNMENT PRIORITIES
10.   The main priorities before the Government are: accelerating non-oil growth thereby
reducing the dependence of the economy on oil; addressing poverty; and protecting the
environment, especially the rapidly depleting water resources. A precondition for achieving
these objectives remains sustaining macroeconomic stabilization. This requires keeping a low
budget deficit, minimum recourse to non-bank financing, and adherence to flexible exchange and
interest rate policies.
11.   Accelerating Growth and Diversification. To make a dent in poverty and raise the
standard of living from the present low levels, Yemen needs a sustained growth rate of at least
5% p.a. over the next ten years. Given the projected stagnation in oil production beyond the year
2000, much of this growth needs to come from the non-oil sector. Further, measures are needed
to reduce the vulnerability of the balance of payments and budget to the price of oil by
diversifying into non-oil exports and expanding the non-oil tax base.
12.   Alleviating Poverty. Although the reform program so far has had a large pay-off in terms
of reversing the economic deterioration over 1990-94, Yemen remains one of the poorest
countries in the region with an annual per capita income of less than US$ 300. Rural poverty in
Yemen can be traced to the low productivity of agriculture exacerbated by the increasing
shortage of water. Urban poverty can be traced to unemployment, which reached around 30% of
the labor force in 1997. In addition, Yemen has a large number of unemployable poor for whom
it is crucial to develop a social safety net.
13.   Protecting the Environment  Special efforts have to be made by the Government to
protect the environment. The most important priority is to conserve and make the best use of
available water resources. In large parts of the country, the water table is dropping rapidly due to
over drilling. As a result, large parts of the rural economy are likely to be crippled, and there are
already serious drinking water shortages in the urban areas.
3 Memorandum of the President (MOP) for the ERC para. 49, pp. 13.



The Republic of Yemen                    - 5 -
C. THE IMPORTANCE OF GOVERNANCE AND PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT
14.   A program for improving the management of the public sector, being supported by this
credit, is at the heart of addressing the above priorities.  Such a program would consist of
allocating total expenditures to activities that have maximum returns complemented by an
improvement in administrative processes to efficiently utilize the available resources, deliver
quality public services and facilitate domestic and foreign investment to step up growth.
15.   With three years of sustained efforts at stabilization and structural reforms, the resulting
sound macroeconomic framework and policy environment provides a good foundation for
Yemen to attract private investment. However, the Government is disappointed that expected
payoffs in terms of employment, income growth, and better public services have not materialized
to the desired extent. A main reason for this is that the weak public administration in Yemen
does not allow it to play the requisite supporting role.
16.   Yemen's public administration was severely impacted by a series of events since 1990:
the unification of the North and the South required the merger of two very different systems
creating a much larger civil service that at times duplicated functions, the return of nearly one
million Yemenis from the Gulf following the Gulf War required the Government to absorb a
large number into the civil service for social reasons, further exacerbating the problem of over-
staffing; and the economic turmoil throughout 1990-95 caused civil service wages to decline
substantially in real terms. The overall result now is a very large, poorly-trained and poorly-paid
public administration that lack adequate enforcement of civil service processes and procedures.
17.   At the same time, for the same set of reasons, the budget processes was not as effective as
it should have been. Planning of expenditures and revenues was not always done within a proper
framework. Emergency stabilization measures have brought the system under still greater stress.
Fiscal adjustments had to be done quickly, but in the absence of a smoothly operating budget
system, the cuts were not always carefully targeted across different expenditure categories.
Maintenance expenditures have suffered particularly, raising the issue of sustainability of many
investments.
18.   The Government civil society, and Yemen's developmental partners all recognize that
while urgent actions are needed to improve the state of public sector management, such reforms
will require a flexible, step-by-step approach over a number of years. Public sector reforms are
inherently difficult, requiring strong political will, patience and public support. The proposed
operation is designed to make a start in this long-term process.
19.   The need to continue the pace of reform is strong. While good policies enhance the
prospects for growth, the effects are much larger if such good policies are paired with strong
governance. In Yemen, the evidence is mixed. For countries interested in improving their
governance, a central element is getting the basics of public policy and management right.
Yemen has moved far in this direction. Under its economy-wide reform program, important
actions have already been taken which contribute to the expansion of markets and a reduction in
the scope for rents. These measures include: lowering tariffs and other barriers to trade; moving
from a multiple to a single exchange rate with market determined rates; moving to eliminate
price controls; reducing regulations, licensing requirements, and other barriers to entry for new



The Republic of Yemen                       - 6 -
firms; and cutting subsidies to public enterprises. Given that Yemen has already started, it is
important to continue with more micro-level reforms so that Yemen can realize their full benefit.
20.    For example, a 1997 Foreign Investment Advisory Service (FIAS) report cites investor
concerns over discretionary application of laws and regulations, under-paid and unmotivated
civil servants, and a lack of protection for property rights and enforcement of contracts. Within
the civil service itself, 70% of staff report awareness of corruption in their agencies.4 The main
reasons for corruption were cited as the absence of the right person for the right job (46%), low
salaries (17%), potential political protection of corrupt officials (14%), and non-enforcement of
the rules (13%). In terms of service delivery, households reported that payments are at times
required for basic services, such as getting admission to hospitals or scheduling operations. The
practice of buying diplomas and exams (cheating) were also cited as serious concerns. The low
quality of public services is particularly problematic for the poor since they lack the resources to
"vote with their feet" by using private providers of education, health care, or power generation.
Further, around half of the micro businesses surveyed indicate that they have regular dealings
with government agencies. For them, extra-legal payments are the norm. However, there are
significant differences among ministries, indicating that certain administrative environments
have managed to successfully contain the problem.
21.    The reform program outlined in this document assists the Government in its efforts to
improve governance by packaging a range of micro-level measures that should increase
transparency and integrity in the public administration. What is particularly encouraging in
Yemen is the openness and frankness with which these issues are discussed. Public information
programs (under various proposed IDA credits), training of journalists (British Council, the
World Bank), and parliamentary programs (UNDP, National Democratic Institute) should also
help to engage civil society and strengthen important "watch-dog" organizations.
D. MACROECONOMIC PROSPECTS AND EXTERNAL DEBT
22.   I)evelopmnents in 1998.  Oil accounts for 50-70%  of total budgetary revenues and
70-80% of the total exports. This makes the Yemeni economy particularly vulnerable to
developments in the world oil market. For 1998, the average oil price received by Yemen' is
expected to be only about US$11 .9/barrel (65% of the price received in 1997) resulting in a loss
of export earnings of about US$ 700 million or 30% of the total exports in 1997. The resulting
contraction in the total resource availability affected the economy through a deterioration in
fiscal accounts, a contraction in real imports combined with a draw down of reserves, and a
deterioration in medium term growth potential.
23.   On the fiscal side, the loss of oil and gas revenue to the 1998 budget is likely to amount
tc around 9.6 percentage points of GDP (around US$460 million). It is to the credit of the
Government that in the face of this loss, the increase in the overall budget deficit has been
limited to only 3.8 percentage points (from 2.3% to about 6.1% of GDP). The Government
4 The information in this paragraph is drawn from a draft Social and Institutional Assessment for the proposed
Civil Service Modernization Credit. It is based on in-depth interviews with 180 civil servants, and surveys with
a stratified sample of 403 civil servants, 251 households, and 127 micro-enterprises.
5 Because of its location and quality the oil prices received by Yemen are generally U$1 to US$1.50 less than the
world price reported in the MNA live database.



The Republic of Yemen                   - 7 -
moved quickly to absorb the rest of the loss by: cutting back the development budget by 1.8
percentage points, cutting back the recurrent expenditures (mainly subsidies and transfers) by 1.4
percentage points, and boosting the non-oil revenue by 2.5 percentage points. The Government
also followed a tight monetary policy in 1998, targeting a broad money growth of only 5%.
This, along with stringent fiscal policy, helped keep the 1998 inflation at about 11%.
24.   Yemen's balance of payments position deteriorated sharply in 1998 on account of the
drastic fall in oil prices. Given the flexible exchange rate policy followed by the government,
there was a depreciation of the real exchange rate combined with a reduction in imports. Even
with a lower inflow of imports, the current account deficit increased to 5.2% of GDP in 1998
compared to a small surplus in 1997. Given that the financing of this deficit through regular
channels remained unchanged, the foreign exchange reserves are expected to fall in nominal
terms by about 20%. The lower real imports and development expenditures also affected the real
economy. In 1998, the overall GDP growth fell to 2.7% from 5.2% achieved in 1997.
25.   Metlium term prospects. The objective of medium term macroeconomic projections
presented here is to determine the preconditions for achieving a sustainable overall GDP growth
in the range for 5-6% p.a., over medium term, the level necessary to make a significant dent in
poverty. The analysis shows that under a set of reasonable assumptions on the external
environment, implementation of the reform program and debt relief, additional exceptional
financing of about US$ 150 million p.a., over the next two years, would be required to achieve
and sustain a medium term growth rate in the range of 5-6% p.a. In the absence of such
additional external assistance, the government would be obliged to cut back development and
operations and maintenance (O&M) outlays, and there would be a reduction in imports through
an adjustment of real exchange rate. This would have serious repercussions not just on medium
term growth prospects but also on the direct poverty alleviation objective as critical
infrastructure projects are left incomplete and existing health and education facilities are starved
of recurrent resources.
26.   Yemen's medium-term macroeconomic prospects are projected on the assumptions of:
(i) the continued implementation of the economy-wide reform program initiated in 1995,
supported by IDA and the IM1F; (ii) the availability of external financing including the continued
access to the Paris Club debt rescheduling at concessional terms to achieve a sustainable balance
of payments (as defined below); and (iii) the continued weakness in the oil markets. In 1999,
the crude oil price is projected to remain at the current level of about US$12/barrel and thereafter
to increase to only around US$14/barrel by the year 2003. Beginning in 1999, oil output is
projected to remain at around 400,000 barrels/day. Under these assumptions, the GDP could be
expected to grow by about 5% per year by the year 2000 mainly on the basis of non-oil GDP
growth of about 7% per year. This growth rate is somewhat modest, on account of the recent
severe dislocations in the economy caused by the upheavals in the oil markets. We expect that
the continued implementation of the structural reform measures under the project will have a
large payoff in terms of a further acceleration in the growth rate in the longer term.
27.   Non-oil exports are projected to grow on average by about 7% p.a. in real terms over
1998-2002 to reflect the impact of export development measures planned by the Government.
This reflects a significant improvement over the stagnation recorded in the past two years. This
growth appears feasible given the small base, the Government's commitment to export
development and trade facilitation, and the high export potential of sectors such as fisheries and



The Republic of Yemen                   - 8 -
agro-industry. Import elasticity is projected to be about 0.8 over 1998-2002, which, after
compensating for the severe squeeze in imports during 1997-98, is in line with the long term
trends in Yemen. On average, worker's remittances are projected to be around US$1.2 billion
p.a., in line with the remittances received during the last five years. As a result of these trends,
the current account deficit is expected to decline from 5.2% of GDP in 1998, to about 2% of
GDP by the year 2000 where it will remain stable throughout the projection period.
28.   In 1996, prior to debt rescheduling, Yemen's debt service and debt/GDP ratios (on an
accrual basis) were 32% and 172% respectively, making Yemen a highly indebted country. The
1998 debt restructuring brought Yemen's external debt position to a sustainable level by
reducing these ratios to 8% and 70% respectively. Assuming continued access to the Paris Club
rescheduling at Naples terms, all new financing at concessional terms, and a higher non-oil
export growth, these ratios would be further brought down to 7% and 60% by the year 2003.
29.   Financing requirements. Yemen's gross financing requirements over the medium term
depend upon the current account deficit, scheduled debt service, and a policy of a modest build
up of reserves. These needs are to be met by the projected regular financing6 of about US$320
million per year during 1999-2002. The projections assume that all the remaining arrears would
be consolidated by 1999. All bilateral debt (including the Russian debt) would be restructured at
Naples terms consistent with the November 1997 Paris Club agreement, and a stock reduction
operation will be carried out in the year 2000.
30.   In order to promote a rapid recovery of GDP growth, which requires the restoration of
import levels in line with long term trends, Yemen requires exceptional financing (financing gap
over and above regular financing and debt relief) in the range of US$ 150 million p.a. during
1999 -2000. About US$50 million of the US$150 million p.a., exceptional financing needed for
1999 is expected to come from the proposed adjustment credit, and the remaining is expected to
come from IMF, the AMF and as possible cofinancing from other bilateral donors.
31.   Availability of these additional resources will also make it feasible to increase
development expenditures in the budget to a level consistent with the growth and poverty
alleviation objectives of the Government. Fiscal projections consistent with the macroeconomic
projections (in the statistical annex) show that for 1999 the overall budget deficit is expected to
improve to 4.0% of GDP from the 1998 level of 6.1% of GDP while allowing a restoration of
public investment in 1999 to YR74 billion from the sharp cut to YR44 billion in 1998. These
estimates, however, are highly sensitive to the projected price of oil. Sensitivity analysis shows
that for 1999, if the price of oil declines to US$10/barrel compared to US$12 as assumed in the
projections, development expenditures will have to be constrained to YR 60 billion which - even
with exceptional financing in place - will not be fully sufficient to carry out the Government's
development program.
32.   Country Economic Risks. Since 1995, Yemen has established a good track record of
reform, and the Government has been working closely with the IMF on dealing with stochastic
risks such as oil price shocks. Better management of public resources, developing the means to
target public expenditures to high priorities, and diversification and enhancement of the revenue
base - all areas of focus in the proposed public sector management adjustment program - will
6 Regular flows are those arising from project financing from bilateral and multilateral sources and official grants.



The Republic of Yemen                   - 9 -
also help mitigate a number of country risks.  If the reform program  is successful, the
Government will be better able to deal with exogenous shocks and the expenditure reductions
that these shocks may require. Without it, in the best case, an inability to prioritize expenditure
cuts would likely dampen growth prospects and slow down the resumption to a sustained, high-
growth path by more than is necessary. In the worst case, the Government may be unable to
make the needed adjustments, and the stabilization program could be derailed by inefficient
populous spending programs and spiraling inflation.
33.   Another significant country risk stems from mounting political and social pressures.
Again, public sector management reform can help to lessen the risk that these pressures will push
a well-designed, economy-wide reform program  off-track.  This is because such reforms
explicitly tackle:
* the need for a better system of public administration that can deliver core public services and
a safety net for the poor,
* the need to stop wasting public resources through inefficiencies; and
* the need for a non-corrupt public administration.
These issues are at the top of the debate in Yemen's civil society and among the main ingredients
in the social and political discontent.
34.  Finally, Yemen is reliant on the continued support of its development partners. To sustain
donor support, Yemen's partners are increasingly looking for evidence that improving
governance is being taken as a serious issue. While actions supported by the PSMAC provide a
solid start, the reforms will have to be carried out in a sustained manner and over a long period of
time, with visible outcomes, for the Government to demonstrate its seriousness both to the
Yemeni public and the donors. Long-term Bank involvement in this area is welcomed by
Yemen's development partners.
III. THE PROGRAM SUPPORTED BY THE PSMAC
35.   A common feature of the reforms needed for accelerating growth and alleviating poverty
is to improve the delivery of public services. There are two dimensions to improving the
delivery of public services. First, the administrative processes must be able to efficiently utilize
the available resources. Second, public expenditures must be contained within the overall
resource envelope which is consistent with the macroeconomic framework and allocated to
activities that have the maximum returns. In this operation, measures to improve the delivery of
public services are grouped into four categories: (a) strengthening of public administration; (b)
budget and financial management reform; (c) public expenditure rationalization; and (d) revenue
mobilization and administration.
A. PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION STRENGTHENING
36.   Background Performance of Yemen's current public administration system is seriously
deficient. This is caused by inadequacies in staff skills, work processes, organizational
structures, incentive frameworks, enforcement mechanisms, and nearly all core systems (e.g.,



The Republic of Yemen                      - 10 -
personnel management, programming, planning and budgeting, and government financial
accounts). Fundamental changes are required in all of these areas.
37.   Under the situation described above, it is difficult for the Government to make headway
on controlling corruption. The difficulty is particularly acute given the large decline in and low
level of civil service salaries and nepotistic personnel practices which have undermined the
motivation of civil servants. Faced with such a wide range of dysfunctional elements in the
public administration system, the Government recognizes the danger of attempting too much
with too little result. For this reason, while a comprehensive reform road-map is needed,
implementation must be slep-by-step. Strategically, the reform program must couple actions that
develop timely and reliable controls with those that create appropriate incentives for public
agencies and their managers and employees.
38.   For the past year, the World Bank has supported the Government's efforts to develop a
civil service modernization (CSM) strategy and reform program. Initial support was provided
through an IDF grant for consensus building. Successful implementation of the grant, and
concrete signs of high level commitment, led to the identification of a proposed CSM credit
(preparation on-going) that will provide technical assistance, training, and equipment
requirements. The CSM credit will assist the Government to implement many of the policy
reforms under this public sector management reform program. A Project Preparation Facility for
the CSM project is currently in place, and this has provided the assistance needed to implement
many of the actions required under the PSMAC operation, including streamlining government,
improving the human resources management system, and addressing staffing issues that impede
the ability of the Government to retain and adequately compensate high quality staff.7
39.   Refornm  ProgranL  Reform  measures under this component of the proposed PSMAC
focus on streamlining government, enhancing human resource management, and implementing a
labor force adjustment program. At the end of three years the program will ensure:
*  a more streamlined government apparatus with a clear definition of the role of the state
which would be demonstrated with re-engineering of four ministries;
*  an improved human resource management system with development and implementation of a
training plan, computerization of payroll, and creation of an operational employee
management database to facilitate revisions in job, grade and wage systems;
.  an adjustment of the labor force which removes double dippers or ghost workers,
redistributes staff to under-served areas, and uses a civil service fund to retrench unqualified
and surplus staff making way for merit-based salary increases and recruitment of highly
qualified staff; and
.  a climate conducive to a healthy civil service that operates with professionalism  and
integrity.
This modernization program was refined and endorsed by a national conference held August 25-27, 1998 that
was attended by a broad cross-section of Yemeni society, including government officials, and representatives of
political parties, academics, NGOs, and labor unions, as well as the World Bank. In fact, the modernization
program endorsed by the conference is broader than the areas addressed under this component of reform
program; it also includes critical elements of the reforms that the PSMAC will support in budget management
and public expenditure rationalization.



The Republic of Yemen                      - 11 -
40.   Streamlining Governmenit: There is a need to redefine the role of the state: (i) to clarify
its role vis-a-vis the private sector, and (ii) to clarify the specific responsibilities of government
ministries and agencies8 that are now plagued with overlapping jurisdictions. Standardization
and simplification of the government's work is also required to increase efficiency and reduce
the malfeasance currently associated with the existing, non-transparent procedures.
41.    To accomplish this, the Government has started to redefine its mandate. In each agency,
a restructuring of work flow, policies and procedures, decision-making, staffing requirements,
and organizational structures will be required. Such restructuring efforts will start with a pilot
ministry and gradually expand. To enhance the prospects for early success, the pilots must be in
agencies where there is unequivocal political and managerial support. Priority will be given to
core central ministries, those that interface closely with the private sector, and those responsible
for delivering aspects of the government's social safety net.  Early pilots will include the
Ministry of Civil Service and Administrative Reform (focusing on staffing and compensation
procedures); the Ministry of Social Affairs (focusing on the delivery of the government's cash
transfer program); and the Tax Authority (focusing on tax collection procedures).
42.   The Government also plans additional actions to expand the scope of change beyond
these pilots and to implement quiick-fix actions where immediate benefits can be demonstrated.
In this regard, the Government's goal is to garner public support by quickly showing tangible
benefits to the population from a reform program that is inherently complex and time-
consuming. Without such quick results, cynicism from the public regarding the Government's
reform initiatives may undermine the longer-term program.
43.   I',nhancing Human Resoturce Manlagement: Until recently, there has been no systematic
management of personnel records in Yemen. This resulted in a total lack of control on the
payroll and inability to enforce retirement rules or determine appropriate pensions. Although
there are no hard data, senior officials in the civil service estimate that as many as 20% of
employees on the payroll are ghost workers, double dippers, past retirement age, or in some other
way illegally employed. Furthermore, in the absence of information, there is no basis on which
to assess skill mix and staff surplus within the civil service, develop merit-based employment
schemes, or determine fiscally sustainable wage increases. Other serious deficiencies in the
system of human resources management include a general absence of job descriptions, the lack
of a coherent position grading system, non-merit based recruitment and promotion, insufficient
attention to training, and a convoluted compensation system that is worsened by the existence of
a multitude of non-transparent allowances which augment a meager base salary.
44.    As a first step, the Government's reform  program  addresses the need for basic
information by developing a computerized employee database (EDB), and introducing tight
procedures for maintaining the information in the database. While some payroll clean-up will
result from this, the real correction will occur when the Government begins to issue personnel ID
cards that are based on biometrics (fingerprint) identification. Once a clean EDB has been
established, the Government plans to link it as quickly as possible to a reformed payroll system.
Over the next several years, further reforms are planned to rationalize the compensation system,
introduce job descriptions and appropriate position grading, and revise employment procedures
8 For readability, ministry and agency are used inter-changeably throughout this section. Each reference, in fact,
refers to ministries, agencies, authorities, or other government organizations.



The Republic of Yemen                     - 12 -
to be consistent with a merit-based civil service.  However, as an interim  measure, the
Government is committed to limiting wage increases to those that are fiscally sustainable, are
targeted to attract and retain key skills in the civil service, and are performance-based. This
commitment is particularly important in light of recent negotiations between the Government and
teachers' unions, health care workers, and other groups of civil servants, on one-off pay
increases that do not pay adequate attention to fiscal sustainability or the link among pay
increase, skills, and performance.
45.   Lchorforce Ac/#ustnienl:  The current civil service is both bloated and lacking crucial
skills. Difficult actions are required to correct this imbalance. Unqualified and surplus civil
servants need to be removed from the payroll in order to free up resources that can be used in
part to increase the salaries of productive civil servants. Without such wage adjustments, the
governmen't will not be able to recruit nor retain high quality staff While dismissal of workers
will be both politically and socially difficult, it is critical to the entire PSMAC program. Without
it, the reform program is unsustainable.
46.   As a first step, the Government's focus is on removing illegal employees from the payroll
(soft reductions). Once this is done, in conjunction with data from the EDB and results from the
restructuring process, the Government will assess the magnitude of further reductions that are
required. However, even now, it is clear that hard reductions will be required. To handle these
reductions, the Government will establish a Civil Service Fund (CSF). Surplus staff, identified
through a scrupulously transparent process, will be transferred to the CSF. For an initial period
of time, such staff will continue to receive their wages.  As the reform  progresses, the
Government will offer a variety of buy-out packages to encourage exit from the CSF. This will
release resources for augmenting budgetary outlays on operations and maintenance and
increasing the salaries of targeted, highly qualified civil servants.
47.   Board Condlitions. Core actions which the Government has already taken include the
foollowing-:
  Cabinet level agreement on pilot agencies in which a process of re-engineering key processes
will be undertaken, and agreement on an action plan for undertaking the re-engineering
process.
*  Developed an Employee Data Base (EDB) by: (i) computerizing key data contained in
personnel files that have recently been collated and verified; and (ii) developing and
implementing procedures for keeping the EDB up-to-date.
*  Established a ministerial committee responsible for developing a revised, fiscally sustainable,
merit-based salary structure by June 1999, and implemented a freeze on salary increases,
with the exception of cost of living adjustments and those already agreed, until the new
salary structure is defined.
*  Began to remove illegal entries from the civil service payroll, initially through checking for
duplicate names in the EDB.
*  Established a legal framework for a Civil Service Fund through which the Government will
implement its staff reduction program.
Details of the agreed reforms are provided in the policy matrix (Annex 2).



The Republic of Yemen                   - 13 -
B. BUDGET AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT REFORM
48.   Background   Controlling aggregate spending and the deficit, improving technical
efficiency, and ensuring allocative efficiency are all key objectives for a country's budget
preparation process. The institutional arrangements that underpin this process have a large
impact on the extent to which the resulting budget is efficient and in line with a growth-oriented
development strategy.
49.   Under the current institutional set-up, Yemen faces a strong "needs" versus "availability"
debate. The Ministry of Finance (MOF), faced with weak revenues and mounting claims on
budget resources, stresses availability; the line ministries, on the other hand, inherit
commitments that they lack the resources to meet, and base their budget proposals on needs. The
resulting tension can undermine both macroeconomic stability and program effectiveness.
Furthermore, nothing in the budget debate puts any focus on using allocations more efficiently.
50.   Several institutional factors contribute to difficulties in the budget preparation cycle. In
the past, the absence of adequate coordination mechanisms between MOF and the Ministry of
Planning and Development (MOPD) made it difficult to ensure that current and capital budgets
were consistent with each other, and that expenditures prioritized towards a consistent, growth-
oriented program. Other institutional shortcomings that continue to hinder effective budget
preparation include: (i) low civil service salaries and inadequate managerial autonomy; (ii) no
forward budget estimates; (iii) severely limited flexibility of line agencies; and (iv) the absence
of objective criteria on which to base allocation decisions.
51.   The existing procedures for the release of funds to spending agencies and the control over
expenditures from the budget are equally problematic, absorbing much time and effort to
administer without commensurate benefits. The system of reallocation of appropriations inhibit
the managerial function of making bonafide shifts in expenditure to attain specified objectives,
while the ad hoc procedures for supplementary appropriations do not permit proper priority
planning. Finally, cash and debt management do not receive due attention.
52.   The IlMf has been assisting the Government of Yemen in drawing up a program of
reforming the budget system under the Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF). The
design and implementation of the reform program to be supported by the proposed Bank
operation is being closely coordinated with the IMF team. It is also expected that the proposed
IDA Civil Service Modernization Credit, currently under preparation, will provide additional
resources for technical assistance and training needs for which grant resources cannot be
identified.
53.   Reform Program.  This component is designed to begin to address the challenges
described above. As with the component for strengthening public sector management, the scope
of work is huge. It is, therefore, important to focus attention on high priority issues so that
reform efforts are focused on the most critical junctures. For this reason, this component focuses
on the budget formulation process, and on strengthening of budget execution and monitoring.
Additional measures to correct some of the other key deficiencies highlighted above are
addressed in the credit component addressing public expenditure rationalization.



The Republic of Yemen                  - 14 -
54.   Budget Formulation. The reforms that are planned in the budget formulation process are
integrally linked with measures to rationalize public expenditures. The program seeks to put in
place a system where budgetary submissions by ministries reflect their priorities within a
common macroeconomic framework. It will end the current system where budget submissions
are wish lists without regard to the financial aggregates to which the budget is constrained. The
program will also streamline and unify the budget process. Different components of the budget
(wages, other recurrent expenditures, and the capital side) will be developed with reference to a
common resource envelope. Steps will also be taken to develop a medium-term expenditure
framework and forecasting capabilities.
55.   Budget Execution an(d Moniitoring. To remedy the current situation in which monitoring
of budget execution is not timely, and there is insufficient information available for effective
cash management, a systematic overhaul of the budget execution and monitoring function is
planned. These efforts will focus on developing and implementing an accounting and financial
management information system (AFMIS) that will allow for better payment, budgeting and
accounting systems, and improved financial management. Implementation will be phased,
starting with core systems development in the MOF, linking this to budgetary units in the Sana' a
area, and eventually expanding the system throughout the country.
56.   A good financial management system is one of the most powerful instruments available
for preventing, discovering, and facilitating the punishment of fraud. The reforms outlined
above should significantly improve public sector integrity by allocating clear responsibility for
the management of resources, revealing improper actions and unauthorized expenditures, and
facilitating audits by creating audit trails. Opportunities for corruption should be reduced while
simultaneously increasing the risk of detection
57.   Board Conditions. Core actions which the Government has already taken include the
following:
*  Set up a Medium-Term Expenditure Framework Unit in the Ministry of Finance to develop
macroeconomic forecasts.
.  Appointed a Technical Committee of the Budget charged with the responsibility of
overseeing a unified budget preparation process, and agreed on an action plan designed to
ensure the introduction of reformed, unified budget circular for the next budget cycle (2000).
*  Submitted a new Finance Law to Cabinet setting out the roles of the Ministries of Finance,
Planning and Development, and Civil Service and Administrative Reform, and agreed on the
new budget classification and revised Budget Manual.
*  Reviewed budget execution rules, including procedures for the release of funds and for
reallocation of appropriations, and in light of this review, developed the specifications for an
AFMIS. Approved an action plan for developing and implementing the AFMIS, and
commenced work in accordance with that plan.
Details of the agreed reforms are provided in the policy matrix (Annex 2).
C. PUBLIC EXPENDITURE RATIONALIZATION
58.   Background Public expenditures in Yemen are beset with a number of problem, which
impair the efficiency of resource use. These include a weak database for projects, fragmentation



The Republic of Yemen                    - 15 -
of resources, lack of prioritization, and a shortage of operations and maintenance (O&M)
resources to operate existing and planned facilities. Addressing these problems would increase
the impact of public expenditures on growth as well as on alleviating poverty.
59.   Many of these problems stem from deficiencies in the process of budget preparation
discussed in Section B. In the past, budgets were prepared without broad agreement among the
MOF, MOPD and line ministries on a macroeconomic framework and financial aggregates. Line
ministries submitted requests for capital expenditures without knowledge of the resources
available. Hence, the proposals tended to be on the high side because the ministries regarded
them as an initial negotiating position. This resulted in a waste of time and effort to bring budget
submissions down to a reasonable level. Furthermore, the ensuing cuts tended to be arbitrary
and may not reflect prioritization based on an agreed sector strategy.
60.   There are four main reasons why Yemen's expenditure program does not reflect the
detailed prioritization needed to make the best use of limited resources. First, the data on
projects are inadequate to carry out a prioritization of the investment program. Details on the
total cost or money required to complete ongoing projects are not available; nor is there
information on the extent of physical completion.
61.   Second, the investment program consists of a very large number of small projects.9
Planners are under great pressure to include low priority projects in the investment program, to
serve regional interests, even if they have only a token allocation. This means that resources are
spread thinly over many projects, which remain unfinished year after year. Thus, money is spent
without creating usable assets.
62.   Third, in most sectors, the composition of the sectoral investment program does not
reflect the stated sector strategy and objectives. Part of the problem is the absence of a broad
agreement on sectoral objectives and strategy prior to initiating the planning process.  For
instance, although the sector strategy in power and water stresses an increasing role for the
private sector, most of the investment in these sectors continues to be financed by public funds.
Similarly, in the education sector, expenditures do not reflect the emphasis government policy
places on expanding primary education especially for girls and in under-served areas.
63.   Fourth, the budgeting process often does not make full provision for operating a facility
once it is created. Recurrent resources for operations and maintenance (O&M) are rarely
sufficient to operate existing facilities. This makes it even more difficult to provide the O&M
budget for facilities coming on stream out of the ongoing investment program. Often the
planners and donors get around this difficulty by including projects in the investment program,
which are in fact instruments to finance recurrent costs."' Thus, the resources required to operate
existing facilities are severely understated in the budget. The lack of O&M outlays is a major
reason behind the poor delivery of health and primary education services which are crucial to
build human capital and alleviate poverty in the medium term.
9 For example, investment programs in hcaltlh and cducation contain ovcr 2,000 small projects.
10 An analysis of the 1998 agricultural investmcnt program shows that therc are around 15 projects that should be
transferred to the recurrent budget.



The Republic of Yemen                       - 16 -
64,   Reform program. The objective of the proposed credit is to achieve at the end of three
years a better functioning public expenditure program aimed at:
*  starting to develop the budget within a medium-term expenditure framework;
. improving, through a process of prioritization, the impact of pulblic investments on
generating growth and alleviating poverty; and
*  providing a better balance between recurrent and investment expenditures
65.   To achieve this objective, reforms are planned in several areas.  First, the budget
formulation process will be strengthened. " The roles of the Ministries of Planning, Finance and
line ministries will be clarified. Capability will be developed to define the overall medium-term
macroeconomic framework and financial aggregates, and procedures will be established to set
overall and sectoral envelopes within which expenditure programs are to be prepared.
66.    Second, detailed sector strategies will also be prepared by the line ministries and
discussed widely within the Government.   These strategies will form the basis for aligning
public expenditures with sectoral objectives Third, in order to facilitate informed decision
making on the public investment program, the government will create a reliable database on
projects. The database will include information on the money required to complete ongoing
projects and the extent of physical completion.
67.   The new budget process, supported by sectoral strategies and a reliable database, will
permit the Government to prioritize (clean-ulp) its investment program. The prioritization will
involve:
*  Shifting all "projects" which in reality finance the upkeep of existing facilities to the
recurrent budget.
-  Identifying high priority projects on the basis of sector strategies and the extent of
completion.
*  Ensuring that high priority projects (identified above), receive full annual funding to enable
quick completion in line with project design.
*  Deferring low priority projects.
68.   Furthermore, the government intends to tackle the problem  of inadequate funding of
O&M, particularly in the education, health, and agriculture sectors where the effect has been
most severe. To prepare better estimates of O&M requirements, the government is first taking
stock of existing facilities such as schools, health centers, and agricultural installations. This will
be followed by a careful analysis of which facilities are cost effective and, therefore, need to be
fully utilized and which facilities need to be closed down or rebuilt to become cost effective.
Further, a methodology will be developed for estimating and making provisions for running
facilities as they come on stream. This part of the reform program will provide the basis for
increasing allocations to O&M vis-a-vis initiating new projects.
" For the detailed steps and institutional arrangeincnts to aciiicvc this, scc the section on budget and financial
management.



The Republic of Yemen                    - 17 -
69.   Board Conditions. Core actions which the Government has already taken include the
following:
* Developed and submitted to IDA sector strategies in six key sectors (agriculture, health,
education, road transport, electricity and urban water supply).
* Established a database on the total cost, resources required for completion and the extent of
physical completion of projects in six key sectors (agriculture, health, education, road
transport, electricity and urban water supply).
*  Prioritized (clean-up) the 1999 investment program in two sectors (agriculture and health),
with agreement to extend the prioritization process to at least four additional sectors
(education, road transport, electricity and urban water supply) by the end of the program.
. Prepared terms of reference and agreement on work program for studies on O&M
requirements in agriculture, health and education, sectors where the 1996 Public Expenditure
Review found allocations to be particularly inadequate.
Details of the agreed reforms are provided in the policy matrix (Annex 2).
D. REVENUE MOBILIZATION AND REVENUE ADMINISTRATION
70.   Backgrounds  Particularly in light of the weak outlook on oil prices and production,
Yemen needs to enhance its non-oil revenue base. At only 10% of GDP in 1998, Yemen has one
of the lowest non-oil tax effort in the region. In addition, the tax system contains a number of
inefficiencies resulting from inappropriate definitions of the tax base, nuisance taxes which yield
little revenue, and arbitrary exemptions. Finally, like many other areas of the government, tax
administration needs substantial improvement.
71. Reform Program. Since 1997, in the framework of the IMF's ESAF/EFF programs, the
Government has embarked on a program to increase non-oil revenue and improve its efficiency.
The Government has submitted to the parliament two new tax laws which thoroughly reform
both direct (income) and indirect (production) taxes. Proposed changes to the income tax system
include consolidating income from all sources, rationalizing tax brackets, broadening the tax
base, and eliminating ad-hoc exemptions. Indirect tax reforms include the introduction of an
excise tax which approximates a general sales tax (GST). The measure will provide for an input
tax credit mechanism to avoid cascading, zero rating of exports, and drawbacks for import duties
and indirect taxes. This system is, however, only a precursor to a more comprehensive GST
which the government plans in the coming few years. The Government is currently engaged in
studying a GST system appropriate for Yemen in light of the experiences of other countries in
the region. Other indirect tax reforms include the introduction of ink-stamped packets for
domestic cigarettes and a bandroll tax on imported cigarettes, the elimination of all stamp taxes,
and amendments to the investment law to eliminate extensions to exemptions on taxes and
duties. In the areas of tax administration, reforms include a range of measures from simple steps
as the introduction of a tax identification number, to more difficult actions such as the
improvement in the working of the customs and simplification of tax administration. Training
programs for tax collectors and an awareness program for tax payers are also planned.
72.   Changes in tax policy (simplified rates, less discretion) as well as tax administration
should help to reduce the potential for corruption in revenue collection. Improvements to the



The Republic of Yemen                  - 18 -
financial management system (section B) should also help shift the incentives for business to
report extortion rather than to collude with corrupt officials.  Rationalization of public
expenditures (section C) is also be key to the government's integrity efforts, since if taxpayers do
not see that their taxes are being put to good use, evasion and corruption may become socially
acceptable.
73.   The revenue reform program outlined above is fully consistent with the tax reform
program being monitored under the IMF's ESAF program. Consequently, there are no actions
included as Board conditions for the PSMAC. However, in consultation with the Government,
follow-up operations are likely to place more emphasis on reforms in other areas such as cost
recovery, customs modernization, and generating privatization proceeds.
74. Expected Reforms. The Government, in consultation with the IMF, has completed the
following core set of actions:
.  Implemented a new income tax law that consolidates all income for tax purposes, and
rationalizes rates, brackets, exemptions, deductions, and coverage.
*  Implemented amendments to the excise tax law.
*  Implemented ink-stamped packets for domestic cigarettes and a bandroll tax on imported
cigarettes, and eliminate all stamp taxes.
.  Enhanced tax compliance by introducing a taxpayer identification number; training tax
collectors, and raising public awareness through an information campaign.
*  Agreed on a timetable for implementing tax administration reforms for both income taxes
and the production, consumption and service tax.
IV. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A. OBJECTIVE
75.   The PSMAC program aims to: (i) begin to redefine the role of the state to focus attention
and resources on essential functions while developing an incentive framework for civil servants
to carry out their new mandates; (ii) strengthen budget implementation, monitoring, and control
by introducing new procedures and systems for monitoring expenditures and for increasing the
transparency and coherency of budgetary procedures; (iii) improve the efficiency, effectiveness,
and poverty focus of public expenditures; and (iv) improve the tax administration system to
increase transparency and enhance and diversify domestic resource mobilization.
B. LINK TO THE CAS
76.   The World Bank's Country Assistance Strategy presented on February 20, 1996 and
updated October 14, 1997 calls for support to the medium-term reforms needed to establish a
permanent foundation for accelerated and sustainable growth. In tandem with legal and judicial
reform, financial sector reform, and privatization (supported under separate operations), a well
functioning public administration is central.  It plays a key role in (i) sustaining recent,
impressive achievements in macroeconomic stabilization; (ii) creating an environment conducive



The Republic of Yemen                    - 19 -
to private sector investment and growth; (iii) enhancing the government's ability to provide
critical services (such as basic education and health services) to the population; and (iv)
developing effective relationships with civil society aimed at improving service delivery
C. DESCRIPTION
77.   This credit is the first of a proposed series of public sector management adjustment
operations. Rather than a multi-tranche operation, a single-tranche operation is proposed for a
number of reasons. First, technical and political uncertainties make the timing and nature of
requisite reforms difficult to predict. Under these circumstances, a single tranche maximizes the
credibility of the policies by avoiding doubts over the implementation of agreed future policy
changes. It allows the dialogue between the Bank and Yemen to concentrate on actions believed
to be necessary to meet the broad objectives outlined above rather than on negotiating the
conditions of a tranche release. Second, support after the first year can be better designed to
reflect changing circumstances and the specific financing requirements at that point in time.
Third, the proposed approach requires the Government to reconfirm its commitment and
ownership of the reform agenda each year. Since institutionally complex reforms require
exceptionally strong ownership, requiring a strong demonstration of renewed commitment will
increase the likelihood of program success. However, there is a risk that with a single-tranche
operation, the result could be a series of false starts. To guard against this, the Government has
formulated a coherent, medium-term reform strategy. Future operations would be linked to
substantial progress towards implementing that strategy.
78.   This first operation. supports specific actions that start the process of institutional and
policy change which is required to meet the program's objectives. The actions that have been
taken are discussed in the Policy Matrix (Annex 2) and in Section 111.
79.   The Government and IDA recognize that the process of institutional and policy change
on which the Government has embarked is necessarily a long one. To help keep the momentum
for change, the Government has developed an agenda for follow-on reforms. Highlights of these
measures are provided in the last two columns of the policy reform matrix (Annex 2). To the
extent that Yemen has exceptional financial requirements over the next few years (e.g., because
of budgetary resources required to compensate surplus civil servants), the World Bank would
seek to support further reforms through follow-up adjustment credits.
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE REQUIREMENTS
80.   Over the past two years, the World Bank has been providing substantial technical
assistance to public sector management reform in Yemen through its non-lending services. This
assistance, along with that provided by the IMF, the United Nations Development Program, and
ODA on matters related to budgetary and revenue reforms, will enable the Government to
complete most of the policy conditions of the proposed operation.
81.   The Government recognizes that there are significant additional requirements for
technical assistance and training in connection with the implementation of the institutional and
policy reforms supported during the second and third year of the overall program. It intends to
approach its development partners for additional grant financing to support some of these
reforms. However, the availability of grant resources is not expected to be sufficient, and



The Republic of Yemen                    - 20 -
consequently the Government has requested that IDA prepare a credit. In response, a Civil
Service Modernization (CSM) Credit is under preparation. A Project Preparation Facility (PPF)
is being implemented to develop that operation, and this allowed the Government to meet its
technical assistance requirements for the PSMAC that were not available through other sources.
The PPF will also provide support for critical assistance that may be required in the months
immediately following effectiveness of the PSMAC but before the full roll-out of the CSM
credit.
E. BENEFITS AND RISKS
82.   Benefits. The proposed reforms will assist the Government with the management of its
economy.  It will support private sector development by starting to reduce cumbersome
bureaucracy, increase the level of transparency, and transfer out of the public sector structures
and functions that can be better provided elsewhere.  The program  will contribute to the
modernization of human resource and financial management practices. Those interfacing with
re-engineered agencies (the public, and/or other government agencies) should receive better
service. By enhancing public sector management, the project should help improve the allocation
and use of public resources. This will result in benefits to the population as a whole, and the
poor in particular, who currently suffer from the lack of coherence in the public expenditure
program targeted to and delivery of essential services such as public health, education, and safety
net programs. Further benefits are expected for qualified civil servants who will be rewarded for
good performance with higher salaries.
83.   The PSMAC has served as a catalyst for the design of the program outlined above and
also for the initial steps in its implementation. The approval of the credit and subsequent
operations to support the program, should provide a disciplined framework for the
implementation of the program. In addition, the credit would provide non-inflationary financing
for budgetary expenditures during the interval before the reforms supported by the credit are
providing a more permanent solution to public sector resource management concerns.
84.   Risks. The reform program to be supported by the proposed Credit faces risks in a
number of areas: (i) faltering commitment to reforms raising implementation risk, particularly
since the measures described above constitute a weighty agenda which require continued
cohesion and commitment for reforms; (ii) insufficient mechanisms for appropriate inter-
ministerial cooperation; (iii) political resistance to reforms from vested interests (both within and
outside the civil service); and (iv) shallow human resources capacity within the civil service to
implement reforms.
85.   Further, sustainability of the reform program requires the implementation of a labor force
restructuring program that will free up resources to adequately compensate and motivate
qualified employees. There are specific risks associated with this aspect of the program that will
require: (i) guarding against non-transparent implementation (e.g., focusing on political
affiliations or personnel ties rather than merit); (ii) designing an effective program that retains
high productivity, well-qualified staff and prevents dismissed workers from creeping back on the
payroll; and (iii) addressing social risks related to the fact that, defacto, the transfer of income to
the general population through civil service wages and an extended family support structure
currently functions as a part of a "welfare system." While the eventual impact of a streamlined,
more efficient public service will include better services and the freeing-up of resources to tackle



The Republic of Yemen                  - 21 -
poverty alleviation in a more sustainable, cost-effective manner, attention needs to be paid to
direct, short-term impact of downsizing on potentially vulnerable groups.
86.   These risks have been addressed during the preparation of the Credit. To minimize
implementation risks, the PSMAC is designed to focus on prior actions while specifying a clear
program for follow-on actions. Further, close coordination with the IMF in the design of aspects
of the reform program and timing of key measures will provide the necessary lead time to take
corrective actions. To address potential inter-ministerial conflicts, the program elicits a clear
enunciation of the respective roles of various agencies (in the budget process, in expenditure
rationalization, and civil service reform).  Full and open disclosure of this delineation of
responsibilities has been made not only within the senior ranks of government, but also to the
civil service staff that will be charged with the daily implementation of these defined
responsibilities. In the past, a lack of understanding at the working level on decisions that have
been taken resulted in unintended efforts to undermine or countermand agreed reforms. The lack
of adequate human resources capacity is being addressed through the preparation of a proposed
civil service modernization credit that would provide resources for the training and technical
assistance required to implement the reform agenda-including a fair labor force adjustment
program.
87.   The Government has demonstrated strong ownership of the reform  program  by
developing most of the conditionality as part of its own reform program (irrespective of IDA
financing). This ownership was developed over the past couple of years, during which time
policy dialogue on public expenditure rationalization and civil service reform has been high on
IDA's agenda.   The Government is now  exploring mechanisms for more effectively
communicating the need for and benefits of the reforms proposed under the PSMAC. This is
critical because support from the general population and the civil service will be a critical
element in sustaining momentum during a complex and lengthy reform agenda.
F. IMPLEMENTATION, MONITORING, AND SUPERVISION
88.   Supervision of the PSMAC program will be under a Steering Committee composed of
members from the Ministries of Civil Service and Administrative Reform, Planning and
Development, and Finance, and the office of the Minister of State for Cabinet Affairs. However,
individual implementation responsibilities rest firmly with each of these ministries as well as line
agencies. The Steering Committee will simply monitor progress, report when implementation
lags, and propose remedial actions that may be required in such circumstances. The overall
reform effort will be reviewed by regular Bank missions in close coordination with the IMF. To
strengthen the Bank's monitoring, supervision, and support of the reforms being undertaken by
the PSMAC, the Country Department has added a headquarters economist position to the
resident mission.
G. COORDINATION WITH IMF
89.   The reform program covered by the proposed Credit is coordinated closely with the
IMF's ESAF program, with both programs aiming in part to promote discipline in the public
financial sector and to enhance administrative systems. Measures designed to improve the
management of public expenditures through greater transparency and accountability and through



The Republic of Yemen                  - 22 -
the introduction of a medium-term expenditure framework neatly complement the IMF's support
for revenue mobilization. The portion of the PSMAC program focusing on public administration
addresses sustainability of the proposed reform program (by introducing actions to move towards
a professional, merit-based civil service), and complements ESAF objectives of continuing to
contain the fiscal burden of the public wage bill with actions to refocus government attention
away non-productive and duplicative functions towards productive activities.
H. FINANCING PLAN
90.   A total of SDR 35.8 million (US$50 million equivalent) is expected to be provided under
the proposed IDA credit. Cofinancing in the order of US$20-30 million is being explored with
Yemen's other development partners. The level of development expenditures will be reviewed
and updated in mid-1999, in consultation with IDA, depending not only on the availability of
confinancing, but also oil prices.
1. DISBURSEMENT
91.   Procurement and disbursement arrangements will follow the simplified procedures
approved by the Board on February 1, 1996. The Borrower will open an account in the Central
Bank of Yemen. The proceeds of the credit will be deposited in this account at the request of the
Borrower. If after deposit in this account, the proceeds of the Credit are used for ineligible
purposes (i.e., to finance items imported from non-member countries or goods and services in
standard negative list), IDA will require the Borrower to either: (i) return that amount to the
account of use for eligible purposes or (ii) refund the amount directly to IDA, in which case IDA
will cancel an equivalent undisbursed amount of the Credit.
V. RECOMMENDATION
92.   1 am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement of
the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Caio K. Koch-Weser
Washington, D.C.
February 25, 1999
Attachments



Annex  1
Page 23
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                                                               -
MINISTRY OF PLANNING & DEVELOPMENT    (r     n    i
O FFICE :                                                             _...............................  :
Ref:
Date:
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
World Bank Group
Washington, D.C. 20433
February 12, 1999
Dear Mr. President,
Letter of Development Policy
Obiectives and Strategies for Public Sector Management
1.    Since 1995, the Government of Yemen has been implementing a broad
stabilization and structural reform program. Our assessment is that this program has
been successful in stabilizing the economy and is beginning to lay the groundwork for
improving the climate for private sector investment and enhanced public service
delivery to Yemen's citizens. However, there are several bottlenecks that still exist
and which slow our progress at socio-ecoriomic development and accelerated growth.
Amongst these constraints are institutional weaknesses that hinder the effective
deployment of public resources in line with strategic macro and sectoral objectives,
efficient administration of public programs, effective revenue mobilization, and sound
management of public funds.
2.    We would like to request the support of the International Development
Association (IDA) for the comprehensive multiyear program initiated by the
Government of Yemen to improve public sector performance. A number of crucial
actions have already been implemented towards meeting the medium term objectives
of this program. This letter outlines achievements to date and the reform program that
the Government of Yemen is pursuing to ease key constraints in the area of public
sector management.
A. Performance of Yemen's Economy During the Early-1990's
3.    During the period 1990-1994, Yemen experienced a number of shocks that
adversely affected the performance of the economy and hampered the ability of the
Yemeni economy to achieve stability and growth. These events included the strains
associated with merging two different systems, civil strife; and the Gulf War which
resulted in the repatriation of more than 800,000 Yemeni workers.    While the
economic decline during this period was somewhat off-set by an increase in oil \
P.O. Box ;  7O5 e.r:\ - Sana'a - TO. 250*0 : JF9xme - 25 -    TOex 2 2
P.O. Box :(175) - Sana a - Tel.: 250101 - Faxmel : 251503 - Telex :2266



Annex 1
Paue 24
production, budget deficit still expanded, peaking at about 17% of GDP in 199 .
Inflation accelerated from 30% in 1990 to over 70% in 1994, and living standards
deteriorated. External balances also worsened over this period, and the country faced
a severe scarcity of foreign exchange. The limited non-oil export base and large
external debt helped contribute to a large balance of payments deficit.  Further,
during this period, the traditional source of foreign exchange (loans and grants) was
sharply reduced by some key donors for geo-political reasons.
B. Recent Achievements
4.    In early 1995, the Government of Yemen responded to the deteriorating
economic situation by embarking upon a comprehensive Economic, Financial and
Administrative Reform Program which was supported by the IMF, the World Bank,
and other multilateral and bilateral donors. By and large, despite a difficult external
environment, we believe the reform program to date has been successful.
Macroeconomic stabilization was achieved, and structural changes were beginning to
be reflected in a regeneration of growth by 1997.
5.    Initially the reform program aimed at mobilizing revenues and containing
expenditures, particularly subsidy outlays that were being provided though a variety
of administered prices. The restrictive fiscal measures resulted in a reduction of the
budget deficit from around 17% of GDP in 1994 to only 3.4% of GDP in 1996 and
2.3% in 1997.
6.    These fiscal measures were supported by monetary policies which included an
increase in the benchmark interest rates to achieve positive rates in 1996. Further, the
budget deficit was fully financed by non-bank borrowing through the successful
introduction of treasury bills. Since there was no Government borrowing from the
banking system, growth in the broad money supply was brought down to around 10%
from about 35% in 1994. Furthermore, the foreign exchange market was reformed.
The multiple exchange rate system was eliminated in mid-1996, and a unified floating
exchange rate has been adopted leading to stable foreign exchange market and
Yemen's acceptance of Article VIII of the IMF's General Agreement.
7.    Structural reforms moved forward with the introduction of a simplified and
less protective tariff structure. Import bans, export restrictions, and import licensing
requirements were abolished. Further, privatization of public enterprises has started
and will continue to be an important concern in the medium-term economic strategy.
B.    During 1998, however the Yemeni economy was devastated by a 35% drop in
oil prices from US$ 18.5/barrel in 1997 to only about US$11.9/barrel in 1998.
Despite following conservative fiscal and monetary policies, in 1998, the overall
budget deficit increased by 3.8 percentage points (from 2.3% to about 6.1% of GDP).
Similarly the current account deficit in the balance of payments, also increased to
5.2% of GDP in 1998 compared to a small surplus in 1997. The pressure on balance
of payments with the accompanying drop in imports, unless corrected in 1999, would
surely have an adverse effect on non-oil GDP growth in the coming years.
C. Program of Actions
9.    To complement our ongoing reform program, the Government is also giving
explicit attention to improving the delivery of public services in order to accelerating
- 2 -



Annex 1
page 25
growth and alleviating poverty. There are two dimensions to improving public
services. First, administrative processes must be able to efficiently utilize the
available resources. Second, public expenditures must be contained within the overall
resource envelope which is consistent with the macroeconomic framework and
allocated to activities that have the maximum returns. In the Government's program,
measures to improve the delivery of public services are grouped into four categories:
(1) strengthening public administration; (2) budget and financial management reform;
(3) public expenditure rationalization; and (4) revenue mobilization and
administration.
(i) Public Administration
10.   Although the reform program so far has had a large payoff in terms of
reversing the economic deterioration, performance of the public administration
remains weak.  This is caused by lack of adequately skilled staff, lengthy and
undefined work processes, and a non-conducive wage scale. The government's
reform program that will be supported by the Public Sector Management Adjustment
Credit seeks to remedy these above weaknesses. Over the medium term, the reforms
to imnprove public administration can be expected to achieve:
* a more streamlined government apparatus with a clear definition of the role of the
state which would be demonstrated with re-engineering of four governmental
agencies;
- an improved human resource management system with development and
implementation of a training plan, computerization of payroll, and creation of an
operational employee management database to facilitate revisions in job, grade
and wage systems;
* an adjustment of the labor force which removes double dippers or ghost workers,
redistribution of staff to under-served areas, and uses a civil service fund to
retrench unqualified and surplus staff making way for merit-based salary increases
and recruitment of highly qualified staff, and
* a climate conducive to a healthy civil service that operates with professionalism
and integrity.
11.   The Government has already made substantial progress towards meeting the
objectives of the medium term reform program. Over the past year we have already
implemented a World Bank IDF Grant for consensus building. This is being followed
up by the preparation of a Civil Service Modernization (CSM) credit that will provide
technical assistance, training, and equipment requirements to implement many of the
policy reforms under this component of the public sector management reform
program. A Project Preparation Facility (PPF) for the CSM project is currently in
place. The CSM project is expected to be effective during calendar year 1999, in ,\
parallel with the PSMAC. So far, we have already implemented the following actions
towards meeting the objectives of the medium-term reform program:
. Collected all relevant material on the current functions and structure of.
government ministries and agencies, and started diagnostic work to identify
overlapping jurisdictions, both within the Government and vis-a-vis the private
sector.
-3 -



Annex 1
page 26
. Issued a cabinet decree to initiate the re-engineering process in a few pilot
governmental agencies. A strategic implementation plan for the re-engineering
process has also been developed.
* An Employee Data Base (EDB) has been developed by computerizihig key data
contained in personnel files that have recently been collated and verified and
developing and implementing procedures for keeping the EDB up-to-date.
* A ministerial committee has been established that is responsible for developing a
revised, fiscally sustainable, merit-based salary structure by June 1999. In the
meantime, until the new salary scale structure is defined, we intend to implement
a freeze on salary increases, other than cost-of-living adjustments and those few,
cadre-specific increases that have already been decided.
 The government has begun the process of identifying and removing duplicate
names and persons past retirement age illegal entries from the civil service
payroll, through checking for duplicate names in the EDB.
* A legal framework has been established for a Civil Service Fund into which
surplus labor will be transferred, and through which we intend to implement a
labor force reduction program.
(ii) Budget and Financial Management Reform
12.   One aspect of the Government's budget and financial management reform is to
focus on enhancing coordination in the formulation and execution of a unified budget.
Firm agreement on the macro/financial aggregates will be agreed prior to the start of
the budgeting process. Further, forward estimates will be used so that line ministries
will have adequate information on which to base budget submissions that are in line
with both sectoral priorities and the government's overall macroeconomic situation.
13.   Procedures for the release of funds to spending agencies and the control over
expenditures from the budget will be enhanced to reduce administrative time and
effort and to enhance the quality of the information obtained. Attention will be paid
to putting in place a system that allows for bonafide shifts in expenditures to attain
specified objectives. Cash and debt management systems will also be upgraded.
14.   The reform program adopted by the government to address the problems
described above aims to create a Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF)
over the next three years. The program seeks to put in place a system where budgetary
submissions by ministries reflect their priorities within a common macroeconomic
framework. It will end the current system where budget submissions are wish lists
without regard to the financial aggregates to which the budget is constrained. The
program will also streamline and unify the budget process. To improve budget
execution, the program will focus on developing and implementing an accounting and
financial management information system (AFM1S) that will allow for better
payment, budgeting and accounting systems, and improved financial management.
Implementation will be phased, starting with core systems development in the MOF,
linking this to budgetary units in the Sana'a area, and eventually expanding the
system throughout the country.
15.   The government as already implemented a number of actions towards meeting
the objectives of the medium term reform program defined above. These include:
-4 -



Annex 1
page 27
* A Medium-Term Expenditure Framework Unit has been set up in the Ministry of
Finance to develop macroeconomic forecasts.
. A Technical Committee of the Budget charged with the responsibility of
overseeing a unified budget preparation process, and agreement on an action plan
designed to ensure the introduction of reformed, unified budget circular for the
next budget cycle (2000) has been set up.
* A new Finance Law has been drafted (and will be forwarded to Cabinet this
month) setting out the roles of the Ministries of Finance, Planning and
Development, and Civil Service and Administrative Reform; and the new budget
classification and revised Budget Manual has been approved by Cabinet.
* A review of budget execution rules, including procedures for the release of funds
and for reallocation of appropriations has been carried out. Based on this review,
the specifications for an AFMIS and an action plan for their implementation have
been developed in line with the Government's budget management reform
program.
(iii) Public Expenditure Rationalization:
16.   The Government's medium-term reform program focuses on enhancing the
efficiency of public expenditures. As part of that program, adequate data will be
collected so that it is possible to carry out a prioritization of the investment program.
This will help ensure that sectoral investment programs reflect the stated sector
strategies and objectives. Further, attention will be paid to ensuring that recurrent
resources for operations and maintenance (O&M) are sufficient to operate existing
facilities and those facilities coming on stream out of investment program.
17.   Addressing these issues will increase the impact of public expenditures on
growth as well as on alleviating poverty.  The reform  program  adopted by the
government to restructure public expenditures aims to achieve three objectives over
the medium term:
. Develop the budget within a medium-term expenditure framework. This will
involve strengthening the budget formulation process, clarifying the roles of the
Ministries of Planning, Finance and line ministries, developing the capability to
define the overall medium term macroeconomic frame-work and financial
aggregates, and establishing procedures to set overall and sectoral envelopes
within which expenditures programs are to be prepared.
* ImpTove, through a process of prioritization, the impact of public investments on
generating growth and alleviating poverty. This includes, shifting all projects
which in reality finance the upkeep of existing facilities to the recurrent budget.
Identifying high priority projects on the basis of sector strategies and ensuring that
they receive priority in funding.
.  Provide a better balance between  recurrent and  investment expenditures
particularly in health, education and agriculture sectors. When the effect of
inadequate O&M  has been most severe, the Government of Yemen plans to
increase O&M allocations in the health, education and agriculture sector, through   -,
preparation of better estimate of O&M requirement, followed by a careful analysis
- 5 -



Annex 1
page 28
such of which facilities are cost effective and therefore need to be fully utilized
and which facilities need to be closed down or rebuilt to become cost effective.
18.   Towards meeting. the objectives defined above the government has already
implemented a number of core actions. These include:
*  Sector strategies in six key sectors (agriculture, health, education, road transport,
electricity and urban water supply) have been developed and the government is
committed to restructure the expenditure programs in these sectors in line wit the
stated sector strategies.
*  A database on the total cost, resources required for completion and the extent of
physical completion of projects has been established in six key sectors
(agriculture, health, education, road transport, electricity and urban water supply).
*  The 1999 investment program in two sectors (agriculture and health) has been
prioritized and we plan to extend the prioritization process to at least four
additional sectors (education, road transport, electricity and urban water supply)
by the end of the program.
*  Terms of reference and a work program for studies on O&M  requirements in
agriculture, health and education sectors (where the 1996 Public Expenditure
Review found allocations to be particularly inadequate) have been prepared.
(iv) Revenue Mobilization and Revenue Administration:
19.   The Govemment recognizes that non oil revenue base needs to be expanded.
The key element of the medium term program to achieve this involves the
introduction of a generalized sales tax. In addition, a number of nuisance taxes have
to be eliminated, and tax administration needs to be improved through a range of
measures from simple steps such as the introduction of a tax identification number, to
more difficult actions such as the improvement in the working of the customs,
simplification of tax administration, training tax collectors and implementing
awareness program for tax payers.
20.   Specifically, during the past year, the Government has implemented the
following measures towards meeting the medium term objectives described above.
.  A new income tax law that consolidates all income for tax purposes, and
rationalizes rates, brackets, exemptions, deductions, and coverage has been
implemented.
.  The excise tax law  has been amended to lay the basis for the eventual
implementation of the GST.
*  A cigarette bankroll tax has been introduced, and the stamp tax on banking and
customs transactions has been eliminated.
*  A numeric taxpayer identification system has been introduced, tax collectors have
been trained, and a information campaign to raise public awareness has been
launched.
*  A timetable for implementing tax administration reforms for both income taxes    J
and the production, consumption and service tax has been set up.
6 -



Annex 1
page 29
D. MACROECONOMIC PROSPECTS AND FINANCING PLAN
21.   Yemen's medium-term macroeconomic prospects depend on: (i) the continued
implementation of the economy-wide reform program initiated in 1995 and supported
by IDA and the IMF; (ii) the availability of external financing including the continued
access to the Parig Club debt rescheduling at concessional terms; and (iii)
developments in the oil sector. In 1999, the crude oil price is projected to remain at
the 1998 level of about US$12/barrel. Beginning in 1999, oil output is projected to
remain at around 400,000 barrels/day. GDP is projected to grow modestly by about
5% per year by the end of the decade, with non-oil GDP growing at 6% per year. The
balance of payments projections consistent with the above GDP growth show that the
current account deficit could decline frorn 5.2% of GDP in 1998, to 2.7% of GDP in
1999 and stabilize at around 2% of GDP through 2002.
22.   Yemen's gross financing requirements over the medium term depend upon the
current account deficit, scheduled debt service, and a policy of a modest build up of
reserves. These needs are to be met by the projected regular financing of about
US$290 million per year during 1998-2002. But, in order to promote a rapid recovery
of GDP growth, which requires a restoration of import levels in line with long term
trends, Yemen requires exceptional financing (financing gap over and above regular
financing and debt relief) of about of about US$150 million p.a. over 1999 - 2000.
Of this exceptional financing, about $50 million p.a., can be expected to come from
the proposed IDA credits, and the remaining would come from the IMIF, AMF and
other bilateral donors. Availability of these additional resources will also make it
feasible to protect development expenditures in the budget at a level consistent with
the growth and poverty alleviation objectives of the Government.
23.   The Yemeni authorities are of the firm opinion that the measures outlined in
this policy statement are of a nature to contribute appreciably to strengthening of the
foundations for healthy, sound and sustainable economic growth.
With kind regards.
Sincerely yours,
hmehd Moham,, ?Sofan
Minister of Planning   velopment
- 7-



Annex 2 (7 pages)
Page 30
ANNEX 2: POLICY MATRIX
w,,,,,-B,.,,,p:,::s,,e ,,  ,,,,,    ard Condition -                Meamires d uring Scond Year                       End S-e
(Indicative)                            (1n81c*tiy
Satisfactory macroeconomic framework, preservation of essential development expenditures, adequate institutional framework to monitor program implementation
A. Public Administration
1. Streamline government
Redefine the role of state, clarify     Compile description of current roles and  On the basis of study, and taking into  Clear definition of the role of the state in
responsibilities                        responsibilities of each ministry and main   account re-engineering recommendations,   Yemen.
agencies in the public administration  outline new functions of ministries/
Reduce the size and improve organization   (including laws, organizational structure  agencies.
of ministries, authorities, agencies, etc.  and/or membership).
Systematize and standardize government    Initiate study on organizational structure of
procedures                              government (TOR agreed, consultant
selection initiated).
Agree on re-engineering framework and
scope of consulting services required for
re-engineering.
Agree on 4 sectors, ministries, agencies, or  Re-engineering process initiated in 4  E.fficient and effective delivery of public
authorities in which a re-engineering   sectors, ministries, agencies, or authorities;  services in 4 re-engineered ministries;
process will be initiated; appoint re-  progress satisfactory as defined in re-  robust program to expand re-engineering
engineering teams in each; and retain   engineering work plans.                framework throughout govermment.
consultant services for preliminary work in
each.
Implement process simplification for at  Processes simplified and made more     Streamlined interface between the public/
least 2 public processes (e.g., small  transparent in original 2 plus at least 3  private sector and the civil service.
business licensing, drivers licenses,   additional service areas. Identification of
passports, request for utility connection)  remaining areas to which the methodology
can be applied.



The Republic of Yemen                                                                                                                          Annex 2
Page 31
?ti:o0:Board Conditions.               Measures during Secon  Year                        i nid State
(Indicative)                             I%iave
2. Enhance human resource management
Systemalic management ofpersonnel                                               100% of the civil servants \vith personnel    Operationial personnel management
records                                                                        files that are complete with core documents  database.
and in a known location.
Movement towards a merit based civil
service                                 Complete at least 95% of the civil servants  Issue permanent, personnel identification
with personnel files with core documents    cards based on biometric identificationi.
Attention to training needs within the civil  and in a known ]ocation.
service
Complete computerization of civil service    Core personnel management database
census records to form the core personnel    maintained and up-to-date,
management database.
Operational systems in place to continually  link personnel database to computerized  Satisfactory use of computerized payroll.
update the core personnel management    payroll system.
database.
Establish regional personnel management
information centers, including the      Agree on revised job and grade          Revised job, grade and wage systems being
definition of responsibilities, identification   classification systems, action plans for their  successfully implemented according to
of staff and initiation of training.    implementation, and initial implementation   agreed action plans.
according to action plans.
Establish a ministerial conmmittee
responsible for developing a revised,   Agree on revised target wage structure.
fiscally sustainable, merit-based salary
structure by June 1999, and implemented a
freeze salary increases (except cost of
living and those already agreed) until the
new structure is implemented.
Develop a training plan for civil servants    Civil servants receiving appropriate
and initiate training in accordance with that  training in line with agreed training plan.
plan.
Identify changes required in civil service  Satisfactory implementation of new legal
laws and regulations to support a       framework.
professional, merit-based civil service.
Necessary legal changes approved by
cabinet and submitted to Parliarnent.



The Republic of Yemen                                                                                                                            Annex 2
Page 32
rurpo0e  .t --ard ien itions                                                               ond u     Year                End -tt
3. Implement labor force adjustment
Increase productivity of civil service and    Agree on and begin to remove ghost  Remove from the payroll, on a permanent   No double dippers or ghost workers on the
permit adequate compensation levels     workers and double dippers from the      basis, all ghost workers and double dippers,  payroll.
payrolls on basis of census results,    based on unique biometric identification of
all staff.
Aided by census results, begin to enforce    Retirement rules strictly enforced.  Workers meeting or exceeding retirement
retirement rules.                                                                criteria moved from the civil service to the
pension system.
Develop action plans to remove from the
payroll groups that are not employed in
accordance with the current civil service
law.
Establish the legal basis for a civil service    Civil service fund operating satisfactorily    Civil service fund operating satisfactorily,
fund.                                   including: (i) transfer to the fund of   and sustained net reductions in the size of
surplus staff within restructured agencies    civil service (over census results).
Agree on TOR and select consultant for  and transparently identified surplus or
assistance in developing operating rules  unqualified staff, and (iii) agreement on
and regulations for civil service fund.  buy-out packages.
Any new recruitment, including contract
employment, limited to highly skilled   Continued progress.                      Recruitment of staff based on
workers, linked to identification of needs                                       qualifications.
based on re-engineering process.



The Republic of Yemen                                                                                                                        Annex 2
Page 33
ukpoSe                  Beard~~~364   C6ndition$         Meaures dur-ing Second Year                           'End Ste
(Indictie)(Idicai
77 B.Bdt adFii                     Management    ic  Matrix
1. Reform budgetformulation
Develop a Medium Term Expenditure      MTI.F unit to be set up in the MOF to   Revenue department of the MOI to       13uilding on the experience of the previous year,
Framework IMTEF)                       develop macroeconomic framework linking   establish capacity to undertake 3-year  M'1'1.l: to begin preparing 3-year forecasts to serve
revenue and expenditures to growth and key  forecasts for revenues, set targets, and  as the basis for a rolling medium-term economic
macro variables.                        monitor collections.                   framework for budget preparation, starting with the
period 2001-2003(
MT'lE to prepare revenue and expenditure
forecasts for the Year 2000) Budget.
13udget envelopes to be established for the
year 200) for incorporation in the Budget
Circular (see below).
Strengthen budgetformulation           Appoint a Technical Committee for the   B3udget submissions to be reviewed in the   B3udget preparation process is unified and based on
Budget (TCB), wNith senior representatives   'T'C13 meetings, Ieading to a preparation of   conistrained submissions by budgetary units.
from MOI', MOPD, and MOCSAR, which   the draft budget by the MOI: for approval
discusses the budget in its entirety    by the Cabinet and Parliament.
MOI to issue instructions to all public  Public enterprises to submit their financial
enterprises requiring that beginning in 1999,  records to the MOI prior to the
they maintain financial records of sufficient  submission of their budget estimates.
scope and quality to meet accepted
accounting standards and to substantiate  One consolidated budget circular to be
requests for resources from the budget.  issued for the Year 200( 13udget covering
all budget components-personnel
MOF to complete action on reclassification   expenditures, current expenditures and
of the budget.                         revenues, and capital expenditures-and
establishing expenditure envelopes.
Establish basic system for consolidating
budget estimates (using standard software
packages) in MOF, MOPD and MOCSAR.



The Republic of Yemen                                                                                                                        Annex 2
Page 34
/.f. B~4  jdins:                Meaures during Second Year                                          ---St
(Indicative)                                1nicativc)
MOF to revise Finance Law for submission   Finance law approved and MOF to
to Cabinet                             implement revised budget manual.
MOF to revise Budget Manual to reflect the
new budget classification.
Agreement on an action plan designed to
ensure that a unified, reformed budget
circular is issued for the year 2000 budget.
2. Strengthen budget execution and monitoring.
Strengthen budget execution through    MOF to set up a Working Committee to    MOI to establish budget execution rules    AFMIS to be implemented in all Line Ministries and
implementing an Accounting and Financial  review: (i) budget execution rules,  for the Year 2000 Budget.              13udgetinig lJnits in the Sana'a area, in line with the
Management Information System (AFMIS)  including procedures for the release of                                        agreed implemcntation plan.
funds and for reallocation of appropriations;  Work on the AFMIS to proceed according
and (ii) the budget execution control  to the agreed implementation plan.
system.                                                                       AFMIS to begin handling all aspects of budget
MOF to implement a system of quarterly    execution, and to begin generating all financial and
Agreement on proposal and action plan to    budget reviews.                    statistical reports for budget follow up and control,
develop and implement a comprehensive                                          and cash management by MOE.
AFMIS to be approved; terms of reference   Training of staff in MOF, Line Ministries
for the software, hardware and training  and Budgeting Units for AlMIS        TIraining of staff to continue.
consultants to be developed, and consultants  implementation to commence in
to be identified.                       accordance with a training plan.



The Republic of Yemen                                                                                                                          Annex 2
Page 35
-  <  0 T i ipg 0 0000 ard C*ditws                                    Mesue duin  Seond Yea                                 En  St at
M                               c 4                                                                          777fQF9"'~~~~~~~~(Idcaiv)  TdktIe
C.Pubi   xedt    Raionlization Policy Matrix
1. Improve the budget process
Develop a budget formulation process   F`or details on the steps and institutional arrangements to achieve this see the section 13 on budget and financial management. Ihe roles and
based on an agreed macroeconomic       responsibilities of the MOPI), MOF and line ministries are clarfied in the attachment.
framework andfinancial aggregates.
2. Improve the effectiveness of the sectoral expenditure programs
(O) Consistency with sector strategy   Prepare sector strategy in key sectors   Refine sector strategies in light of     I lave in place sector strategies in six sectors and a
Projects and programs included in the   (agriculture, health, education, transport,    experience.                       process to continually refine them in light of
budget are consistent with sector strategy.   power and urban water) in consultation with                                experience.
the 3ank.
(ii) Prioritization of investment resources  l)evelop a data base for projects, including   F:urther refine data base and prioritizationi    I lave in place a prioritized investment program in
Focus scarce investment resources on the   information on the extent of physical  based on the returns from the line ministries  all six sectors based on a reliable data base and
highest priority projects, and defer lower    completion of the ongoing projects in the  based on the new circular.      sector strategies agreed upon with the Government.
priority projects. This exercise will be  investment program, the amount of money
done for six priority sectors. (See    and time required to complete the projects.
attachmentfor the roles of line ministnies,   Identify a list of high priority ongoing and
MOPD, and MOF in this process.)         planned projects (list P) in major sectors
consistent with the sector strategies.
As a pilot, in agriculture and health   E xpand prioritization to additional sectors    Complete prioritization for all six selected sectors
prioritize the 1999 budget submissions  along the lines described before.        and additional sectors to be determined.
including:
*   Shift all "projects" which, in reality
finance the upkeep of existing facilities
to the recurrent budget;
*   Ensure high priority projects
(identified in list P) receive full annual
funding to enable quick completion in
line with project design; and
*   Defer other, lower priority projects.
Agree on timetable for prioritization in
other sectors.
(iii) Sustainability                   Prepare TOR and commission studies in    Studies completed and action plans agreed    Create a system to ensure adequate allocations to.
Improve the operation of facilities by  agriculture, education and health, with  for implementating recommendations.     O&M budgets in agriculture, health and education,
adequately funding O&M.                senior representatives of the MOF, MOPD                                           taking into account the state of existing facilities,
and the line ministry, to review the O&M                                         those coming on stream, and other reforms planned
needs of existing facilities and those coming                                    in the sector.
on stream in 1999-2000.



T'he Republic of Yemen                                                                                                                         Annex 2
Page 36
rPu mp  :                         Agreed Conditions                 Measurs during Second Year                            End State
-Indicative)                               (Indicative)
-. 12 Revenue Mobilization and Administration
1. Direct taxes
Improve the overall tax effort the     Implement amendments to the income tax    Eliminate provisions of the investment law   I lavc in place an income tax regime which is
efficiency of the income taxes.         law including consolidation of all income    for exemptions from profits tax, business    efficient, promotes savings and removes obstacles
for tax purposes, and rationalization of  income tax, and import duties.        to new investment.
rates, brackets, exemptions, deductions and
income coverage.
2. Indirect taxes
Develop and efficient general sales tax  Implement amendments to the current    Begin the implementation of the general    13egin the implementation of the general sales tax
system as the main source of revenue.   excise tax law.                         sales tax (GST) to replace the production    (GSTI) to replace the production tax applied at the
tax applied at the manufacturing or import   manufacturing or import level.. Eliminate taxes
Implement ink-stamped packets for       level.                                  which distort production decisions and create
domestic cigarettes and a bandroll system                                      inefficiency.
for imported cigarettes.
Eliminate all stamp taxes.
3. Improved revenue administration
Improve the efficiency of revenue       Introduce a taxpayer identification number  Increase the efficiency in implementing the   I lave in place an eflicient tax and customs
administration                          (TIN).                                 income tax law and extend enforcement of   administration, and increase tax compliance.
use of TIN by requiring its use in all tax and
Campaign for increased tax compliance  customs transactions.
and train tax collectors.
Continue to implement a program for
Agree with the IMIF on an action plan to    customs reform.
implement tax administration reforms for
both income taxes and the Production,
Consumption, and Services Tax.
12 The Revenue Mobilization matrix is consistent with that agreed with the INI under the ESAF program. In subsequent operations IDA may request, in close consultation with the
Government, additional actions in the areas of cost recovery and further modernization of customs.



Annex 2 - Attachment
Page 37
Role of MOF and MOPD in the budget and Financial Management Process
*  Macroeconomic Policy Planning Unit (MPPU). This unit will be located in MOPD.
It will provide macroeconomic framework for use in the budget formulation.
*  Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) unit. This unit will be located in
MOF. Its main responsibility will be to prepare a three-year macroeconomic forecast
related to revenue and expenditure.
*  Size of Capital Expenditures. MOPD to play a key role in deciding on the size of
capital expenditures along with the MOF who should take the lead overall budget
formulation.
*  Intersectoral Allocation.  MOPD to take the lead based on national and social
considerations and in close consultation with the line ministries/agencies on sectoral
objectives. Decide on sectoral ceilings. Provide input to MTEF.
* Intrasectoral and Project Allocations. Main responsibility of the concerned line
ministries/agencies. Decisions to be taken on the basis of sectoral strategies and data on
physical completion of projects.  The collation of information from  all sectoral
ministries/agencies is the responsibility of the MOPD who may also provide advice on
technical matters across sectors on compilation of accurate data and preparation of
sectoral strategies.
* Follow-up and Implementation of Projects. MOPD needs to follow-up whether
development projects are having the desired outcome.
Once MTEF unit is in place, MOPD should pay an active role along with the MOF to ensure that
capital expenditures (size and intersectoral allocations) are in line with availability of domestic
and foreign resources, growth and equity objectives, sectoral strategies, and achieve a balance
between O&M/current expenditure, and capital expenditures. Projects priorities within sectors
should be the responsibility of the concerned line ministries/agencies.



Annex 3
Page 38
ANNEX 3 STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IDA's Operations portfolio
Difference
Between expected
Original Amount in It.SS Millions    and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                            disbursements a1
Project ID     Year           Borrower                          I'urpose
IDA    Cancellations   Undisbursed  Orig  Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 90
Active Projects
RY-PE-50530     1999    GOVERNIMENT OF YEMEN   SANA'A EMERGENCY POWER                             5400         (100         5681      1 67    0(1
RY-PE-60132     1999    GOVERNMENTOF YEMEN   PIUBLIC WORKS II                                     50(00         000         4981      0()    000
RY-PE-39171     1998    GOVERNMENTOF YEMEN   SEEDS&AGRICULTURAL SERVICES                           1250         0()0        i209        88    h000
RY-PE-43101     1998    GOVERNMENT OF YEMEN   FINANCIAL SEC ADJUSTMENT                            8000         0000         30(08    2938    0()
RY-PE-5902      1998    GOVERNMENT OF YEMEN   S GOVERNORATES AG PRIVATIZATION                     2470          000         2393      373    0)(1
RY-PE-41199     1997    GOVERNMENT OFYEMEN   SOCIAL FUND FOR DEVELOPMENT                          30 00         000         2066      -3 29    0()
RY-PE-43367     1997    GOVERNMENT OF YEMEN   TAIZ WATER SUPPLY. PILOT                            10 20        (1)(O         6.52     6 15    0117
RY-PE-48522     1997    GOVERNMENT OF YEMEN   FLOOD EMERGENCY                                     3000          (000        1802      529    (1(1
RY-PE-41267     1996    GOVERNMENT OF YEMEN   TRANSPORT REI,IBABILITATION                         3700          000         29 50    20 25    001
RY-PE-43109     1996    GOVERNMENTOF YEMEN   PUBLIC WORKS                                         2500          000          552      -244    0 00
RY-PE-5912      1996    GOVERNMENT OF YEMEN   VOCATIONAL TRAINING                                 2430          000         18 74     8 80    ()((
RY-PE-5911      1994    GOVERNMENTOF YEMEN   EDUCATION SECTOR                                     3300          000         2743     1732       08
RY-PE-5904      1993    GOVERNMENT OF YEMEN   BASIC EDUCATION                                     1970          000          846      785      1 35
RY-PE-5910      1993    GOVERNNENTOFYEMEN   FAMILY IIEALT'l                                       2660         000          1956     1711    429
RY-PE-5810      1992    GOVERNMENT OF YEMEN   NA'IL AGRICULTURE SECTOR MGM'1'                     14 40         5 33         3 05     7 66    1 35
RY-PE-5836      1992    GOVERNMENT OF YEMEN  LANDs) & WATER CONSERVATION                          32 80         5 04         5 54     9 39    4 47
RY-PE-5806      1991    GOVERNMENT OF YEMEN   MULTI-MODE TRANSPORT                                35 80         0.00         6 02    -2 52    - (07
RY-PE-5835      1991    GOVERNMENT OF YIMEN   SECONI3ARY'1'1A('CIFERTRAINING                       1940        01()           94       1 17   0158
RY-PE-5892      1991    GOVERNMENT OF YE.M.N   1ISI]ERIIS I\'                                      13220       000           633      618    1(11
RY-PE-5878      1990    GOVERNMENT OF YElMEN  1'OWI.R III                                         1550          000          441      324    t ()()
RY-PE-5884      1990    GOVERNMENT OF YEME'N   TARI.M WATEIR SUPPLY                               12(00         000          290      218   01(1(
Total                                                                                            600( 10       10 37       356 32   140)00   12 22
Active l'roe.Icts     Closed lirolects           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA)                         235 42                 860 89                1,096 31
of which has been repaid                               t)(                  691 01                 69 11
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                        589 73                 758 88                1,348 61
Amount sold                                              n oO((                             () 00
Of which repaid                                        Int)                    0 0(                  0 00
Total Undisbursed                                      35632                    6 82                 363 14
a.  Intended disbuisements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note: Disbursement data is updated at thc end ofthe first week ol'the monith (February).
STATEMENT OF IFC's Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
(In l)S Dlollar Mlillons)
Committed                                         Disbursed
I FCI                                              IFC
FY Approval               Company                I lan         Fquity       Quasi       Partic       Loan       Equity     Quasi     Partic
1998                     Radfan                             31 80       n0) (1(1                 0.00        3.80       0.00       0.00       0.00
Total Portfolio:                            3 8(1              (      (0(1        0 00        3.80      000        0.00       0.00
Approivals Pending Commitment
[Alan        vuuitv       Ouasi        lartic
199                      Aden Silos and Mills              120(t       ()()          0()0        0.00
Total Pending Commitment                   12           RN 0 0()     0 00        0.00
Note: As of l-Feb-99



Annex 4 (page I of 2)
Page 39
Yemen, Rep. at a glance                                                                   2.199
M. East               __        _        __-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            & North     Low-
Yemen      Africa   income      Development diamond'
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                        16.3       283     2,048                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                     270      2,060      *350
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                        4.3       583       722
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (%)                                          3.3       2.3       2.1                       A
Labor force {X)                                         4.9       3.2       2.3      GNP                              Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                                capita        <   #          enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)    19
Urban population (% of total population)                 34        57        28
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         53        67        59
Infant mortality (per 1, 000 live births)                ..        48        78
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               17        ..        61               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                   52        71        71
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                     13        39        47
Gross primary enrollment (5 of school-age population)   83         97        91                   Yemen,Rep.
Male                                                   ..       102       100                  Low-income group
Female                                                47         91       81
KEY ECONOMIC RATiOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986      1996      1997
Economic ratlos'
GDP (USS billions)                                        .       5.3       5.7
Gross domestic investmentJGDP                   ..       ..      21.3      23.5                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP               ..       ..      40.3      43.2
Gross domestic savingslGDP                      ..       ..      -8.0      13.5
Gross national savings/GDP                      ..       ..      23.3      23.9
Current account balancelGDP                     ..       ..       2.0       0.4      Domestic    _I/etmn
Interest payments/GDP                           ..       ..       1.1       1.1      Savings                     Investment
Total debVGDP                                    .        ..    176.3      68.5
Total debt servicelexports                      ..       ..       3.4       3.7
Present value of debt/GDP                       ..
Present value of debt/exports                   ..
Indebtedness
1976486  1987-97     1996       1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                           3.7       5.6       5.2       4.9                   Yemen, Rep.
GNP per capita                         *      -1.5     -2.6      -1.7       2.5                -Low-income group
Exports of goods and services         ..      8.5      4.0        7.4       5.6
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986      1996      1997      Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
(r6 of GDP)
Agriculture                                                      16.5      16.3      30-
industry                                        .        ..      45.8      45.2     20-
Manufacturing                                 ..        .       1 0.7     10.5    10
Services                                                         31.5      31.2         _  _                          
Private consumptlon                            ..         .      72.5      63.3      10     92   93   94   95   9S   97
General govemment consumption                   ..       ..      16.1      18.2                _    GD1          GDP
Inports of goods and services                   ..       .       50.2      48.3
(average annual growth)                   1976-86  1987-97       1996      1997     Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                      .      4.8       1.7       2.0    so -
Industry                                       ..       6.3       9.5       3.9    40 -
Manufacturing                                 *       0.9       10.5       3      39  0 -
Services                                       ..       1.1       2.0       5.7    20
Private consumpton                             ..       1.2      19.1      -6.0      a
General govemment consumption                   .       1.0      -2.1      49.2   .10 -    92   93  J_ 95               97
Gross domestic investment                       ..    11.9        4.0      17.2   .20-
Imports of goods and services                   ..      3.8      43.9       8.6             -Exports    Ol        mports
Gross national product                          ..      2.0      -4.7       4.9
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex 4 (page 2 of 2)
Page 40
Yemen, Rep.
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986      1996      1997      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                      60c
(% change)                                                                           60-
Consumer prices                                  .27.3                       6.3 40-
Implicit GDP deflator                                    ..       40.1       7.2    30
20
Government finance                                                                   10 -
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                  0-
Current revenue                                                   38.4      37.7             92   93   9'   95   96    97
Current budget balance                                             2.4       6.0             -     GDP deflator      CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                   .       -2.5      -1 6                                               1
TRADE
(UIS$ millions)                              1976      1986      1996      1997      Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total ex( orts (fob)                                             2.263     2,264     3000
Crude Oil - Govt Share                                   .       958     1,002     2.500
Crude Oil - Companies' Share                                   1,018       933     2.000
Manufactures                                            ..       210       199     20r"
Total imports (cit)                                      ..      2556      2,695     115001111111111
Food                                                    -.    1.029      1,030    1*r00 0am
Fupel and energy                                                 199       186      soo  9
Capital goods                                           ..        96        85                            l
Export prce index (1995=100)                            ..        96        91
Import pnce index (1995= 100)                            ..        81        79                aExporls      * imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                          119       115
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976    1986      1996      1997       Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
(US$ nillilons)
E-xports of goods and services                  ..       ..    2,493       2,530      5 
Imports of goods and services                            ..    2,894      3,105      10 -
Resource balance                                                  -401     -575       5
Net income                                                        -682     -657       5  N                     95   9    97
Net current transfers                                            1,129     1.166     10  
Current account balanre                                           106        22    .15
.20 -
Financing items (net)                                             163       280    -25-
Changes in net reserves                                          -269       -302     30.
Memo:
Reserves inciuding gold (USS millions)
Conversion rate (DEC. locaWlUS$)                                 151.0    144.9
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986      1996      1997
(USs millions)                                                                       Composition of total debt, 1997 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           535    3,881      9.333     3,924
IBRD                                          0         0         0         0                      G 120
IDA                                          38      407        893       934             F 493     -            934
Total debt service
IBRD                                          0         0         0         0
IDA                                           0         5        16        16
Composition of net resource lovws                                                                                     c 121
Official grants
Official creditors                                                                   E .. 139
Prvate creditors
Foreign direct investmente
Portfolio equity                                                                                            D 1.117
World Bank program
Commitments                                   ..                                  A - IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                26       47         95        89      8 - IDA   D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                          0         1         9        10      C - IMF                      G - Short-term
Net flows                                    26       45         86        79
Interest payments                             0         4         7         7
Net transfers                                26       42         79        72
Development Economics                                                                                                   2/1/99



Annex 5 (1 page)
Page 41
ANNEX 5: SUPPLEMENTARY CREDIT DATA SHEET
Timetable of key processing events
Time taken to prepare:         10 months
Appraisal:                    November, 1998
Negotiations:                 February, 1999
Board Date:                   March 25, 1999
Closing Date:                 March 31, 2000
This report is based on work of a core task team comprising Jayanta Roy, Linda
Van Gelder, and Sudhir Chitalc. Jagannathan Murli and Moataz El-Said also
participated in the identification/preparation mission. John Wetter and David
Zuaiter also contributed to the preparation of this document. John Macgregor and
Gianni Brizzi contributed to the formulation of the project. Other members of the
Yemen country team have made important contributions on sectoral public
expenditures issues including teams led by Akiki Maeda (Health), Alex McPhail
(Urban Water), Chris Ward (Agriculture), George Tharakan (Transport), Reginia
Bendokat (Education), and Robert Mertz (Power). The Sector Director is John
Page. The Countr Director is Inder Sud. The Vice President is Kemal Dervis.



Statistical Annex
(14 pages)
STATISTICAL ANNEX



Statistical Annex
(14 pages)
Republic of Yemen - Selected Indicators Table
Base-case (most likely) projection
Actual        Estimate                         Projection
1995     1996      1997      1998      1999      2000      2001     2002    2003
Part A: Main Macro Aggregates
Annual growth rates, calculatedfrom constant 1990 price data
GDP (mp) per capita                                          4.4%,     0.9%      1.8%     -0.6%      1.9%     0.7%      1.1%      1.6%     1.8%
Total consumption per capita                                 0.0%     11 5%     -0.8%      5.5%     -0.8%     -1.5%    -0.4%     0.7%     0.9%
GDP at market prices                                         8.2%      4.4%      5.2%      2.7%     5.3%      4.0%      4.5%     5.0%     5.2%
Total consumption                                           3.7%     15.4%      2.5%     9.0%      2.5%       1.8%     3.0%     4.1%     4.3%
Private consumption                                       8.5%     19.1%     -6.2%     8.6%      1. 1%     3.0%      3.2%     4 4%     4.5%
Gross domestic investment (GDI)                            !9.1%     4.0%      18.4%    -11.7%     14 8%     9.5%     11.1%     7 3%     7.6%
Grossdom. fixed investment(GDFI)                          3.0%      4.0%     43.9%    -11.7%     14.8%      9.5%     1! 1%     7.3%     7.6%
Exports (GNFS)                                              -5.1%     -4.0%      74%    -15.5%      -0.2%     4.2%     -1.5%     04%       1.3%
of which Goods                                            -6.6%     -5.6%     6.3%    -16.5%      0.4%      4.7%     -1 1%     1.1%     1.2%
Imports (GNFS)                                             -15.6%    43.9%       8.6%     -5.0%    -2.0%      0.4%      0.5%     0.3%      1.0(%
of which Goods                                           -i3.4%    59.6%      6.7%      -4.9%    -1.1%      0.8%      1.4%     1.7%     0.7%
Savings-investment balances, as percentage of GDP
Gross Domestic investment                                   25.4%    25.3%     23.5%     21.8%     23.2%     24.3%     25.8%    26 3%    26.8%
of which Government investment                             33%      7.1%      7.8%      6.0%      7.2%      7.9%      79%      7.9%     8.1%
Foreign savings                                            -1.808o    -20%     -0.4%      5.2%      2.7%      2.2%     2.2%      2 1%     1.8%
Gross national savings                                     27.1%     273%      23.9%     16.6%     20.5%     22.1%     23.6%    24.2%    25.0%
Government savings                                        -3.7%     24%       5.5%      -0.2%     3.1%      5.0%      5.0%     5.9%     6.3%
Non government savings                                   30.8%     249%       18.3%    16.8%     17.4%     17.1%     18.6%    18.3%    18.7%
Gross domestic savings                                       22%      -80%      135%      0.9%      6.0%      8.5%     10.0%    11.0%    12.2%
Other
GDP inflation                                              53.2%     4(01%      7.2%     -4.2%      9.1%      8.6%      6.0%     4.5%     3.7%
Annual average exchange rate (LCU/US$)                       40.8     123.8     129.3    136.7    153.9    163.1    171.1    176.6    180.6
Indexrealaverageexchangerate(1990=I00)                       76.6      48.8      51.5      47.9      45.8     45.7      45.0     44.5     44.0
Termsoftradeindex(1990=100)                                  77.1      118.7     1135      93.3     101.9    101.0    101.3    100.8    100.9
Incremental capital-output ratio (GDI based)                  2.1       4.4       3 7       8 1      3.5       5.1       4.8      4.6      4.5
Importelasticitywith respecttoGDP                           -1.62     13.51      1 29     -I 80     -0.21     0.80      0.32     0.90      1.30
Money growth                                               40.6%      8 6%     10)7%      4.5%      5.0%     12.9%     10.8%     9.7%     9.1%
Part B: Government Finance Indicators
Percentage of GDP
Total revenues, ofwhich                                     21 2%     38 3%    377%      30(.6%    31.1%     324%      31.5%    31.8%    31.7%
Tax revenues                                              189%     35 8%     34.8o    26.4%     26.9%     26.6%     26.2%    25.9%    25.3%
Total expenditures. of which                               28 2%     43 01.,   40 0/.%    36 8%    35.2%     35.3%     34.4%    33.8%    33.5%
Consumption                                               17 4%,    16 31%/    1". 3%  22.4%     22.2%     20.8%     20.3%    19.9%    19.5%
Deficit(-)/Surplus(+)                                      -7 0)%,,   4 7%     -2 3%     -6.2'o   -4 1%    -2.9%      -2.9%    -2.0%    -1.8%
Financing:                                                  7.011     4.7%/o    2 3'%,    6.2%      4.1%      2.9%     2.9%      2.0%     1.8%
Foreign                                                      50/5   2 5,    5-05"    -1.2%       -l.9%     -2.2%     -1.2%    -1.7%    -1.7%
Monetary sector                                           5 0%      -I 6%,,   -021.     1.40/     01%       0.1%      0.1%     0.1%     0.1%
Other domestic                                            (1 9%.,    3.8%     2 9%,    6.()0%     59%       5.0%      4.0%     3.6%     3.4%
Part C: Debt & Liquidity Indicators
Total DOD and TDS
DOD (US$ millions)                                        914)(0   9333.2    3924(0   3730.0   3962.0   4127.0   4189.0  4293.0  4354.0
DOD /GDPmp ratio                                          83 1%.   175 I%     69 1%     7().(%    73.0%     64.0%     62.0%    60.0%    60.0%
TDS (US$ millions)                                          916      123.4    127.0)    151.6    203.4    172.8    187.0    183.0    170.0
TDS / exports (XGS) ratio                                   2 8%/     3A1.4%   5 (1%.    8 0%     11.0%     11.0%      9.0%     7.0%     4 7%
Total gross reserves (months' imports G&S)                    2 5       3.5       4.7       2.9      2.3        1.9      1.9       1.9      1.9
Part D: External Financing Plan
(USS. millions)
Private investment (net)                                 -1681)      21.11    107.0    -37.0    -42.0        -4.0      26.0    48.0      59.0
Net Long tetrn borrowing excl IMF                        -694.01  -521.11     -80.3      10.0      20.0      55.0    132.0   142.0    132.0
Adjustments to scheduled debt service                      971.9    6576       202.0     174.0    138.0      83.0    -11.0       -8.0    -10.0
All othercapital flows                                      722      164.2   6316.2    358.4   1511.6    406.7    163.9    174.7    132.0
Gross Financing Requirements (incl IMF)                      182.1    320 8   6544.9    505.4   1627.6    540.7    310.9   356.7   313.0
of which current account (excluding interest/grants)     -296.9   -160.2    -28.1       308.4    175.6    183.7    191.9   196.7   187.0



2/25)99                                                                                                                                                                                    National Accounts
2125)99                                                                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Page I of 4
Republic of Yemen - National Accounts
Part A: Current Price Data
(in billions of local currency units)
flase-case (most likely) projectiom
Atlas GNP per capita: $ 300 ( 1998)
Midyear population: 17 million
Actual                    Estimate                          Projection
1993     1994       1995      1996      1997      1998      1999      2000      2001      2002      2003
Gross domestic product at mawket prices                    220.9    270.9    449.3       657.0     741.0     7291      S37.6    945.8    1047.6    1149.6    1254.2
Net indirect laxes                                      13.2       1 2.8    * 27.8    40.6       54.3     46.1       66.5      68.4      74.2      80.0      84.3
GDP at factor cost                                     207.7    258.1      421.4     616.4     686.7     683.1      771.1     877.4     973.4    1069.6    1170.0
Agriculture                                         55.6     69.8      96.6      108.4     120.8     120.1     135.6     154.3     171.2     188.1     205.7
1ndustry. of wbich                                  50.1     60.9      146.1     300.8    335.1      333.3     376.3     428.1     475.0     522.0     570.9
Manufacturing                                  21.6      24.8      45.7      70.0      78.0      77.6      87.6       99.7     110.6     121:5     132.9
Ser ices                                           102.1     127.3     178.8    207.2      230.8     229.6     259.2     294.9     327.2     359.6     393.3
Resource balance                                           -68.2    -59.1    -104.1    -218.3       -74,3   -152.4    -144.2    -149.7    -165.5    -175.4    -183.3
Exports(GNFS)                                           33.2      43.5      111.8     112.7    327,1     240.7      298.0     338.6     357.5     376.9     398.5
lmpons (GNFS)                                           101.4     102.7    215,9    331.0    401.5       393,1    442.2       488.3     522.9     552.2     581.9
Total expenditure                                          289.1     330.0     553.4     875.3     815.3     881,5    981.8    1095.5    i213.1    1325.0    1431.5
Consumption expenditures                                   244.6     269.2     439.3     709.3     641.2     722.6     787.5      865.6     942.8    1022.6    1101.4
Go ernmnent                                             45.5       57.6      78.1     107.1     143 1     163.1     186.1     196.7     212.7     228.8     244.6
Private                                                199.2     211.6    361.2      602.2    498.1      559.5     601.4      668.9     730.1     793.9     856.8
Gross domestic investment                                   445       60.9     114.1     166.0     1741       159.0     194.3     229.8     270.3     3024      336.1
Total government incestment                              10.0      10.8      15.0     46.5      57.8      43.7       60.4      74.7      82.7      90.8      101.5
Total private investment                                34.4      50.0      99.!      119.5     116.3     115.3     133.9     1S. 1     1876      211 6     234.6
Total fixed investment                                  39.6      57.8      93.8      136.5     174.1     159.0     194.3     229.8     270.3     302.4     336.1
Total investment in stocks                               4.9        3.0     20.3      29.5       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Domestic savings                                           -23.8       1.7      10.0     -52.3      99.8       6.6      50.1      W0.I     104.8     127.0      152.8
 Net factor income                                     -4.2      -5.0      -24.5     -64.2     -850     -61.6      -80.0     -89.0     -95.0    -101.4    -106.2
+ Net current transfers                                 47.6      82.6      45 1      111.9    162.1      176.2    201 6      217.5     237.7     252.1     266.4
= National savings                                       19.7     79.3      30.6       -4.6     177.0     121.1     171.7     208.6     247.5     278.0     313.0
Gross national product                                     216.7     265.9     424.8     592 8     656.0     667.5     757.6     856.7      952.6    1048.3    1148.0
Gross national disposable income                           264.3     348.5     4699      704.7     818.2     843.7     959.2    1074.3    1190.3    1300.6    1414.4
(continuedl
a.  GNFS" denotes goods and nonfactor services."
b. Gross domestic fixed capital formation only.
c. Derived as a residual: includes increase in stocks.
d. Total net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants



2/25/99                                                                                                                                                                                                               National Accounts
Republic of Yemen - National Accounts (continued)                                                                                            Page 2 of 4
Part B: Shares of Gross Domestic Product
(percentages calctlated using current price data,
Buse-case (nost likelt) pryiecli.on
1ctual                       Estimtate                              Pnrojeltion
1993       1994       1995        1996       1997        1998       1999        2000(1     2(1111      200(12      200113
Gross domestic product                                              W100       10().(      100.(      100.()      0.0        1(I))          (()(    i( 1..)                  ()(.(0    1(0.()
Net indirect taxes                                                6.0        4.7        6.2         6.2        7.3         6.3         7 '9       7.2         7.1         7.0        6.7
Agricultere value added                                         25.2        25.8       21.5        16.5       16.3        1.         16.2        16.3        16.3       16.4        16.4
indtistry value added, of wliici                                22.7        22.5       32.5        45.8       45.2        45.7       t149        45.3       45.3        45.4        45.5
Manufacturing                                                9.8         9.2       (1(.2       10(7       10.5       1(0.6       1(1.5         .5        10.6       10.6        10.6
Services value added                                            46.2        47.0       39.8        31.5       31.2        31.5       30).9       31.2        31.2       31.3        31.4
Resource balance (X-M)                                              -30.9      -21.8       -23.2      -33.2       -10.()     -20).9      -17.2      -15.8       -i5.8       -15.3      -14.6
Exports (GNI:S)'                                                 15.0       16.1       24.9        17.2       44.1        33.0       35.6        35.8        34. 1      312.8       31.8
Imports (GNFS)                                                  45.9        37.9       48.1        50.4       54.2        53.9       52.8        51 .(      49.9        48.()       46.4
Total expenditure                                                   130.9      121.8       123.2      133.2       1 1().     120).9      117.2       115.8      115.8       115.3       114.6
Govermnent consumption                                          20.6       21.3        17.4        16.3       19.3       22.4        22.2        20).8      20).3       19.9        19.5
Private consumption                  .                          90.2       78.1        8(.4       91.7        67.2       76.7        71.8       70).7       ( 69.7      69.1       68.3
Government investment                                            4.5        4.0         3.3        7.1         7.8        6.0)        7.2         7.9        7.9         7.9         8.1
Private investment                                              15.6       18.5        22.1       18.2        15.7       15.8        16.0        16.4       17.9        18.4        18.7
Gross domestic savings                                              -10.8        0.6        2.2        -8.)       13.5         0.9        6.0)        8.5      10.()         11.0       12.2
Gross national savings                                               8.9        29.3        6.8        -0.7       23.9        16.6       2(0.5       22.1        23.6       21.2        25.0)
Memorandum items
GDP deflator                                                    164.8      203.0      311.1       435.7       167.1      447.5      488.3       530).1      561.9      587.2      6()9.(
Consumerpriceindex  (1990=100)                                 207.5       257.5      418.4       532.6      566.1       617.1      673.9       721.0       764.3      821.6       879.1
Total GDP(million current USS)                               18391.5   22556.2    11001.0       5308.7      5730.9     5334.6      5442.7      58)(0).1   6121.1      6509.8      6944.9
Percapita gross national product                               311.6       299.2      303.7       295.8      29(0.8      30)0.0     30)1.9      30)4.2      30)8.5     314.0)      32().5
(Atlas metlod: in 1998 USS)
(contiiued)
a. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."



2J25/99                                                                                                                                                                                                       National Accounts
Republic of Yemen - National Accounts (continued)                                                                                       Page 3of4
Part C: Constant Price Data
(in local currency, constant 1990 prices)
Base-case (miosi likelv) proljecntom
Actual                      E.stimate                            IProjeetion
1993       1994       1995      1996        1997       1998       1999       200)0)     2lttt(     2001)2     200113
GDI atmarketprices                                               134.0      1334       144.4      150.8      158.6      162.9      171.6       178.4      186.4      195.8      206.0
GDl at factor cost                                               126.0      127.1      135.5      141.5      147.0      152.6      157.9       165.5      173.2      182.1      192.1
Agriculture                                                   40.8        40.4       43.9       44.7       45.6       45.4       46.4       46.8       47.4       48.3       49.3
Industry, of which                                            35.6       394        45.5       49.8       51.7        53.7       55.6       58.2       60.9       64.1       67.6
Manufacturing                                            11.9        9.3       10.9       12.0       12.5       13.0        13.4       14.1       14.7       15.5       16.3
Services                                                      49.7        47.3      46.1       47.0        49.7       53.5       56.0       611.5      64.9       69.8       75.2
Resource balance                                                  -5.3        5.2        7.8       -3.6       -4.2       -7.4       -6.8        -5 8       -6.3       -6.3       -6.3
ExpoFrs(GNFS)'                                                27.4       32.7       31.1       29.8       32.0       270        27.11      28 1       27:7        27.8       28.2
Imports (GNFS)                                                32.7       27.5       23.2       33.4       36.3       34.4       33.7       33.9       34.1)       34.1       34.5
Total expenditure                                                139.3      128.2      136.6      154.4      162.9      1(70.3     178.3      184.2       192.8      202.1      212.2
Consutnption                                                     117.9      104.5      108.4      125.1      128.2      139.7      1432       145.7       150.1      156.2      162.9
Govemnnent                                                    21.9       22.4       19.3       18.9       28.6       31.5       33.8       33.1       33.8        35.0       36.2
I rivate                                                      96.0       82.2       89.1      106.2       99.6      118.2      1)9.4      112.6      116.2       121.3      126.7
Gross domestic investmenit                                        21.4       23.6       28.2       29.3       346        31).6      35.1       38.4       42.7        45.8       49.3
Total government investmetnt                                   4.8        4.2        3.7        8.2       11.5        8.4       (11.9       12.5       13.1       13.8       14.9
Total private investment                                      14.2       18.3       19.4       159        23.1       22 2       24.2       25.9       29.6        32.1       34.4
lotal fixed iivesttnent                                       19.1       22.5       23.1       24.1       34.6       30.6       35.1       38.4       42.7       45.8        49.3
Total changes in stocks                                        2.4        1.2        5.0        5.2        0.0         (         (                     0.11        0.0 (o.oo
Tenns-of-trade (TT) efTect                                      -16.7      -21.1       -19.0     -18.5        -2.5       -6.0       -4.2       -1.6       -4.4       -4.5        -4.6
Grossdoinestic income                                            117.3      112.3      125.4     132.3       156.2      157.0      167.3      173.8      182.0      191.3      201.4
Domestic saving (TT adjusted)                                     -0.6        7.8       17.0       7.3       27.9        17.2      24.1        28.0       31.9       35.0       38.5
Net factor incoine                                                -2.0      -2.0       -6.0      -11.3      -17.0       -11.9      -14 5      -15.0      -15.1      -15.5      -15.7
GNPat market prices                                             132.0      131.5      138.4      139.5      141.7      151.0       157.0      163 5      171.4      180.3      190.3
(contifted)
a. GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor senrices."



2/25/99                                                                                                                                                                                                   National Accounts
Republic of Yemen - National Accounts (continued)                                                                                    Page 4 of 4
Part D: Annual Growth Rate
(calculated from data in constant 1990 prices)
Base-case (,,w.sl likelvy) prqjection
Actual                      t.stimate                           Projection
1993      1994       1995       1996       1997       1998      1999       2000       2001       2002       2003
GDP at market prices                                            2.9%      -0.5%      8.2%       4.4%       5.2n      2.7%       5.3-%      4.0"n      4.5nn      5.0%       5.2%
Agriculture                                                 6. 1 %     -1.0%      8.8%       1 7%       2.0%      -0.4"n     2. 1%      ()9"%      1.4"(i      1.9"o     2.0%
Industry, of which                                         -0.5%      10.9%      1530.3o     9.5%       3.9n      3.8%       3.5"%      4.X"n      4.7%       5.1%n      5,5%
Manufactuiring                                         -7.5%    -21.8%       16.7%     10.5%       3.9%n      3.8%       3.5%       4.8"       4.7nn      5.1'n      5.5%
Services                                                    4.4%       -4.8%     -2.6%       2.0%       5.7%       7.7%r.    4,6%       8.0%       7.2"%      7.5%       7.8%
Exports (GNFS)                                                 20.7%      19.4%      -5. 1     -4.0%      7.4%     -15.5%      -0.2%.      4.2"n     -1.5"       0.4%       1.3%
Imports (GNFS)                                                 10.2%/o   -15.9%     -15.6%     43.9%       8.6%      -5.0%      -2.0%n      0.4%       0.5"a      0.3%       1.0%
Total expenditure                                               1.6%      -8.0%       6.5%     13.0%      5.5%       4.6"%      4.7nn      3.3"n      4.7%       4.8%,6     5.0%
Consumption                                                 2.0%     -1 1.30%    3.70/a    15.4%       2.5%       9.(%       2.51%n     1.8%       3.01%n     4. 1 %     4.3%/n
Investment                                                -1.0%      10.3%      19.1%1o     4.0%      18.4%o   -11.7%6    14.8%        9.5%      1 1.1%      7.3%       7.6%
Gross domestic income                                          -0.6%      -4.2%     11.6o      5.5%      18.0W'a    1)5%       6.6%       3.9"%      4.7n       5.11%      5.3%
Gross domestic saving                                          9.9%      78.6%      24.7%     -28.6%      18.3%     -23.7%o    22.1%       15.3"n     11.4%      8.6%'o     8.9%,
Per capita growth rates
PercapitaGDP(tnp)                                          -0.7%      -4.0/      4.4%       0.9%       1.8%      -0.6%       1.9%       0.7%       1. I.1'    1.6%       1.8%
PercapitaGNP(mnp)                                           0.0%      -4.0%       1.5%      -2.6%/;    -1.7%      3.2%n      0.6%       0.8%       1.4%,n     1.8%       2.1%
Percapita total consuimption                               -1.6%     -14.5%      0.0%      11.5%      .0,8%       5.5%      -0.8%      -1.5"o     -.4'%       0.7%.      0.9%
Percapitaprivateconsutmption                               -0.4%     -17.4%      4.6%6     15. 1 %    -9.2%2o     5.1      -2.106    -.).3%      -0.21%      l.(t0/     1.1%
a. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
b. "mp" denotes "market prices"
Part E: Period Average Indicators
Estimate                                  Projection
1992-97                                   1998-2003
Marginal national saving rate                                                        60.4%                                      35,7%
Incremental capital-output ratio                                                       4.4                                         4.5
Import elasticity                                                                       0.6                                        0.7



2V25/99                                                                                                                                                                               Exports and Imports
Republic of Yemen - Exports and Imports                                                                            Page 1 of 2
Bave-cave (mmx likely) projection
Actual                        Estimate                                Projection
1993        1994        1995      1996         1997        1998        1999        2000        2W01        2002         2003
A. Value in cunrent prices (USS millions)
Total merchandise exports (FOB)              166.9       1824.0      1980.0    2263.0       2264.0      1517.0      1703.0      1840.0      1858.0       1916.0      1978.0
Principal primary products               988.0      1715.7      1847.0    2053.0       2065.0      1381.0      1554.0       1677.0      1692.0      1746.0      1803.0
Crude Oil: Govemment's share            277.3        753.1       777.0     958.0       1002.0      481.0        559.0       623.0       626.0       652.0        676.0
Crude Oil: Oil Companies' share         556.4        859.6       957.0     1018.0      933.0        750.0       830.0       875.0       864.0       869.0        875.0
Food and Live Animals                    81.7        59.1        64.9       44.2        43.6        43.4         45.5        48.5        51.7        55.0         58.6
Other Primary Products                   72.6        43.9        48.1       32.8        86.4        106.6       119.5       130.5       150.3        170.0       193.4
Manufactured goods                       178.9       108.3       133.0      210.0       199.0       136.0       149.0        163.0       166.0       170.0        175.0
Total merchandise imports (CIF)            2350.2       1712.3      2045.0    2566.6       2694.9      2503.1      2532.9      2658.8      2745.4       2863.5      2937.7
Food                                    561.0       503.8       772.2      1028.5      1029.6      889.1        898.1       916.1       941.9       966.6        989.1
Otherconsumergoods                      265.5        165.0      265.2      332.1       372.6       377.7        383.7       412.8       427.5       451.9        464.5
POL'andotherenergy                      185.9       233.7        193.3      198.9       185.5       127.0       139.4       138.3       143.9        147.2       151.7
Intermediate goods n.e.i.'              911.3       637.1       700.3      911.1      1022.3       1036.3      1052.8      1132.7      1173.0      1239.8       1274.4
Primary goods                       84.7        59.2        58.6       88.5        99.3       100.7        102.3       110.(       113.9       120.4       123.8
Manufactured goods                 826.6       577.8       641.7      822.6       923.0       935.6       950.5       1022.7      1059.1      1119.3       1150.6
Capital goods                           426.6        172.8       114.0      96.0        85,0         73.0        59.0        59,0        59.0         58.0        58,0
B. Value in constant 1990 prices (USS millions)
Total merchandise exports (FOB)             2152.4       2660.7      2485.5    2347.0       2495.9      2085.1      2092.6      2191.7      2166.8       2191.5      2217.0
Crude Oil: Govemment's share            376.8       1085.2      1034.6    1072.8       1195.7      733.2        752.4       814.4       805.1       824.9        841.5
CrnudeOil: Oil Companicesshare          756.0       1238.6      1274.3    1140.0       1113.4      1143.3      1117.1      1143.8      1111.1       1099.5      1089.2
Food and Live Animals                    82.9        55.4         55.5      35.8        37.6        39.4         41.4        43.5        45.6        47.9         50.3
Other Primary Products                   65.8        34.9        35.6       25.8        76.0        115.7       122.4       124.2       138.9        152.6       168.7
Manufactured goods                      871.0       246.7        85.5       72.7        73.3        53.4         59.4        65.9        66.0        66.5         67.3
Total merchandise imports (CIF)            2390.3      2286.1       1979.8    3160.3      3372.5       3208.6      3172.5      3198.2      3243.8      3300.2       3322.5
Food                                    569.0       471.7       660.6      832.1       886.8       807.5        817 9       820.8       832.1       841.9        849.4
Other consumer goods                    250.0        150.0      222.8      291.9       336.4       349.9        350.8       368.0       371.6       382.9        383.7
POL and otherenergy                     314.2       934.8       418.1     1159.4      1151.7      1007.6       976.2        940.5       962.9       969.5        982.9
Intermediate goods n.e.i.               855.3       572.4       582,5      792.6       920.8       976.0       973.7       1016.3      1025.9      1056.7       1058.5
Primary goods                       76.8         47.1        43.4      69.6        87.3        109.3       104.7       104.7       105.3        108.1       108.()
Manufactured goods                 778.5        525.3       539.2     723.0       833.4        866.7       869.0       911.6       920.6       948.5        950.6
Capital goods                           401.8        157.1       95.8       84.4        76.8        67.6         53.9        52.6        51.3        49.1         47.9
(continued)
a. "POL" denotes "crude oil and derivates."
b. "n.e.i." denotes "not elsewhere included."



2/25/99                                                                                                                                                                                             Exports and Imports
Republic of Yemen - Exports and Imports (continued)                                                                                 Page 2 of 2
Base-case (iiost likely) pr(oecition
A ctual                         Estimate                                    Projection
1993         1994         1995       1996         1997         1998         1999         200)10        2001         200(2        2003
Memorandum items
Export volume growtil rate                 22.8%        23.6%        -6.6%       -5.6%         6.3%       -16.5%         0.4%         4.70o        -1.1%         1.1%         1.2%
Oil exports                            10.1%       105.1%         -0.6%      -4.2%         4.4%       -18.7%o       -0.4%         4.7%        -2. I%         0.4%e        0.3%
Non-oil exports                        41.1%       -67.0%       -47.6%      -23.9o       39.2o       11.6o        7.0%6        *1.6a       7.3%          6.6%         7.2%
Import volume growth rate                  11.4%        -4.4%       -13.4%       59.6%         6.7%        -4.9%        - 1. 1%       0.8%          1.4%         1.71%        0.7%
C. Price Indices (1990 = 100)
Merchandise export                                54.2         68.6         79.7        96.4         90.7         72.8         81.4         84.0         85.7          87.4         89.2
Merchandise import                                98.3         74.9        103.3        81.2         79.9         78.0         79.8         83.1         84.6          86.8         88.4
Merchandise terms oftrade                         55.1         91.5         77.1       118.7        113.5         93.3        1()1.9       1()1.0       101.3         1()0.8       100.9
D. Non-Factor Services (1990=100)
ExportsofNFS' -volume index                      120.9         86.4        106.2      127.0        151.3        142.5        134.2         132.9        126.2        116.3        119.0
Exports of NFS- price iidex                      106.2        110.0        119.0      113.8        110.7        108.0        109.4         112.2        115.()       118.0         121.0
Imports of NFS - volume index                    102.4        62.3          42.5       32.5         41.9         39.1         35.1          33.8         3(0.5        25.2         26.5
Imports of NFS - price index                     106.2        110.0        119.0      113.8        110.7        108.0        109.4         112.2        115.()       118.0        121.0
c. "NFS" denotes "nonfactor services."



2V25/99                                                                                                                                                                                        Balance of Paymnents
Republic of Yemen - Balance of Payments                                                                                   Page 1 of 2
(IUSS millions at current prices)
Bave-cave imonst likely) projection
Actu              Actual                               Estimate                                   Projection
1993       1994         1995       1996         1997         1998        1999         20W          ZOOI         200Z         2003
Total exports ofGNFS'                                           1370.7     1975.0       2180.8     2492.5       2530.2       1761.3       1936.1       2076.7       2088.7       2133.9       2206.8
Merchandise (FOB)                                          I166.9      1824.0      1980.0      2263.0      2264.0       1517.0       1703.0       1840.0       1858.0       1916.0       1978.0
Nonfactor services                                          203.8       151.0       200.8       229.5        266.2       244.3        233.1        236.7        230.7        217.9        228.8
Total Imports of GNFS                                           3312.6     2319.0       2492.8     2893.5       3105.2       2876.3       2873.1       2994.7       3055.7       3126.9       3221.8
Merchandise (FOB)                                          2090.9      1523.4      1819.4      2283.4      2397.6       2226.9       2253.5       2365.5       2442.5       2547.6       2613.6
Nonfactorservices                                           1221.7     795.5        673.4       610.1        707.5       649.3        619.6        629.2        613.2        579.3        608.2
Resource balance                                               -1941.9    -344.0        -312.0     -401.0       -575.0      -1115.0       -937.0      -918.0        -967.0       -993.0      -1015.0
Net factor income                                               -455.5     -563.3       -599.0     -682.0         36.0       -451.0       -520.0       -546.0       -555.0       -574.0       -588.0
Factor receipts                                               22.0       22.0         16.0       29.0         43.0         28.0         34.0         39.0         44.0         47.0         50.0
Factor payments                                              477.5      585.3        615.0      711.0          7.0        479.0        554.0        585.0        599.0        621.0        638.0
Interest (scheduled)                                     170.3      157.0        144.0       122.0        97.0         66.0         74.0         54.0         54.0         60.0         60.0
Total interest paidb                               -149.5      -55.1         26.3        65.3        57.0         52.0         85.0         65.0         65.0         68.0         70.0
Net adjustmentstoscheduled interest                 319.8      212.1        117.7        56.7        40.0         14.0        -11.0        -11.0        -11.0         -8.0        -10.0
Other factor payments                                    307.2      428.3        471.0       589.0       -90.0        413.0        480.0        531.(1       545.0        561.0        578.0
Net privatecurrent transfers                                    1013.6     1044.3       1067.0     1129.0       1166.0       1195.0       1211.0       1230.0       1279.0       1314.0       1354.0
Current receipts, of which                                  1038.6     1059.3       1067.0     1129.0       1166.0       1195.0       1211.0       1230.0       1279.0       1314.0       1354.0
Workers' remittances                                    1038.6     1059.3       1067.0     1123.0       1157.0       1191.0      1211.0       1230(.0      1279.0       1314.0       1354.0
Current payments                                              25.0       15.0          0.0        0.0          0.0          0.0         ().0          0.0          0.(          0.0          0.0
Net official current transfers                                    27.1       69.7         37.0       60.0         88.0         94.0         99.0        104.0        11().0       115.0        121.0
Current account balance                                        -1247.6      350.8        193.0       106.0        22.0       -277.0       -147.0      -13().0       -133.0       -138.0       -128.0
Official capital grants                                            0.0        0.0          0.0        0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.1          0.0
Private investment (net)                                         953.0     -184.2       -168.0       20.0        107.0        -37.0        -42.0         -4.0         26.0         48.0         59.0
Direct foreign investment                                   903.0        15.8      -218.0       -60.0      -138.0       -187.0       -203.0       -204.0       -204.0       -202.0       -201.0
Portfolioinvestments                                         50.0      -200.0        50.0        80.0       245.0        150.0        161.0        200.0        230.0        250.0        260.0
Net LI' borrowing                                               -774.5     -682.3       -694.0     -521.0        -80.3         10.0         20.0         55.0        132.0        142.0        132.0
Disbursementsh                                              136.5       120.4       118.5       164.0        151.7       234.0        227.0        232.0        254.0        257.0        232.0
Repayments (scheduled)                                       78.2       57.8        747.0       659.0       232.0        224.0        207.0        177.0        122.0        115.0        100.0
Total principal repaid5                                -986.2     -875.8      -107.2        58.1         70.0        64.0         58.0         83.0         122.0        115.0        100.0
Net adjustments toscheduled repayments                1064.5      933.6        854.2       600.9        162.0       160.0        149.0         94.0          0.0          0.0           0.0
Net other LT inflows                                        -832.7     -744.8       -65,5       -26.0         0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0
Net short-term capital                                          -804.9       37.9         35.0      103.0        -16.0       -164.0         -6.0        -93.0         15.0         12.0          0.0
a. Goods and nonfactor services.
b. Historical data from Debt Reporting System (DRS); other data projected by country operations division staff.
c. "LT" denotes "long-term."



2/25/99                                                                                                                                                                                                   Balance of Payments
Page 2 of 2
Republic of Yemen - Balance of Payments (continued)
(l SS millions at current prices)
Base-case ,nmost likely) projection
,lctual                   Estimate                       Projection
1993       1994          1995        1996         1997          199)          1999         2000          2011          2n02          2003
Capital and Financial account                                       -626.4      -828.7       -827.0       -398.0         10.7        -191.0        -28.0         -42.)         173.0        202.0         191.0
Overall balance                                                    -1874.0      -631.6        -519.0     -393.8         137.3        -468.0       -175 0        -172.0          40.(          64.0         43.0
Errors and omissions                                                 0.0      -153.7         115.0     -1(11.8        104.6           0.0           (.0          (1.1)         (.0           0.0         -20.0
Finanecd by:                                                        1874.0       631.6        519.0       393.8        -137.3        468.0         17.0          172.0         -40.0         -64.0        -43.0
Debt Forgivenss                                                      (0.0         0.0          (1.0       93.4       00)48.1         117.2        51)0.))       124.2          1).()         11.()          0.0
o/w  Secured debt relief                                           0.0         0.0          0.(1       93.0        6048.1)        117.0        8X.1           X9.1) ((.()                 0.()           0.0
Change in overdue obligations (plis indicates inciease)             909.1       858.2         751.3       568.4      -5886.6          54.0       -I112 .).()                    1).1)        (1.0           (1.0
Errors and omissions                                       ..        849.5       -42.6        -33.3          1.0          3.2          -3.2        674.1           3.8           2.1)          5.1)          0.0
Change in net international reserves                                 115.4      -184.1       -199.0      -269.1)       -302.0         31)0.()       26.()         44.0)        -42.11        -69.0         -43.0
(- indicates increase in assets)
Memnorandtm items
lotal gross reserves, of whihl                                    163.3      274.11        638.2      1036.6       1227.1)        81)9.()       650.0)        557.11       578.11        595.()        606.1)
Total reservens tinus gold                                   145.3       254.8        619.0      1017.2        1210.4        794.0         634.5         541.()        561.8        578.5         589.3
Gold(atyear-endLondon price)                                  18.0        19.2         19.2         19.4         16.6          15.0         15.5          16.()         16.2          16.5          16.7
Total gross reserves (in months iinportsG&S)                        0.5         1.1          2.5         3.5           4.7          2.9           2.3           1.9           1.9           1.9           1.9
Current Account Balanceas%GDP                                        -6.8         1.6           1.8         2.0)         0.4          -5.2          -2.7         -2.2          -2.2          -2.1          -1.8
d. "n.e.i." denotes "not elsewhere inclided."
e. "G & S" denotes "goods and services.'
f. 'LCU" denotes "local currency units."
g. The index of the real exchange rate reflects US$/LCU, so an increase is an appreciation at the real exchange rate.



2/25199                                                                                                                                                                                                          Public Finance
Republic of Yemen - Public Finance                                                                                           Page 1 of 2
(at current prices and exchange rates)
Buse-cave (tnwst Ihkelv) projection
Acthal                            Estimate                                     Projection
1993         1994          1995        1996         1997          1998         1999          2000         2001          2002          2003
Government budget (billions l.CUs) /a
rotal current revenues                                        37.1         41.0          95.3       251.9        279.7        223.3         260.5         306.4         330.3        365.6         397.6
Non-oil direct taxcs                                       8.8          12.5         27.5        41.0         48.3          53 3          61.9         69.)          77.4          84.9          92.7
Indirect taxes                                            19.3          16.9         57.2       194.0        209.9         138.9         163.5        181.8         1973          212.7        224.1
On domestic goods and services (son-oil)                5.7          4.9          10.8        16.0         18.9          20.9         24 2          26.9          2).4         32.0          34.5
Oil and Gas, incl. oil export revenuLes                13.6         12.0         46.4        178.0        191 0         118.0        139.3         154.9         167.9        180.7         189.6
Nontax receipts                                           9.0          11.6          10.6        16.9         21.5         31.1          35.1          54.7          55.6         68.0          80.8
(ofwbici current grauits)                             0.3           0.2           1.6         1.9          48            5.1          6.1           6 1           6.1          6.1           6.1
Total Current Expenditures                                   66.2          87.2        111.9       236.1        238.6         224.6         234.5        259.1         277.6         297.7         318.6
Interest on external debt                                  0.1          0.1           5.8        13.9          11.2         105           13.5          12.9         12.8          12.4          12.0
Interest on domiiestic debt                                7.1          10.8          1.5         9.6           9.3         16.6          17.7         2(1.5         23.1          25.4          27.8
Iransfers to private sector                               12.6          17.9          2.9         8.8           55          12.7          25.0         23.2          22.8          24.A          27.1
Tranisfers to other NFl:S5                                 0.0           0.0          1.8         2.5           4.0          5.3           5.5           5.9          6.3           6.7           7.2
Subsidies                                                  0.0           0.0         21.8        94.2         65.5          16.4         -13.3          ().)          1).0          0.0           0.0
Consumption                                                46.3         58.4          78.1       107.1        143.1         \63.1        186.1         196.7         212.7        2288          244.6
Wages and salaries                                    40.9          48.6         35.8        47.7          52.4         67.0          80.1          85.1          92.2         98.9         106,6
Other consumption                                       5.4          9.8         42.3         59.4         90.7         96.1         106.0         111.6         120.5        129.9         138.0
Budgetary Savings                                           -29.1        -46.2         -16.6        15.8         41 1          -1.3          26.0         47 3          52.7          67.8          79.0
Capital Revenues (Domestic oil and gas)                       0.0           0.0          0.0         0.0           (.0         (1.0           0.0           0.0          0.)           1.0           0.1
Total Capital Expenditiures                                  10.0          10.8         15.(        46.5          57.8         43.7          60.4          74.7         827           90.8         101.5
Capital transfers                                         0.0          0.0           0.0         0.0          1.0           0.1           0.11         1.1            .0           0.0           .0
Budgetary fixed investment                               10.0         10.8          15 0        46.5         57.8          43.7         60.4          74.7          82 7          91.8        101.5
Overall balance (- = deficit)                               -39.2        -57.0         -31.6       -30.7        -16.7         -45.0         -34.4        -27.4         -30.0         -23.0         -22.5
Sources of financing (+)                                      39.2         57.0          31.6        30.7         16.7         45.0          34 4          27.4          30.0         23.0          22.5
Official capital grants                                   0.0           0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0           0.0           1.0           0.0          1             0.0
Net external borrowing                                     1.1          1.2          2.3         16.4         -3.5         -9.0         -16.0        -21.0         -12.9         -19.7         -21.4
Net disbursemeits (cash)                               1.1           1.2          2.3        16.4         -3.5          -9.0         -16.0        -21.0         -129          -19.7         -21.4
Adjustmeints to scheduled principal repayments (-      0.0          0.0           0.0         0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0          111           0.0          ().0           0.0
Adjustments to scheduled debt service (+)              0.0          0.0           0.0         0 0          0.0           0.0           0.(1         (1.1)         ().()        ().0           0.0
Net tmonetary system                                     31.7         45.6          25.2       -10.7         -1.2          10.1          0.8           0.9           1.0           1.1           1.2
Net otherdomestic borrowing                               6.4         10.2           4.1        25.0         21.4          43.9         49 7          47.5          41.9          41.6         42.7
TIMCMth  ocd)
a. `LCU" denotes "local currency Linit.'
b. "NFPS" denotes "nonfinancial ptiblic sector."



2/25/99                                                                                                                                                                                                  Public Finance
Republic of Yemen - Public Finance (continued)                                                                                  Page 2 of 2
(at current prices and exchange rates)
lBase-case (mnost likely) projrecion
Actual                          Estimate                                    Projection
1993        1994         1995        1996         1997         I998         1999         2000         2001          2002         2003
Shares of GDP (%)
Current revenues                                            16.8        15.1         21.2        38.3         37.7         30.6         31.1         32.4         31.5          31.8         31.7
Current expenditures                                       30.0         32.2         24.9        35.9         32.2         30.8         28.0         27.4         26.5          25.9         25.4
Budgetary savings                                         -13.2        -17.0         -3.7        2.4          5.5          -0.2          3.1          5.0          5.0          5.9          6.3
Capital revenues                                            0.0          0.0          0.0        0.0          0.0          0.0           0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0
Capital expenditures                                        4.5          4.0          3.3        7.1          7.8          6.0           7.2          7.9          7.9          7.9           8.1
Overall Balance (- = deficit} (cash basis)                -17.7        -21.0         -7.0       -4.7         -2.3         -6.2          -4.1         -2.9         -2.9         -2.0          -1.8
Official capital grants                                 0.0          0.0          0.0        0.0          0.0          0.0           0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0
Net external borrow iny                                 0.5          0.5          0.5        2.5         -0.5          -1.2         -1.9         -2.2         -1.2         -1.7          -1.7
Monetarv svstein credit                                14.4         16.8          5.6       -1.6         -0.2           1.4         0.A           0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1
Otlter domestic finiancing                              2.9          3.7          0.9        3.8          2.9          6.0           5.9          5.0          4.0          3.6           3.4
Government Debt (DOD c at the end of the %ear. it (billions l.CUs. inless noted))
Extemal debt                                                                        446.6      1153.0        512.1        541.9        627.9        689.6        728.3         766.7        799,7
External debt (in USS millions)                                                    8924.0      9085.0       3924.0       3730.0       3962.0       4127.0)      4189.)        4293.0       4354.0
Debt to monetary s%-stem                                                            200.0       189.2        188.0        198.1        198.9         199.8        200)(8       2()1.9       203.1
Other domestic debt                                                                  42.5        69.4         82.6        126.4        176.1        223.6         265.5        30)7.1       349.8
Total govermment debt                                                               689.0      1411.6        782.7        866.5       1()02.9       1113.0       1194.7       1275.8       1352.7
Total govemment debt as percent of GDP                                              153.4       214.9        105.6        118.8        119.7         117.7        114.0)       I ll.()      1117.8
Tax burden indicators (00
Direct taxes / GDP                                          4.0          4.6          6.1         6.2          6.5          7.3          7.4           7.4          7.4          7.4          7.4
Iltdirect taxes on domestic G&S' GDP                        2.6           1.8         2.4         2.4          2.5          2.9          2.9          2.8           2.8          2.8          2.7
Indirect taxes on domestic G&S . private consumption        2.8          2.3          3.0         2.7          3.8          3.7          4.0)          4.)          4.()         4.0          4.0
c. "DOD" denotes "debt outstanding and disbuirsed."
b. "G&S" denotes "goods and services."



2/25/99                                                                                                                                                                                                        Monetary Survey
Republic of Yemen - Monetary Survey                                                                                            Page 1 of 2
(in billions of local currency units)
Base-cave (mo. r likely) projection
Actual                           Estimate                                      Projec.ion
1993         1.994         1995        1996         1997          1998         1999          2000  wee1                 110          Z1003
A. Annual Flows:
Netforeignassets                                               -1.4          1.5          37.5        64.4         41.0         -39.2         -6.1          -6.0           7.4           5.8           5.0
Net intemational reserves                                 -1.4          2.2           8.1        33.3         39.0         -41.0          -4.0         -7.2           7.2          12.2           7.8
Other net foreign assets                                   0.0         -0.7          29.4        31.2          2.0           1.8          -2.1           1.2          0.2          -6.4          -2.7
Domestic credit                                                33.9         47.1          42.5       -21.0          10.2         10.0          12.0          12.5          12.4         13.0          11.3
Togovernment                                              30.4          43.1          20.7      -23.6          -1.8           9.8          0.8           0.9           1.0           1.1           1.2
Govemment budget                                      31.7         45.6          25.2       -10.7         -1.2          10.1           0.1           0.9          1.(           1.1           1.2
Other NFPS'                                           -1.3         -2.5          -4.5       -12.8         -0.6          -0.3           0.(          ()            0.(           0.0           0.()
Torest ofthe economi                                       3.5           3.9          21.8         2.5         12.0           0.2         11.2          11.6          11.4          11.9         101
Prisatesector                                          3.5          3.9          21.8         2.5         12.0           02           11.2         11.6          11.4          11.9          10.1
Other financial inStitutions                           0.0          ().0          0.0         0.0          0.0           ().0          ().(         ().()         (1.0          (.0           0.0
Total assets =liabilities                                     32.5         48.6          80.0        43.4          51.2        -29.2           5.9           6.5         19.8          18.7          16.4
Money andquasimoneN                                           33.3          40.7         89.2         28.2         28.8          13.4          15.7         42.3          39.8          39.9         40.9
Net other liabilities                                          -0.7          8.0          -9.2        15.2         22.4         -42.6         -9.8         -35.8         -20.0        -21.2         -24.6
B. End of Year Stocks:
Net foreign assets                                             -0.2          1.4          38.9       103.3        144.4         1(05.2        99.1          93.1         10()5         106.3         111.3
Net imternational resers%e                                 2.0          3.3          31.9       116.2        144.4         1(05.2        99.1          93.1         1()0  5       106.3         111.3
Other net foreign assets                                  -2.1          -1 .9         7.0       -12.9          11 ()         (.0           0.11          0.0            ()           (1          ().()
Domestic credit                                               145.3         192.4        234.9       213.8        224.0         234.1         216.1         258.5        270(9         2X3.9         295.2
logovemment (NFIPS)                                      120.6         1638          184.5       160.9        159.1         168.9        169.7         170.6         171.6         172.7        173.9
Government btidget                                   129.2        174.8         200.0       189.2        188.0         198.1         198 )        199 8         2((18         2(11.9        2(03.1
Other NFPS                                            -8.5        -11.0         -15.5       -28.3        -28.9         -29.2         -21.2        -29.2         -29 2         -29.2         -29.2
To rest of the economy                                    24.6          28.6          50.4        52.9         64.9         65.1          7(,.3         87.9          99 3         111.2        121 3
Private sector                                        24.6         28.6          50.4        52.9         64.9          65 1          76.3         879           99.3         111.2         121.3
Other financial institutions                           0.0          0.0          ().()        0.0          0.0           ().()        (1.()         ().11         ().0          ().()         0.(1
Total assets = liabilities                                   145.1        193.8         273.8       317.2        368.4         339 2         345 1        351 6         3.71.4        3911.2        4(06.5
Money and quasitnoney                                        135.9         176.5        248 3       269.6         298.4        311 8         327 5         369.8         409.6        419.5         490.4
Net other liabilities                                          9.3          17.2          25.5        47.6         70.0          27.4          17.(,       -I8.2         -38 1         -59.3        -83.9
(coadociti.d )
a. "NFPS" denotes ''lioifinancial piblic sector."



2/25/99                                                                                                                                                                                            Monetary Survey
Republic of Yemen - Monetary Survey (continued)                                                                                 Page 2 of 2
(in billions of local currency units)
Base-cave (most likely) projection
Actual                          Estimate                                  Projection
1993        1994         1995        1996        1997         1998         1999         2000         2001         2002         2003
C. Factors accounting for monetary expansion (as % MQM )
Net foreign assets  .                                       -0.1          0.8        15.7        38.3        48.4         33.7         30.3         25.2         24.5         23.6         22.7
Credit to government (NFPS)                                 88.8         92.8        74.3        59.7         53.3        54.2         51.8         46.1         41.9         38.4         35.5
Credittorestoftheeconomy                                    18.1         16.2        20.3        19.6         21.8        20.9         23.3         23.8         24.2         24.7         24.7
Net other liabilities(-)                                     6.8          9.8        10.3        17.6        23.5          8.8          5.4         -4.9         -9.3        -13.2        -17.1
Total increase in MQM                                 100.0        100.0        100.0      100.0        100.0        100,0        100.0        100.0        100.0        100.0        100.0
D. Money, credit and prices
M2/GDP                                                      61.5         65.2        55.3        41.0        40.3         42.8         39,1         39.1         39.1         39.1         39.1
Annual grov.Ih rate MQM                                     32.4         29.9        40.6         8.6         10.7         4.5          5.0         12.9         10.8          9.7          9.1
Annualgrowthrateprivatecredit                               16.5         16.0        76.2         5.0        22.7          0.4         17.2         15.2         13.0         11.9          9.1
Increase in private credit as % ofincrcase in domestic credi  10.3        8.4        51.3       -12.1       117.6          2.4         93.3         92.8         91.9         91.5         89.4
b. "MQM' denotes "money and quasi money.'



2/25/99                                                                                                         Financing Requirements
Page 1 of 1
Republic of Yemen - Financing Requirements
(USS millions at current prices)
Base-case (most likely) projection
Actual        Estimate                          Projection
1995      1996      1997      1998      1999     2000      2001      2002     2003
A. Gross Extemal Financing Reauirement                     -182      -321     -6545      -505    -1628       -541     -311      -357      -313
Current Acoount Balance. (excluding interest/grants)        297       160        28      -308      -176      -184      -192     -197      -187
Debt Service Obligations                                  -891      -781      -329      -290      -281      -231     -176      -175      -160
Interest                                                -144      -122       -97       -66       -74      -54       -54       -60       -60
Amonization                                             -747      -659      -232     -224       -207     -177      -122      -115      -100
Other cajital (net)                                       -133       123        91      -201       -4I       -97       41        60        59
Net Reserves Buildup (minus indicates increase)
Excluding AMF and IMF purchases and repurchases        -206      -391       -449      240        -98      -29        16       -45       -25
Change in overdue obligations (plus indicates increase)    751       568    -5886         54    -1025          0         0        0         0
B. Financed by:                                             182       321      6545       505      1628      541       311       357       313
1. Reeualar Financine Sources                                60      207        246      331       279       290       318       376       356
Officialcurrentgrants                                    40         68        91       97        102       107      113       118       123
Long-term loans                                          53        138       152      234        177      183       205       258      233
of which. IDA                                          24        95        89       152        117       84        68       125       75
2. Debt Relief                                                0        93      6048       117      1159       125        0         0         0
Secured debt relief                                          0        93      6048       117        85        89        0         0         0
pending debt relief **                                       0         0         0         0      1074       36         0         0         0
3. Exceptional Financin, of which:                            7       122       147        60       174       123       -8       -24       -18
IDA (new)*                                                   0         0         0         0        50       50        50         0         0
NetIMF/AMF                                                  7       122       147        60       124        73       -58      -24       -18
Net AMF purchases                                          7         1         8       -11       -19      -22       -11        -6         0
Net IMF purchases                                          0       121       139        71       143       95       -47       -18       -18
4. Errors and Omissions                                   115.4   -101.2      104.0      -2.6      15.6      2.7       0.9       4.7    -25.0
* Includes the PSMAC of $50 million for 1999, and otherexpected balance of payment support forouter years.
** Debt relief that would be forthcoming under the assumption that non-Paris Club creditors would provide on at least comparable terms
as the 1997 Paris Club rescheduling.



