Report No. 23387
Report No: I075129 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 04/11/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: RWANDA Project ID: P075129
Project: Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Project          Task Team Leader:
Markus Kostner
Authorized to Appraise Date: September 27, 2001 IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: April 25, 2002    IDA Amount ($m): 25.00
Managing Unit: AFTRS     Sector: AY - Other Agriculture
Lending Instrument: Emergency Recovery Loan (ERL)         Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The overall goal of the second stage of the RDRP would be to help
consolidate peace in the Great Lakes region and foster reconciliation
within Rwanda.
The four principal objectives of the Program would be to:
(i) demobilize an estimated 45,000 ex-combatants from the RPA and members
of armed groups, and support their transition to civilian life;
(ii) in the spirit of the Arusha Agreement, support the reinsertion of
ex-FAR;
(iii) support the social and economic reintegration of all ex-combatants
to be demobilized in stage II and all stage I ex-combatants who remain
socio-economically vulnerable; and
(iv) facilitate the reallocation of Government expenditure from military
to social and economic sectors.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The second stage of the RDRP would contain five components: (i)
demobilization, including HIV/AIDS prevention and mitigation measures;
(ii) reinsertion; (iii) reintegration; (iv) special groups; and
institutional development and Program implementation support.
(i) demobilization: The demobilization of 20,000 ex-combatants from the
RPA would be completed in four phases of 5,000 each over a period of 18
months, starting in February 2002. The RDRC would establish at least one
demobilization center for the RPA (Bicumbi in Kigali Ngali) and one for
the armed groups (Mutobo in Ruhengeri). Each center would initially have a
capacity of 1,500. The RDRC would expand their capacity and/or establish
additional centers as necessary.
(ii) reinsertion: All ex-combatants demobilized in stage II of the RDRP
would receive a Basic Needs Kit (BNK). RPA ex-combatants demobilized in
stage II would additionally receive a Recognition of Service Allowance
(RSA). The RSA would also be extended to ex-FAR ex-combatants.
(iii) reintegration: Building on experiences with demobilization and
reintegration programs in Rwanda and elsewhere and on lessons learned from
community-based development projects in the country, the second stage of
the RDRP would provide significant economic and social reintegration



assistance to help ex-combatants establish sustainable
livelihoods.Ex-combatants would be required to demonstrate that they
intend to use the RG for meaningful economic or social reintegration
purposes (sub-projects) in order to receive the RG. Sub-projects may
include agricultural and non-farm income-generating activities (IGAs),
vocational and apprenticeship training, employment, tools, and education
and scholarships as well as children's education.To lower the likelihood
of abuse, the CDC would confirm the feasibility of the sub-project in the
local context and screen the proposed activity for environmental impact.
(iv) special groups: On the basis of demobilization patterns to date (111
female ex-combatants were demobilized during stage I of the RDRP), it
appears unlikely that the number of female ex-combatants to be demobilized
during the second stage would be sizeable. However, given experiences of
other demobilization and reintegration programs, the RDRP would provide
targeted support for the social and economic reintegration of female
ex-combatants.
(v) institutional development and Program implementation support: The
institutional structure for Program planning and implementation requires
strengthening at all levels (Technical Secretariat, Provincial Program
Offices, and CDCs/CPAs). This component will support procurement of
necessary equipment and staff development for effective Program
implementation.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The Program will be providing support to former combatants while
facilitating their reintegration in selected areas. The selection of the
areas will be determined on an individual case and in line with the
beneficiaries preferences and needs throughout the entire country.
B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments: The Program is being processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery
Assistance). It is classified as environmental category B as it includes
support to income-generating activities. However, the phased and widely
dispersed reintegration of 45,000 ex-combatants into civilian life is
expected to be environmentally neutral. The Program does not anticipate
support to any major physical works and would only finance the
rehabilitation of two demobilization centers and two medical
rehabilitation centers.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)         Yes
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)    No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)      No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)        No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)    No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)      No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*         No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)       No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
- 2 -



the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
Income reintegration activities are designed to develop the financial
self-sufficiency of an ex-combatant's household through productive and
gainful (self) employment. The Program would provide economic
reintegration assistance through a wide variety of support, including: (i)
employment and education opportunities; (ii) skills development and
training opportunities; and (iii) agricultural and non-agricultural
micro-projects. The Program would build on the lessons and structures of
the CRDP to encourage community-based approaches to economic
reintegration.
Based on experience, it is expected that the majority of ex-combatants
would settle in rural areas. Access to land then becomes a critical
element for successful economic integration. Government confirmed that
there would be no involuntary resettlement of ex-combatants and that
ex-combatants would be allowed to choose their reintegration destination
freely.
Ex-combatants' access to land would be facilitated with the same
community-based procedures used for others who need land. Specifically,
any Rwandan in search of land for housing or agricultural production can
contact the local administration, who would allot a piece of public land
for use if available. If no public land were available, the local
administration would consult with respective communities to facilitate the
reintegration of ex-combatants.
The Program is an Emergency Credit under OP8.50. While no major physical
works are anticipated, the Program recognizes that the potential
environmental damage caused by poorly managed micro-projects could
exacerbate a community's problems. For instance, small projects applying
careless environmental practices can make a substantial contribution to
the slow degradation of environmental resources. Experience shows that
unmanaged exploitation of natural resources for income generating
activities or uncontrolled grazing of livestock can destroy topsoil, seeds
and vegetation.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
n/a
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
n/a
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
The Program design has focused on ensuring that procedures for the
-3 -



management of future environmental and social impacts are in place and
that they are consistent with national laws and Bank safeguard policies.
For all sub-projects to be supported under the Program, environmental and
social screening procedures established for CRDP will be followed.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
The RDRP would provide reintegration support to ex-combatants in the form
of sub-projects, which would include agricultural and non-farm
income-generating activities (IGAs), vocational and apprenticeship
training, employment, tools, and education and scholarships. The cost per
sub-project would be below US$350 per beneficiary. IGAs would be screened
for environmental impact and monitored according to the procedures set up
by the MINALOC for the Bank-financed Community Reintegration and
Development Program (CRDP). The objective of environmental screening
would, thus, be to minimize negative environmental impacts of the Program.
The following sub-project cycle has proven effective under the CRDP and
similar interventions and would be applied to the RDRP IGA activities as
well: (i) an ex-combatant prepares a sub-project proposal, with
appropriate assistance by a CDC or sub-contracted NGO/association; (ii)
the respective CDC appraises the proposal per CRDP criteria (including on
social and environmental impact); and (iii) if approved, funds are
transferred to the bank account of the ex-combatant. Provincial program
offices and CDCs would supervise sub-project implementation.
The screening procedures are tailored to the small-scale nature of
income-generating activities, examining the potential for impacts and
identifying any mitigation measures. The focus of the screening and
monitoring would be on the following issues: water, health and sanitation,
natural resource exploitation, erosion, pesticide use and any other
safeguard related issue. The CDCs will consult the relevant line ministry
representative (charge de service for agriculture, environment, water and
sanitation, health, education, social affairs) as needed. In accordance
with CRDP guidelines, certain activities such as charcoal making will be
rejected. The screening and monitoring will also assess the potential
environmental impact of the IGA on neighboring communities. In case of
wider negative environmental impact, actions would be agreed upon with the
relevant local administrations. The sub-project cycle of the Program would
build in a mechanism to screen activities and employ the relevant sections
of the CRDP Project Implementation Manual.
With regard to Monitoring and Evaluation, the institutional structures
established under the Community Reintegration and Development Project
(CRDP) are working quite well. The CRDP institutional mechanisms will be
used for the EA screening, processing and monitoring with a view to
determining the applicability of the safeguard policies.
Appropriate budgetary provisions for environmental and social management
activities will be allocated based on CRDP experience. The proposed
arrangements for environmental and social management of the Program is
included as an attachment to the Technical Annex.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
Consultation with government officials at the district and province level,
ex-combatants, vulnerable groups, relevant communities and NGOs are being
undertaken during preparation and will be continued during implementation
- 4 -



to ensure Program effectiveness.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
[XI S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
I S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      11/28/2001       12/11/2001
Date of "in-country" disclosure 12/6/2001        2/4/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop   12/10/2001      2/4/2002
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Markus Kostner  04/01/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:        Nina Chee/Person/World Bank      04/01/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Charlotte S. Bingham     04/01/2002
Sector Manager/Director:         Joseph Baah-Dwomoh       04/01/2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 5-



