Report No. PID10793
Project Name                     Rwanda-Rwanda Demobilization and ...
Reintegration Project
Region                           Africa
Sector                           AY - Other Agriculture
Project ID                       RWPE75129
Borrower(s)                      Government Of Rwanda
Implementing Agency
Rwanda Demobilization And Reintegration
Commission (RDRC)
Address: P.O. Box 3500, Kigali, Rwanda
Contact Person: Mr. Jean Sayinzoga,
RDRC Chairperson
Tel: 250-76757
Fax: 250-87198
Email: Rwandademob@yahoo.com
Environment Category             F
Date PID Prepared                October 26, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         November 20, 2001
Projected Board Date             January 17, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
A. Circumstances for the Conflictl. The current conflict in Rwanda is the
result of the collapse of the Arusha peace process in April 1994 and the
ensuing genocide. Following the defeat of the Forces Armees du Rwanda
(FAR) and allied militia groups (interahamwe) by the Rwandese Patriotic
Army (RPA) in July 1994, significant elements of these forces fled to
neighboring countries. They have continued to stage military attacks
against Rwanda from these countries. Since 1996, the Government of Rwanda
has repeatedly deployed troops of the RPA in the DRC to counter this
threat. However, in 1998 this intervention spawned a broader war, which
has embroiled the government in Kinshasa, three Congolese rebel movements,
up to seven African countries, and a number of other irregular forces.2.
Under the terms of the Lusaka cease-fire agreement signed in July 1999,
the Government agreed to withdraw RPA forces from the DRC. The United
Nations Organization Mission to the Congo (MONUC) has been established and
deployed to monitor the cease-fire and verify the withdrawal of various
foreign armed groups from the DRC. At the same time, RPA forces have
captured large numbers of members of armed groups seeking to infiltrate
Rwanda.3. These simultaneous developments - diplomatic progress under the
Lusaka Agreement and military progress by the RPA against armed groups -
represent the best opportunity since 1996 for a concerted effort to
resolve the Rwandan crisis by disarming and demobilizing the remaining
armed groups and reintegrating them in Rwanda through an orderly process.
B. Economic and Social Impact of the Conflict4. The legacies of the
genocide and persistent insecurity continue to weigh heavily on the social
and economic recovery of Rwanda. The genocide and the preceding civil



conflicts impoverished Rwanda and increased the vulnerability of its
population, particularly recently returned refugees, resettled IDPs, the
widows and orphans of the genocide, and the families of the detained
suspects of crimes of genocide. The most recent conflict (1998-2001) has
exacerbated insecurity, particularly in parts of the country bordering the
DRC.5. On the macroeconomic level, as a result of the continuing war and
insecurity, defense spending remained at 4.3 percent of GDP in 1998 and
4.2 percent in 1999. In 2000, defense spending decreased to 3.4 percent of
GDP and in real terms from FRw 27.0 billion to FRw 23.9 billion, mainly
because of the separation between the RPA and the National Police in
2000. The fiscal deficit remained at 10 percent of GDP in 1999-2000.
Expenditures linked to Rwanda's engagement in the DRC continue to
represent a significant drain on the national budget and compromise the
Government's ability to implement its poverty reduction strategy. C.
Government and International Response and Strategy6. Since coming to power
in 1994, the Government of National Unity has sought to encourage members
of armed groups to lay down their arms and return to Rwanda. The RPA has
incorporated approximately 15,000 ex-FAR of the estimated 40,000 ex-FAR
who had returned to Rwanda after the dissolution of the refugee camps in
1996.7. First Stage of the Program. In 1997, the Government created the
Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Commission (RDRC) to implement the
first stage of the Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Program (RDRP).
Between September 1997 and February 2001, approximately 18,700 soldiers
were demobilized from the RPA. This first stage was co-financed by
Government, various bilateral donors through a UNDP-administered trust
fund, and UN agencies. The Government did not request IDA financial
assistance for stage I of the RDRP. 8. In June 2001, UNDP completed an
evaluation of the first stage of the RDRP. The report concluded that the
Program had been characterized by significant achievements but also
important shortcomings. The achievements included the demobilization of
18,700 soldiers and the subsequent employment and educational referral
performance of the RDRC. However, reintegration support provided to
ex-combatants was inadequate and poorly implemented. Furthermore, there
was no significant net reduction in force of the RPA and thus no
substantial reduction in military expenditure. As a result, many
ex-combatants feel frustrated and remain economically vulnerable. The
first stage of the RDRP was also affected by donors' reluctance to finance
the program in the context of Rwanda's continued engagement in the DRC.9.
Second Stage of the Program. For the second stage of the RDRP, the
Government has asked the World Bank to lead efforts to redesign the
Program and to provide financial assistance (the "Credit") for stage II of
the RDRP. It envisages: (i) the demobilization of 20,000 RPA soldiers;
(ii) the demobilization of an estimated 30,000 members of armed groups
returning from the DRC; and (iii) the provision of reintegration
assistance to all those to be demobilized and to vulnerable ex-combatants
demobilized in stage I. The inclusion of ex-combatants of armed groups is
considered an important national reconciliation and confidence building
measure. 10. The Lusaka Cease-Fire Agreement envisages that "countries of
origin of members of the armed groups, commit themselves to taking all the
necessary measures to facilitate their repatriation"1/. Paragraph 22 of
the Lusaka Cease-fire Agreement. The second stage of the RDRP would go
beyond this provision by enabling returning members of armed groups to
access reinsertion and reintegration support. The RDRP would thus form an
essential part of the Government's implementation of the Lusaka Agreement
and complement the planned Disarmament, Demobilization, Reintegration,
-2 -



Resettlement and Repatriation (DDRRR) efforts of the MONUC. The Bank is
in close contact with MONUC to ensure close coordination of RDRP and MONUC
activities.l/ Paragraph 22 of the Lusaka Cease-fire Agreement.
2. Objectives
11. The overall objective of the second stage of the RDRP would be to help
consolidate peace in the Great Lakes region and foster reconciliation
within Rwanda. The three principal objectives of the Program would be
to:(i) demobilize approximately 50,000 ex-combatants from the RPA and from
armed groups and provide targeted support to facilitate their return into
civilian life;(ii) support the reintegration of all ex-combatants (to be)
demobilized under stages I and II; and(iii) facilitate the reallocation of
Government expenditure from military to social and economic sectors.12.
This Program is expected to have a significant impact on reducing poverty
throughout Rwanda, by: (i) freeing up additional national resources for
investment in social and economic sectors; (ii) investing in the human
capital of ex-combatants; and (iii) enhancing the capacity for
community-based development mechanisms.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
13. The Government's request for technical and financial assistance for
the second stage of the RDRP has come at a critical time in the regional
peace process. The Bank's involvement is justified by the timing of the
Program, the amount of resources required, the focus of the Program on
sustainable economic reintegration of ex-combatants, and the need to be
responsive to a client request for leading and coordinating international
support for this operation. IDA support would complement the activities
of other international stakeholders in Rwanda and the region, in
particular those of the MONUC. 14. Need for Emergency Assistance. The
application of the Bank's emergency procedures under OP 8.50 is justified
on the basis of the following criteria: (i) impact on economic priorities
and investment programs. A successfully implemented RDRP would help
consolidate stability in Rwanda and the region, support macroeconomic
stability, and increase investments; (ii) frequency. There is general
agreement that a window of opportunity currently exists during which the
peace process can be consolidated. Government and donors agree that the
RDRP would be a critical element in this process; (iii) urgency. About
2,700 members of Rwandan armed groups have recently returned to Rwanda.
Urgent measures are needed to demobilize and reintegrate this group; (iv)
prospects for reducing future hazards. Discontent ex-combatants who have
not received any assistance could easily stir violent unrest. At the same
time, lack of proper demobilization and reintegration support may
contribute to a stalling of the peace process; and (v) expected economic
benefits. The Program would provide the Government the means to
consolidate the social and economic recovery following the setbacks caused
by the persistent insecurity in the Great Lakes region. Bank Response and
Strategyl5. IPRSP/PRSP. The Government of Rwanda launched its National
Poverty Reduction Program in June 2000 and outlined its development
strategy in an IPRSP in November 2000. A full PRSP is close to
finalization, with security issues featuring prominently in the draft
report. Rwanda's long-term vision (Vision 2020) emphasizes national
reconciliation and security, democratization, good governance and
political stability, human resource development, decentralized and
efficient public administration, and regional integration as the key
elements to sustain peace and create prosperity.16. Country Assistance
-3 -



Strategy. The IDA Board of Directors discussed a CAS Progress Report for
Rwanda in June 1999, which was an update of the CAS endorsed by the Board
on April 7, 1998. A new CAS will be presented to the Board in December
2001. The new CAS reflects the Government's determination to overcome the
legacies of the genocide, transform the economy and society, and reduce
poverty. The proposed Credit is an integral part of the new CAS. 17.
Restructuring of Existing Credits. The current IDA portfolio consists of
ten projects with satisfactory performance. Among these, the Community
Reintegration and Development Project (CRDP) and Rural Sector Support
Project (RSSP) are the most compatible with the RDRP. In particular, the
experience gained under the CRDP would be applied to design
community-based reintegration options for ex-combatants. The RSSP would
provide a framework for possible farm and non-farm reintegration
activities. The RDRP would also cooperate closely with the National AIDS
Program, which will be supported by a Multi-Sector HIV/AIDS Project.
4. Description
18. The Second Stage of the RDRP is estimated to cost US$ 55 million, of
which IDA would finance up to US$25 million. It would consist of five
components: (i) demobilization; (ii) reinsertion; (iii) reintegration;
(iv) special groups; and (v) Program implementation 2/. Disarmament would
be undertaken outside the Program following established procedures.
Specifically, the disarmament of RPA soldiers and members of armed groups
would be undertaken by the RPA prior to their transport to the
demobilization centers. The MONUC would have the responsibility of
disarming and demobilizing those members of armed groups in the DRC who
report voluntarily. HIV/AIDS prevention and mitigation measures are also
included as a cross-cutting issue.2/ Disarmament would be undertaken
outside the Program following established procedures. Specifically, the
disarmament of RPA soldiers and members of armed groups would be
undertaken by the RPA prior to their transport to the demobilization
centers. The MONUC would have the responsibility of disarming and
demobilizing those members of armed groups in the DRC who report
voluntarily. 19. Guiding Principles. The Government has adopted the
following guiding principles for the second stage of the RDRP: (i) in the
interest of national reconciliation, all ex-combatants 3/. For the
purposes of the RDRP, the term "ex-combatant" refers to all soldiers
demobilized from the RPA since 1997, all members of the ex-FAR who
returned to the country after 1994 who were not absorbed in RPA as well as
all members of armed groups disarmed in the DRC, other neighboring
countries or within Rwanda, would receive support under the Program,
irrespective of previous military affiliation; (ii) the RDRP would allow
ex-combatants to choose their community of settlement and their path to
economic reintegration; (iii) to ensure consistency and fairness, all
assistance to ex-combatants would be provided through the national RDRP
developed and coordinated by the RDRC; (iv) reintegration assistance would
seek to foster community participation; (v) for Program implementation,
the RDRC would seek to rely on existing Government structures with a view
build sustainable capacities beyond the Program's duration; and (vi)
pension and social security issues for ex-RPA and ex-FAR would be
addressed outside the RDRP, in accordance with the respective contractual
terms and conditions of service.3/ For the purposes of the RDRP, the term
"ex-combatant" refers to all soldiers demobilized from the RPA since 1997,
all members of the ex-FAR who returned to the country after 1994 who were
not absorbed in RPA, as well as all members of armed groups disarmed in
- 4 -



the DRC, other neighboring countries or within Rwanda.Demobilization2o.
The demobilization of the 20,000 RPA ex-combatants would be undertaken in
three phases over a period of 12-18 months, starting in February 2002.
The demobilization of the 30,000 ex-combatants from armed groups would be
undertaken on an ongoing basis, as and when they return to Rwanda. To the
extent possible, demobilization procedures for RPA soldiers and returning
members of armed groups would be similar. The demobilization of child
ex-combatants would be managed as a separate process.21. The following
demobilization activities would be envisaged: (a) the establishment of
Demobilization Centers; (b) transport of ex-combatants to demobilization
centers; (c) verification of ex-combatant status; (d) provision of an RDRP
identity card; (e) collection of socio-economic data; (f) medical
screening (including HIV/AIDS counseling and voluntary testing); (g)
pre-demobilization orientation about civilian life and program benefits;
(h) distribution of transport allowance and Transitional Safety Net (TSN);
and (i) facilitation of transport to the ex-combatants' preferred area of
return. Reinsertion22. Reinsertion assistance has been provided to RPA
ex-combatants demobilized in stage I. For the second stage, the RDRP
would provide a transitional safety net (TSN) to all ex-combatants to be
demobilized under the Program. The TSN would be designed to cover the
following basic needs of an ex-combatant household: (i) rent of
accommodation; (ii) medical care; (iii) food; (iv) children's education;
and (v) basic household items. To the extent that TSN is provided in
cash, the Program would provide counseling on the use of the reinsertion
assistance prior to demobilization and after arrival in the community of
settlement.Reintegration23. Building on experiences with such programs in
Rwanda and elsewhere as well as on lessons learned to date from
community-based development projects in the country, the second stage of
the RDRP would provide economic and social reintegration assistance to
help ex-combatants establish sustainable livelihoods. Several guiding
principles would apply for reintegration assistance: (i) it would seek to
minimize market distortions and maximize beneficiary choice; (ii) it would
seek to involve communities of settlement and foster reconciliation
wherever feasible; and (iii) to the extent possible, assistance would be
provided in such a way that it is beneficial to the wider community.24.
Economic Reintegration. Ex-combatants would be given the opportunity to
choose the reintegration option that best meets their needs.
Reintegration support would be offered in the form of micro-projects which
would include agricultural and non-farm income-generating activities
(IGAs), vocational and apprenticeship training, employment, tools, and
education and scholarships. Vulnerable ex-combatants (Stages I and II)
would be eligible to receive an additional reintegration support.
Criteria of vulnerability for defining eligibility to receive additional
reintegration support would include assets, gender, age and health
status. All ex-combatants would be equally eligible irrespective of rank
or former military affiliation.25. Ex-combatants would be allowed to
choose their reintegration destination freely. On the basis of Stage I
settlement patterns, it is expected that the majority of Stage II
ex-combatants would settle in rural areas. Rural ex-combatants' access to
land would be facilitated with the same community-based procedures used
for others who need land. Government confirmed that there would be no
involuntary displacement of civilians.26. Social Reintegration. The
objectives of social reintegration assistance would be to foster
reconciliation between ex-combatants and civilians in communities of
settlement, and to strengthen social cohesion in these communities.
- 5 -



Social reintegration is especially difficult in Rwanda due to long-term
population displacement, the legacy of the genocide and continued fear of
insecurity. The need for reconciliation and community involvement of
these communities in the RDRP is, therefore, considered critical for
successful reintegration. Specific activities to be carried out under
this component would include: (i) information and sensitization of
ex-combatants, communities and society-at-large through outreach services,
including training of counselors; (ii) specialized counseling; and (iii)
public awareness and sensitization campaigns. Special Target Groups27.
Gender. It appears unlikely that the number of female ex-combatants to be
demobilized during the Second Stage would be sizeable. However, in view
of the experiences in other DRPs, the RDRP would provide targeted support
for the reintegration of female ex-combatants.28. Disabled Ex-combatants
4/. Disability is defined here as the functional limitation within an
individual caused by physical, mental or sensory impairment. Only limited
medical and economic assistance has so far been afforded to disabled
ex-combatants. The Second Stage of the RDRP would seek to address the
medical and economic rehabilitation needs of the estimated 2,800
ex-combatants (to be) demobilized under the RDRP by reinforcing relevant
medical facilities and services and providing additional economic
reintegration assistance for vulnerable ex-combatants. 4/ Disability is
defined here as the functional limitation within an individual caused by
physical, mental or sensory impairment.29. Child Ex-combatants. A
significant number of children is currently assumed to be among the armed
groups. They would represent an important target group for the Second
Stage of the RDRP. Special assistance may involve short and medium-term
activities such as the separation of children from adults in the
demobilization process, family tracing and unification, trauma counseling
and psycho-social care, and facilitation of access to education and
recreation. Community-based reintegration options for children would be
emphasized.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER 2.2
IDA 25
Total Project Cost 55
Estimated Program costs:
The second stage of the Government's Program is estimated to cost US$55
million, of which IDA would finance up US$25 million. Other donors would
be expected to finance about US$28 million.
Government counterpart contribution. Despite a substantial contribution
to the first stage of the RDRP and a precarious fiscal situation, the
Government is committed to the second stage of the Program and in
particular the inclusion of ex-combatants of armed groups. The Government
has, therefore, included FRw 1.0 billion (approximately $2.2 million) for
the RDRP in its budget for 2002. Furthermore, the Government would finance
all taxes levied in Rwanda on works, goods and services for this Program.
6. Implementation
30. Institutional Structures. The program would be implemented at
national, provincial and community levels. The guiding principle for the
- 6 -



Program's institutional arrangements is the streamlining of implementation
responsibilities and activities into existing government and community
structures. The Government would draw on the following institutional
structures to implement Stage II of the RDRP: the Rwanda Demobilization
and Reintegration Commission (RDRC); the RDRC Technical Secretariat (TS),
provincial administration; and Community Development Committees (CDCs).31.
The Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Commission. The RDRC was
established in 1997 and has gained significant experience in the
implementation of Stage I of the RDRP. The main responsibilities of the
Commission would be to: (i) formulate and review policy; (ii) identify and
resolve policy problems related to the reintegration of ex-combatants into
civilian life; and (iii) monitor and guide the work of the Technical
Secretariat and other institutions involved in Program implementation.32.
Technical Secretariat. The Technical Secretariat would be the Program's
implementation unit which would be dissolved upon termination of the
Program. The Technical Secretariat would be charged with operationalizing
the RDRC's policy instructions. In particular, the Technical Secretariat
would be responsible for ensuring: (i) preparation and costing the Program
proposal and annual implementation plans; (ii) the implementation of the
individual RDRP components; (iii) the transparent and accountable
administration of Program resources; and (iv) monitoring and evaluation.
The Technical Secretariat would cooperate closely with other relevant
Government departments, local organizations and associations, the private
sector, and donor and UN partners. 33. Government Actors. Other
Government agencies would be implicated by the RDRC as required. For
example, the Ministry of Local Government (MINALOC) would play a critical
role in managing the RDRP's IGA sub-component, including supervising the
work of the CDCs and participating partners as well as in coordinating
support to child ex-combatants. The National Unity and Reconciliation
Commission (NURC) may play a significant role in social reintegration
activities.34. Community Development Committees were established in Rwanda
in 1999 as the development arm of the district administrations. These
elected CDCs empower communities in the reconstruction and development
process and foster reconciliation by providing clear benefits for
community-level cooperation. Many CDCs have gained sub-project
implementation experience through the CRDP and other projects under the
MINALOC. CDCs would, therefore, have an important role to play in the
social and economic reintegration of ex-combatants at the local level.
Project Timing35. The program would be implemented over a period of three
years, starting in January 2002. The Government anticipates that the
demobilization would be completed within 18 months and that reintegration
activities for ex-combatants would be implemented within the three-year
time frame. Monitoring and Evaluation36. A strong monitoring and
evaluation system and close Bank supervision, would seek to ensure that
the Program reaches targeted beneficiaries in a timely and efficient
fashion. It is essential that beneficiary information is captured,
securely stored, and utilized to inform Program implementation. A
computerized Management Information System (MIS) would be established by
the Technical Secretariat for this purpose. 37. Monitoring would be
undertaken at two levels: firstly, the provincial office and secondly, the
community. The monitoring system would be quantitative in nature,
providing the Technical Secretariat and the provincial offices with a
comprehensive profile of ex-combatants. The MIS would also track
assistance provided to the ex-combatants and monitor performance
throughout the life of the Program. In addition, within six months of the
- 7 -



Effectiveness Date, and annually thereafter, the Government would prepare
a comprehensive list of ex-combatants, identify benefits provided and
conduct surveys of representative samples of a minimum of 2 percent of the
ex-combatants to verify that they have received reinsertion and
reintegration benefits. Furthermore, internal social and environmental
monitoring mechanisms would be complemented by regular independent social
and environmental monitoring consultancies.38. Evaluation. Independent
evaluations of Program implementation would be carried out annually and
would consist of two components. Firstly, a quantitative evaluation would
analyze the databases and existing administrative records and reports,
establishing to what extent the Program as such as well as the individual
components have achieved their objectives. Secondly, a qualitative
beneficiary assessment would also be undertaken, focusing on the
ex-combatants and their families as primary and the communities as
secondary beneficiaries.39. Performance Indicators. The Technical
Secretariat and provincial offices would be responsible for measuring
Program performance against an agreed set of demobilization, reinsertion
and reintegration performance indicators.
7. Sustainability
40. The RDRP is designed to aid the sustainable social and economic
reintegration of ex-combatants. The Program would, therefore, make a
positive contribution to ex-combatants, their families and their
communities. The Program would also foster economic recovery by injecting
resources at the local level and would encourage reconciliation by
providing incentives for cooperation at the community level. Furthermore,
the RDRP would strengthen capacities at the provincial and local level for
managing and monitoring development interventions. Major Benefits and
RisksBenefits4l. The Program would help the Government to overcome the
persistent insecurity in the Great Lakes Region and consolidate the social
and economic recovery. A secondary benefit would be the freeing up of
resources currently allocated to the defense sector, and their
reallocation towards social and economic sectors. The expected reduction
in defense expenditures would allow Government restore expenditure levels
in the social sectors in line with its poverty reduction strategy. Risks
and Mitigation Measures42. External Risk. A resumption of hostilities
either in the DRC or within Rwanda is the primary external risk.
Furthermore, delays in the peace process might delay the implementation of
the Program. These risks are mitigated by several factors. Firstly, the
ongoing negotiations between the parties within the framework of the
Lusaka peace process and the deployment of the MONUC serve as confidence
building and conflict resolution mechanisms. Secondly, Rwanda's
commitment to unilaterally initiate the demobilization process indicates
that the Government is confident that it can proceed with the second stage
of the RDRP in the planned timeframe. It should be noted that the RDRP
would itself likely serve as an important confidence-building measure in
the regional peace process, as it provides evidence to other parties of
the Government's willingness to demilitarize the conflict. 43. The major
Program-specific Risks are: (i) There is the risk that Program resources
are used indirectly for military spending or that savings from
demobilization would not translate into a reduction of military
expenditures. Appropriate safeguards with respect to financial
management, procurement and disbursement would be developed to avoid such
an abuse of Program resources. Government expenditures would furthermore
be monitored by the IMF and IDA in the context of their assistance
- 8 -



programs; (ii) Given the limited human resource capacity in Rwanda's
public and private sectors, there is the risk that the implementation of
reintegration activities would be inadequate. The Program would carefully
monitor the social and economic reintegration progress of ex-combatants.
The Program would also reinforce the existing Technical Secretariat with
additional staff, invest in strengthening the capacities of CDCs, and
provide training to local implementing partners as required; (iii) There
may be a risk of spreading HIV/AIDS via the demobilization process. The
HIV/AIDS prevention and mitigation measures included in the Program's
design would mitigate this risk; and(iv) Other donors may not provide
sufficient resources to fully cover the funding gap. Assurances to
co-finance the RDRP would be sought from donors before Board
presentation. Furthermore, the Government has proposed to link the phased
implementation of demobilization to the availability of funds. If
sufficient donor funds were not forthcoming, further prioritization would
be required to adjust the Program parameters to the available resources.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
44. IDA has gained substantial experience and has identified best
practices on the basis of a number of demobilization and reintegration
programs it has supported in several countries, including programs in
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Cambodia, Chad, Djibouti, East Timor, Eritrea,
Ethiopia, Guinea-Bissau, Mozambique, Sierra Leone and Uganda. Such
assistance has often taken the form of technical and/or financial support
through investment credits, budget support programs or through
reallocations from ongoing projects. Based on information from these
operations, a review of relevant experiences in selected African
countries, and the Bank's Operations Evaluation Department's evaluations,
the following best practices were identified and integrated in Program
design. 45. Demobilization. This phase is short but logistically
complex. The successful implementation of demobilization activities is a
precondition for the subsequent provision of targeted reinsertion and
reintegration assistance. Key demobilization activities include the
distribution of non-transferable ID cards, the establishment of a database
on the beneficiary population and the collection of socioeconomic data.
Furthermore, the assembly of ex-combatants during the demobilization phase
provides a good opportunity for health counseling and HIV/AIDS education
and screening as well as the dissemination of information about Program
benefits and civilian life.46. Reinsertion. Upon demobilization, the
ex-combatants lose their source of (formal or informal) income.
Experience suggests that immediately after demobilization, they are
usuallyin a critical financial situation until they can generate income.
During this period (the "reinsertion" phase), ex-combatants are in need of
targeted assistance (transitional safety net; TSN) to cover the basic
material needs of themselves and their families. The objective of the TSN
allowance would thus be to enable the ex-combatants to sustain themselves
and their families for a limited period immediately following
demobilization.47. Economic Reintegration. Ex-combatants are often a
vulnerable group in need of priority targeted assistance as they lack
marketable skills, assets and social networks. In addition, they are
often a high-risk group due to their familiarity with warfare. Where this
is the case, they should be provided targeted support to help them
establish sustainable livelihoods. Assistance should be tailored to their
socioeconomic profile and be adjusted to the economic environment. This
allows for the development of a differentiated, relevant, and
-9-



cost-effective approach. Disabled ex-combatants commonly require
specialized medical and economic assistance. Child and female
ex-combatants also need targeted support.48. Ex-combatants should receive
no more support than is necessary to help them attain the standard of
living of the communities into which they reintegrate. Reintegration
assistance should be limited in time to avoid the creation of a dependency
syndrome. Information, counseling and referral services can assist
ex-combatants to assess their livelihood options and find employment.
Apprenticeship in the informal sector combines the benefits of vocational
training and employment and is thus often a feasible and cost-effective
option. Micro-credit or grant schemes can help ex-combatants secure their
economic independence and self-employment. They are, however, also
complex interventions that require close monitoring.49. Ultimately,
ex-combatants are reintegrated into a broader economic context. The
creation of viable long-term employment opportunities for ex-combatants is
closely linked to private sector investment and associated employment
generation.50. Social Reintegration. Social reintegration is often eased
by the support of an extended family network. Where feasible,
ex-combatants should be encouraged to reintegrate in the vicinity of their
extended families. Informal networks of ex-combatants - discussion groups,
ex-combatants associations, joint economic ventures - are important
elements to successful economic and social reintegration. Efforts to
provide assistance to ex-combatants' communities of return can provide
incentives in support of ex-combatant reintegration, strengthen social
capital and enhance community-based development activities.51. Care should
be taken to prevent the stigmatization of ex-combatants as unfit for
military service or as conveyers of disease and violence. Community
sensitization and political awareness are paramount in this effort. The
fears and needs of communities related to ex-combatant reintegration
should also be addressed.52. Institutional Issues. Program coordination
by one civilian agency with overall program responsibility, balanced by
decentralization of implementation to regions and communities makes for a
powerful institutional arrangement. Where possible, existing
implementation arrangements should be utilized. The employment of
ex-combatants as counselors, in addition to field-based staff, can enhance
the facilitation of reintegration. Local communities should be involved
directly in reintegration decision-making so that scarce public resources
are allocated in a transparent and socially accountable manner.53. The
Government has gained significant experience, as it implemented the
demobilization of over 18,800 ex-combatants between 1997-2001. From this
experience, Government has learned key lessons, among others: (i)
effective pre-demobilization counseling needs to be provided to
ex-combatants in order to avoid the creation of unrealistic expectations;
(ii) demobilization should be undertaken in smaller groups and be followed
by reintegration assistance tailored to the ex-combatants' socio-economic
characteristics, capabilities and expectations; (iii) effective
reintegration is challenging in a constrained economic environment and
requires good information and counseling support through decentralized
implementation arrangements; (iv) disabled ex-combatants are in need of
targeted medical and economic assistance; and (v) a comprehensive
management information system needs to be developed to allow for informed
decision-making.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
- 10 -



10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        54. The Program is classified as environmental
category FI. The phased and widely dispersed reintegration of 50,000
future ex-combatants into civilian life is expected to be environmentally
neutral. Only limited rehabilitation works are envisaged under the
Program. IGAs financed under the reintegration component would be
screened for environmental and social impact and monitored according to
the procedures, acceptable to IDA, set up by MINALOC for the CRDP.
Specific environmental and social monitoring criteria would be developed
and included in the Program's implementation manual. 55. HIV/AIDS
activities would mainly be in the form of specialized counseling with
limited voluntary testing where feasible. Adequate arrangements for
medical waste disposal would be included in the Program Implementation
Manual. The application of the procedures regarding ex-combatants' access
to land would be monitored throughout Program implementation and the
Government would confirm in the Development Credit Agreement that no
involuntary resettlement would be undertaken as part of the Program.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Markus Kostner
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-5886
Fax: 202-473-5147
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending November 30,2001
- 11 -



