Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T7498-RW
TECHNICAL ANNEX
FOR A PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 20 MILLION (US$ 25 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
FOR AN EMERGENCY
DEMOBILIZATION AND REINTEGRATION PROGRAM
March 25, 2002



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(exc. ange rate effective as of February 28, 2002)
Cirrency Unit       =     Rwandese Franc
US$1                =     460
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS        Acquirecd Immune Deficiency Syndrome
BNK         Basic Needs Kit
BNR         Banqu. Nationale du Rwanda
CDC         Community Development Committee
CPA         Politica-Administrative Committee
CRDP        Community Reintegration and Development Project
DRC         Democratic Republic of Congo
FAR         Forces Armdes Rwandaises
GDP         Gross Demestic Product
HIV         Humar Immune Deficiency Virus
ICB         Ir.ternational Competitive Bidding
IDA         Irternational Development Association
IEC         Informnation, Education and Communication
IGA         Income-Generating Activity
JMC         Joint NMilitary Commission
MDRP        M5ulti-Country Demobilization and Reintegration Program
MDTF        Regional Multi-Donor Trust Fund
MINALOC     Ministry of Local Govermnent and Social Affairs
MIS         Management Information System
MONUC       United Nations Organization Mission to Congo
NCB         National Competitive Biddling
NTB         National Tender Board
NURC        National Unity and Reconciliation Commission
RDRC        Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Commission
RDRP        Rwvanda Demobilization and Reintegration Program
RG          Reintegration Grant
RPA         Rwanda Patriotic Arny
RPF         Rwvanda Patriotic Front
RSA         Recognition of Service Allowance
UN          United Nations
UNDP        United Nations Development Programme
UNICEF      United Nations Children's Fund
VCT         Volunt2ry Counseling and Testing
VSW         Vulnerability Support Window
Vice President               Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director             Emmanuel Mbi
Sector Manager               Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Task Team Leader             Markus Kostner



Contents
1    Background and Strategy                ..1....................................................... 
1.1     CIRCUMSTANCES OF THE CONFLICT ..................................................................... 1
1.2     EcONOMIC AND SOCIAL IMPACT ..................................................................... 3
1.3    GOVERNMENT RESPONSE AND STRATEGY ........................................ ............................. 4
1.4    INTERNATIONAL RESPONSE .....................................................................  6
2    IDA Response and Strategy ...............................................................  7
2.1     REGIONAL MULTI-COUNTRY PROGRAM FOR DEMOBILIZATION AND REINTEGRATION ....    .   . 7
2.2     POVERTY REDUCTION STRATEGY ..................................................................... 8
2.3     RATIONALE FOR IDA INVOLVEMENT .....................................................................  9
2.4     LESSONS FROM PREVIOUS IDA ASSISTANCE .....................................................................  10
3    The Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Program .            ............................................. 12
3.1     ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA .....................................................................  12
3.2     OBJECTIVES ......................................................................  13
3.3     COVERAGE AND IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD ..................................................................... 13
3.4     PROGRAM COMPONENTS ..................................................................... 15
3.4.1   Demobilization .................................                             15
3.4.2   Reinsertion .................................                                17
3.4.3   Reintegration ................................. 19
3.4.4   Special target groups .................................                      22
3.4.5   HIV/AIDS prevention and mitigation measures .................................  24
3.5     PROGRAM COST ..................................................... 25
3.6     CONDITIONS OF EFFECTIVENESS .................................................... 26
4    Studies and Technical Assistance ................................................    26
4.1     STUDIES ..................................................... 27
4.2     TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE ....................................................       27
5    Institutional Arrangements and Program Implementation .          ........................................... 28
5.1    INSTITUTIONAL STRUCTURE ....................................................     28
5.1.1   Central level ..................................................             28
5.1.2   Provincial level ..................................................          29
5.1.3   Community level ..................................................           30
5.1.4   Staffing, institutional support and capacity building ..................................................   31
5.2     FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND AUDITING .................................................... 32
5.2.1   Financing mechanisms ....................................                    32
5.2.2   Accounting and auditing arrangements ....................................    35
5.3     PROCUREMENT ...................................... 36
5.3.1   Procurement capacity assessment .................................... 37
5.3.2   Procurement plan .................................... 37
5.3.3   Procurement methods .................................... 38
5.3.4   Thresholdsfor prior review  ....................................             39
5.4     MONITORING AND EVALUATION ...................................... 41
5.5     PROGRAM SUSTAINABILITY ...................................... 42
6    Benefits and Risks ..................................                                43
6.1     BENEFITS ......................................                                 43
6.2     RISKS AND MITIGATION MEASURES ......................................            43
6.3     ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL ASPECTS           ..               ................................... 44
7    Financial and Economic Justification           ..                 ............................... 45
8    Action Plan ..................................                                       47
9    Attachments .................................. 48
MAP - IBRD No. 25927R






Rwanda
Demobilization and Reintegration Program
I   Background and Strategy
1.1  Circumstances of the Conflict
1. From 1990 to 1994. In October 1990, the forces of the Rwanda Patriotic Army (RPA),
the military wing of the Rwanda Patriotic Front (RPF), launched an armed struggle
within Rwanda. The RPF was composed mainly of exiled Rwandese who had fled
political violence in the country in the 1950s and 1960s and had thereafter been denied
citizenship rights. The ensuing civil war disrupted economic and social activities and led
to significant population displacement. In response to RPA incursions, the govermnent
expanded the size of its armed forces (Forces Armees Rwandaises; FAR). After three
years of fighting, the conclusion of the Arusha Peace Agreement between the
Government and the RPF in August 1993 raised hopes for a peaceful resolution of the
war.
2. On April 6, 1994, following the assassination of the President of Rwanda, ethnic
extremists seized power and launched a campaign of genocide. During the following
three months, over one million Rwandese , mainly Tutsis and moderate Hutus from
opposition parties, were massacred. Fighting between the RPA and the FAR resumed
shortly after the assassination of the President. By mid-July 1994, the RPA forces
expelled the FAR and allied militia (interahamwe) from the country and brought the war
and genocide to an end. By mid-1 994, out of Rwanda's population of roughly 8 million at
the beginning of the 1990s, some 2 million had become displaced within Rwanda's
borders and close to an additional 2 million had fled as refugees to neighboring
countries.
3. From 1994 to 1998. Upon acceding to power, the new coalition Government
encouraged all Rwandese who had fled abroad to return to the country. However,
Rwandese armed groups comprised of ex-FAR and interahamwe continued to destabilize
the country from refugee camps in neighboring countries, especially those in former
Zaire.3 In August 1996, a coalition of ZaYrean rebel forces supported by the RPA
launched a military campaign to dismantle the refugee camps in eastern Zaire and topple
' Preliminary results from the genocide census undertaken by the Government in 2001 indicate that
1,074,017 Rwandese were killed during the genocide.
2 Minear, Larry and Randolph C., 1998, "Rwanda's Internally Displaced: A Conundrum within a
Conundrum", in R. Cohen and F. Deng (ed.), The Forsaken People (Washington D.C.: Brookings
Institution), p. 63.
3 Annex C of the Lusaka Ceasefire Agreement defines "Armed Groups" as "forces other than government
forces, RCD and MLC that are not signatories to this Agreement. They include ex-FAR, ..., Interahamwe
militias, ... and any other forces. ... Interahamwe means armed militias who carried out genocide in
Rwanda in 1994." For the purposes of the Program, "Armed Groups" means organized armed groups that
engaged in military activities against the RPA in Rwanda or the territory of the Democratic Republic of
Congo.
1



Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex          2
the government of Mobutu Sese Seko. Many ex-FAR and refugees returned to Rwanda,
but others dispersed and fled deeper into Zaire. After the dismantling of the camps in
November and December 1996, the security situation in Rwanda improved markedly.
4. Relations betweerL the governments of the Democratic Republic of Congo (D'RC;
formerly Zaire) and Rwanida deteriorated again after 1997. The DRC government began
to provide military aid to Rwandese armed groups, who resumed cross-border incursions
into Rwanda. During the -first half of 1998, the number of displaced families in northwest
Rwanda increased to an estimated 360,000. To counter this security threat, the Rwandese
Government supported a new set of Congolese rebel movements emerging in the eastern
part of the DRC.
5. The current conflict. The conflict in the DRC re-escalated in August 1998 when
Rwandese and Ugandan forces entered the DRC to support the Congolese rebel
movements opposed to the new DRC government and to stop incursions by armed
groups.4 While this renewed intervention initially improved the security situation on the
Rwandese frontier with the DRC, it also spawned a complex civil war. This conflict has
embroiled the forces of the government of the DRC, three Congolese rebel movements,
up to seven African countries, and several disparate armed groups from the DRC and four
neighboring countries.
6. Prospects under the Lusaka Agreernent. Regional peace initiatives were taken to
resolve the conflict. This culminated in the Lusaka Ceasefire Agreement of July 19995
which was brokered by the Organization of African Unity and the United Nations and
was signed by the Government of Rwanda. However, the provisions of this Agreement
were not implemented immediately. The DRC government and its allies continued to
provide military support to Rwandese armed groups, and foreign military forces
maintained their positions in the DRC.
7. After the death of the President of the DRC in January 2001, renewed efforts have
been made to implement the Lusaka Ceasefire Agreement. A considerable proportion of
foreign forces deployed in the DRC have withdrawn from the frontline or returned home.
In this improved security environment, the United Nations Organization Mission to
Congo (Mission de l'Organisation des Nations Unies au Congo; MONUC) has been able
to expand its presence in the DRC in order to monitor the ceasefire and verify the
withdrawal of various foreign forces.
8. Despite these positive developments, armed groups again tried to infiltrate the
northwestern parts of Rwanda in May 2001 6 With the support of the civilian population,
4 This event constitutes the extraordinary event of limited duration that triggers application of the Bank's
emergency procedures (OP 8.50). Unlike other IDA operations in Rwanda, under implementation or
planned, the RDRP would directly address the causes and effects of the emergency. Therefore, it shares the
urgency of the opportunity that exists under the Lusaka Agreement.
5 Two rebel leaders signed the Lusaka Agreement in August 1999.
6 The Rwandese armed group that attempted to infiltrate northwestern Rwanda has described itself as the
Army for the Liberation of Rwanda (ALIR). However, the ALIR is not recognized as a formal entity by the
Government of Rwanda..



Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex         3
about 2,000 combatants either surrendered to, or were captured by the RPA between May
and November 2001. The ex-combatants were assembled in the Nkumba and Mudende
solidarity camps where they were sensitized by the National Unity and Reconciliation
Commission (NURC) about the need for national reconciliation and about civilian life in
Rwanda. The Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Commission (RDRC) then
conducted a pre-discharge orientation course, collected socio-economic data, carried out
medical screening and HIV/AIDS voluntary counseling and testing, issued
demobilization identity cards, and handed out part of the Basic Needs Kit before
demobilizing them in December 2001.7
9. The combination of diplomatic progress under the Lusaka Agreement, the policy of the
Government of Rwanda to encourage the return and reintegration of members of
Rwandese armed groups, and the military progress of the RPA against these armed
groups in the eastern DRC have improved the prospects for a resolution of the Rwandese
dimension of the conflict. Government believes that a concerted effort to disarm the
remaining Rwandese armed groups in the DRC, repatriate them to Rwanda and
reintegrate them into Rwandese civil society is feasible within the context of the Lusaka
peace process and could bring an end to the persistent instability on the Rwanda-DRC
frontier that has dogged the relationship between the two countries and undermined
regional stability.
1.2 Economic and Social Impact
10. The legacy of the genocide and persistent insecurity continue to weigh heavily on
Rwanda. The genocide and the associated social and economic displacement exacerbated
the economic vulnerability of many Rwandese. Returned refugees, resettled internally
displaced persons (IDPs), the widows and orphans of the genocide, and the families of
the detained suspects of crimes of genocide are especially vulnerable. The persistent
instability on the DRC frontier has undermined prospects for economic recovery in parts
of the country adjacent to the DRC, which had historically been one of the most
prosperous regions of the country.
11. As a result of the continuing insecurity, defense spending remained at 4.3 percent of
GDP in 1998 and 4.2 percent in 1999. In 2001, defense spending decreased to 3.3 percent
of GDP and in real terms from FRw 27.0 billion to FRw 25.1 billion (see also table 5).
However, the fiscal deficit remained at over 10 percent of GDP in 2001. Defense
expenditures continue to be a significant burden on the national budget and limit the
Government's ability to implement its poverty reduction strategy.
7 About 300 child ex-combatants were transferred to Gitagata camp, which is managed by the Ministry of
Local Government and Social Affairs (MINALOC), from where they will be reunited with their families
after participating in sensitization and counseling activities.



Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex         4
1.3  Government Response and Strategy
12. The Government has been pursuing a dual strategy of military preparedness oni the
one hand, and reconciliation on the other, in its efforts to encourage the Rwandese armed
groups to lay down their arms. For example, in accordance with the provisions of the
Arusha Agreement, the RPA incorporatecd approximately 15,000 ex-FAR of the estimated
40,000 ex-FAR whco returned to Rwanda after the dissolution of the refugee camps in
1996. Those members of Rwandese armed groups who returned and were not implicated
in the genocide of 1994 have been allowed to resume civilian life.
13. The Rwanda Denzobilization and Reintegration Program. The Government
implemented the first stage of the Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Program
(RDRP) between 1997-2001. Under stage I of the RDRP, which was implemented by the
RDRC, a total of 18,692 RPA soldiers (of whom 2,364 were child soldiers) were
demobilized in four phases between September 1997 and February 2001.9 This first stage
was co-financed by Government, various donors through a UNDP-administered trust
fund, and UN agencies. The Government did not request financial assistance from IDA
for this stage.
14. In May 2001, UNDP conducted an evaluation of the first stage of the RDR? and
found that the Program had recorded some achievements but also suffered from
significant shortcomings. The demobilization of a total of 18,692 soldiers as well as the
RDRC's referral of a significant number of ex-combatants' to education and employment
opportunities are considered the primary achievements of stage I. Furthermore, the
payment of reinsertion assistance enabled many ex-combatants to weather the transition
to civilian life.
15. However, the first stage of the RDRP was compromised by external political and
financial factors. The persistent insecurity on Rwanda's DRC frontier and Rwanda's
associated military engagement in the DRC, as well as the incorporation of 15,000 ex-
FAR in the RPA, impeded the Govemment's ability to reduce the overall size of the
RPA. As a result, no substantial reduction in military expenditure was recorded. In this
context, donors limited their financial assistance to the Program in response to the
deployment of RPA forces in the DRC. The resulting lack of financial resources limited
the Program's ability to provide adequate reintegration assistance to demobilized RPA
ex-combatants as well as to FAR ex-combatants who were not integrated into the RPA.
16. In addition, stage I of the Program was hampered by significant internal technical and
management shortcomiings. The technical capacity of the RDRC was insufficient to
ensure the quality of Program implementation. For example, inadequate pre-
demobilization counseling generated unrealistic expectations among ex-combatants, a
micro-credit scheme was implemented poorly, and a village that was established
specifically for disabled ex-combatants has proven to be unsustainable. In addition,
s Of these 40,000 ex-FAR, 10,000 are assumed to have returned to the DRC since the onset of incursions in
May 1997.
9 The child soldiers were demobilized in 1995 by being transferred to a special primary school (see
paragraphs 99-101).



Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex                5
essential technical assistance was not forthcoming and donors were not adequately
appraised of implementation progress.
17. From this stage I experience, Government has learned key lessons, including the
following:
(i)    the establishment of a strong Technical Secretariat is critical to ensure
necessary planning, coordination and implementation;
(ii)   substantial pre-demobilization  counseling  should  be provided  to  ex-
combatants in order to manage their expectations;
(iii)  significant economic reintegration assistance is necessary and should be
tailored to the ex-combatants' socio-economic characteristics, capabilities and
expectations;
(iv)   the provision of information, referral and counseling services through
decentralized implementation structures can be effective;
(v)    disabled ex-combatants require targeted medical and economic assistance;
(vi)   a comprehensive management information system is essential to inform the
decision-making of the RDRC; and
(vii)  the mobilization of timely and sufficient donor financial assistance and strong
donor coordination are critical.
18. As a result of its experience to date, Government has concluded that a fundamental
redesign of the Program is necessary before the initiation of stage II. Government has
asked the World Bank to lead efforts to revamp the Program, provide financial assistance
(the "Credit"), initiate international resource mobilization efforts, and coordinate donor
support to stage II of the RDRP.
19. Guiding principles. The Government has adopted the following guiding principles for
the second stage of the RDRP:
(i)    in the interest of national reconciliation, the Program would target all ex-
combatants'0 irrespective of previous military affiliation;
(ii)  the RDRP would allow       ex-combatants to choose their community of
settlement and their path to economic reintegration;
(iii)  to ensure consistency and fairness, all assistance to ex-combatants would be
provided through the national RDRP developed and supervised by the RDRC;
(iv)   reintegration assistance would seek to foster community participation;
'1 For the purposes of the Program, "ex-combatant" means: (i) any RPA soldier demobilized after 1995 or
to be demobilized after the date of the Credit agreement; (ii) any ex-FAR soldier who remained in, or
returned to, Rwanda after July 1994 or returns to Rwanda after the date of the agreement and did not join
any armed group; or (iii) any member of an armned group who is a Rwandan national and returns to Rwanda
after May 2001.



Rwanda Demobilization andl Reintegration Program - Technical Annex       6
(v)   the RDRC would rely on existing Government structures to the extent
possible in order to build sustainable capacities beyond the Program's
duration; and
(vi)  pension and social security issues for ex-RPA and ex-FAR would be
addressed outside the RDRP, in accordance with their respective terms and
conditions of service.
20. Target groups. For the second stage of the RDRP, the Government envisages the
demobilization and reintegration of 20,000 RPA soldiers and 25,000 members of armed
groups returning from outside the country (including the 1,735 recently demobilized from
Mudende and Nkumba)." In addition, the Program would provide reinsertion assistance
to 15,000 ex-FAR who returned before stage II as well as economic reintegration
assistance to an estimated 12,000 RPA and FAR ex-combatants who did not receive
adequate assistance during stage I of the Program and who remain economically
vulnerable.
21. The inclusion of ex-combatants of armed groups in stage II of the RDRP is
considered an important national reconciliation measure. A successful demobilization and
reintegration program would demonstrate that members of armed groups can return to a
secure and peaceful civilian life in Rwanda. This would serve as an incentive for the
voluntary disarmament and return of members of Rwandese armed groups still active in
the region.
22. Timing. Given the continuing uncertainty concerning the security situation in the
Great Lakes region, the actual RPA demobilization calendar, and lack of data about the
exact number of the members of armed groups as well as the timing of their repatriation
to Rwanda, the Program would need to retain considerable implementation and financial
flexibility. Therefore, the Program account would maintain a substantial minimum
balance. Overall Program cost estimates would be adjusted in line with overall
beneficiary numbers. Donors would be asked to maintain sufficient resources in reserve
and available for rapid disbursement as required by Prograrn implementation prog-ess.
Program implementation capacity in the RDRC would be strengthened as a matter of
urgency in anticipation of a possible influx of ex-combatants from the DRC.
1.4  Intemational Response
23. Direct assistance in Rwanda. In general, the international community is supportive of
efforts towards the demobilization and reintegration of ex-combatants in Rwanda.
Notwithstanding Rwanda's military engagement in the DRC, donors and UN agencies
provided approximately US$9.5 million in support of the first stage of the RI)RP.
International partners have indicated that a renewed demobilization and reintegration
effort in Rwanda could be a timely and important regional peace-building measure.
" An estimated 30,000 members of armed groups are expected to return to Rwanda over the next two
years. About 5,000 of these would be incorporated in the RPA in the spirit of national reconciliation.



Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex      7
24. In particular, donors welcome the inclusion of ex-combatants from armed groups as
an important signal of Government commitment to national reconciliation and to the
Lusaka peace process. Several bilateral partners have indicated that they consider
financial contributions to the RDRP. However, several donors have indicated that their
support to any new stage of the RDRP would be linked to the withdrawal of RPA forces
from the DRC in the context of the implementation of the Lusaka peace process,
increased Government transparency regarding the security sector, and a net reduction in
the size of the RPA. Government has given related assurances to IDA.
25. Links to the Lusaka Process. The international community is also actively engaged in
the implementation of the Lusaka Agreement. In particular, MONUC has recently been
mandated to initiate phase III of its deployment in the DRC. This phase will include an
expansion of MONUC activities in support of the voluntary disarmament and
demobilization of members of armed groups from neighboring countries operating in the
DRC, and their repatriation to their countries of origin or their resettlement within the
DRC or in third countries.
26. Paragraph 22 of the Lusaka Cease-Fire Agreement stipulates that "countries of origin
of members of the armed groups, commit themselves to taking all the necessary measures
to facilitate their repatriation". The second stage of the RDRP would go beyond this
provision by providing targeted reinsertion and reintegration assistance to returning
members of armed groups. Consequently, the RDRP would form an essential part of the
Government of Rwanda's implementation of the Lusaka Agreement and complement the
Disannament, Demobilization, Reintegration, Resettlement or Repatriation (DDRRR)
efforts of MONUC. The Bank is in close contact with MONUC and other parts of the UN
system including UNDP to ensure coordination and complementarity of activities both in
Rwanda and the DRC.
2 IDA Response and Strategy
2.1  Regional Multi-Country Program for Demobilization and Reintegration
27. Building on a variety of country-level initiatives, and in consultation with
governments in the region and donor and UN partners, the Bank has initiated the
preparation of a greater Great Lakes regional strategy for demobilization and
reintegration as well as a multi-country demobilization and reintegration program
(MDRP). The regional strategy and MDRP provide a comprehensive framework in
support of individual country-level programs, such as the RDRP. It would be expected to
the Board in conjunction with the RDRP.
28. A multi-country umbrella approach would have several key advantages, including the
facilitation of feedback relationships among country programs in the region; the creation
of synergies that would enable the MDRP to have a greater impact than individual
country programs could have; the provision of similar incentives for all parties to the
conflict to pursue peaceful strategies; the ability to address the regional externalities



Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex      8
associated with some individual programs; enhanced transparency of closely relaited
country programs; and the facilitation of knowledge-sharing and training across national
programs.
29. The MDRP would serve as a framework for a regional multi-donor trust fmnd
(MDTF) for demobilization and reintegration activities in the greater Great Lakes region.
The MDTF would seive as the vehicle to mobilize and channel key donor financing;
reduce transaction costs for client governments, donors and the Bank; and enable
Governments to complement IDA credits wth grant resources (see paragraphs 144-145).
2.2  Poverty Reduction Strategy
30. Poverty Reduction Stragety Paper (PRSP). The Government of Rwanda launched its
National Poverty Reduction Program in June 2000. A full PRSP has been finalized and
was presented to donors in November 2001. Rwanda's long-term vision (Vision 2020)
emphasizes national reconciliation and security, democratization, good governance and
political stability, human resource development, decentralized and efficient public
administration, and regional integration as the key elements to sustain peace, create
prosperity and reduce poverty.
31. Recognizing the legacies of the genocide, the structural constraints related to land,
demography, agriculture and human resources, and the institutional weaknesses in the
public and private sectors as the key challenges to medium-term socio-economic
transformation, the PRSP proposes actions which can be summarized along three broad
themes:
(i)   post-conflict reintegration and reconciliation with the objective to stabilize the
situation of those living in new settlements, address the problems of
vulnerable groups, foster national reintegration and reconciliation, and
promote regional peace;
(ii)  accelerated poverty reduction efforts through: (a) mainstreaming poverty
reduction in the development agenda and reallocating expenditures to support
poverty reduction priorities; (b) developing a dynamic rural economy; (c)
promoting the competitiveness of private enterprises; (d) developing human
resources including empowering women and fighting HIV/AIDS; and (e)
improving economic infrastructure; and
(iii)  improved effectiveness of the public sector to provide the enabling
environment for national reconciliation and sustainable economic growth and
poverty reduction.
32. The RDRP has been designed to conform to and enhance the objectives outlined in
the Governance section of the PRSP. The RDRP forms one of the core programs of the
Government's poverty reduction strategy.
33. Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). A CAS for Rwanda is expected to be presented
to the Board later in FY02. The CAS reflects the Bank's support for the Government's



Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex         9
program to overcome the legacies of the genocide, foster economic growth and reduce
poverty. The CAS considers the demobilization and reintegration of ex-combatants to be
a key peace-building process. The support of the international community for the MDRP
(paragraphs 27-29), is deemed essential for progress in the regional and domestic peace
processes. Being part of the base case scenario presented in the CAS, the proposed IDA
Credit for the RDRP is fully consistent with the CAS.
34. Restructuring of existing credits. The current IDA portfolio consists of ten projects
with satisfactory performance. None of these projects is compatible in design with the
RDRP. Nevertheless, to ensure the maximum exploitation of synergies and in order to
build on lessons learned, Governmuent would establish links between the RDRP and
several ongoing operations. In particular, the experience gained under the Community
Reintegration and Development Project (CRDP) would be applied to design community-
based reintegration options for ex-combatants. Under the CRDP, community
development committees (CDCs), which are the development arm of the district
administrations, have designed and implemented sub-projects for the benefit of their
communities. This has proved to be a successful model of rural community
empowerment and decentralized project implementation, and has subsequently been
incorporated in the Government's decentralization policy.
i.3  Rationale for IDA Involvement
35. The Government's request for technical and financial assistance for the second stage
of the RDRP has come at a critical time in the regional peace process. IDA's involvement
is justified by its considerable experience with such programs, the scale of resources
required for the Program, the focus of the Program on sustainable economic reintegration
of ex-combatants, and the need for IDA to be responsive to a client request to lead and
coordinate international support for a critical regional peace-building operation. IDA
support would complement the activities of other international stakeholders in Rwanda
and the region.
36. Needfor emergency assistance. The emergency is the extraordinary event of limited
duration which started in August 1998, and which was caused by the escalation of the
armed conflict in Rwanda and the subsequent military involvement of the RPA in the war
in the territory of the Democratic Republic of Congo. The impact of the emergency on
the northwestern provinces has been profound. Due to insurgencies and insecurity, an
estimated 108,000 families, nearly 60 percent of the population, still live under plastic
sheeting or banana tree leaves in the provinces of Gisenyi and Ruhengeri.  The
application of the Bank's emergency procedures under OP 8.50 is justified on the basis of
the following criteria:
(i)   Impact on economic priorities and investment programs. A successfully
implemented RDRP would help consolidate stability in Rwanda and the
region, support macroeconomic stability, and increase investments.
12 Ministry of Lands, Human Resettlement and Environmental Protection. Brookings Initiative in Rwanda,
pp. 16ff.



Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex      10
(ii)  Frequency. There is general agreement that the peace process can be
consolidated with specific stabilization measures. Government and donors
agree that t]he RDRP would be a. critical element in this process.
(iii)  Urgency. 1,735 members of Rwandese armed groups have recently been
demobilized. Others are expected to return to Rwanda in the near futuire.
Urgent measures are needed to demobilize and reintegrate these ex-
combatants in a structured manner.
(iv)  Prospects for reducing future hazards. Discontented ex-combatants could
pose a threat to social stability. At the same time, lack of proper
demobilization and reintegration support may contribute to a stalling of the
peace process.
(v)   Expected economic benefits. The Program would provide the Government the
means to consolidate the social and economic recovery following the setbacks
caused by the persistent insecurity in the Great Lakes region.
37. Making resources available for development. The persistent insecurity in the Great
Lakes region has led to the diversion of scarce resources from economic and social
sectors to the security sector. The RDRP is expected to facilitate the reallocation of
Government resources from defense to economic and social investments. The reduction
of defense spending would furthermore help ease the fiscal deficit, and is thus an
important factor to achieving macroeconomic and fiscal balance in the longer term.
Finally, the (re-)entry of an estimated 45,000 persons to the labor market is expected to
increase national output.
2.4  Lessons from Previous IDA Assistance
38. IDA has gained substantial experience from a number of demobilization and
reintegration programs it has supported in Africa and elsewhere. Such assistance has
often taken the form of technical and/or financial support through investment credits,
budget support programns or through reallocations from ongoing projects. Based on
information from these operations, a review of relevant experiences in selected Afiican
countries, and the Bank's Operations Evaluation Department's evaluations, the followiing
best practices were identified and integrated in Program design.
39. Demobilization. This phase is short but logistically complex. The successful
implementation of demobilization activities is a precondition for the subsequent provision
of targeted reinsertion and reintegration assistance. Key demobilization activities include
the distribution of non-transferable ID cards, the collection of socio-economic data and
the establishment of a database on the beneficiary population. Furthermore, the assembly
of ex-combatants during the demobilization phase provides a good opportunity for health
counseling and HIV/AIDS education and voluntary testing, as well as the dissemination
of information about program benefits and civilian life.
40. Reinsertion. Upon demobilization, the ex-combatants lose their source of (formal or
informal) income. Experience suggests that they are usually in a vulnerable financial



Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex       11
situation until they can generate income. During this period (the "reinsertion" phase), ex-
combatants require a transitional safety net to cover their families' basic material needs.
The objective of this transitional assistance would be to enable the ex-combatants to
return to their community and to sustain themselves and their families for a limited period
immediately following demobilization.
41. Economic reintegration. Ex-combatants are often an economically vulnerable group
as they lack marketable skills, material assets and social networks. In addition, they are
often a high-risk group due to their familiarity with weapons and violence. Where this is
the case, targeted support is advisable to help them establish sustainable livelihoods. In
order to be relevant and cost-effective, such assistance should be tailored to their socio-
economic profile and adjusted to the economic environment. Female ex-combatants often
require customized support to establish sustainable livelihoods.
42. In general, ex-combatants should receive no more support than is necessary to help
them attain the general standard of living of the communities into which they reintegrate.
Furthermore, reintegration assistance should be limited in time to avoid the creation of a
dependency syndrome. Information, counseling and referral services can assist ex-
combatants to assess their liveiihood options and find employment. Apprenticeships in
the informal sector combine the benefits of vocational training and employment and are
thus preferable to training only. Micro-projects can help ex-combatants secure their
economic independence and self-employment. They are, however, also complex
interventions that require significant administrative capacity and a stable market
environment.
43. Ultimately, ex-combatants are reintegrated into a broader economic context. The
creation of viable long-term employment opportunities for ex-combatants is closely
linked to private sector growth and associated employment generation. It should be noted
that ex-combatants themselves provide a significant human resource contribution to the
civilian economy.
44. Social reintegration. Social reintegration is often eased by the support of an extended
family network. Therefore, ex-combatants should be encouraged to reintegrate in the
vicinity of their extended families. Informal networks of ex-combatants - discussion
groups, ex-combatants associations, joint economic ventures - are important elements to
successful economic and social reintegration. Efforts to provide assistance to ex-
combatants' communities of return can offer incentives for collaboration and acceptance,
thereby strengthening social capital. Child ex-combatants should be reunified with their
families wherever possible and assisted to resume their education. Disabled ex-
combatants commonly require specialized medical and economic assistance.
45. Care should be taken to prevent the stigmatization of ex-combatants as unfit for
military service or as conveyers of disease and violence. Community sensitization and
information efforts are paramount in this regard. The fears of communities related to the
return of ex-combatants should also be addressed.



Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Progran - Technical Annex      12
46. Institutional issues. Program coordination by one civilian agency with overall
program responsibility, balanced by decentralization of implementation to regions and
communities makes for a powerful institutional arrangement. Where possible, existing
implementation capacities should be leveraged. The employment of ex-combatants as
counselors and field staff can facilitate reintegration.
3 The Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Program
3.1  Eligibility Criteria
47. The RDRP is part of the Multi-Country Demobilization and Reintegration Program
for the greater Great Lakes region. Within the MDRP, the following criteria need to be
fulfilled for a country to be eligible to receive assistance for the demobilization and
reintegration of ex-combatants:
General criteria
(i)   Affected by conflict. Being involved in or directly affected by one or more
of the conflicts in the greater Great Lakes region.
(ii)  Participation in the regional peace process. Demonstrated willingness to
contribute to stability in the greater Great Lakes region and to implement
relevant provisions of the applicable peace/ceasefire accord(s).
Country-specific criteria
(i)   Preparation of a national DRP as a result of the conflict(s). This would
typically be demonstrated by a coherent national program developed in
consultation with the international community and national stakeholders.
It could also be demonstrated by having a strategic planning and
consultation process underway, with a clear roadmap and timetable.
(ii)  Establishment of a suitable institutional structure. The government would
establish flexible implementation arrangements with significant planning,
coordination and monitoring capacity and with appropriate participation of
relevant political and security stakeholders.
(iii)  A letter of demobilization policy outlining government commitment. The
Governmenit would draft a letter in which it outlines its commitments to
the regional peace process, demobilization and reintegration, security
sector reform and fiscal impact of demobilization.
(iv)  Establishment of appropriate safeguards and fiduciary measures. The
government would provide assurances and monitoring measures to ensure
consistency with standard environmental and social safeguards. In
addition, government would establish satisfactory financial management
and procurement arrangements.



Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex           13
48. The Government of Rwanda has fulfilled all general and country-specific criteria and
is therefore eligible to receive financial assistance under the MDRP through IDA and the
regional MDTF.
3.2  Objectives
49. The overall goal of the second stage of the RDRP would be to help consolidate peace
in the Great Lakes region and foster reconciliation within Rwanda. The four principal
objectives of the Program would be to:
(i)    demobilize an estimated 45,000 ex-combatants from the RPA and members of
armed groups, and support their transition to civilian life;
(ii)  in the spirit of the Arusha Agreement, support the reinsertion of ex-FAR;
(iii)  support the social and economic reintegration of all ex-combatants to be
demobilized in stage II and all stage I ex-combatants who remain socio-
economically vulnerable; and
(iv)   facilitate the reallocation of Government expenditure from defense to social
and economic sectors.
50. This Program is expected to have a significant impact on reducing poverty in
Rwanda, by: freeing up additional national resources for investment in social and
economic sectors; investing in the human capital of ex-combatants; and enhancing the
implementation capacity of community-based development organizations.
3.3  Coverage and Implementation Period
51. Target groups. For the second stage of the RDRP, the Government envisages the
following target groups:
(i)   the demobilization and reintegration of 20,000 RPA soldiers;'3
(ii)  the demobilization and reintegration of an estimated 25,000 members of
armed groups returning from outside the country, including approximately
2,500 child ex-combatants14;
(iii)  the provision of reinsertion assistance to 15,000 ex-FAR who were not
incorporated into the RPA;
(iv)  the provision of economic and social reintegration assistance to an estimated
12,000 vulnerable ex-combatants from stage I of the Program;'5 and
13 Government has also indicated that a further reduction in force of the RPA may be possible in the
medium-term if the regional security environment improves significantly.
14 There were 262 child ex-combatants among the 2,000 members of armed groups having returned to
Rwanda since May 2001, or 13 percent. It is assumed that overall for stage II, children would represent
about 10 percent of anned groups.



Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Prograrn - Technical Annex            14
(v)    the provision of specialized assistance to disabled and child ex-combatants.
52. RPA soldiers would be demobilized on the basis of the following broad criteria:
voluntary termination, service requirement, age and medical reasons (disability, chronic
illness, etc.).
53. The identification of a member of a Rwandese armed group and the verification of
his/her status of combatant become an essential task to avoid that non-combatants benefit
from the Program. The Government would verify eligibility of members of Rwandese
arned groups on the basis of the following general criteria:
(i)    Rwandese nationality;
(ii)   self-identification of combatant status;
(iii)  proven affiliation with a known and organized armed group that engaged in
military fighting against the RPA in Rwanda or the territory of the Democratic
Republic of Congo; and
(iv)   proof of military ability (e.g., weapons handling).
54. The Government would coordinate with MONUC and Joint Military Commission
(JMC) as well as concerned parties to the DRC conflict to ensure systematic and rigorous
application of these criteria. Their application would be further specified in the Program
implementation manual of the RDRP.
55. The screening of members of armed groups for crimes committed against humanity
would be critically important. Members of the Rwandese armed groups who have not
been involved in the genocide of 1994 would be included in the Program. Procedures for
genocide screening are well established and have been applied since the promulgation of
the genocide law of 1996. Those who are disarmed by the Government of Rwanda and
are suspected of participation in the genocide would be tried according to the provisions
of the gacaca law of 2000.16 Those who disarm voluntarily to MONUC in the DRC and
are suspected of organizing the genocide (category 1 of the genocide law) would be
handed over to the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda (ICTR).
56. The reintegration of approximately 45,000 ex-combatants poses particular challenges
in Rwanda, a densely populated and land-scarce country still recovering from the
traumatic impact of the genocide. Care would, therefore, be taken not to turn ex-
combatants into an overly privileged population group among the many other vulnerable
groups in the country (including genocide survivors, old caseload and new caseload
15 The UNDP evaluation of the first stage of the RDRP estimates that approximately 30 percent of ex-
combatants have found a job in the formal sector, another 40 percent are believed to be self-employed. The
remaining 30 percent are considered unemployed and/or involved in small-scale agriculture or occasional
farming jobs. For the second stage of the RDRP, it is assumed that approximately 35 percent of ex-
combatants of stages I and II are vulnerable and require special reintegration support.
16 Those found not guilty of genocide after a legal process would be able to access benefits within the
framework of the Program. Those convicted of genocide or crimes against humanity would not benefit
under the Program.



Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex               15
refugees, IDPs, etc.). At the same time, meaningful reinsertion and reintegration support
for ex-combatants is necessary to reduce the risk of a negative social and economic
impacts, which could potentially undermine national stability.
57. Geographical coverage. Reintegration activities would focus on those areas to which
ex-combatants return. As was the case in stage I, the settlement pattern of future ex-
combatants is expected to be scattered." Thus, Program benefits would be spread
throughout the country as well. To facilitate rapid Program start-up while allowing time
to build capacities in other parts of the country, reintegration activities under stage II
would be prioritized by province according to the settlement pattern of ex-combatants,
and implementation capacities at the provincial and community levels.
58. Duration. The Program would be implemented over a period of three years. The
planned Program completion date is June 30, 2005.
3.4  Program Components
59. The second stage of the RDRP would contain five components'8
(i)    demobilization, including HIV/AIDS prevention and mitigation measures;
(ii)   reinsertion;
(iii)  reintegration;
(iv)   special groups; and
(v)    institutional development and Program implementation support (chapters 4
and 5).
3.4.1 Demobilization
60. The demobilization of 20,000 ex-combatants from the RPA would be completed in
four phases of 5,000 each over a period of 18 months, starting in April 2002. The
demobilization of RPA ex-combatants would take no more than 15 days per phase. The
demobilization of the 25,000 ex-combatants from Rwandese armed groups would be
undertaken on an ongoing basis as and when they return to Rwanda. The demobilization
in December 2001 of the 1,735 adult members of armed groups from Mudende and
Nkumba served as a pilot for stage II of the RDRP. The demobilization of armed groups
17 Approximately 60 percent of the ex-combatants demobilized during the first stage of the RDRP settled in
the four provinces of Kigali rural, Kigali city, Kibungo and Butare. According to socio-economic data
collected by the RDRC, an estimated 60% of members of armed groups demobilized from the camps in
Mudende and Nkumba originate from the provinces of Gisenyi and Ruhengeri.
'8 Disarmament would be undertaken outside the Program following established procedures. The
disarmament of RPA soldiers and members of armed groups who surrender to the RPA would be
undertaken by the RPA prior to their transport to the demobilization centers. MONUC would be
responsible for (i) the disarmament of members of Rwandese armed groups in the DRC who report
voluntarily to MONUC, (ii) their temporary encampment in the DRC, and (iii) their repatriation to Rwanda.
These costs would be borne by MONUC.



Rwanda Demobilization and_Reintegration Program - Technical Annex        16
would require up to 45 days per group, as they would receive more extensi ve
reconciliation counseling.
61. The RDRC would establish at least one (lemobilization center for the RPA (Muhazi in
Kibungo) and one for the armed groups (Mutobo in Ruhengeri).19 Each center would
initially have a capacity of 1,500. The RDRC would expand their capacity andlor
establish additional centers as necessary. To the extent possible, demobilization
procedures for RPA sol]diers and returning members of armed groups would be similar.
The following activities would be envisaged for all ex-combatants in the demobilization
phase.
62. Discharge of RPA Soldiers. Prior to their arrival in the demobilization center, the
soldiers of the RPA would be legally discharged. They would be provided with discharge
letters confirming the termination of their military service. The RPA would disarm
discharged soldiers prior to their transport to demobilization center.
63. Arrival procedures for repatriated armed groups. Upon arrival in Rwanda, members
of armed groups would fall under the authority of the RDRC. An initial screening would
be undertaken immediately upon arrival to pre-identify combatants.20 The Commission
would then ensure their transport to the demobilization center where, immediately upon
arrival, they would be required to sign a form acknowledging and renouncing their
combatant status.
64. Child ex-combatanis would be separated from adult members of armed groups after
the initial screening and be transported to the special demobilization center in Gitagata
(Kigali Ngali). At this time, 262 child ex-combatants have been housed in this center,
which is managed by the Ministry of Local Government and Social Affairs (MINALOC)
with the assistance of UNICEF.
65. Verification. As a next step, the eligibility of each arriving candidate would be
verified. The identity of RPA ex-combatants would be determined using their military ID
card and/or discharge letter. The ID number would be compared with a list of soldiers to
be demobilized provided by the RPA. The identification of members of armed groups by
the RDRC would be based on the criteria outlined in paragraph 53 above. Upon
verification of status, ex-combatants would be provided with basic goods for their stay in
the demobilization cernter. Non ex-combatants would be handed over to the Joint
Commission for Repatriation and Reintegration of Rwandese Refugees (JCRRR).
66. ID card. Ex-combatants to be supported under stage II would each be provided with
non-transferable RDRP identification documents (IDs). To ensure security, these would
be individually numbered, signed, stamped, laminated, and contain a photograph.
Additional security features may be added if necessary. ID cards would be identical
'9 The solidarity camps in Mudende and Nkumba were temporary arrangements for ex-combatants. W'ith
the demobilization of the armed groups completed, Government will return the facilities to their respeclive
owners.
20 The repatriation of non-Rwandese would be undertaken in consultation with MONUC.



Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex         17
irrespective of former military affiliation. ID cards for child ex-combatants would note
their special status.
67. Socio-economic profile. A socio-economic profile of all ex-combatants to be
supported under stage II would be conducted by the Technical Secretariat of the RDRC,
in order to inform the design of targeted reintegration assistance measures. The profile
would include information on demographic characteristics (age, gender, marital status,
number of children, etc.), assets, education level, health status, needs and aspirations. All
data would be integrated in the Program's Management Information System (MIS).
68. Pre-demobilization orientation (PDO). Pre-demobilization orientation (counseling)
would provide ex-combatants with critical information about Program benefits,
implementation arrangements at the central and local levels, economic reintegration
opportunities, health issues (including sensitization on HIV/AIDS, reproductive health,
etc.), and civic rights and duties (including women's legal rights). The orientation
program would be organized in modules and would be carried out by a mixed group of
military/civilian staff. The Technical Secretariat would identify and train counselors and
appropriate counseling materials would be prepared. The PDO would seek to minimize
the generation of unrealistic expectations about Program benefits.
69. Medical screening. Ex-combatants would be screened to identify serious diseases or
impairments that may affect their ability for economic and social reintegration.
Furthermore, sensitization and voluntary counseling and testing (VCT) for HIV/AIDS
would be offered (see chapter 3.4.5). To this end, medical teams would be established
and would comprise members of military and civilian health authorities. Specialized
agencies/NGOs would be contracted if necessary.
70. Distribution of vouchers. The Technical Secretariat would organize the distribution of
computer-generated, numbered vouchers to enable eligible ex-combatants to access the
Recognition of Service Allowance (RSA). Each voucher would have three stubs, one for
the beneficiary, one for the Technical Secretariat and one for the paying office.
71. Transport to communities of return. As part of the Basic Needs Kit (paragraph 73),
the Technical Secretariat would provide transport allowances in cash to enable ex-
combatants to travel from the demobilization centers to their chosen areas of return. Ex-
combatants would be required to report to their Provincial Program Office within fifteen
days of their departure from the demobilization center.21
3.4.2 Reinsertion
72. All ex-combatants demobilized in stage II of the RDRP would receive a Basic Needs
Kit (BNK). RPA ex-combatants demobilized in stage II would additionally receive a
21 Ex-combatants who wish to move from one province to another in the course of the Program would be
required to register with the Provincial Program Office in his/her new area of settlement in order to access
Program benefits.



Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex               18
Recognition of Service Allowance (RSA). The RSA would also be extended to ex-F.AR
ex-combatants.
73. Basic Needs Kit. rhe BNK would provide the following assistance to facilitate the
initial transition to civilian life of ex-combatants: (i) food for a period of 3 months; (ii)
seeds and tools; (iii) basic household items; and (iv) transport to the community of
settlement. On the basis of the prevailing costs of the above items in Rwanda, the BNK.
would amount to a value of FRw50,000 per beneficiary. The BNK would be provided in
a combination of in-kind and cash to ex-combatants. The BNK would be provided to all
ex-combatants prior to their departure from the demobilization centers or immediately
upon arrival in the province of settlement.22
74. Recognition of Service Allowance. A recognition of service allowance would be paid
to those ex-combatants who were former professional soldiers and hence civil servants.
RPA ex-combatants demobilized in stage II would receive a Recognition of Service
Allowance (RSA) as part of their reinsertion assistance. The amount of the RSA would
be differentiated by rank, as has been the practice during stage I. The basic benefit for
private soldiers would be FRwI50,000 (US$330). The RSA would be staggered by rank
up to a maximum total of FRw500,000 (US$1,100).23 The average benefit would amount
to FRwl6O,000 (US$350).24
75. Stage II of the RDRP would also provide the RSA to FAR ex-combatants, for having
upheld the principles of the Arusha Peace Agreement.25 The ex-FAR ex-combatants
would be eligible upon registration at their respective RDRP Provincial Program Office.
Their RSA would be differentiated by the rank they held before April 6, 1994, using the
same baseline and scale as the RPA.
76. The RSA would be paid in cash for the following reasons:
(i)    the RDRC has paid cash to ex-combatants demobilized in stage I, thus selting
a precedent;
(ii)   qualitative evidence and the UNDP evaluation suggest that the cash payments
made to date have been valued by beneficiaries and have generally been ulsed
for constructive purposes;
(iii)  cash  payments have    lower transaction  costs than  in-kind  assistance
(essentially limited to bank transfers and payments administration);
22 Parts of the BNK (e.g., blankets, cutlery, cups) would be distributed to ex-combatants upon their arrival
in the demobilization centers so that they could make use of them during their stay in the center.
23 During the RDRP stage I, the RSA ranged from FRw300,000 for the rank of private to FRw650,0C0 for
the rank of colonel. The RSA was paid in three tranches.
24 The total reinsertion assistance for a private soldier demobilized from the RPA amounts to FRw200,000
(US$440) and compares favorably with other such programs in Africa (see attachment 6).
25 By having continued to fight against the Rwandan government, those ex-FAR who return to Rwanda
during stage II of the Program have not adhered to the spirit of the Arusha Agreement. They will, thus, not
be eligible to receive a recognition of service allowance. Members of other armed groups are not
professional soldiers and, thus, not eligible to receive benefits due to civil servants.



Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex      19
(iv)  cash paymnents empower ex-combatants to make choices according to their
own priorities; and
(v)   they may stimulate a supply response from local producers of goods and
services, thereby contributing to an invigoration of the local economy.
77. Counseling. To encourage the appropriate use of the RSA, the Program would
provide extensive counseling on the use of the reinsertion assistance prior to
demobilization and after arrival in the community of settlement, including peer-to-peer
counseling (the sharing of experiences by ex-combatants demobilized earlier).
78. Timeframe. The RSA for the RPA would be paid in two installments of FRw50,000
and FRw100,000 respectively.26 The first installnent would be paid one month after
settlement in the community of choice, while the second installment would be paid two
months later. Payment in more than one installment would afford ex-combatants an
opportunity to improve their money management skills. The RSA for the ex-FAR would
also be paid in two installments starting one month after registration.
79. Payment modalities. Ex-combatants would become eligible for their RSA upon
registration at their relevant Provincial Program Office and after having opened a bank
account. The Provincial Program Office would request the Technical Secretariat to
transfer the funds to the individual bank accounts. Withdrawals would be effected by the
participating banks using lists provided by the Technical Secretariat, based on
presentation of the required ex-combatant ID card, and in return for RSA vouchers. Post
reviews would verify the correct execution of payments. The use of bank accounts has
several indirect benefits, including banking education for ex-combatants, rural capital
formation, and a boost for the rural banking system.
80. Safeguards. The RDRP would utilize several safeguards to ensure complete and
accurate payment of the RSA allowance: (i) tracking of RSA distribution through the
financial database as part of the MIS; (ii) registration at the Provincial Program Office;
(iii) unique photo ID card; and (iv) representative sampling of beneficiaries to verify
receipt of payment.
3.4.3 Reintegration
81. Guiding principles. Building on experiences with demobilization and reintegration
programs in Rwanda and elsewhere and on lessons leamed from community-based
development projects in the country, the second stage of the RDRP would provide
significant economic and social reintegration assistance to help ex-combatants establish
sustainable livelihoods. The following guiding principles would apply for reintegration
assistance:
(i)   ex-combatants would receive a similar amount of assistance irrespective of
their previous military affiliation;
26 Rank differentials would be paid with the second installment.



Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex         20
(ii)  ex-combatants would receive reintegration assistance in relation to their
degree of vulnerability;
(iii) ex-combatants would be allovved to choose their reintegration destination
freely;
(iv)  assistance would seek to minimize market distortions and maximize
beneficiary choice; and
(v)   the Prograrn would seek to involve and benefit communities of settlement.
82. Reintegration Grant. RPA and armed group ex-combatants demobilized in stage HI of
the RDRP would receive a reintegration grant (RG) of FRw100,00027 six months after
their demobilization.28 Ihe RG would be provided after ex-combatants received
extensive counseling (including on business development) to help ensure that the choice
of reintegration optioll corresponds to individual circumstances and the local economic
opportunity structure. The six month delay in the provision of this support would allow
ex-combatants to gain an appreciation of civilian life and their local economic
environment and thus enable them to make more informed decisions.
83. Ex-combatants would be required to demonstrate that they intend to use the RG for
meaningful economic or social reintegration purposes (sub-projects) in order to receive
the RG. Sub-projects may include agricultural and non-farm income-generating activities
(IGAs), vocational and apprenticeship training, housing, employment, tools, and
education and scholarships as well as children's education. The RG would be paid
through the banking system according to the procedures set up for the payment of the
RSA. This arrangement would empower ex-combatants to choose the reintegration option
that best meets their needs. To lower the likelihood of abuse, the CDC would confirm the
feasibility of the sub-project in the local context and screen the proposed activity for
environmental impact.
84. Vulnerability Support Window. The Program would provide additional support to
socio-economically vulnerable ex-combatants of both stage I and stage II through a
Vulnerability Support Window (VSW). VSW assistance would be offered on a grant
basis with an average amount of assistance not exceeding FRw150,000 (US$330). Ex-
combatants would be equally eligible irrespective of rank or former military affiliation.
85. The vulnerability of individual ex-combatants would be determined on the basis of
their ability to establish a sustainable livelihood, including access to land and shelter,
health status, employment situation, and household characteristics. Detailed criteria and
procedures would be elaborated in the Program implementation manual. The CDCs and
ex-combatants associations would identify those ex-combatants who qualify for this
additional support. Medical vulnerability would be identified during the medical
screening in the demobilization centers.
27 CDCs have determined FRw1OO,000 as the maximum amount for support to an individual's income-
generating activity under the CRDP. This amount is used as reference for calculating the RG.
28 The RG under stage II would roughly correspond to the third tranche of the RSA under stage I. Evidence
suggests that many ex-combatants have used or would have liked to use, the third tranche for reintegration
purposes. This desire is taken up in the revised design of stage II.



Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex        21
86. Like the RG, VSW assistance would be provided in the form of sub-projects.
However, as vulnerable beneficiaries face greater obstacles to reintegration, they would
receive more extensive assistance. Procedures for the development and appraisal of VSW
sub-projects would be more robust. Two mechanisms would be used to implement VSW
sub-projects, depending on the type of sub-project selected.29 For IGAs, a decentralized
and community-based structure, consistent with the Government's policy on community
development, would be utilized. Procedures established by the MINALOC for the IDA-
financed Community Reintegration and Development Project and other donor-financed
projects would apply while also building on the experience and activities of other
interventions and implementers (e.g., Competitive and Enterprise Development Project
regarding strengthening of the Banques Populaires, etc.).
87. The following sub-project cycle has proven effective under the CRDP and similar
interventions and would be applied to the RDRP IGAs as well: (i) an ex-combatant would
prepare a sub-project proposal, with appropriate assistance by a CDC or sub-contracted
NGO/association; (ii) the respective CDC would appraise the proposal per CRDP criteria
(including an assessment of social and environmental impact); and (iii) if approved by the
CDC, funds would be transferred to the bank account of the ex-combatant. Provincial
Program Offices and CDCs would supervise sub-project implementation.
88. As and when an ex-combatant's IGA becomes profitable, he/she would contribute a
proportion of these profits to the CDC-managed Community Development Fund at the
district level, where they would be made available to other community members.
Consequently, the community would have a direct interest in the success of the ex-
combatants' sub-projects and in ensuring the ex-combatants' compliance with CRDP
procedures. In this context, the creation of mixed groups of ex-combatants and other
community members as well as the integration of ex-combatants into existing
community-based IGAs would be encouraged. Mixed groups would enable community
members to benefit directly from the financial resources available to ex-combatants;
while the ex-combatants could learn from the professional experience of civilians.
89. For all other VSW sub-projects (e.g., vocational training, formal education,
apprenticeships), the Technical Secretariat would enter into a contract with implementing
partners. This contract would stipulate the responsibilities of the implementers regarding
the provision of economic reintegration assistance to ex-combatants, including the
expected result of the sub-project and its duration and cost. The Provincial Program
Offices would undertake regular monitoring on a representative basis to verify service
delivery to Program beneficiaries.
90. Geographic reintegration patterns. During the first stage of the RDRP, ex-
combatants settled mainly in their communities of origin, in communities where they
have relatives or in communities where they had been stationed. Less than one-quarter of
ex-combatants settled in urban areas. It is likely that the majority of ex-combatants to be
29 For vulnerable ex-combatants demobilized during stage II, the reintegration grant could be provided
together with support to a sub-project under the VSW. In this case, VSW procedures would apply.



Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex      22
demobilized in the second stage would settle in rural areas. Therefore, access to land
becomes a critical elernent for successful economic integration.
91. Access to land. Ex-combatants' access to land would be facilitated with the same
community-based procedures used for others who need land. Specifically, any Rwandese
in search of land for housing or agricultural production would normally contact his/her
local administration, which would allot an available piece of public land for use if
possible. In the event that no public land were available, the local administration would
consult with relevant community members to determine whether they would agree to
cede part of their land to the newcomer(s) on a voluntary basis.30 No citizen would be
compelled to cede any of his/her land. There would thus be no involuntary displacement
of civilians as a result of ex-combatants settling in a community.
92. Social reintegration. The objective of social reintegration assistance would be to
promote reconciliation between ex-combatants and civilians in communities of
settlement. Social reintegration may be especially difficult in the context of Rwanda, as
many ex-combatants lost their families during the genocide and/or came from
neighboring countries and have no 'home' to which they can return, while others have
committed acts of violence in their commtnities. The participation of communities in the
RDRP is therefore considered critical for successful reintegration.
93. Specific activities to be carried out under this component would include:
(i)   assessments of community perceptions of ex-combatants and ex-combatants'
perceptions of communities;
(ii)  expansion of current national and community reconciliation activities;
(iii) information and sensitization of ex-combatants and communities through
outreach activities, including training of counselors and sensitization efforts
(national awareness campaign, presentation of the RDRP, discussion of ex-
combatants and community rights and obligations, regular field visits by
Program staff for sensitization and problem solving, etc.); and
(iv)  specialized counseling (e.g., family, HIV/AIDS, and women).
3.4.4 Special target groups
94. Gender. On the basis of demobilization patterns to date (111 female ex-combatants
were demobilized during stage I of the RDRP), it appears unlikely that the number of
female ex-combatants to be demobilized during the second stage would be sizeable.
However, given experiences of other demobilization and reintegration programs, the
RDRP would provide targeted support for the social and economic reintegration of
female ex-combatants.
30 The Program would not bear the costs of land acquisition.



Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex         23
95. Specific measures would include the following:
(i)   Ensuring that the special needs (e.g., security, sanitation) of female ex-
combatants are taken into account in the demobilization centers;
(ii)  ensuring that all benefits for ex-combatants are equal for and equally
accessible to men and women;
(iii)  encouraging implementing partners to ensure that their reintegration support
activities within the VSW facilitate the participation of female ex-combatants;
(iv)  encouraging female ex-combatants to participate in existing women's
associations;
(v)   including partners of ex-combatants and women in communities of return in
community-level counseling activities;
(vi)  strengthening the gender awareness and capacity of RDRC staff and of those
CDCs and Politico-Administrative Committees (CPAs) to which a significant
number of female ex-combatants will return; and
(vii)  monitoring the impact of the Program on partners of ex-combatants and
women in communities of return and bringing emerging problems to the
attention of the relevant authorities.
96. Disabled ex-combatants.3' Only limited medical and economic assistance has been
provided to disabled ex-combatants to date. The second stage of the RDRP would seek to
systematically address the medical and economic rehabilitation needs of the estimated
2,400 disabled ex-combatants (to be) demobilized under stages I and II (550 and 1,850,
respectively) of the Program. The degree of disability would be defined by a medical
commission.
97. With respect to medical rehabilitation, the Program would provide assistance
depending on the degree of disability. Furthermore, it would seek to reinforce key
medical facilities to provide systematic prosthetic and physiotherapy services, including
maintenance of prosthetic devices, to ex-combatants. In cases where ex-combatants are
too severely disabled to pursue economic activities themselves, the Program would
support the deferral of Program benefits to a family member identified by the ex-
combatant.
98. Chronically ill ex-combatants. The second stage of the RDRP would also seek to
systematically address the medical needs of chronically ill ex-combatants. A medical
commission would determine the degree of illness. The Program would endeavor to
ensure access to medical care and counseling for chronically ill ex-combatants for up to
12 months after demobilization. After this period, the Program would transfer
responsibility for these ex-combatants to relevant health authorities. In cases where ex-
combatants are too ill to pursue economic activities themselves, the Program would
31 Disability is defined as the functional limitation within an individual caused by physical, mental or
sensory impairment.



Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex        24
support the deferral of Program benefits to a family member identified by the ex-
combatant.
99. Child ex-combatants. The RPA demobilized 2,364 child soldiers in 1995 and
transferred them to a special primary school (kadogo school) in Butare. 32 The school was
closed in 1998. In early 1999, the RDRC reported that almost three-quarters of child ex-
combatants had been reunited with their parent(s), while the remaining one-quarte;r was
alone or with friends or relatives. The further reintegration of child ex-combatants
demobilized under the first stage of the RDRP has not been monitored systematically. If
still economically vulnerable, they would be eligible to receive reintegration assistance
under the VSW.
100. While no further child soldiers would need to be demobilized from the RPA, it is
assumed that approximately 2,500 child soldiers would be demobilized from among the
armed groups. They would thus likely represent a significant target group for the second
stage of the RDRP. Child ex-combatants would be identified during the verification
screening in the demobilization center and separated from adult ex-combatants as soon as
possible. They would undergo specialized counseling in a separate site.
101. Assistance to the reintegration of child ex-combatants would include family tracing
and unification, trauma counseling and psycho-social care, and facilitation of access to
education and recreation in communities of settlement. Children older than 15 years may
have different needs and would receive appropriate support (e.g., for vocational training).
Under the overall coordination of the RDRC, MINALOC would be responsible for
implementation in collaboration with experienced partners such as UNICEF. In response
to the recent return of 262 child combatants from the DRC. MINALOC and UNICEF
have begun to prepare a targeted program of assistance.
3.4.5 HIV/AIDS prevention and mitigation measures
102. The second stage of the RDRP would contain an HIV/AIDS component to provide
HIV/AIDS sensitization and VCT to ex-combatants during demobilization as well as
follow-up in communities in which ex-combatants settle. The RDRP would coordinate
closely with the existing national AIDS program to take over counseling and treatment of
ex-combatants and their families in communities of settlement.
103. Demobilization phtase. The following activities would be conducted for all ex-
combatants during the demobilization process: (i) initial sensitization; (ii) pre-test
counseling; (iii) voluntary testing (every effort would be made to have facilities available
to run the confirmatory test in the field for ex-combatants who test positive on the first
screening test); and (iv) post-test counseling. Ex-combatants who test negative would be
given an individual counseling session in which they would be informed of their sero-
status and receive the standard Information, Education and Communication (IEC)
32 The figure of 2,364 was established as the official number of demobilized child soldiers. However, only
725 had actually been registered in the RPA. The others had merely been under the protection of the RPA
and possibly provided logistical and other assistance (cf. UNDP evaluation).



Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex         25
material and condom package. Ex-combatants who test positive would have confirmatory
testing, receive intensive post-test counseling, be given condoms, and be referred to a
local hospital for management and support regarding potential opportunistic infections.
The sensitization and VCT during the demobilization process would be sub-contracted to
specialized agencies as appropriate.
104. Reintegration phase. In collaboration with activities envisaged under the national
AIDS program, the following activities would be considered in the reintegration phase:
(i) encouraging HIV-positive ex-combatants to join existing support groups of people
living with HIV/AIDS; (ii) utilizing ex-combatant networks to disseminate HIV/AIDS
sensitization in communities of settlement; (iii) providing additional assistance to the
families of ex-combatants who are unable to resume economic activities due to
HIV/AIDS, including delegation of economic assistance to a family member or financing
access to education of an ex-combatant's children; and (iv) training ex-combatants to
serve as HIV/AIDS counselors.
3.5  Program Cost
105. The second stage of the Government's Program is estimated to cost US$53.3
million (see table 1), of which IDA would finance US$25.0 million. Other donors would
be expected to finance about US$25.6 million (see table 2). Total Program costs of stages
I and II amount to US$72.7 million, or US$852 per beneficiary (see attachment 3).
Table 1: Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Program Costs
(Stage II)
Component              Unit Cost      Total Program      Percent
(USS)            Cost
(million US$)
1. Demobilization                   78              3.3              6
2. Reinsertion                     299             17.2              32
3. Reintegration                   338             18.4              34
4. Special groups                   759             5.6              11
5. Technical Assistance             35              2.3               4
6. Program Management               60              4.0               7
Sub-total                          762             50.8              95
Contingencies                       38              2.5               5
Total (estimated)                   800            53.3             100
106.  Government counterpart contribution. Already having contributed US$9.8
million to the first stage of the RDRP, and notwithstanding its fiscal constraints, the
Government is committed to supporting the second stage of the Program. Overall, the
Government's contribution would amount to 5 percent of stage II Program costs (see
table 2). Furthermore, the Government would finance all taxes levied in Rwanda on
works, goods and services for this Program.



Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex             26
Table 2: Rwanda Demobilization andl Reintegration Program Financing Plan
(Stage II)
Source              Million US$        Percent
Govermment of Rwanda             2.7               5
IDA                       _     25.0              47
Bilaterals  DTF/parallel)       25.6              48
Total                     _     53.3              100
3.6  Conditions of Effectiveness
107. The following conditions of effectiverness have been agreed upon with Government:
(i)    a decree has been adopted, in form   and substance satisfactory to the
Association, establishing the Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration
Commission, supported by the Technical Secretariat and Provincial Program
Offices;
(ii)   a regulation has been adopted, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Association, establishing the eligibility criteria for the demobilization and
reintegration of ex-combatants;
(iii)  key professional staff have been appointed at the Technical Secretariat, with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association;
(iv)   a financial management and accounting system     has been established,
acceptable to the Association;
(v)   the Program implementation manual has been adopted in form and substance
satisfactory to the Association;
(vi)  the Demobilization and Reintegration Fund Account (DRFA) has been
established; and
(vii)  the initial deposit to the DRFA of US$1.1 million has been made.
4 Studies and Technical Assistance
108. The evaluation of the first stage of the RDRP identified information gaps as well as
Program areas in need of improvement. Institutional development support would,
therefore, be provided in the form of studies and technical assistance to inform the
implementation of stage II of the Program. The Bank would provide technical support as
required.
3 Donors who have indicated their firm commitment to co-finance the RDRP include Canada, Gerinany,
the Netherlands, Sweden and the United Kingdom. Belgium and Switzerland has also expressed interest in
supporting the RDRP. Pledges received for the MDTF are sufficient to cover the financing gap.



Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex       27
4.1 Studies
109. Economic opportunity structure. The objective of this activity would be to assess
opportunities that ex-combatants will find upon their reintegration into civilian life. The
study would focus on employment, the informal sector and vocational training (including
informal apprenticeships) in the rural and urban sectors. The findings would be collated
in the form of an inventory of reintegration opportunities by province and sector. This
inventory would be used by the Provincial Program Offices for informing and counseling
ex-combatants.
110. Beneficiary assessment of ex-combatants demobilized in stage I. A beneficiary
assessment would help identify the reintegration experiences of ex-combatants from the
RPA and members of armed groups, disaggregated by gender and level of disability. A
qualitative survey would be carried out, using participant observation and key informant
and focal group interviews with ex-combatants, their family members, and other
members of the communities of settlement. The results of this study would help fine-tune
support for economic and social reintegration.
111. Pre-demobilization orientation program. A program would be developed to provide
ex-combatants with information about the Program, health issues and civilian life. In
particular, ex-combatants would be briefed about their benefits and the modalities to
access them, banking and financial matters, civic and community duties, training and
employment opportunities, access to land and credit, income generating activities, and
family and health issues.
112. Program of community sensitization and participation. The objective of this
program would be to sensitize the civilian population about the RDRP and the challenges
faced during this process by ex-combatants and their families. The program would also
address the concerns of the receiving communities and to encourage their participation in
reintegration activities. The program would be disseminated on various forms of media
(e.g., radio, brochures, popular folk theater, and newspapers).
113. Assistance for disabled ex-combatants. This study would help design and cost the
detailed assistance package that would: (i) provide counseling necessary for the social
reintegration of disabled ex-combatants; (ii) medically rehabilitate disabled ex-
combatants in order to achieve optimal and sustainable benefits from therapeutic
interventions such as the provision of prostheses and physiotherapy; and (iii) where
relevant, train disabled ex-combatants in skills needed to pursue an economic activity
which is both of their choice and economically viable. The assistance would encourage
the development of community-based rather than institution-based services, and would
further initiatives which increase the capacity of disabled people to help themselves and
each other.
4.2 Technical Assistance
114. Local and/or expatriate technical assistance may be required for longer-term and
short-term assignments during Program implementation. Consultancies would be



Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex        28
required on an ongoing basis, especially for periodic external audits and independent
evaluations. Qualified (private and/or public) providers would be sub-contracted by the
Technical Secretariat to undertake such activities. Targeted technical assistance may also
be needed for HIV/AIDS activities and the special target groups component (child. ex-
combatants, disabled ex-combatants). The Technical Secretariat could sub-contract
activities in part or as a whole to qualified implementers. For training and employment
opportunities, the Technical Secretariat would prepare a roster of qualified
organizations/employers by province.
5 Institutional Arrangements and Program Implementation
5.1  Institutional Structure
115. The Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Commission, which was created in
1997, would be legally established before Credit effectiveness. The RDRC is mandated to
design and implement the RDRP. It would be abolished upon completion of its work
program.
116. Several related problems were encountered during the implementation of the first
stage of the Program. In particular, a lack of clarity about the division of labor and
responsibilities between the policy and technical levels was apparent. The
Commissioners were regularly engaged in technical issues while the Techmical
Secretariat was understaffed. A lack of financial resources limited the Program's ability
to strengthen its technical capacity.
117. The recent UNDP evaluation of stage I contains a number of proposals to improve
the institutional arrangements, including decentralized Program implementation, a focus
on staff development, and outsourcing of work. The institutional arrangements for stage
II would build on these lessons. There would be a clear division of labor between the
Commissioners and the Technical Secretariat. Furthermore, the RDRC would largely
transfer responsibility for the implementation of reintegration activities to excisting
Government and commumity structures.
5.1.1 Central level
118. Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Commission. The Commission would be
the Government's supervisory body of the RDRP.3 Its main responsibilities would
include:
(i)   Advising the Government on matters concerning the demobilization and
reintegration of ex-combatants;
(ii)  identifying and resolving substantive policy problems related to the
reintegration of ex-combatants into civilian life;
34 The costs associated with the Commission would be borne by the Govermment of Rwanda.



Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex      29
(iii)  monitoring and guiding the work of the Technical Secretariat and other
Government and non-governmental institutions and agencies involved in
Program implementation; and
(iv)  carrying out other activities as necessary to ensure the achievement of
Program objectives.
119. Technical Secretariat. The Technical Secretariat would serve as the Program's
implementation unit. In particular, the Technical Secretariat would be charged with:
(i)   the preparation and costing of detailed annual implementation plans;
(ii)  the implementation and coordination of the individual RDRP components
(demobilization, reinsertion, reintegration, special target groups, HIV/AIDS
measures). To this end, the Technical Secretariat would establish close links
with relevant Government departments, local organizations and associations,
the private sector, and donor and UN partners;
(iii)  the transparent and accountable administration of Program  resources
(including procurement and financial management); and
(iv)  monitoring and evaluation.
120. The Technical Secretariat would be headed by a Program Coordinator and comprise
three departments (see attachment 7 for organigrarn):
(i)   administration and finance (including personnel, procurement and financial
management);
(ii)  operations (including demobilization, reintegration and special groups); and
(iii)  information management (including monitoring and evaluation).
121. The Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning (MINECOFIN) would be the
parent ministry for the RDRP. The Ministry of Defense (MINADEF) would provide
logistical assistance in the demobilization phase. The MINALOC would be responsible
for the coordination of efforts in support of the reintegration of child ex-combatants.
Furthermore, the MINALOC would play a central role in building CDC and CPA
capacities in districts with weak local institutions. The NURC would be responsible for
the development of reconciliation measures in the demobilization centers.
5.1.2 Provincial level
122. The Government adopted a decentralization policy in 2001 which transferred
authority over local development to 106 district administrations. As ex-combatants are
likely to settle in all of the country's districts, the Technical Secretariat could not hope to
properly oversee implementation from one central point. At the same time, the Technical
Secretariat could not establish a presence in all districts. Therefore, the RDRC would
establish a decentralized presence at the provincial level (12 provinces) to help administer
reinsertion and reintegration assistance. In provinces in which more than 1,000 ex-



Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex        30
combatants settle, a fully fledged Provincial Program Office would be established. In
those with fewer than 1,000 ex-combatants, an assistant program officer would be
attached to the local administration.
123. The provincial authorities would be aided to expand their capacity, and he
Technical Secretariat would base a Provincial Programn Office within each provincial
administration.35 The T'echnical Secretariat would recruit staff of the Provincial Program
Offices in consultation with the respective Prefects. Staff would report to both the Prefect
and the Technical Secretariat. This approach would help strengthen decentralized
Program delivery capacity and ensure the integration of Program implementation in the
Government's poverty reduiction strategy.
124. The RDRP Provincial Program Offices would be responsible for the following:
(i)   updating the inventory of projects and training and employment providers;
(ii)  conducting outreach activities, including counseling and referral as well as
business development support;
(iii)  technical and financial monitoring of reintegration activities, especially at the
community level; and
(iv) coordinating with other Government and non-governmental institutions,
CDCs, and CPAs.
5.1.3 Community level
125. Community Development Committees and CPAs were formally established
throughout Rwanda in 1999 as the development and administration arm of the local
government, respectively. 6 These elected bodies seek to empower communities in the
reconstruction and development process and to foster reconciliation by providing clear
benefits for community-level cooperation. Many CDCs have gained significant technical
experience in the implementation of the CRDP and other projects under the MINALOC.
126. As community support is critical to the reintegration of ex-combatants, CDCs and
CPAs at the cell, sector and district level would have an important role to play in the
social and economic reintegration of ex-combatants. The relationship between CDCs and
CPAs and their respective provincial administration, as well as to central government,
would be governed by the Government's decentralization policy. CDCs and CPAs would:
(i)   oversee the IGA sub-component according to procedures established by the
MINALOC and the RDRC;
3 The four existing Veterans Field Offices would be integrated into the respective Provincial Program
Office.
36 The CDC and CPA together form the Executive Committee at the cell, sector, and district level. With the
decentralization decree of March 2001, all members of the Executive Committee are elected by the
population.



Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex           31
(ii)   help in the provision of land to ex-combatants following established
procedures;
(iii)  help identify the most vulnerable ex-combatants; and
(iv)  help resolve local conflicts.
127. With respect to the IGA sub-component in the VSW, and building on current
procedures, CDCs would focus mainly on:
(i)   counseling;
(ii)  assisting in the preparation of sub-project proposals;
(iii)  appraising and approving proposals; and
(iv)  monitoring progress and eventual contributions
128. In districts where CDCs are currently weak, technical activities (with the exception
of sub-project appraisal and approval) could be sub-contracted to qualified
NGOs/associations until the capacities of the CDCs have been sufficiently strengthened.
Partner agencies37 (Banques Populaires, qualified NGOs, etc.) would assist the CDCs in
managing the funds, undertaking all requisite accounting and disbursement procedures,
and effecting payments to beneficiaries as well as collecting eventual contributions.
129. The Technical Secretariat would coordinate with the MINALOC in order to identify
any additional costs arising out of the implementation of the Program through CDC/CPA
structures and reimbursing them accordingly.
5.1.4 Staffing, institutional support and capacity building
130. The institutional structure for Program implementation requires strengthening at all
levels (Technical Secretariat, Provincial Program Offices, and CDCs/CPAs). The
Technical Secretariat would be strengthened through the appointment of a Program
Coordinator (head of the Technical Secretariat) and three department heads: (i) Chief
Financial Officer; (ii) Chief Operations Officer; and (iii) Chief Information Officer. Staff
recruited for these key positions should have experience and qualifications satisfactory to
IDA. Provincial staff would be recruited in accordance with the settlement patterns of ex-
combatants. All positions could be filled by qualified ex-combatants.
131. Equipment would be provided to help each office fulfill its responsibilities
effectively. For the Technical Secretariat, this would include vehicles and office
equipment. Each Provincial Program Office would receive essential office equipment as
well as motorcycles for monitoring and outreach activities. CDCs/CPAs would in
principle be eligible to receive limited institutional support after having undergone
training activities. They would be required to submit a proposal to the Provincial Program
37 Partner agencies include nongovernmental organizations or other public or private entities. They would
be identified by the Technical Secretariat on the basis of technical criteria and financial and administrative
capacity.



Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex        32
Office explaining and specifying their requirements in detail. The Technical Secretariat
would approve the proposals upon recommendation by the Provincial Program Officer.
132. Staff development at the central and provincial levels would be critical for effective
Program implemenlation. Staff at all levels would therefore undergo training. The
objectives of this training, which would commence immediately after staff have been
recruited/assigned, wvould be to ensure that all involved in the RDRP have the sarne
understanding of the P'rogram objectives, procedures, and specific responsibilities,
including their tasks in relation to the internal reporting system. A staff development
program would be prepared and would include: (i) the preparation of a training plan; (ii)
the development of training materials; and (iii) the carrying out of training activitiecs,
including gender awareness and sensitization.
133. Special capacity-building efforts and training may be required at the community
level, especially for those CDCs and CPAs that are not yet benefiting from development
projects. After an assessment of their implementation needs, and using the Program
implementation manual and the training manual developed by the MINALOC, key
members of CDCs and CPAs would be familiarized with Program procedures and would
receive required training. As necessary, relevant CDC members and partner agencies
would also undergo training for supervising the IGA sub-component of the RDRP.
Finally, outreach staff would undertake "on the job" training of CDC and CPA members.
5.2  Financial Management and Auditing
134. The Program implementation manual would describe procedures for the entire
Program, irrespective of the source of financing. The manual would notably include the
procedures for reintegration activities which would be based on the Bank's Guidelines for
Simplified Procurement and Disbursement for Community-Based Investments.
5.2.1 Financing mechanisms
135. There would be four distinct financing mechanisms to manage Program funds: (i) a
quick disbursing mechanism for Category (1) of the IDA Credit; (ii) a Special Account
for Categories (2) to (5) of the IDA Credit; (iii) the Government's contribution inclusive
of donor support through the budget; and (iv) a Multi-Donor Trust Fund (MDTF) for
donor contributions.38
136. Quick disbursing mechanism. The rapid implementation of the Program requires a
substantial amount of primarily local currency at specific points in time. The Program
addresses this exigency by incorporating the provision of foreign exchange for UJS$18
million through a quick disbursing mechanism. This mechanism would consist of
reimbursement to the Government of the foreign currency used for private sector imports
for eligible goods included in a pre-approved positive list of imports.
3S In addition, some donors may prefer bilateral financing to the Commission or directly to implementing
agencies.



Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex           33
137. Procurement and disbursement would follow the Bank's simplified procedures for
adjustment operations. The proceeds of the quick disbursing component would be
disbursed twice a year in roughly equal installments following the sequence of the
demobilization plan agreed upon with the Government. The Credit would finance 100
percent of eligible imports from the private sector for contracts between US$5,000 and
US$2 million against Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) prepared by the Banque
Nationale du Rwanda (BNR).39 Supporting documentation would include the invoice or
any written documents from the supplier establishing the price of the product, the pre-
shipment certificate, a proof of payment, and the customs bill of entry establishing that
the product has entered the country of the Borrower. The supporting documents would be
kept in the BNR.
138. The Borrower would open a Deposit Account for Category 1 in US dollars in the
BNR. Upon Credit effectiveness and at request of the Borrower, proceeds of the first
installment would be deposited in the account against SOE as above indicated. The
remaining installments would be released if the Program is being implemented in a
manner satisfactory to the Association and on the basis of:
(i)   an implementation plan and resource requirements for the subsequent 6 month
period; and
(ii)  a list of ex-combatants, identifying the amount of the funds allocated to each
in support of their reinsertion and reintegration.40
139. Upon receipt of the proceeds of the Credit through the release of each installment,
the BNR would convert the foreign currency into Rwandese Francs and deposit these in a
Demobilization and Reintegration Fund Account (DRFA) opened by the Government for
this purpose. The Government would ensure that all such funds would be used
exclusively to make payments for the demobilization, reinsertion and reintegration of ex-
combatants under the RDRP.
140. A positive list of imports has been established that is linked to the emergency at
different levels: (i) the rehabilitation of infrastructure and equipment destroyed by or
dilapidated during the war; (ii) the (re-) construction of houses for war-affected
populations; and (iii) the Program proper, in particular the reintegration component
(agriculture, training, etc.) but also demobilization (transport, rehabilitation, etc.). The
positive list is made up of products imported by the private sector as commercial
practices of the private sector in Rwanda have been found acceptable to IDA during
earlier operations of the same nature. To avoid ambiguities on whether or not a product
belongs to the list of eligible imports, the list is linked to sections of the Rwandan
customs code classifications. The positive list of imports is provided in attachment 8.
39 The minimum amount was reduced from US$10,000 on basis of the experience of the last operation of
this nature executed in Rwanda. It should be noted that the average value of import contracts CIF is less
than US$30,000.
40 In case of unsatisfactory Program performance, the pending installment of Category (1) could be delayed
until the Program is back on track. Disbursements from the Multi-Donor Trust Fund could then be handled
such that sufficient resources are available to provide reinsertion and reintegration assistance to those
already demobilized.



Rwanda Demobilization clnd Reintegration Program - Technical Annex       34
141. Retroactive financin,g. To facilitate speedy support to ex-combatants demobilized as
of December 2001, and to those to be demobilized early in 2002, the Project would allow
retroactive financing in the amount of US$3.6 million. This would apply to eligible
imports for which payment were made after October 30, 2001. Retroactive financing
would allow the Government to provide to approximately 7,000 ex-combatants41, the full
range of demobilization support and reinsertion benefits foreseen in the Program, through
the counterpart funds generated by this part of the Credit.
142. Special Account. To facilitate the implementation of activities of categories (2) to
(5), the Program would have a standard S;pecial Account at the BNR with an authorized
allocation of US$800,000. This Special Account would be managed by the Technical
Secretariat and would finance: (i) the procurement of goods and limited works: (ii)
consultant services; and (iii) operating expenses. Expenditures under the quick disbursing
mechanism would not be eligible for financing under the Special Account.
143. Use of Statement of Expenditures. For contracts eligible for financing under
Categories 2 to 5 of the Credit, all expenditures would be made against full
documentation, except for items of expenditures under: (i) contracts for goods and works
costing less than the equivalent of US$100,000, (ii) contracts for consulting firms costing
less than the equivalent of US$50,000; and (iii) contracts for individual consultants
costing less than the equivalent of US$25,000, which would be claimed on the basis of
SOEs. All supporting documentation for SOEs would be retained at the Technical
Secretariat.
144. Multi-donor trustfuntd. The Government recognizes that a trust fund for the RDRP
would ensure a comprehensive response to the Program, facilitate the involvement of
donors that might otherwise not be able to participate, minimize duplication of efforts,
and reduce the administrative burden on Government through the application of one set
of implementation procedures. For those donors not wishing to channel funds to the
Program through budget support, the Government requested the Bank to establish and
administer a Multi-Donor Trust Fund.
145. The Government and the Bank have agreed that donors can state their preference for
financing the RDRP within the Bank's broader MDTF. Several donors have indicated
their interest in contributing to such a financial mechanism. Disbursements under the
Multi-Donor Trust Fund, for which a separate account would be set up, would be in tlhose
categories not covered, or not completely covered, by IDA or through the Government's
contribution. This includes in particular reinsertion and reintegration benefits, support to
special groups, and technical assistance.
41 This includes the 1,735 members of armed groups demobilized in December 2001 and approximately
5,000 RPA soldiers to be demobilized before Credit effectiveness.



Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex        35
5.2.2 Accounting and auditing arrangements
146. For the sake of comprehensiveness and harmonization of procedures, Program funds
would be administered and audited irrespective of their source and the financing
mechanism employed.
147. During stage I of the RDRP, the RDRC has managed resources from both the
Government and donors (through a UNDP-administered trust fund). Financial
management systems have been simple but adequate. The financial statements of the
funds from the UJNDP trust fund have been audited periodically by an international audit
firm without any significant qualifications. However, for the increased level of operations
under the second stage of the RDRP, the staff and systems would be strengthened as
follows.
148. The Technical Secretariat would include an Administration and Finance
Department. An experienced Chief Financial Officer and an accountant with
qualifications acceptable to IDA have already been recruited. The following additional
measures would be undertaken to ensure adequate management of Program funds in
accordance with IDA requirements: (i) manual offinancial procedures: The Technical
Secretariat would prepare a manual of accounting and internal control procedures. It is
expected that a satisfactory manual would be adopted and approved by the RDRC before
Credit effectiveness; (ii) accounting software: The Technical Secretariat would install a
software designed for Program accounting that is capable of generating periodic reports.
149. Accounting. The Technical Secretariat would maintain records and accounts to
reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources, and
expenditures of the RDRP. Toward this end, it would set up and maintain an accounting,
budgetary, and financial management system adequate to provide complete, accurate,
timely and relevant information regarding RDRP activities, the utilization of resources,
and the completeness of expenditures.
150. Financial Monitoring Reports. The Technical Secretariat would produce quarterly
Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) for all expenditures under the Program,
commencing the end of the first full quarter following Credit effectiveness. The FMRs
would include (i) a financial report; (ii) a report on implementation progress; and (iii) a
report on procurement activities. The reports would emphasize the linkage between
expenditures and physical progress as an important aspect of overall Program monitoring.
The FMRs would be flexible and customized to reflect the needs of the Program while
still meeting Bank's information requirements for financial monitoring reporting.
151. Auditing. The records, accounts and financial statements for expenditures, including
for all Categories of the IDA Credit, including the Deposit Account, the DRFA and the
Special Account, would be audited in accordance with international auditing standards.42
These audits would be conducted by external auditors acceptable to IDA under terms of
reference agreed upon with IDA. As additional assurance considered necessary for this
42 Audits of expenditures under Category I of the IDA Credit would be undertaken on the basis of
documentation maintained at the BNR (see paragraph 137).



Rwanda Demobilization andl Reintegration Program - Technical Annex      36
operation, financial statements of the Program would be audited every six months for the
first year. If performance proves to be satisfactory, audits would be undertaken annually
thereafter. The date of the first audit would be decided in consultation with IDA. The
audit reports along with Management Letters providing comments and observations, and
making relevant and. practical recommendations for improvements in financial
management would be sent to IDA and all other financing partners not later than four
months after the end of each preceding period.
152. Supervision. On a semi-annual basis or at such time that the Government and the
Bank deem necessary, the Government and IDA would carry out joint supervision
missions. These missions would make spot checks on a small random sample of
beneficiaries at their place of residence to verify the use of the funds disbursed.
153. Safeguards to ensure dhe proper use of,funds. Six safeguards have been built into the
Program to ensure that IDA funds are utilized for the purposes intended:
*  Replenishments under the quick-disbursing mechanism (Category (1)) would be
linked to Program performance (paragraph 138);
*  Periodic audits would verify appropriate use of funds under all Categories;
  A unique, non-transferable, photograph ID would be provided to each ex-cornbatant.
This would be used to verify ex-combatants' eligibility for assistance;
*  The IDs would be entered in an integrated MIS that would enable the Technical
Secretariat and Provincial Program Offices to track Program implementation at the
central and local level;
*  Annual surveys of a random sample of the beneficiary population would track
Program delivery and verify their receipt of assistance; and
o  Semi-annual supervision missions would be carried out by IDA in collaboration with
interested UN/donor partners.
154. Overall assessment. A Bank accredited Financial Management Specialist has
reviewed the present status and the agreed actions indicated above (paragraph 148). On
this basis, IDA has reasonable assurances for an adequate financial management of
Program funds in conformity with current IDA requirements. But, while all necessary up-
front measures have been taken, financial management of the RDRP would require close
follow up. To this end, specialized Bank staff at headquarters and in the field office
would monitor financial performance on an ongoing basis.
5.3  Procurement
155. Procurement of goods and works to be financed from the proceeds of the Credit
would be governed by the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and ID,4
Credits published in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September
1997 and January 1999. Consultant services contracts financed by IDA would be
procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Selection of Consultants by



Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex      37
World Bank Borrowers published in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and
January 1999.
156. In addition to the eligible private sector imports financed through the quick
disbursement component as described in paragraphs 136-141, the Credit would finance
goods required for the demobilization process, including basic needs kits, equipment to
prepare ID cards and VCT materials. The Credit would also finance office equipment and
vehicles/motorcycles for the Technical Secretariat and the Provincial Program Offices.
Furthermore, the Credit would finance the rehabilitation of, and the purchase of essential
equipment for, two demobilization centers and up to two medical rehabilitation centers.
5.3.1 Procurement capacity assessment
157. A procurement capacity assessment of the agencies involved in Program execution
was carried out during appraisal. The procurement activities would be handled by two
agencies, the Technical Secretariat and the National Tender Board. The Technical
Secretariat would prepare the procurement plan and the bidding documents. It would also
participate in bid evaluations and play a key role in contract management. The National
Tender Board would review the bidding documents, conduct evaluation and award of
contracts, and supervise contract management.
158. The National Tender Board is in place since 1997 and is increasingly familiar with
Bank procurement procedures. It is currently finalizing its own standard bidding
documents which build on standard Bank bidding documents. Taking into account that
the procurement methods to be used for the Program are essentially those of national
competitive bidding and national and international shopping, the National Tender Board
appears capable of fulfilling its responsibilities without difficulty.
159. The Technical Secretariat is a new institution without relevant procurement
experience. The procurement program financed by the Credit is not extensive. However,
given the fact that the upfront delivery of some goods and the completion of
rehabilitation of some works would be critical to the success of the Program, the
Technical Secretariat needs to be guided and assisted in order to fulfill its responsibilities
satisfactorily. Consequently, it was agreed that the following measures would be
undertaken: (i) recruiting a consultant to prepare the Program implementation manual;
(ii) hiring a Procurement Officer to prepare a procurement plan for the first year of
operation; and (iii), if deemed necessary, recruiting a consultant to help carry out critical
procurement activities required up to June 2002. Both activities would be financed under
the Project Preparation Facility. The adoption of a Program implementation manual
satisfactory to IDA would be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
5.3.2 Procurement plan
160. The Technical Secretariat would prepare the procurement plan for the first year of
operation before Credit effectiveness. It would update the plan every six months for
discussion with the Bank during supervision missions. Furthermore, regular Financial



Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex      38
Monitoring Reports would present procurement activities in an appropriate degree of
detail (see paragraph 150).
5.3.3  Procurement methods43
161. Goods imported by the private sector imder Category (1), estimated to cost less than
US$2 million equivalent per contract, may be procured in accordance with established
commercial practices satisfactory to the Association.
162. Contracts for goods under Categories (2) to (5), estimated to cost US$300,000
equivalent or more, may be awarded by International Competitive Bidding (ICB).
However, given that some goods and items are required early in 2002, it is unlikely Ihat
this method would be used for goods needed before June 2002. Furthermore, since
demobilization from the RPA is expected to be implemented through a six-month cycle
and by groups not exceeding 5,000 ex-combatants, goods contracts valued more than the
above amount would be numbered and should not exceed two.
163. Goods estimated to cost less than US$300,000 equivalent per contract up to an
aggregate of US$400,000 may be awarded by National Competitive Bidding (NCB) as
described in paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the IDA procurement guidelines. Due to the
urgency of the Program, and in order to facilitate the speedy procurement of immediately
required drugs and other critical items, international and national shopping methods
would be employed more than is customary in Bank financed projects. Hence, goods
estimated to cost no more than the equivalent of US$200,000 per contract up to an
aggregate of US$800,000 may be procured on the basis of comparison of at least three
quotations at national or international level in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. A sample format for international shopping
would be included in the Program implementation manual.
164. Civil works contracts would be very limited in both number and value, hence no
ICB is foreseen. However, ICB procedures would apply for civil works estimated to cost
more than the equivalent of US$300,000. Civil works estimated to cost betvween
US$100,000 and US$300,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate of US$300,000
may be awarded by National Competitive Bidding (NCB) in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
165. Given the urgent requirement to rehabilitate at least two demobilization centers and
up to two medical rehabilitation centers, on an exceptional basis, civil works estimated to
cost less than US$ 100,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate of US$200,000 may
be procured on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three qualified contractors in
response to a written invitation. The written invitation would include a description of the
works, basic technical specifications, completion date and if necessary the plan of the
works. The contract may be awarded to the contractor who offers the lowest quotation
provided that the bid is substantially responsive to the conditions specified in the written
43 The amounts per contract and the aggregate amounts apply to the IDA Credit only. See table 3 below for
a summary of procurement arrangements.



Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex       39
invitation. A simple format of the invitation to quote with all the subsequent documents
(instruction to bidders, model of contract etc.) would be included in the Program
implementation manual.
166. Consultants' services procured under the Credit would finance the strengthening of
local institutions responsible for the execution of the Program: the Technical Secretariat,
Provincial Program Offices, district administrations as well as associations and
community-based groups. The Credit would also finance technical studies in support of
Program execution, the monitoring of Program components, external financial audits and
external Program evaluations.
167. All consultant services estimated to cost more than US$100,000 equivalent per
contract would be selected using the Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) method.
For contracts estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent, the short list may be
comprised entirely of national consultants provided that at least three qualified national
consultants are available. However, if foreign firms express an interest in these contracts,
they would not be excluded from the selection process.
168. Consultant services for training, technical advisory services and implementation
support for special groups and HIV/AIDS activities estimated to cost less than
US$75,000 equivalent up to an aggregate of US$300,000 for firms may be awarded
through the Consultants' Qualifications method in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.7 of the Guidelines. Consulting services contracts meeting the requirements
of Section V. of the Consultants Guidelines up to an aggregate of US$150,000, may be
selected under the provisions for the Selection of Individual Consultants, i.e. in essence
through the comparison of the curriculum vitae of at least 3 qualified individuals.
169. Contracts for consultant services for financial audits and external evaluations,
estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent up to an aggregate of US$200,000
may be awarded using the least cost selection method, in accordance with the provisions
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Bank's Guidelines for the selection of consultants.
170. UN agencies may be hired as consultants, where they are qualified to provide
technical assistance and advice in their area of expertise, according to the provisions of
paragraph 3.13 of the Guidelines. UN agencies may be hired on a single-source selection
basis if the criteria outlined in Section 3.9 of the Guidelines are fulfilled.
5.3.4 Thresholds for prior review
171. Goods and civil works contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or
more would be subject to IDA prior review. In addition, the first three contracts of goods
under Category (3) and the first three contracts of civil works below the equivalent of
US$100,000 would be subject to IDA prior review.
172. For consultant services, all terms of reference and all single source selections
regardless of contract cost, would be subject to IDA prior review. Contracts estimated to
cost more than US$25,000 equivalent for individuals and more than US$50,000



Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex                      40
equivalent for firms wouldL be subject to IDA prior review procedures. For consultants
contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more, opening the financial
envelopes would not take place prior to receiving the Bank's no-objection to the technical
evaluation. For contracts estimated to cost less than US$100,000 for firms, the Borrower
would notify IDA of the results of the technical evaluation prior to opening the financial
proposals.
Table 3. Procurement Arrangements
Procurement category                        Procurement method
Eligible private sector imports valued at less than  Commercial practices as described under clause 3.12
US$2,000,000 per contract:                  of "Guidelines: procurement under IBRD loan and
IDA credit".
Goods and civil works estimated to cost the  International Competitive Bidding as described under
equivalent of US$300,000 or more:           section II. of "Guidelines: procurement under IBRD
loan and IDA credit" (ICB).
Goods estimated to cost more than the equivalent  National Competitive Bidding as described under
of US$200,000 and less than the equivalent of  paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of "Guidelines: procurement
US$300,000 and civil works estimated to cost  under IBRD loan and IDA credit".
more than the equivalent of US$1] 00,000 and less
than the equivalent of US$300,000:
Goods not exceeding the equivalent of       Quotations obtained from at least three qualified
US$200,000 and civil works not exceeding the  enterprises as described under paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6
equivalent of US$ I 00,000:                 of "Guidelines: procurement under IBRD loan and
IDA credit".
Consultant services to be procured by firms and  Quality and cost based selection as described under
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or  section II. of the Guidelines "selection and
more:                                       employment of consultants by World Bank
borrowers".
Consultant services to be procured by firms and  Consultants' qualification selection as described under
not exceeding the equivalent of UJS$75,000:  paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Guidelines "selection
and employment of consultants by World Bank
borrowers".
Consultant services which can be conducted by an  Selection of individual consultants as described under
individual without additional outside professional  section V. of the Guidelines "selection and
support:                                    employment of consultants by World Bank
borrowers".
Consultant services for financial audits and  Least cost selection as described under paragraphs 3.1
external evaluations:                       and 3.6 of the Guidelines "selection and employment
of consultants by World Bank borrowers".
Hiring UN agencies as consultants:          Selection according to paragraphs 3.13 and 3.9 of the
Guidelines "selection and employment of consultants
by World Bank borrowers".
173. All other goods, civil works and services contracts would be subject to post review
by IDA during supervision missions and by auditors during the technical and financial
audits.



Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex        41
5.4  Monitoring and Evaluation
174. A strong monitoring and evaluation system, complemented with close Bank
supervision, would seek to ensure that the Program reaches targeted beneficiaries in a
timely and efficient fashion. It is essential that information on all beneficiaries is captured
during the initial demobilization process, securely stored, and subsequently utilized to
inform  Program  implementation.44 A Management Information System  would be
established by the Technical Secretariat for this purpose before Credit effectiveness.
175. Establishment of a Management Information System. A well-functioning MIS is a
valuable management tool, as throughout Program implementation there is a need to
register and monitor the target group beneficiaries and Program implementation progress
and effectiveness. Furtherrnore, a good MIS can provide monitoring data on beneficiaries
and activities that can serve as an important input into the planning of subsequent
demobilization phases. An MIS would be established with simplicity in design and using
hardware and software for which expertise is readily available locally. Additionally, and
to keep track of the utilization of Program funds, it would be related to the financial
management system.
176. Monitoring would be undertaken at three levels: firstly, the Technical Secretariat,
secondly, the Provincial Program Office and thirdly, the community. The Information
Department of the Technical Secretariat would collect information during demobilization
operations, when ex-combatants report for RSA payments and when ex-combatants apply
for reintegration assistance. The Technical Secretariat would track the provision of
assistance to the ex-combatants throughout the life of the Program. In addition, within six
months of the Effectiveness date and annually thereafter, or upon the request of the
Association, surveys of a representative sample of a minimum of 3 percent of Program
beneficiaries would be conducted to verify that they (i) have received reinsertion and
reintegration benefits in accordance with the semi-annual work program and budget of
the Program, and (ii) have acquired the goods and services intended.
177. Evaluation. Independent evaluations of Program implementation would be carried out
annually and would consist of quantitative and qualitative parts. An analysis of the
databases and existing administrative records and reports would establish to what extent the
Program as such as well as the individual components have achieved their objectives. As
the integration of ex-combatants into communities is a major factor for the long-term
success of the Program, the statistical evaluation would be complemented with a
beneficiary assessment consisting of participant observation and key informant and focal
group interviews. It would be directed towards the ex-combatants and their families as
primary and the communities as secondary beneficiaries.
178. Performance indicators. The Technical Secretariat and Provincial Program Offices
would measure Program performance against the agreed performance indicators specified
below (see Table 4).
44 Specific procedures for registering vulnerable ex-combatants demobilized during stage 1, as well as for
registering ex-FAR, would be included in the Program implementation manual.



Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex                     42
Table 4. Key Periformance Indicators
Component                             Key Performance Indicators
* About 5,000 ex-combatants from the RPA are demobilized every six months in 2002
and 2003.
Demobilization  * Each returning ex-combatant from an armed group is demobilized in accordance with
the criteria and procedures set out in the Program implementation manual.
* Each ex-FAR ex-combatant has received an ID card and is captured in the MIS
database.
* Each demobilized ex-combatant has received a BNK within one month of
demobilization.
* The time elapsed between registration in a Provincial Program Office and bank
Reinsertion       payment oi the first installment of the recognition of service allowance to each
demobilized RPA ex-combatant does not exceed 2 months.
* Each ex-FAR ex-combatant has registered at a Provincial Program Office and has
received his/her recognition of service allowance within 6 months of registration.
* Reintegration grant payments to demobilized ex-combatants are made no later than 9
Reintegration     months after demobilization.
* Average costs for reintegration assistance under the Vulnerability Support Window
do not exce ed FRw1 50,000.
* All demobilized female ex-coinbatants have received reinsertion and reintegration
benefits under the Program in the same amount and according to the same procedures
as demobilized male ex-combatants.
Special target  * Each demobilized disabled ex-combatant has received medical rehabilitation
groups            assistamce within 18 months of demobilization.
* Each demobilized child ex-combatant has received targeted reintegration assistance
within 12 months of demobilization.
* 12 Provincial Program Offices are operational within 3 months of Credit
effectiveness in accordance with criteria set forth in the Program implementation
manual.
Implementation  * At least 50% of CDCs are administering the approval process of grants for income-
Arrangements      generating activities within 12 months of Credit effectiveness.
* An independent evaluation is carried out annually and includes an analysis of
environmenital and social monitoring indicators.
Other          * Recurrent expenditures on education and health reach FRw 36.4 billion in 2002, FRw
40.8 billion in 2003 and FRw 45.7 billion in 2004.
5.5   Program Sustainabilitl
179. The RDRP is designed to aid the sustainable social and economic reintegration of
ex-combatants. In this regard, it would make a positive contribution to the socio-
economic status of ex-combatants, their families and their communities of settlement.
The Program would also foster micro-economic recovery by transforming ex-combatants
into positive economic actors and injecting financial resources at the local level.
Furthermore, the Program would encourage national reconciliation and empower
communities by providing incentives for cooperation and strengthening CDCs/CPAs.



Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex         43
Although the RDRC itself is a temporary structure, the Program would strengthen
Government capacities at the provincial and local level for developing, managing and
monitoring development interventions.
6 Benefits and Risks
6.1  Benefits
180. The Program would enable the Government to consolidate its social and econornic
recovery efforts and overcome the setbacks attributable to the persistent insecurity in the
Great Lakes region. The Program is designed to facilitate and expedite the process of
returning about 45,000 ex-combatants to productive social and economic life and assist
another 12,000 economically vulnerable ex-combatants demobilized under stage I to
establish sustainable livelihoods. The return of such a large percentage of the labor force
to the civilian economy is expected to inject significant human resource capacity into the
labor market. The provision of assistance throughout the country, could contribute to a
regeneration of rural financial markets. Finally, the community-based reintegration
approach would strengthen the capacity of CDCs and CPAs.
181. A secondary benefit would be the freeing up of resources currently allocated to the
defense sector, and their reallocation towards social and economic sectors. Such public
expenditure restructuring would allow Government to restore expenditure levels in the
social sectors in line with its poverty reduction strategy.
6.2  Risks and Mitigation Measures
182. External risks. Firstly, there is a link between improved security in the eastern DRC
and the sub-region, the timing of Rwandese troop withdrawal and the timing and scale of
subsequent demobilization of RPA forces. In the event of a collapse of the peace process
and resumption of hostilities either in the DRC, within Rwanda or in the sub-region, IDA
would consider exercising its remedies under the legal agreement. Secondly, even if
large-scale violent conflict did not resume, delays in the implementation of the peace
process might delay the implementation of the Program.
183. These risks are mitigated by several factors. First, the ongoing negotiations between
the parties within the framework of the Lusaka peace process, and the deployment of the
MONUC, serve as confidence building mechanisms for all parties to the conflict. Second,
the Government of Rwanda's commitment to unilaterally launch stage II of the RDRP
and reduce the size of the RPA provides an indication of its commitment to the peace
process and would in itself serve as an important confidence-building measure.45 Third,
the Government of Rwanda's willingness to accept the return of members of armed
groups to Rwanda provides evidence of its commitment to national reconciliation.
45 Conversely, a deliberate decision not to proceed with the Program may have negative repercussions on
regional peace dynamics.



Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex        44
184. The major Program-specific risks ancl mitigation measures are as follows:
(i)   Program resources are diverted toward military spending. Appropriate
safeguards with respect to financial management, procurement and
disbursement have been developed to avoid any such misuse of Program
resources;
(ii)  Savings from demobilization do not translate into increased spending in
the health and education sectors. Government expenditures would be
carefully monitored by IDA. in the context of its assistance program;
(iii)  Given ihe limited human resource capacity in Rwanda's public and private
sectors, implementation is unsatisfactory. The Program would carefull,y
monitor implementation progress and the reintegration experiences of ex-
combatants. The Technical Secretariat would be reinforced with additional
qualified staff, and the Program would invest in strengthening the
capacities of CDCs, CPAs, and local implementing partners;
(iv)  HIV/AIDS spreads via the RDRP. The HIV/AIDS prevention and
mitigation measures included in the Program's design would mitigate this
risk significantly; and
(v)   Donors do not provide sufficient resources to fully cover the fwuding gap.
The Bank has closely consulted donor and UN partners to ensure broad-
based support and adequate financial assistance for the Program. Plediges
received so far cover the fumding gap. If sufficient donor funds were not
forthcoming nevertheless, Program parameters would be adjusted to the
available resources.
6.3  Environmental and Social Aspects
185. Building on lessons from reintegration programs for displaced persons and ex-
combatants in Rwanda and elsewhere, the Program contains a number of specific
elements to identify social and environmental risks and devise appropriate mitigation
measures. The procedures and measures would be detailed in the Program
implementation manual (see attachment 10 for a detailed description of social and
environmental management arrangements). Measures aimed at mitigating social impacts
of the Program include: R(i) ensuring that there is no involuntary resettlement or
displacement; (ii) carrying out specific social reintegration activities; (iii) addressing the
needs of female ex-combatants and of partners of ex-combatants; and (iv) carrying out
activities targeted at child ex-combatants.
186. Shortly after Credit effectiveness, and building on relevant preparatory activities, a
social assessment would be undertaken. This would include the following: (i) a
stakeholder analysis; (ii) an institutional capacity diagnostic; (iii) the development of a
public consultation mecharnism as part of the RDRP's sensitization program; and (iv) the
design of a participatory monitoring and evaluation framework. The social assessmenit



Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex      45
would help identify the social and cultural structure of incentives and constraints that
guide and govern behavior with respect to building social cohesion and promoting
sustainable use of natural resources. Furthermore, it would help determine relevant social
indicators for participatory monitoring, including on social exclusion of returning ex-
combatants.
187. The Program is classified as environmental category B, as it includes support to
income-generating activities. However, the phased and widely dispersed reintegration of
45,000 ex-combatants into civilian life is expected to be environmentally neutral.
Furthermore, the Program would not finance the construction or rehabilitation of
infrastructure other than the rehabilitation of two demobilization centers and two medical
rehabilitation centers. Environmental mitigation measures under the Program include the
screening and monitoring of sub-projects financed under the reintegration component for
environmental impact according to the procedures, acceptable to IDA, set up by the
MINALOC for the CRDP. Furthermore, adequate arrangements for medical waste
disposal of HIV/AIDS testing materials' would be included in the Program
implementation manual. -
188. The institutional arrangements established under the CRDP for decentralized
monitoring are working well and would be the basis for participatory social and
environmental monitoring under the RDRP. The annual evaluations would include an
assessment of, among others: the procedures to access land; the occurrence of involuntary
displacement or resettlement; the degree of community acceptance; the existence of
discrimination on the basis of gender or previous military affiliation; the level of personal
security of ex-combatants; the level of criminal activities undertaken by ex-combatants;
and the impact on an ex-combatant's family members. The evaluations would, thus, help
identify social and environmental impact, determine the appropriateness of procedures
and processes, and make recommendations for improvements where necessary.
7 Financial and Economic Justification
189. Analysis of defense expenditure. From 1998 to 2001, defense expenditure decreased
from 4.3 percent of GDP to 3.3 percent. As a share of recurrent expenditure, defense
spending decreased from 36.1 percent to 23.7 percent. Nominal defense expenditure
decreased from FRw 27.2 billion in 1999 to FRw 25.1 billion in 2001 (table 5). However,
this decrease is mainly due to the separation between the RPA and the National Police in
2000. Between 1998 and 2001, the ratio of military to social spending decreased from 1.5
to 0.6.



Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex          46
Table 5. Government Expenditure (in million FRw and percent)
Billion FRw_                         1998        1999       2000        20f)1
GDP                                 632.1       646.1       699.3      763,.7
Total current expenditure            75.3        87.1        89.2      106.0
Defense expenditure               27.2        27.0       23.9        25.1
Social expenditure                17.7        25.2       28.7        39.5
Other expenditure                 30.4        34.9       366         37.1
Defense/GDP                          4.3%        4.2%       3.4%        3.3%
Defense/recurTent expenditures      36.1%       31.0%      26.8%       23.7%
Defense/social expenditures        153.7%      107.1%      83.3%       63.5%
Source: IMF and Government.
190. Analysis of alternatives. The Government's proposal, and the IDA appraisal of it,
have taken into consideration various alternatives in the design of the RDRP. The final
design is based on best practices and responds to the specific requirements of the
situation in Rwanda. It pursues a structured approach to demobilization and reinsertion,
as compared to a simple discharge from the RPA. The externalities of structured health
screening and HIV/AIDS counseling prior to the ex-combatants' return to their
communities, along with the benefit of providing a safety net to facilitate the re-
establishment of households and to avoid social tensions, were judged to exceed the
related costs. With respect to the economic reintegration, the Program's design attempts
to minimize interference with market forces and to maximize the choice of the individual
and synergies with ongoing interventions. Furthermore, economic reintegration measures
would be based on the socio-economic profile of the ex-combatants, their own efforts and
aspirations, and the specific opportunity structure in their communities of return.
191. Cost-effectiveness analysis. The Program design seeks to minimize costs without
compromising quality. Whenever possible, existing structures would be used rather than
new parallel systems created. For example, with respect to the disbursement mechanisms,
highly automated RSA payments would be effected directly by the Technical Secretariat
through participating banks. In the same vein, the existing provincial administrations
would be charged with monitoring Program implementation. Furthermore, the
strengthening of capacities at the CDC level is expected to have a high payoff for
implementing community driven development projects generally. Finally, with overall
per capita cost of US$800 equivalent, the costs of the second stage of the RDRP are well
within the range of comparable programs in Sub-Saharan Africa.



Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex                        47
8 Action Plan
Issue                           Action / Responsibility    o    eto
Date
Institutional arrangements
1. Set up financial management system             Technical Secretariat         30 Apr 02
2. Recruit remaining key staff for Technical      RDRC                           30 Apr 02
Secretariat
3. Procure essential equipment                    Technical Secretariat         31 May 02
4. Establish Provincial Program Offices           RDRC, MINALOC and
6 priority offices                         Prefects                      30 Apr 02
6 other offices                                                          15 Jun 02
5. Set up management information system           Technical Secretariat          30 Apr 02
6. Finalize Program implementation manual         Technical Secretariat and     31 May 02
consultant
Demobilization
7. Establish coordination mechanism with          Technical Secretariat          30 Apr 02
MONUC/JMC, UNICEF WFP and NURC.
8. Complete Rehabilitation of demobilization centers  Contractor and Technical   15 Apr 02
in Mutobo and Muhazi                          Secretariat
9. Prepare logistics plan for phase II RPA        RPA and Technical Secretariat  31 Mar 02
10. Carry out phase I of RDRP stage II for the RPA  RPA and Technical Secretariat  I Apr 02
Reinsertion
11. Develop payment mechanism and accounting      Technical Secretariat          15 Apr 02
procedures
12. Establish contract with participating banks   Technical Secretariat          30 Apr 02
Reintegration
13. Define vulnerability criteria                 MINALOC, CDCs, ex-             15 Apr 02
combatant associations
14. Prepare provincial inventories of economic    Provincial program offices     31 Jul 02
opportunities
15. Establish coordination mechanisms with        Technical Secretariat and      30 Apl 02
MINALOC regarding role of CDCs in reintegration  MINALOC
Special target groups
16. Coordinate support to child soldiers          Technical Secretariat,         30 Apr 02
MINALOC and UNICEF
17. Design medical support package for disabled ex-  Consultant                  30 Apr 02
combatants
18. Identify rehabilitation needs for medical facilities  Ministry of Health /   30 Apr 02
Consultant



Rwanda Demobilization ancd Reintegration Program - Technical Annex          48
9 Attachments
1.    List of Documents in the Project File: 49
2.     Estimated Program Costs of Stage II 51
3.     Overall Program Costs 52
4.     Program Beneficiaries and Benefits (stage II) 53
5.     Overall Programr Beneficiaries (stages I and II) 54
6.    A Comparison of Transitional Safety Nets 55
7.     Organigram  56
8.    Positive List of Imports for Category 1 57
9.     Program Implementation Plan 58
10.   Environmental and Social Monitoring 59



Attachment 1
List of Documents in the Project File
A. Government
1. Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning. 2001. The Government of Rwanda
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper. December.
2. Ministry of the Interior, Communal Development and Resettlement. 1998.
Community Reintegration and Development Project: Project Implementation Manual.
3. Ministry of Lands, Human Resettlement and Environmental Protection. 2001.
Brookings Initiative in Rwanda: Land and Human Settlements. November.
4. Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Commission. 2001. Stage II of
Demobilisation and Reintegration Programme.
5. Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Commission. 1998. Demobilisation and
Reintegration Programme.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Aide-Memoire, Preparation of the Demobilization and Reintegration Program,
August 2001.
2. Aide-M6moire, Appraisal of the Demobilization and Reintegration Program (part I),
October 2001.
3. Aide-Memoire, Appraisal of the Demobilization and Reintegration Program (part II),
November 2001.
C. Other
I. Colletta, Nat J., Markus Kostner and Ingo Wiederhofer. 2002. Disarmament,
Demobilization, and the Social and Economic Reintegration of Ex-Combatants:
Lessons and Liabilities in State Transition. Forthcoming.
2. Colletta, Nat J., Markus Kostner and Ingo Wiederhofer. 1996a. The Transition from
War to Peace in Sub-Saharan Africa. Directions in Development. Washington, DC:
World Bank.
3. Colletta, Nat J., Markus Kostner and Ingo Wiederhofer. 1996b. Case Studies in War-
to-Peace Transition. The Demobilization and Reintegration of Ex-Combatants in
Ethiopia, Namibia, and Uganda. Discussion Paper No. 331. Washington, DC: World
Bank.
4. De Watteville, Nathalie. 2001. Addressing Gender Issues in Demobilization and
Reintegration Programs. Africa Region Working Paper Series. Forthcoming.
49



Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex       50
5. International Crisis Group. 2001. Disarmament in the Congo: Jump-Starting DDRRR.
to Prevent Further War. December.
6. Kingma, Kees. 200:La. Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Program.
Evaluation Report. UNDP.
7. Kingma, Kees. 2001b. Strategic Assessment of Demobilization Issues. UNDP.
8. Kostner, Markus. 2001. A Technical Note on the Design and Provision of
Transitional Safety Nets, for Demobilization and Reintegration Programs. The World
Bank.
9. Kreimer, Alcira, John Eriksson, Robert Muscat, Margaret Arnold, and Colin Scott.
1998. The World Bank's Experience with Post-conflict Reconstruction. Operations
and Evaluation Department. Washington, DC: World Bank.
10. UNAIDS. 1998. AIDS and the Military. Best Practice Collection. UNAIDS.
11. UNDP. 2001. Mission Rteport, UNDP/Donor Mission to the DRC and the Great
Lakes Region, Defining UNDP's Role in Disarmament, Demobilization and Durable
Solutions.
12. Verhey, Beth. 2001. Child Soldiers: Preventing, Demobilizing, Reintegrating. Africa
Region Working Paper No. 23.
13. World Bank. 2001. Concept Note for Multi-Country Demobilization and
Reintegration Program in the Greater Great Lakes Region. December.



Attachment 2
Estimated Program Costs of Stage 11 (US$)
Component                         Jul-Dec 02   Jan-Jun 03  Jul-Dec 03  Jan-Jun 04   Jul-Dec 04   Jan-Jun 05         Total    %    p.c. 1/
Demobilization                     1,091,000     891,000     956,000     365,000          -            -        3,303,000   6%       78
Reinsertion                        5,781,000   5,781,000    3,253,000   2,353,000         -            -        17,168,000  32%     299
Reintegration                      1,487,000   4,199,000    4,199,000   4,399,000   2,599,000     1,487,000     18,370,000  34%     338
Special groups                     1,739,000   2,876,000    1,000,000        -            -            -        5,615,000   11%     759
Technical assistance                725,000      515,000     485,000     255,000      165,000       195,000     2,340,000    4%      35
Program management                 1,200,000     595,000     545,000     545,000      545,000      545,000      3,975,000    7%      60
Sub-total                         12,023,000  14,857,000   10,438,000   7,917,000   3,309,000     2,227,000    50,771,000  95%      762
Contingencies               5%      601,000      743,000     522,000     396,000      165,000       111,000     2,538,000    5%      38
Total ($)                         12,624,000  15,600,000   10,960,000   8,313,000    3,474,000    2,338,000     53,309,000  100%    800
Total (thousand FRw)       450     5,680,800   7,020,000    4,932,000   3,740,850    1,563,300    1,052,100    23,989,050           360
1/ Average cost per ex-combatant beneficiary of stage 11 (= 87% of total caseload for stages I and 11).
51



Attachment 3
Overall Program Cots (Stages I and 11; in USS)
Stage I    %        Stage I1    %         Total    %
Demobilization                970,000    5%      3,303,000   6%     4,273,000   6%
Reinsertion                13,174,000   68%     17,168,000  32%    30,342,000  42%
Reintegration               2,672,000   14%     18,370,000  34%    21,042,000   29%
Special groups              1,438,000    7%      5,615,000  11%     7,053,000   10%
Technical assistance          336,000    2%      2,340,000   4%     2,676,000    4%
Program management            783,000    4%      3,975,000   7%     4,758,000   7%
Contingencies                     -     -        2,538,000   5%     2,538,000    3%
Total                       19,373,000  100%    53,309,000  100%   72,682,000  100%
Stage I             Stage II              Total
Beneficiaries 1/               18,692               66,650             85,342
Cost per beneficiary            1,036                 800                852
1/ Vulnerable RPA ex-combatants of stage I receive support under stage II.
Source: Kingma 2001a, staff estimates.
52



Attachment 4
Program Beneficiaries and Benefits (Stage 11) 11 21
Target    Basic    Recognition   Reinsertion   Reintegration  Vulnerable     Total
Beneficiaries      group    needs       of service    sub-total         grant    support 3/  Benefits
ex-RPA stage I     19,000     -              -         (19,000)           -          6,650
ex-RPA stage 11   20,000   20,000         20,000                       20,000        7,000
ex-FAR stage 1     15,000     -           15,000                          -          5,250
ex-AG stage 11    22,500   22,500            -                         22,500        7,875
total              76,500   42,500        35,000                       42,500       26,775
Benefits           Target    Basic    Recognition   Reinsertion   Reintegration  Vulnerable     Total
(in FRw)           group    needs     of service 4/   sub-total         grant    support 5/  Benefits
ex-RPA stage I     19,000     -              -        (300,000)           -        150,000   450,000
ex-RPA stage 11   20,000    50,000       150,000       200,000        100,000      150,000   450,000
ex-FAR stage 1     15,000     -          150,000       150,000            -        150,000   300,000
ex-AG stage 11    22,500    50,000           -          50,000        100,000      150,000   300,000
1/ Excluding child ex-combatants
2/ Numbers in parenthesis indicate support under stage I
3/     35%  estimated to be eligible for vulnerability support
4/ P rivate
5/ Average
53



Attachment 5
Overall Program Beneficiaries (Stages I and 11)
Stage I                                    Stage II
Category             |    1997    1998     1999    2000     20011    total   2002    2003    20041      total     Total
RPA                      5,055    3,639       -    2,567   5,067   16,328  10,000   10,000       -    20,000     36,328
Child ex-combatants 1/   2,364            -           -        -    2,364   1,600     900        -     2,500     4,864
ex-FAR 2/               15,000        -       -       -                                                          15,000
Armed Groups 3/      I                                                     14,400    8,100       -    22501     22,500
Total                j  22,419    3,639            2,567   5,067   33,692  26,000   19,000      -i    45,0001    78,692
1/ Demobilized in 1995
2/ Retumed in 1996/97
3/ Including ex-FAR (stage 11)
Source: Kingma 2001 a. staff estimates.
54



Attachment 6
A Comparison of Transitional Safety Nets
Country 1/        Estimated amount   Calculation       Duration          Differentiation    Payment           Cash payment
($) 2/                                                                   modalities         method
Chad 1992         560 - 670          salary            12 months         rank               cash              5 installments
Chad 1996         860 - 1,480       salary             12 months         rank               cash              5 installments
Djibouti 1995      1,000-2,000       salary            6-12 months       location of service  cash            lump-sum
Eritrea 1993      400 - 800 - 1,600                                      duration of service  cash            lump-sum
Ethiopia 1991     46 - 160 3/        basic needs       6-7 months        multiple 6/        cash and in-kind  lump-sum/7
installm.
Ethiopia 2000     350 -420 -460      basic needs       12 months         disability         cash              3 installments
Mozambique 1994   760 (cash: 500) 4/  salary           24 months         rank               cash and in-kind  13 installments
Namibia 1990      490 3/51           basic needs, salary  9-12 months    employment status, cash and in-kind  lump-sum
faction
Rwanda 1997       750 - 1,600        basic needs       10 months         rank               cash              3 installments
Rwanda 2002        110 - 450 - 1,100  basic needs      6 months          rank, faction      cash and in-kind  1-3 installments
Sierra Leone 1999  300               basic needs       6 months          none               cash              2 installments
Uganda 1992       845 (cash: 560)    basic needs       6 months          none               cash and in-kind  2-3 installments
1/     Start date of program
2/     Excluding administration; approximate amounts due to exchange rate fluctuations.
3/     Cash component only.
4/     Average amount.
5/     Post-discharge salary payments to SWATF ex-combatants not included.
6/     Duration of service, location of settlement, disability, access to other benefits (pension, civil service).
7/     Core package only (irrespective of rank).
Source: Kostner 2001.
55



Attachment 7
Organigram
Ministry of Finance
and Economic Planning
Rwanda Demobilization and
Reintegration Commission  |
_                        _Progm  I
Coordination
Finance and                                    Operations                                    Information
Administration Department                            Department                                    Department
Administration and                                                   Monitoring and         Fin-formation and
Accounting              Procurement          Demobilization           Reintegration         Evaluation              Sensitization
12 Provincial Program Offices
|(within provincial administrations)
56



Attachment 8
Positive List of Imports for Category 1
Custom                                      Items
Codes"6
15.05 - 15.20  Oil and chemical oil products
17.01 - 17.02  Sugar and industrial glucose
25.01 -25.23   Salt, sulphur, earths and stone, plastering material, lime and cement
27.12 - 27.14  Petroleum coke, natural and other asphalt, industrial petroleum jelly and
paraffin
28.01 - 28.43  Inorganic chemical products
29.01 - 29 06  Hydrocarbons and derivatives
30.03 - 30.06  Pharmaceuticals, medicines
31.01 - 31.05  Fertilizers
32.15          Ink and toners
33.01          Basic oils
38.01 - 38.08  Chemical products
40.01 - 40. 17  Rubber products (including pipes and cables, tires and surgical products)
44.01 - 44 21  Woods and wood products
47.01 - 47.07  Wood pulp, cellulose fibers and carton refuse
48.01 - 48.31  Paper and paper products
49. 01 - 49.06  Books, textbooks, engineering and architectural drawing material
52.01 - 52.08  Cotton and jute fibers and textiles
54.01 - 58.11  Synthetic fibers and textiles
69.01- 69.10   Ceramic products (including construction bricks, tiles, pipes, etc.)
72.01 - 73.26  Iron and steel products
84.05 - 84.85  Motors and electrical machinery (gas generators, turbines, pumps, etc.)
85.01 - 85.05  Motors and electrical machinery (power generators, transformers, bobbins,
etc.)
85.17 - 85.25  Telephones and radiophone equipment
87.01 - 87.16  Motor cars, tractors, cycles, and other articles (including parts)
90.18 - 90 25  Medical instruments
94.01 - 94.02  Medical and surgical fumiture
94. 06         Prefabricated constructions
96.01.- 96.13  Office equipment
46 According to the Rwanda Harmonized System Custom Codes.
57



Attachment 9
Program Implementation Plan
2002                    2003                            2004                        2005
Q3      04      Q1      02      03      04      01      02      Q3      04      01      02      Q3
Demobilization
1 RPA                         !50001            5,000,          5,000           5,000
2  Armed groups                              ongoing (total 22,500)
Reinsertion
Basic needs kit
3     RPA                       5,000         '5,000            5,0001        j-i5,000
4     Anned groups            .ngoing (total 22.500_
Recognition of service all.
5     RPA                              S5000                            5,000,          5,000,
6     Ex-FAR I                                  7,5     7,500
Reintegration
Investment allowance
7     RPA                                       5,000     .      ,uu ,                    _,Ui S, 000
8     Armed groups                            I              ongoing (total 22,500)
9 Vuln. Support Fund            2,200   2,200   2,        2     2,200   2,200   2,200   2,200   2,200   2 2,20  2,200   2,200
Special groups
10  Disabled                   i   250     300     800   1,08o
11  Chronically ill                400     600     700     800
12 Children                        600     600     600     600     650     700
Technical assistance
13  DemobiliZation                x       x       x       x       x       x       x
14  Sensitization                 x       x       x       x       x       x       x       x       x       x       x       x
15 Semi-annual audits                             x               x               x               x               x               x
16 Annual evaluations                                     x                                                               x
17 Programmanagement              x       x       x           x       x           x       x   x       x       x           x
18 Capacity building              x       x       x       x       x       x
Prcgrammar^agement
19 lmplementation                 x       x       x       x       x       x       x       x       x       x       x       x
20  Op. training tours         I  X               x
58



Attachment 10
Social and Environmental Management Arrangements
The second stage of the Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Program (RDRP)
aims at demobilizing a large number of ex-combatants from the Rwanda Patriotic Army
and armed groups and at supporting their reintegration into civilian life. To enhance the
chances of success, the RDRP needs to properly address a range of social and
environmental aspects. The objective of this analysis is to identify important social and
environmental dimensions, summarize the social and environmental management
arrangements under the Program, outline targeted monitoring and evaluation activities,
and propose institutional capacity building activities.
1.    Social and environmental dimensions
Successful long-term reintegration of ex-combatants can make a major contribution to
conflict resolution and the restoration of social capital, while failure to achieve
reintegration can lead to crime and insecurity and even increase the risk of resumed
conflict. Reintegration takes place at the community level, and the perceptions, attitudes
and organizational capacity of communities to receive and support ex-combatants
become a major factor for determining the success or failure of a demobilization and
reintegration program.
Ex-combatants may face profound social reintegration problems. There may be a
generalized fear that ex-combatants are conveyers of violence, crime and sexually
transmitted diseases. Communities may resent support provided to what is perceived as
an overly privileged group. Ex-combatants may be discriminated against on the basis of
previous military affiliation. Their personal security may be at risk especially when they
committed atrocities in the communities to which they retum.
Female ex-combatants who have become accustomed to a more independent way of life
in the military, may struggle to adapt to expectations of traditional communities. Female
partners of ex-combatants and their children who migrate to communities of other ethnic,
linguistic and/or cultural backgrounds may be rejected. Last but not least, the years of
development children lose to soldiering profoundly affect their future identity.
Ex-combatants may also exert pressure on the natural resource base especially in
communities with high population densities. Community members may be involuntarily
displaced or ex-combatants involuntarily resettled to communities other than of their
choice. Traditional tenure arrangements may bar female ex-combatants from access to
land. Ex-combatants may start income-generating activities that, if uncontrolled, may
lead to overgrazing, deforestation or improper waste management.
2.    Social and environmental management arrangements
Building on lessons from reintegration programs for displaced persons and ex-combatants
in Rwanda and elsewhere, the Program contains a number of specific elements to identify
social and environmental risks and devise appropriate mitigation measures. The
59



Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex      60
procedures and measures would be spelled out in detail in the Program implementation
manual.
Access to land. Ex-combatants would be free to settle in the community of their choice.
Their access to land would be facilitated with the same community-based procedures
used for others who need land. Specifically, any Rwandese in search of land for housing
or agricultural production would normally contact his/her local administration, which
would allot an available piece of public land for use if possible. In the event that no
public land were available, the local administration consults with relevant community
members to determine whether they would agree to cede part of their land to the
newcomer(s) on a voluntary basis. (The Program would not bear the costs of land
acquisition.) No citizen would be compelled to cede any of his/her land. There would
thus be no involuntary displacement of civilians as a result of ex-combatants settling in a
community.
Social reintegration. The objective of social reintegration assistance would be to promote
reconciliation between ex-combatants and civilians in communities of settlement. Social
reintegration may be especially difficult in the context of Rwanda, as many ex--
combatants lost their famnilies during the genocide and/or came from neighboring
countries and have no 'home' to which they can return, while others have committed acts
of violence in their communities. The participation of communities in the RDRP,
especially through the Community Development Committees (CDCs) and Politico-
Administrative Committees (Comites politico-administratifs; CPAs), is considered
critical for successful reintegration. Specific activities to be carried out by the Rwanda
Demobilization and Reintegration Commission (RDRC) under this component would
include:
(i)   assessments of community perceptions of ex-combatants and ex-combatants'
perceptions of communities;
(ii)  expansion of current national and community reconciliation activities;
(iii)  information and sensitization of ex-combatants and communities through
outreach activities, including training of counselors and sensitization efforts
(national awareness campaign, presentation of the RDRP, discussion of ex-
combatants and community rights and obligations, regular field visits by
Program staff for sensitization and problem solving, etc.); and
(iv)  specialized counseling (e.g., family, HIV/AIDS, and gender).
Gender. Given experiences of other demobilization and reintegration programs, the
RDRP would provide targeted support for the social and economic reintegration of
female ex-combatants. Specific measures would include the following:
(i)   Ensuring that the special needs (e.g., security, sanitation) of female ex-
combatants are taken into account in the demobilization centers;
(ii)  ensuring that all benefits for ex-combatants are equal for and equally
accessible to men and women;



Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex      61
(iii)  encouraging implementing partners to ensure that their reintegration support
activities within the Vulnerability Support Window facilitate the participation
of female ex-combatants;
(iv)  encouraging female ex-combatants to participate in existing women's
associations;
(v)   including partners of ex-combatants and women in communities of return in
community-level counseling activities;
(vi)  strengthening the gender awareness and capacity of RDRC staff and of those
CDCs and CPAs to which a significant number of female ex-combatants will
return; and
(vii)  monitoring the impact of the Program on partners of ex-combatants and
women in communities of return and bringing emerging problems to the
attention of the relevant authorities.
Child ex-combatants. Child ex-combatants among armed groups will likely represent a
significant target group for the second stage of the RDRP. Child ex-combatants would be
identified during the verification screening in the demobilization centers and separated
from adult ex-combatants as soon as possible. They would undergo specialized
counseling in a separate site. Assistance to the reintegration of child ex-combatants
would include family tracing and unification, trauma counseling and psycho-social care,
and facilitation of access to education and recreation in communities of settlement.
Children older than 15 years may have different needs and would receive appropriate
support. Under the overall coordination of the RDRC, the Ministry of Local Government
and Social Affairs (MINALOC) would be responsible for implementation in
collaboration with experienced partners such as UNICEF.
Environmental classification. The Program is classified as environmental category B, as
it includes support to income-generating activities. However, the phased and widely
dispersed reintegration of 45,000 ex-combatants into civilian life is expected to be
environmentally neutral. Furthermore, the Program does not anticipate support to any
major physical works and would only finance the rehabilitation of two demobilization
centers and two medical rehabilitation centers.
Environmental screening. The RDRP would provide reintegration support to ex-
combatants in the form of sub-projects, which would include agricultural and non-farm
income-generating activities (IGAs), vocational and apprenticeship training, housing,
employment, tools, and education and scholarships. The cost per sub-project would be
below US$350 per beneficiary. IGAs would be screened for environmental impact and
monitored according to the procedures set up by the MINALOC for the Bank-financed
Community Reintegration and Development Program (CRDP). The objective of
environmental screening would, thus, be to minimize negative environmental impacts of
the Program.
The following sub-project cycle has proven effective under the CRDP and similar
interventions and would be applied to the RDRP IGA activities as well: (i) an ex-



Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex         62
combatant prepares a sub-project proposal, with appropriate assistance by a CDC or sub-
contracted NGO/associiationri; (ii) the respective CDC appraises the proposal per CRD)P
criteria (including on social and environmental impact); and (iii) if approved by the CDC,
funds are transferred to the bank account of the ex-combatant. Provincial program offices
and CDCs would supervise sub-project implementation.
The screening procedures are tailored to the small-scale nature of income-generating
activities, examining the potential for impacts and identifying any mitigation measures.
The focus of the screening would be on the following issues: water, health and sanitation,
natural resource exploitatiom, erosion, pesticide use and any other safeguard related issue.
The CDCs would consult the relevant line ministry representative (charges de service for
agriculture, environment, water and sanitation, health, education, social affairs) as
needed. In accordance with CRDP guidelines, certain activities such as charcoal making
would be rejected. The screening would also assess the potential environmental impact of
the IGA on neighboring communities. In case of wider negative environmental impact,
actions would be agreed upon with the relevant local administrations.
3.    Social and environmental monitoring and evaluation
A strong monitoring and evaluation system and close supervision would seek to ensure
that the Program reaches the intended beneficiaries and has a generally positive impact
on the receiving communities. The basic parameters and monitoring indicators for the
environmental aspects of the Program are already in place through the CRDP. Whilst
experience with such programs in other countries has informed the design of the social
components of the RDRP, baseline data for the Program's social dimensions are yet to be
collected.
Social assessment. Shortly after Credit effectiveness and building on relevant preparatory
activities (beneficiary assessment, preparation of sensitization program and of pre-
demobilization orientation program), a social assessment would be undertaken and would
include the following:
(i)   a stakeholder analysis;
(ii)  an institutional capacity diagnostic;
(iii)  the development of a public consultation mechanism as part of the RDR?'s
sensitization program; and
(iv)  the design of a participatory monitoring and evaluation framework.
The social assessment would help identify the social and cultural structure of incentives
and constraints that guide and govern behavior with respect to building social cohesion
and promoting sustainable use of natural resources. Furthermore, it would help determine
relevant social indicators for participatory monitoring, including on social exclusion of
returning ex-combatants.
Participatory monitoring. The institutional arrangements established under the CRDP for
decentralized monitoring are working well and would be the basis for participatory social



Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex      63
and environmental monitoring under the RDRP. Specifically, the CDCs and CPAs would
monitor sub-projects and social and environmental indicators on an ongoing basis at the
community level. The Provincial Program Offices would be responsible for technical and
financial monitoring of reintegration activities at the provincial level, regularly reporting
to the RDRC on the application of all relevant procedures and processes. At the central
level, the Ministry of Lands, Resettlement and Environmental Protection (MINITERE)
and MINALOC would advise the RDRC on the substantive environmental and social
aspects of the Program.
Information would be shared horizontally (especially important for the beneficiaries and
in general for sake of transparency) and vertically in the management structure of the
Program. Information would be readily available for assembly and analysis into periodic
monitoring and evaluation reports. Such a system requires cooperation from all levels:
from the beneficiary all the way up to the RDRC. The Program's computerized
Management Information System would be designed around these parameters.
Independent evaluations. A special Program element would be annual evaluations of
environmental and social indicators as part of the annual Program evaluations undertaken
by independent consultants. These evaluations would include a beneficiary assessment
and a review of Program achievements. The issues to be addressed would include, among
others: the procedures to access land; the occurrence of involuntary displacement or
resettlement; the degree of community acceptance; the existence of discrimination on the
basis of gender or previous military affiliation; the level of personal security of ex-
combatants; the level of criminal activities undertaken by ex-combatants; and the impact
on an ex-combatant's family members. The evaluations would, thus, help identify social
and environmental impact, determine the appropriateness of procedures and processes,
and make recommendations for improvements where necessary.
The monitoring and evaluation system is designed such that the regular review of social
and environmental aspects is part and parcel of Program implementation, and that
mitigation measures would be initiated quickly as needed.
4.    Institutional capacity building
Program benefits would be spread throughout the country. To facilitate rapid Program
start-up while allowing time to build capacities in other parts of the country, reintegration
activities under stage II would be prioritized by province according to the settlement
patterns of ex-combatants and implementation capacities at the provincial and community
levels, respectively. Special capacity-building efforts and training would be required at
all levels of Program implementation. The MINALOC has already developed a general
environmental and social awareness and sensitization module and would take the lead in
building capacities at the district, provincial and central levels.
Depending on the target group, training activities would include: sensitization workshops
for ex-combatants and host communities, training of trainers in collaboration with local
and/or international partners, NGOs and community associations, and technical training
for line ministry staff and RDRC staff. Capacity building activities would be based on



Rwanda Demobilization and Reiintegration Program - Technical Annex     64
written materials and models prepared in the appropriate communication medium,
corresponding to the t:hemes in the various workshops (i.e. planning, leadership skills,
project implementation, conflict resolution, roles and responsibilities, etc.)
The MINALOC would be responsible for providing and/or recruiting trainers. Trainers
would use an experiential learning metlodology that emphasizes a high level of
participation and interaction. To the fullest extent possible, women trainers/facilitators
would be identified to draw upon their local knowledge and experiences. To ensure
continuity and conformity in the overall capacity building program, the core training staff
would be engaged in the follow-up training activities.
At the community level, the focus would be on those CDCs and CPAs that are not yet
benefiting from development projects. After an assessment of their implementation
needs, and using the Program implementation manual and the training manual developed
by the MINALOC for community development projects, key members of CDCs and
CPAs would be familiarized with Program procedures and would receive required
training. As necessary, relevant CDC members and partner agencies would also undergo
training for supervising the IGA sub-component of the RDRP. Very few of the line
ministry agents have environmental and social specialists. Therefore, the capacity
building component would -ry to address the awareness issue through a targeted training
module that addresses the tezhnical areas of concern.



MAP SECTION






lne i                       !,.P.-q                                                                                                                                                                            i I                    co
r-I q-, p .-o4d.-   - p- X"i,,p'. A-                                                                                                                                 0.6                                                              ol
C'4             Au. 4. 404S 10B.1 .44 u.                                                                                                                                                                                            Cl
ol
LO    ,..15pl Au. Id.-E) P-8 Pli-M -W   OE     W     oz    91    ot     9     0 Sli[W
jou p                                                                                                                                                                                                         <
CN     u. -oq               Au. P..                                                                                                                                                                                                  ZD
CL
r-e pi,-m -qi  4!-n          og 5p oi, gE OF, gz; 06 gi ol      g   o sd13woml                                                                                                                                            m
-a                                                                                                                                       00 NOD JO
Co      d.w  q4 Aq p-d.,        s!ql
I G Nnj no
A
'A
'IIN                     MwUlN
ION3W                                                                       9ONSnW
3yvs
3AI50IN                cs4v,y
OGN3m,"i
Dia.
DWDJD4!E)
aAnqlm
0-N
Ui
Nis
AN gwi
lSgdC-j
SCIVID NIVV4
41,jr-IM083Nnwwm
',dVd
L                                                                                                                                                            sivildvD 3nLDgdisd
Ljna
-YuT
OONOD          AO                                        IVildVD IVNC)I-LVN
d3d 'W3C
V(INVMN
V I N V Z N V I
'I                                VG Nv 9 n
oqt
'09.6                                                                              M,,9Z



