Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3634 RW
Development Credit Agreement
(Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated  June 25, 2002
CREDIT NUMBER 3634 RW
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 25, 2002 between REPUBLIC OF RWANDA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter, dated March 14, 2002 (Letter of 
Page  2
Demobilization and Reintegration Policy Program), from the Borrower describing a program of 
actions, objectives and policies designed to address the Emergency through the demobilization, 
reinsertion and reintegration of a large number of Ex-Combatants (the Program) and declaring 
the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program;
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the 
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and which forms part of the Program, has 
requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(C)
the Borrower intends to obtain from donor countries (Donors) grants in an 
aggregate amount equivalent to at least twenty-six million US dollars ($26,000,000) to assist in 
financing of the Project, on terms and conditions set forth in agreements (the Grant Agreements) 
to be entered into between the Borrower and the Association (acting as the administrator of a 
trust fund to be established for such purposes), or between the Borrower and Donors; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 1999) (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Armed Groups” means organized armed groups that engaged in military 
fighting against RPA (as hereinafter defined) in the territory of the Borrower or the territory of 
the Democratic Republic of Congo;
(b)
“Community Development Committee” or “CDC” means an elected local entity 
within the Borrower’s territory established and operating pursuant to the Borrower’s law No. 
4/2001 dated January 13, 2001;
(c)
“Demobilization and Reintegration Fund Account” or “DRFA” means the 
account in Rwandese Francs (as hereinafter defined) to be opened pursuant to Section 6.01 (c) of 
this Agreement in the National Bank of Rwanda for the purpose of holding the local currency 
counterpart funds of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to Category (1) in the table in paragraph 
1 of Schedule 1 and other Borrower counterpart contribution to the Project;
(d)
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (c) of this 
Agreement;
Page  3
(e)
“Emergency” means the extraordinary event of limited duration which for the 
purposes of this Agreement started in August 1998, and which was caused by the escalation of 
the armed conflict in the territory of the Borrower and the subsequent military involvement of the 
Borrower’s army in the war in the territory of the Democratic Republic of Congo;
(f)
“Ex-Combatant” means: (i) any RPA soldier demobilized after 1995 or to be 
demobilized after the date of this Agreement; (ii) any Ex-FAR (as hereinafter defined) soldier 
who remained in, or returned to, the territory of the Borrower after July 1994 or returns to the 
territory of the Borrower after the date of this Agreement and did not join any Armed Group; or 
(iii) any member of an Armed Group who is a Rwandan national and returns to the territory of 
the Borrower after May 2001;
(g)
“Ex- FAR” or “
Ex-Forces Armées Rwandaises
” means the armed forces of the 
Borrower that existed prior to April 6, 1994;
(h)
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(i)
“Initial Deposit” means the deposit to be made in DRFA in accordance with 
Section 3.03 (c) (i) of this Agreement;  
(j)
“PIM” or “Project Implementation Manual” means the Project Implementation 
Manual adopted by the Borrower, and including details of procurement and disbursement 
arrangements, performance indicators, arrangements for environmental and social monitoring, a 
manual of financial procedures and other administrative and organizational arrangements, as 
shall have been agreed with the Association for purposes of the implementation of the Project, as 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the PIM;
(k)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance granted by 
the Association to the Borrower pursuant to a Letter-Agreement between the Borrower and  the  
Association  dated  August 31, 2001  and  countersigned on September 18, 2001;
(l)
“Provincial Program Office” or “PPO”  means the implementation arm of RDRC 
(as hereinafter defined) at the provincial level, to be established by the Borrower in each of the 
provinces where Ex-Combatants will settle and whose role and functions are described in 
paragraph I.3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(m)
“RPA” means “Rwanda Patriotic Army”, the armed forces of the Borrower;
(n)
“Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Commission” or “ RDRC” means 
the commission to be established by the Borrower pursuant to Section 6.01 (e) of this 
Agreement;
(o)
Rwandese Franc” or “FRw” means the Borrower’s currency;
(p)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement;
(q)
“Special Target Groups” means special groups of Ex-Combatants that are 
Page  4
provided targeted support for their medical rehabilitation or social and economic reintegration 
and include those who are female, disabled, chronically ill or children; and
(r)
“Technical Secretariat’ or “TS” means the Project implementation unit to be 
established by the Borrower as the executing body of RDRC, whose role and functions are 
described in paragraph I.2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Page  5
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various  
currencies  equivalent  to  twenty  million  Special  Drawing  Rights (SDR 20,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of Categories (2) through (5) in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, open and maintain in US dollars a special deposit 
account in its Central Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits 
into, and payments out of the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall prior to furnishing to the Association the first request for 
withdrawal from Category (1) in the table set forth in Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement, open and thereafter maintain in its Central Bank, a Deposit Account in Dollars on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.  All withdrawals for such Category shall be 
deposited by the Association into the Deposit Account.
(d)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the 
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date 
and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the 
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the date 
of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn 
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 
immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time 
thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be 
Page  6
applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall 
reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay 
the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each January 1 and July 
1
commencing July 1, 2012 and ending January 1, 2042. Each installment to and including the 
installment payable on January 1, 2022, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and 
each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the Association's 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of 
the Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's 
economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall 
have been repaid; and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount 
of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on which 
the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the modification 
referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of  the increase in the amounts 
of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the 
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the 
Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the 
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
Page  7
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of The United States of America is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Program and the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Program 
and the Project as set forth in the Preamble and Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end 
shall carry out the Project through RDRC, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate financial, technical, administrative and military demobilization practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project;  
Section 3.02.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 3.01 of 
this Agreement, and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall, for purposes of financing its contribution to expenditures under the Project:
(a)
establish and maintain the Demobilization and Reintegration Fund Account until 
completion of the Project;
(b)
deposit in the DRFA the local currency counterpart funds of the proceeds of the 
Credit allocated to Category (1) in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 and ensure that all such 
funds shall be used exclusively to make payments for the demobilization, reinsertion and 
reintegration of Ex-Combatants;
(c)
for the purposes of financing its contribution to the Project other than the 
amounts referred to in the preceding subparagraph, make deposits into the DRFA as follows: (i) 
prior to the Effective Date, an initial amount equivalent to $1,100,000; and (ii) thereafter 
beginning on April 1, 2003, consecutive installments of $200,000 each, payable quarterly, or in 
such installments as may be agreed from time to time with the Association; 
(d)
ensure that the amounts referred to in the preceding subparagraph shall be used 
exclusively to make payments for activities under the Project other than those financed by the 
amounts referred to in subparagraph (b) of this section.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, including 
Page  8
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Association, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account, the Deposit Account as well as the Demobilization and 
Reintegration Fund Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of 
the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for 
such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements, records 
and accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting obligations set 
out in paragraph II (1) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement,
 
the  Borrower shall prepare, in 
accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the Association 
not later than 45 days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and 
thereafter not later than 45 days after each calendar quarter, a  Financial Monitoring Report for 
Page  9
such period, which:
(a)
sets forth actual and projected sources and uses of funds for the Project,  both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing separately funds provided under 
the Credit, and explains variances between the projected and actual sources and uses of  such 
funds;
(b)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both cumulatively and for 
the period covered by said report, and explains variances between the  previously forecast and 
actual implementation targets; and
(c)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of the period 
covered by said report.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified:
(a)
an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that 
the Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out; and
(b)
funds deposited in the Demobilization and Reintegration Fund Account pursuant 
to this Agreement have been used for purposes other than those stated in Section 3.03 (b) and (d) 
of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of 
the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has established a financial management and accounting system for 
the Project, acceptable to the Association; 
(b)
the Borrower has adopted the PIM in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association; 
(c)
the Demobilization and Reintegration Fund Account has been established; 
(d)
the Borrower has made the Initial Deposit referred to in Section 3.03 (c) (i) of 
this Agreement; 
Page  10
(e)
the Borrower has adopted a decree, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, establishing the Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Commission, supported 
by the Technical Secretariat and Provincial Program Offices referred to in paragraphs I.2 and I.3 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(f)
the Borrower has appointed at TS, the key professional staff referred to in 
paragraph I.2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, with qualifications and experience satisfactory to 
the Association; and
(g)
the Borrower has adopted regulations, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, setting forth the eligibility criteria for the demobilization and reintegration of 
Ex-Combatants.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for Finance is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
P.O Box 158
Kigali
Republic of Rwanda
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile
MINFIN-RWANDA
22687
MINFIN-RAW 
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
Page  11
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477 6391
Washington, DC
 64145 (MCI)
Page  12
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
By /s/ Richard Sezibera
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Emmanuel Mbi
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Eligible Imports  
100% of foreign
required for the Project
expenditures
Page  13
as specified in the Annex
to this Schedule
    (a)
2,880,000
    (b)
3,830,000
    (c)
3,820,000
    (d)
3,820,000
(2)
Civil Works
60,000
85% of local 
expenditures
(3)
Vehicles, furniture,
1,500,000
100% of foreign 
equipment and materials
expenditures and 85% 
of local expenditures
(4)
Consultants’ services,
780,000
100%
training and audits
(5)
Operating Costs
1,900,000
85%
(6)
Refunding of
450,000
Amount due pursuant
Project Preparation
to Section 2.02 (d) of
Advance
this Agreement
(7)
Unallocated
960,000
TOTAL
20,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c)
the term “operating costs’ means the costs incurred on account of Project 
implementation, management and monitoring, including office supplies, rental of office space, 
fuel, maintenance of vehicles, salaries of contractual Project staff, audits and travel per diems for 
RDRC members and staff, but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of: 
Page  14
(a)
payments made for expenditures under Category (1) prior to the date of this  
Agreement,  except that  withdrawals, in an  aggregate  amount  not  exceeding  SDR 2,880,000 
may be made on account of expenditures before that date but after October 30, 2001;
(b)
expenditures under Category (1) for goods supplied under a contract which any 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association shall have financed or 
agreed to finance under another credit; 
(c)
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, expenditures under Category (1) 
in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent to 50% of the amount allocated to such Category for 
any class of eligible imports specified in the Annex to this Schedule;
(d)
expenditures under Category (1) for goods intended for military or paramilitary 
purposes, luxury consumption and used goods; 
(e)
expenditures under Category (1) (b), (c), and (d) unless the Program is being 
implemented in a manner satisfactory to the Association and the Borrower has furnished to the 
Association the following information: 
(i)
an implementation plan and resource requirements for the subsequent 6 
month period; 
and 
(ii)
a list of Ex-Combatants, identifying the amount of the funds allocated to 
each in 
support of their reinsertion and reintegration; and
(f)
expenditures under Category (1) for goods procured under contracts costing less 
than $5,000 equivalent.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods and works under contracts costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent each, services for consultant firms under contracts costing less 
than $50,000 equivalent each and services for individual consultants under contracts costing less 
than $25,000 equivalent each, imports under contracts costing less than $2,000,000 equivalent, 
training and operating costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 1
Classes of Eligible Imports to be Financed Under the Project
1.
Agricultural equipment and inputs
2.
Petroleum and fuel products
3.
Construction materials
4.
Transport vehicles and spare parts
Page  15
5.
Livestock, animal products and veterinary supplies
6.
School supplies and equipment
7.
Medical supplies and equipment
8.
Construction equipment, industrial machinery and spare parts
9.
Electrical equipment, machinery, materials and parts
10.
Industrial raw materials and chemicals
11.
Office equipment and materials
12.
Telecommunications equipment
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in its efforts to implement the 
Program, including: (i) demobilizing a large number of Ex-Combatants and supporting their 
reinsertion and reintegration into civilian life; and (ii) facilitating the reallocation of public 
expenditures from military to social and economic sectors.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration
The importation of goods specified in the Annex to Schedule 1 to this Agreement to 
support the demobilization, reinsertion and reintegration of Ex-Combatants, including Special 
Target Groups.
Part B
: 
Institutional Development and  Project Implementation Support
1.
Strengthening the capacity of the Borrower’s institutions at the central and local level to 
carry out and support activities under the Project through the provision of training and technical 
advisory services, acquisition of vehicles and equipment.
2.
Carrying out of: (i) selected studies, including an assessment of economic opportunities 
of returning Ex-Combatants, a beneficiary assessment of Ex-Combatants demobilized prior to the 
date of this Agreement, design and costing of assistance packages to disabled Ex-Combatants, 
development of a pre-demobilization orientation program and a community sensitization and 
participation program; and (ii) financial audits and monitoring and external evaluations of the 
Project.
3.
(i) Rehabilitation of demobilization centers and medical facilities; (ii) acquisition of 
medical and other equipment, drugs and prostheses to support the reintegration of chronically ill 
Page  16
or disabled Ex-Combatants; and (iii) acquisition of HIV/AIDS prevention and protection tools 
and test kits.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works 
Part A
:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages estimated 
to cost $300,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Works estimated to cost more than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts awarded 
Page  17
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International or National Shopping
(a)
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $800,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of international/national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Civil works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of international/national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Private Sector Imports
Goods  imported  by the private sector under Category (1) in the table in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement, estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
in accordance with established commercial practices satisfactory to the Association.
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of 
all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have 
been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first three contracts for goods under category 3 of the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and the first three contracts for works estimated to 
cost less than $100,000 each, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the execution of any contract under shopping procedures, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Association a report on the comparison 
and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct contracting 
or shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Association a 
copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
Page  18
the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part 
A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  The shortlist of 
consultants estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely 
national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection  of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Technical advisory services and training under Part B of the Project, estimated to cost 
less than $75,000 equivalent per contract, up to an  aggregate  amount not to exceed $300,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $150,000 equivalent, shall be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Least Cost Selection
Services for financial audits and external evaluations estimated to cost less than 
Page  19
$100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
4.
UN Agencies
Technical advisory services under Part B.1 and B.2 (i) of the Project may be procured 
under contracts with UN agencies in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.13 of the 
Guidelines.
5.
Single Source Selection
Technical advisory services under Part B.1 and B.2 (i) of the Project may, with the 
Association's prior agreement, be procured under contracts with UN agencies in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 and (other 
than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply. 
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have 
been given.
(d) 
All terms of reference for contracts for consultants’ services shall be submitted 
to the Association for prior review.
3.
Post Review
Page  20
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
I.
Project Coordination and Management
1.
The Borrower shall establish and maintain thereafter at all times during the 
implementation of the Project the RDRC in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
RDRC shall be responsible for overall coordination, management and implementation of the 
Project, and in particular for: (i) formulating Program policy proposals; (ii) identifying and 
resolving major implementation issues related to the Program; (iii) monitoring and guiding the 
work of the Technical Secretariat and other institutions involved in Program implementation; and 
(iv) carrying out other activities as necessary to ensure the achievement of Program objectives.
2.
RDRC shall be supported at the central level by a Technical Secretariat (TS) which shall 
be responsible for: (i) the preparation and costing of detailed annual implementation plans for the 
Program; (ii) the implementation and coordination of the individual Program components and to 
this end shall establish close links with the relevant Borrower agencies as well as local 
organizations and associations, the private sector, international donor and UN agencies; (iii) the 
transparent and accountable administration of the Program, including procurement and financial 
management; and (iv) monitoring and evaluation. TS shall maintain at all times during the 
implementation of the Project the following key staff with experience and qualifications 
satisfactory to the Association: a Program coordinator, and 3 officers responsible for 
administration and finance; operations; and information management, respectively.
3.
RDRC shall be represented in each province of the Borrower by a PPO which shall be 
responsible for: (i) updating the inventory of projects and training and employment providers; (ii) 
conducting outreach activities, including counseling and referral; (iii) technical and financial 
monitoring of reintegration activities, especially at the community level; and (iv) coordinating 
with Borrower institutions at the local level and non-governmental institutions.  PPOs shall at all 
times during the implementation of the Project maintain staff with experience and qualifications 
satisfactory to the Association, which shall include at a minimum, a program officer for 
provinces with 1000 or more registered Ex-Combatants and an assistant program officer for 
provinces with less than 1000 registered Ex-Combatants.
4.
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the PIM, and shall not 
amend or waive any provision thereof which in the opinion of the Association shall materially or 
adversely impact the implementation of the Project.  The PIM shall specify the detailed rules and 
processes for demobilization, including identification and screening of Ex-Combatants; the 
criteria, procedures and terms and conditions of reinsertion and reintegration assistance to 
Ex-Combatants; verification of assistance packages; flow of funds to Ex-Combatants and 
verification of the use of such funds by Ex-Combatants for the intended purposes.
5.
The Borrower shall, no later than within six months of the Effectiveness Date, and 
annually thereafter or upon the request of the Association, furnish to the Association: (i) 
Page  21
verification that a random sample of a minimum of 3% of the Ex-Combatants have received their 
payments in accordance with the semi-annual work program and budget of the Project; and (ii) 
verification that a  random  sample of a  minimum  of 3%  of  the  Ex-Combatants have acquired 
the goods and services intended.
II.
Monitoring and Evaluation
1.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators specified in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare,  under  terms  of  reference  satisfactory  to  the  Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 in 
each year, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by March 31 and September 30 in each year, or 
such later date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter.
2.
Without limitation upon the Borrower’s obligations with respect to auditing of Project 
accounts set forth in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall, at the request of the 
Association, carry out any additional audits as may be needed of the records and accounts for the 
Special Account, Deposit Account as well as the Demobilization and Reintegration Fund 
Account.
3.
The Borrower shall carry out no later than February 15 every year an external evaluation 
of the implementation of the Project under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association and 
communicate to the Association the results of such evaluation.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible categories” means Categories (2) through (5) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
Page  22
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $800,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $400,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 960,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures 
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts 
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall 
have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposits into the Special Account at such 
intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to, or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the respective 
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, 
at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
Page  23
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit 
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Special Account minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount 
of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (a) provide such 
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (b) deposit into the Special Account (or, if 
the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of 
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, 
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the Association all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
Page  24
SCHEDULE 6
Performance Indicators
Project Component 
or Subcomponent
Key Performance Indicators
Demobilizatio
n
·
About 5,000 Ex-Combatants from the RPA are 
demobilized every six months in 2002 and 2003.
·
Each returning Ex-Combatant from an Armed Group is 
demobilized in accordance with the criteria and procedures set 
out in PIM.
·
Each Ex-Combatant has received an ID card and is 
captured in the management information system (MIS) 
database. 
Reinsertion
·
Each demobilized Ex-Combatant has received a basic 
needs kit within one month of demobilization.
·
The time elapsed between registration in a Provincial 
Program Office and bank payment of the first installment of the 
recognition of service allowance to each demobilized RPA 
Ex-Combatant does not exceed 2 months.
·
Each Ex-Far Ex-Combatant has registered at a 
Provincial Program Office and has received his/her recognition 
of service allowance within six months of registration.
Reintegration
·
Reintegration grant payments to demobilized Ex- 
Combatants   are   made   no   later   than  9 months after 
demobilization.
·
Average costs for reintegration assistance under the 
vulnerability support window do not exceed FRw150,000.
Page  25
Project 
Component or 
Subcomponent
Key Performance Indicators
Special Target 
Groups
·
All demobilized female Ex-Combatants have received 
reinsertion and reintegration benefits under the Program in the 
same amount and according to the same procedures as 
demobilized male Ex-Combatants.
·
Each demobilized disabled Ex-Combatant has received 
medical rehabilitation assistance within 18 months of 
demobilization.
·
Each demobilized child Ex-Combatant has received 
targeted reintegration rehabilitation assistance within 12 
months of demobilization.
Implementation 
Arrangements
·
12 Provincial Program Offices are operational within 3 
months of Credit effectiveness in accordance with criteria set 
forth in the Program implementation manual.
·
At least 50% of CDCs are administering the approval 
process of grants for income-generating activities within 12 
months of Credit effectiveness.
·
An independent evaluation is carried out annually and 
includes an analysis of environmental and social monitoring 
indicators.
Other
·
Recurrent expenditures on education and health  reach  
FRw  36.4  billion  in 2002, FRw 40.8 billion in 2003 and 
FRw 45.7 billion in 2004.
