CE Z v7 S - 
DkO  of
The World Bank
FMt OMFCUAL USE ONLY
RqIwt No. P-6156-M-AU
IlEKORAIDUII Alll RECO0ENATIO1
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTRNATI ONL DEVELOPIIIT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EJECUTIVE DIECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 13.1 MILION
TO THE ISLAIC REPUBLIC OF MARTNI
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
FEBRUA   8, 1994
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: P-   6156 MAU
Type: MOP
Tbis document has a restricted dRistrikon and may be usedl by reipieSs only in the peormanse of
tber official duties Its contents may not 0owie be disdsed widwat Wodd Bankt autborization..



Currency Unit Ouguiya (UM)
US$1 -UM  I5 (Tune 1993)
WSGES ANDEAUS
Metric System
Januay 1 - DeIcber 31
ABBREVIATIONS AlT!D ACRONYM
AMECTIPE          Agence M     e e d cution des Trava        t d1htr Public
et pour IlEmploi (Mawriani Agency for Public Works and Employment)
CFCB              Centre deformation coop6rative de Bogh6
(Bogh6 Cooperative Training Ceer)
CNERV             Centre national Cdlevage et de recherches v6trinairts
(Nationa Livestock and Vetinary Research Center)
CNRA              Conseil National de la Recherche Agricole
(National Agriultural Research Council)
CNRADA            Centre National de Recherches Agricoles
(atioon Agricultural Research Center)
CP                Ceute de Planification (Planning Unit of MDRE)
DRFV             Direon Recherche-Formation-Vuluisation du MDRE
(Resei-Training-Extendon Agency of MDRE)
ENFVA             Ecola nationale de formation et de vulgarisation agricole
(National Agricturl Train  and Extension School)
ISS               Ibstitut Scientifique Supdrieur (Higher Scientific Institute)
LERG              Laboratory for Geographic Studies and Resech
(Laboratoire dEtudes G6ographiques et de Recherche)
MDRE             Ministre du d6veloppement rural et de r'environnement
yfiisty of Runa Development and the Environment)
SMSs              Subject-Matter Specialsts
SONADER           Socit nationale de d6veloppementr nal
(National Agency for Ruir Development of MDRE)



IFOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ISA14[1 LIC OF AW
AGICULTUMAL WVIL;ES PtROEr
CREDlT AND PROJECT SU ARY ..................................................         i
PART 1. COUNTRY POLICIES ANI) BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEY ................. I
A.    istorica Perqpctive an Recent Performance ........................................... I
B.  Ih External E        noiro                   n .....................     9 ......  9
C.  Mauits Development Policies and Bank Assistance Progrm ............. 10
D.  Agenda, for Board D isio                                       n     . .....................  17
PART I  THE AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT .................................... 20
SPPORTIG TABIES AND ASS ..........................                           .       25
Amec 1 - Key Ecounomic In            dics................ 25
A.nex 2- Social Idicators of Developmnt, 1991-92 ...................................... 27
Annex 3 - IBRD/lDALeniangProgam, FY94-FY97 ....................................... 29
- IFC and MIGA Progam, FY68-FY94 .......................................  30
Annex 4 - Key Expos    Indicators .................................         31
Annex 5 - Statement of IBRD Loans and IDA Creits ................................ 32
Annex 6 - Seected Indicators of Bank Portfolio Performauc and   M           33
Annexa7 - Struchre of Gross Domestic Product .......................................    34
Schedule A- Estimated Costs and Fancing Plan .......................................    36
Schedule B - Su_may ofPrpsed Procurement                  ns ....................... 37
- Disbursements .......................................          38
Schedule C - Timetable of Key Project Processing Events ................................. 39
Schedule D - Acton Plan to Improve Di       usements ....................................... 40
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the petfonnman
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wihbout Wodd Bankc authodtion.



IRAC RI]C OF MURIT:I
AND PROJECT               Y
Bon:                                     ic Republc of Mawitania
MDRE, SONADER, CNRADA, CNERV, CFCB,
Farmeas
Credit Wsnmt:                          SDR 13.1 million (US$18.2 milion equivalent)
Tm:                                   Sanda  with 40 years maurt
&Nilman:                              IDA:                18.2
(M us$ Smian)                         Govenment            1.1
Beneficiaries       0.5
Tota:              19.8
Economic Rate of Rehm,:               Not applicable
Poimu CeeNot applicable
Report No. 12308-MAU
k                                     1     250IBRD25091 - Prect Area
MM1W 25092 - Agroeological zones
USS million
Beneficiaries       0.5           0           0.5
Govermet            1.1           0           1.1
IDA                  2           1L2         inZ
8.8          11.0        19.8
E            DADburnts:
IDA FalwYfl
2.    2E    22    21    22       Q      QQZ00
Anua               1.6   3.4   4.5    3.1   2.6   2.3   0.7
Cumulative         1.6   5.0   9.5   12.6  15.2  17.5  18.2



MEMORANDUMAND                            ONS F THE PREIODENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION TO
THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO
THE ISLAMC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA FOR THE
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
1.    I submit for your approval the foowing report and   ron on a proposed
development credit to the Islamic Republic of Mauriania -for SDR 13.1 million, the equivalent of
US$18.2 miion, on standard IDA terms with a matuity of 40 years to hep finance a project for
agricultual services. Govement will financum US$1.1 mffion equivalent, or 5.5% of project costs,
and Be azie US$500,000 or 2.5% of project costs.
PART 1. COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A. Historial Perpective and Recent Prformauce
Bacdgound
2.    Maurtania is a  outry of stark contrasts, confronting rapid social and economic
transfonations. An Islamic Republic, with Arabic the official langge, it is aptly descibed as a
bridge between Arab and Black Africa. The people's Orgi  and oientaons reflect Mauritans
dual cultur; ties to both its northem (the Maghreb) and southe  (Senegal and Mal) nghbors are
important and complexL Mritai i one of Africa's lage countries with some 1.1 milion squa
km, but over 70% ofthe land area is deseuts of shifing sand-dunes an= ss than 0.2%/o of the land is
considered sitable for crops. Particary around the Cities and agricultural areas, land degradaion
and encroachment of sand on land that was formerly cropped or settled pose the visible nd
mounting problems we term   tifictio   The southern part of the county, in conurst, comprises
the Senega River Valley where a long term nver basin development program is opening new
agricultural prospects but with major chalenges for enronmental management Off the coat are
rich fishing grounds, but recent trends suggest serious over-fishing problems.
3.    Mauritania's population is small (about 2.1 million) relative to its size, with popuation
densities among the world's lowest. Social stuctures and institutions are growing and changing



2
Wmit gre rapidiy. only a4 
sumdon    ago     modt 
nwatuon                 as
nomads  and only a smol g                   i i
frcion  Of the populatfio f i
vied in ci     s 4 twns                   
Successve drougt drovea a
pnoo   of dramatic change,
such tihwat Oly the populaio
is mostly settled and almot  "i'
hal urban   The popuation                                                   
growth rate is high (almost      .. . 
3%ct) and prbably i# cr _asi
Since the late  M8s, nmmbers   ~~~.        ~       .
were swelled by rarg e influx of    " '
people re uring from -sene                                             r
ianth wa ke of   eivg1                 ||        ||l||1
distue nvcesin both counries. ar   ..
By mostmneasure(nutritional
level food secuity, incme.,    ..
acces to water and housing     
and  soCjW  indicato) the                 
maj4.iy   of Mu a ritanos E                   ..
People  face  tough  livig 
standards. Thu, poverty and      ,. . E   3
managemet noit   Of   innate
enaironmental challenges are    4
central   to,Mauiprogres dnce 1      s i oib
positon and prospectot
4. Martnaseooy                   *       .
has  undergone  rapid  and             o
dramati  rasomain  in 
the     decade's    since
Independece  in n1960, at iAlnt   fay
which time it -had a mini  ....
set of insftittons, a tiny share
of litate people (5%) and not e n a capia (it was governed as pat of Senega i the coloenl era);
Nouakchote's population was only 4,800 in 1959.   Nomadic herding was the backbon of the
economy. Mauritania!s progres since 1960 is difficult to fit into clear eras, but essentialy the histoiy
suggests a pattern of ambitious and expnsie programs to bring about mdriaonand
tranformtionof the economy, based largely on three new sectors: mining, fisheries, and liTigate
farming. Iron mines opened in 1963 in the far north, and represent today a large, very modern
enclave geared entirely to exports. M.auritania!'s fisheries were exploited almost exclusively -by
foreign interests for some 50 years; the 1980s marked by the country's attempts to haness and
capture its fisheries resources. Indeed, the sector seemed an exciting success story, as fihries



eports surpassed mning and new Mauritaian fBeets started to opeate. The setor, however, has
ficed a grave cisis for the past five yer, provoked not least by maor over-fishing, with reform
programs ac ny under actve consideation  The Sahelian droughts of the 1960s and 1970s
rocked Maurtania, and shook its economic and social foundations, and especially its sbistenc
agricaul    Heavy dependence on extea aid, especially for food, is a clear legacy of this period, as
are the sPrawing cies, lacking inrifrastture and services, with large populations still dependent on
food aid. The multi-country efforts to develop the Senegal River Valley, laumched in the early 1980.,
are another legaqy and have opened the ppects for a stronge agricultwal base. Thus the last
three decades have taken Mauritania from a small, nomadic, subsitce economy, to a bifuirated
economy sharply delineated between a continuing   bitenm agricultural economy and large and
precaious informal economy arund the cite  and three "modern" sector poles that provide most
rts and revene: the utra-modem iron mines in the north, the fisheries sector, and irrigated
agricultre in the Senegal Valley.
5.    Maritnwas economic       e    t performance and prospe    ae seen a checkered
histoy over this period. The 1960's saw a foreign led boom of investment and grwth Prospects
looked excelenit end Mauritnia launched la< e invesmts  cwing subsantial debt In the early
1970s, however, prospects worsened and Mauritania faced stagnation and economic crisis.  These
problems iad may souce, iclg  the droughts, world marketsumpV, regional conflict that
draine   reuces,      icread and largely ineffecta Govrnment interntions in the economy.
This wa an  a of heay borrwing for questionable enterpries (most are now carcss);
investment me   poached 40%A of GDP but sadly, had flie lastig benefit Towad the end of the
decade, the basic stategy of developing a modern and diversified economy based on minng,
iigted agrcbu   and fieries be    to          but its progr   was undermined by muh'
ec       mim ad, once agan, was ac              td by  temral problems (drougbk, worl
pdces and ernal tesons). Maurtania in the mnid 1980  ad seen virtually no real growth in per
cita incom  and faced a major debt ciis. Concemd efforts to focus on economic refom and to
develop both policies and insitions to mae   Mauranias nAern eomy essentldl date fiom
1985 when the economic adjustmet program now underwy was launched.
6.    Hopes fir a proso  futur for Mauritania rest on wveal fundations. First Mi  and
fishies resources a bstant  and ; well mand, offer good development potnt    Second,
major infiUitwre hive        in the Snegal Valley offer a mucli richer pont  for agriculral
development Thrd, Mauritania has made imporut  ides ir. han resource development and
stands out in the Sah  for recet progress in primny education. Fourth, the exstence of a dynamic
private sector offers the potenti of significt economic growth, providing its energies are nurtred
and channeled iariately wi  the fiamwork of overll sound macroeconomic          a, 
reliable and transpaent judiciary system, and a fimuctioning incetive systm  Howwer, dere i still
f&r to go: 'in UNDPs ranklg of 173 nations according to their level of uman resources
deeopment, Maurania ran  161. But curent programs are ambitious and moving ahead quite
fust. The Manretanian         hav oxiie d        inaon and dill in managing econoc
reform when they are convinced of their validity and the near decade of adjustment measures has
indeed dhaged the economy lsbanlly, opening prospects for further diverfication in tade and
small industry.  Mautania fices, nonethess, frmidable dWlleng    incuding very weak
adminstrave capacity i many sector, a legac of complex inte    tensons w     spill over into



4
tenatoal reations, st  poo  uman resource indicators, large poverty and   nmental
dhallenges, and a hey debt overhng and depence on foreign assistance.
Structure of the Economy and Recent Devdopments
7.    Ma       s economy continues to show a sharp contrast betwee  the modern sectors,
represned by the healthy mini  sector, which Mpsented 14% of GDP and 39% of exports in
1993 (a major new mine will open in Apil), the troubled moder fisheries sector, currently the target
of         on meaures, which re ented 4% of GDP and 56Y. of exports, and an irted
agiic1tur sector wbich, at 2% of GDP is stll small, faces some serious technical difficulti  and
the subsistence economy on which the large majority of the population lives. Compared with
agriculture, livestock is a fo larger sector which represented 9% of GDP and conbuted to a
sgnificat but unrecorded share of exports.  Mauitm  has a nasce  manfing sector,
reprenting about 4% of GDP, wlich produes mainly food and beverages, houseold chemicals
and constuction materials  High unemployment, esdmat  at about 39%A in the cities, reflect the
friit and shallow depth of modem sctor development and slow econonmc growth  Of major
concen ibr the modem economy, the banking sector, wghed down by unrecoveable loans to the
fisheies sctor, is weak but a program for financial and instuton   ng is underway.
8.     Restucturing tlh  economy (1985-1989). Facing acute financal and economic  ise
Maurinia embarked in 1985 on a cphensv  economic adjustmen program, designed to
redress internal and exta imbalancs and restructure the ecnomy to opete under the prncil
of a fiee market The UVP and the Bank supported the program from the outset Tenmed the
Economic and Fiancial Recovy Program (PREF) 1985-89, it was scceded by the Consolion
Program (PR) 1989-91. These effors were notably uccessfil im reorien   the Governments
policy in key areas: mangement of public esources moemy and credit policies Omclfuing
liberation of the exchango   re regime), liberalizaton of priing and trade polices, public
administion, bain& public enrpi reform, enerVr, fisedies and pive secto prmtion
9.    A Troubled Period (1989-92). The encouraging progress of Maurtanias progams was
laqe intefrupted in 1989. Rear  implementation ws virtually suspended, as policy making was
neary parazed by tense political and social coions, wlich dis e  aeonomic activity and
slowed down the adjustment efr  This period was marked by conflicts with Senegal, an ens
period of domestic socia and ethnic turbuene, and the Perin Gulf cisis in which MaI itan
sympathies were perceived by the international community to lie with Iraq. Itmational aid to
Mauritania dropped sharply. Unaorable weather conditions complicated the situaon futher. The
cumulative result of these faftors was reflected in declning OUt   in the agrCUla=l, mining and
fisheries sectors,' the reemerence of domestic financial imbalances, a sharp and sudden deteioraion
m exal financing and slow pursit of ecomic reform (m partiudar the implm tion of the
fisheries and banidng sector refixm program), as the Governmen  attention wa diverted to other
matters GDP growth decined to an averge of 0.8% a year. Negotation on a Ifurth year Policy
|   A miew otdse   isse6w wa uduttak in 1991.  . relt ng reupt'Fidhie Setrw evW  (Repot1 109IO
MAU) popaseda pogiwa c(atwA  m   ad madulm -ad long4tm saest fr scla d4ewlopat Tbe
cnlui  of b repot provied tbe basis for the Gov_amti  lb  of DeWeo_pnt PolTc fwrthi fisfi maw. which
wil b presentedtoia od    to be ooved ianda 1994.



S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Framework Paper (for the period 1992-95), which had begun in 1990, were delayed for more ta
two yer
10.    agIg Coue (1992). By 1992, the Governmet had succeeded in resolvg (or at lea
amelioratin) inteal social tensons. A process of Cottionl reftom  electios, and pubic
dialogue through a newly active media reuted in significan canges and ocwpied the Governmena
attention during a protracted period. Faced with a multifed and severe economic cris the
Goverment returnd its attento to the adjustment program  By lato 1992, after lengthy diaogue
and debate (largey wihi the Governmnt), a renewed adjustme  program was laotnched, and
formed the basis for a fourth year Policy Framework Pa. The Ouguiya was devaled in October
1992, a move wbich was complemented by libera o  of the fire;gn  chnge rme includig
t  establishnt af an auction system for imports authoritio and elimination of limitations oan
transactns for invisibles. In addition to progress i stabilizing the economy, key stuctr
mears in the ar  of tad  forn   emange, picing, tax systems, public entrprses, public
experditre civi srvice, education and health were also adopted. Renewed emphasis on makt
forces and resuained demand mn_agent policies conned inflaion and safegarded eafier iniral
gais in co     n      How         impressie the  achievements, a large foreign debt, gloomy
prospects for iron ore and fisheries ewr and an intittional and policy enviromet unable to
nurture pvate sector development still loom as serious const    to fi economic  2ry2.
11.   Some recovery in 1993 Real GDP gowth in 1993 rose by an estmat  4.9% reflecti
Improved p rmance in haguailte (37o) and mng (14%).  Despite the 1992 deaiuaon,
inlon was contained to 10%, below the tgeed 13%. Foreign exchange reserves increased to
1.7 months of imports (up fiom 0.9 months in 1990). The cu  account deficit, exclug official
utsfer declinei from 21% of GDP in 1990 to an estimated 19Y in 1993; this is still hSher tn
the forecasted 11%   due to a weak world market for iron-ore and fisheries products, delaysn
workers remintces and the importation of previously coracted fishing vessels On the fiscal ront,
t'he consolidated govement operatons deficit increased from 5.4% in 1992, to an estimat  11%
in 1993, due to the impact of the baning sector resucring and incrmna socal ependitu
(Annex 1 - Key Economic Indicators). Alhough the debt burden wa relieved somewhat thanb  to
resheduing by the Pais aub donors, debt servce (45% of eports, befioe relef)    i
burdensome (Anmn  VI - Key Exposure Indicators). Fmaly, militaay expendi     has remaned
rvely high (3.5% of GDP compared to an averge of 2.5% in other SSA counties  The
Government has committed iself as indicated in the Fifth Year PFP to maitain a ceiling on wllitary
expendirequivalent to nominal 1993 level
12.   Status and Sustainability of Reonns.  Since 1992, Mitanias imlemention cf
strutural adjustment policies has been generally satisactoy. There have, however, been costy
delays in implementing key refoms in the banking and fisheries sectors wich ha  severely inhibited
growth in incomes and employment. More successf bave been reforms in the amultral sector, in
particular, in land development and maketing activides, and in ading activities where the private
sector has now completely replacet public eterprise activities. Maurania's immediate prospes
2  Mautania's economic and financial developments dung 1992-93 have been analyzed in the
Fith-Year PFP t993-96 (SecM93-1309, dated Dec. 23, 1993).



depend on its uccess in cllyp out a series of mease   designed to nurt  the pivat sector,
icludng sm   and meum entepues, to assume its rightfol roe as the prlmy ng_  of economc
growth and employment generato   Key anong these witl be maintwane of a ibealized fbrei
ecag system gae toward ensuing xena compettven; monety poli  des                 to
utilize indirect controls whici pomote maket fores; a broadening of the export base to include
non-traditionalxprt  Audamental  trctu ing of the fisheies setor, completion of financia
setorefoms aimd at ebling finc  itu               to suppott eonomic gOwth; comeon Of
privazton oK public enepise; and refm  in the lega and rgltoy famework which
constain the private setor. Specific time-bound measu  in each of these areas have been agreed
under the FitYear PFP covering the period 1993-96.
Socal Deelopment and Povert Alleiaion
13. Key social indicators are presented below:
An importmt qualificafion to thie above figures is thiat GNP per capita is consddraly infiated by the
emnlave kmore mining operadons. The vatm4oit of M~auritnas people, paticul dims
Iiving in ur    squatter setteents,  i.ce wvee and chronic condidons of poverty.  Key s_ _
indicators for NMawm are presented more fuUy in Annex 2.
14.  'The challenges of human resourc devpent wtd poverty alleon have a hig pnort
for bwan, and are closely HAWQe. Through th hag decd of econonuc refolms and troubles,
thiere has been a notable sbfti public resouuce expended on thie socid sectors, combine wit
efforts to improve their efficiencyr. A public expeditur reviw, undtaen by thle Bank ir, 1991 in
part to help support the Gova1ment's reonenxion in the social sectors overall, focused on the
issues.
15.   Th;e Governons priorities in education are the expansion of punuy    qualittie
improvemeu al: all levels of education, and the prviio  of relevan, jbinedvocationa



7
tining An IDA-suppoted Educaion Restructing Pojt (Y89) has helped to expand access to
primary educauion through a community-asied school construction program and has sengthened
technical educadon through a reform of progams and improvent of ficilities. As a result, the
primay enronmen ratio has incresed darply, from 49% in 1986 to 59% in 1992. The foundations
for improved sector planning and management were also laid tough x   staff deveopment
and the introduction O  compute-asited anayses and planning methods,  The succeasfis
implementation of reforms in techical education under this project has led to a follow-up opetion
(Iechical Educaion and Vocaional Trainng Support Project, FY93) that focuses cn linking
employment-orientd training to the needs of the labor market and involving employers in the desig",
delvey and financing of such waming. The project also provides a training find specialy designed
to suppo skills deopmen in the ifoma sector.
16. In the health sector, the Government's strategy is oriented towards the provision of
prevenv  and prmazy care sevices to the largest possible proporion of the populaior
Govemmes intiatives center around efforts to: i) operaolize dzon of helth
sces, (i) mobilize resources in favor of regonal health ytems; (ii) srngthen suppot and
planing capacity at the central level; and (iv) establish an essential drugs program  Each of these
actions contributes to the attainment of two central objectives which together would define sectora
diectidon in the medium term: t) achieving financial sabit  in the sector, and (u) iprovng the
quality and efficiency of sevwces  So far, Governmen  program is being implemented with
reasonable success particulaly with respect to the introduction of cost recovery and increasing
acces to health services. Yet, cges in health indators, parcardy ifnt and matenl
mortality, ar expected to be slow and graduaL  In addition, the ncreasing threat of AIDS is
preset  the Governmut with a new and serious chalenge In the populaon sector, MauaialUs
demograhics are     eed by three predominant fee: tapid growth, low density, and rapid
se aizotio. The Govnmnent is fousg its erts on developing a cones  around a
populadon polcy responsive to the counuys wonomic and social objecivs and on mapping out the
s ic actions needed to move foward in this repet. The adoption of an offcial popuati
polcy is expected to give greaer legitimacy to adons (fami planng, promoting the status of
women) whicb, until recently, were considered controversal if not taboo.  Howev, the
Govennt has a large gap of iormaton and heat services to be filled before the curt low
ContaCeptive Prevaence Rate of 1% is expected to improve to igificant levels Tle demographic
transition from high to low fertilit has not even begun.
17.   The Mauitanian Govemnt and its parte  have devoted sgnfcant effirts to identying
poverty issues and apppriat  eiation measures  A seies of recent studies paint a somber
picture of widespread poverty, encopassing about half of the popuaton  ased on income
sanards in the WDR of 1993). The indence and depth of poverty is much greater in rural than in
urban areas, although the  ums around the major towns and cities exubit woefAy low living
standards, with  u ble sanitation fitis  The pervvene  of poverty is simiary evident in
the countrys   il indior-     expectancy is still only 47 years; some 66% of the population
remain lliterate; and more than one of every five children dies before the age of five. With the
exception of the highest income quintile, income leves do not appear to be strongy coreltd with
acces to services  d oth  implied impacts of povery, sgestig the liklhood of ote fctor at
play which have not yet been adeuay studied and analyze  The two most criical povt related
isu des, dmding urgt remedia acon, ar rb food security and mounting uiemployniea-.



Food inecurity is linked to wide Suctuations in rainth and thw production, and to the precanous
position of many M at       who have moved wently to the cities; large food aid programs
prouvide a sfey net but studies suggest an ironic conclusion: cereals supplies overal are generally
adequate, but malrition (wasdt   affects some 34% of chldren and acute malnuttion, 17%.
These issu  are being explored  in the town and cides, almoe  40%Y of the -ctve labor force is
unemployed. Spec  training and integration progrms have bad little impact to date. Robust private
sector based ecomic growth holds the best prospects for job creation in urban ares. An IDA
Poverq Assessment and reated work by the Government are addressing these issues, as ae speci
sudies on Food Security. An IDA review of Gender I& zes (FY93) xamined a broad nge of
ec,nomi culr and inuton issmue constraing the fidl pardtipcro of women in producive
acties Tbh is condered an epmally import  issue sine  womeheaded households represen
about one third of total househol nationwide. With Geman bial support, the Govnent has
an on-going program to monitor the employment impact of public entpdse rito analyze
living standar  and to improve social polcy fomultion.
Environmental issues
18.   As the most arid of any Sahe   country, Mautiai is the country wher regional
environmental problems are most staridy played out This tUic cals for policy rview and ation
The Govaenent has workWe with UNSO and otber agenges on the specfic problem of dune
encroahment and land deaatio   Other enironmental issues, notably the deplion of fisheries
res,ou     are being addressed throuh other mean. In order to ensure a shap policy focus and to
~cilitt links between      entl matters and broader development strategies, the Maurinian
Govermet is working wih DA and other partners on a National Env     l Aton Phn  A
prelminy di        of    om        challenges and isu  is planned as p   of the Consulive
Group meetng on Maurtania in May 1994. An IDA Country Env    ea  Strat   Paper, near
completion, wil pri  bacgound for the discuion. Brefy, much analys and work has tke
place on e          issues in Mauritania, but this has yet to be set in the over  deveopment
framework and policy choices are not deasly defined.  Despite wide awenes of enironet
problems, much deveopment plning bas in practce proceeded on padel truks withut explicit
consideation  of environmenl  dimensions. For example, tsortio" planning has roeeded
despite nd enac mt on roads, rher than taking it into acoo          The problems of
deforestion are a   rt  wit the urban explosion, but bave yet to attract sucient attention
and effictive actdon  Mqjor avees for bope are agricultural serice developmen tigihteng
research etesion lk, antd comity based natural rsurce    a       uo  pport (ke that
underway in Burdna Faso and Mali). Envimental educaon and speic meau   to protect
Mauranas remarkable env     e alt u  - the Banc d'Agu  park and the Senega River
delta - are also importan  The uranexplosion call foi a more proactive effort to a  basic
issues like wat and sewage and to minimize the direct land destruction that rings out from the
towns and cities at present Fially, the devWopment of the Senegal River cas for a continued sharp
environmentl fcus, to address emerging heal problems, (sutosoiasis, malara), to avoid
salinization damage, and to guide the socid evolutin, itabl in such a mijor endeavor in
directions that protect lan ts fior a and lay a foudaton for a peacefud and equitabl regim  "
the f-ture



9
B. The Extemnl Environment
19.   The vicissitudes of economic performance in the late 1980s ampVly demonstae the deg  to
which Mauritania's economy remains vulrable to exogenous acto  Of thhe, the most sgfican
ar: (a) flucbtaons in wold prices for is principal exports, on-a  fisheties and livestock
producs; 0) iteat     aid, given Maitanis hih aid dependece; (c) exnal debt; and (d)
cliatic fiuctuations and related plagus (dest locusts).
20.   Fisheies receipts, which repres   more than haIf of total exort eanin, reflet widely
fiuctuating ieational pri  over the last five years - varyng between US$2,300 and US$7,700
per tm.i Purty as a reult production levels bave as fluctuated, in recent yeas between 400.000 to
about 600,000 tm. Whie in the past, the STABEX  aciity has helped to stabiie eain  from
cephalopod products, this financing i drying up just at the time when Mautaa  encoing
strong competon fiom othe regional fish eorti  counties causing a drop of about one third m
its interational market shar  ro-ore receipts represent an average of 45% of export earnis.
Neither demand (which dropped fim 13 to 8 mEion t.m. betwem 1989-92) notr price movmerts
(a decline from $20 to 15 per tm.) has fvored Wmitanies 'ron-ore indv-y and ths downwad
tred is expected to contue into the foeeable fitue. On the import ds, heavy capta goods
importshave bee necessay to support exploation of new iron ore deposits and to replce
ignificant pordons of the fisinsg fleet Betweea 1989 and 1991, food imports increased from
95,000 to a peak of 204,000 tAn, as domestic cerals producdon decied.
21.  In todays envn         of uncertain international aid flows, Ms  heavy aid
dependence is a serious conern  Net ODA disbu        amoted to US$1.4 billion between
1985 and 1991, or US$207 million a year. This represents an ODA aof around US$103
per capita, one of the wod'fs ighest. Duing the tubled perod 1989-92, ODA
dropped saply. Mauritania's public invstment program is financed 90% by extemal fiancier
This stuaion calls for arefUl aid coordinton and mobflizaion strategie as wel a long-tem
stategies to reduce aid depende.
22.   Mauritanis oustading exteal debt totaled about US$2.2 billion in 1993, or 234% of
total GDP and 497% oftotal exports of goods and sevices Debt service as a hare of £ext was
45% in 1993. Of this debt, about 40%h is owed to multilateral creditors, 46% to bibate  agences,
and 14% commcil debt. With these high levels of indebtedne, Mauritania's statgy is to
contract new debt eclusvely on bighly concessional terms and to seek maxmum debt relie
Mauritania is eligible for the Fifth Dimension fancing from IDA reflows. Maurtnia has also
benefited from &ve Paris Club r   lings, the most recent in January 1993; this was the first
multi-year rescheduling on enhanced    onal terms. An IDA debt buy-back operation for the
commercial debt is under preparaton.
23.   Foreign private investment has avenged only about US$2 milLon a year over the last five
years. However, wift an appropriate istitutional and legal fiamewc 1c, foregn  vestment could
play an importn role in Mauritans development, not only in opening up new export makets, but
also in providing nondebt financing. I order to seize these opprunites, Govement has decided
to reeamine the legal fiamework, to provide fiscal inces for exports and to liminate arrears on
foreign exchange payments for dividends, profits and capitaI tansfers.



I.
C  Mauritan's DeveopmIet PoHles and Iak AsIsance Prorm
Medfum-Term Polices and Outlook
24.   Since r_g    the rfom effrt in 1992, thr is  evivd ecogion by Maurtanan
polcy makers that real economic reovery demands a fr more comrhsive and sustned effort
than has dise in the past Governm be    confrired its poit  wil to tacke uh   a agenda ad
has set itsf a menu of reltivey ambwous - but st  Odoabl e   objectives: achivng average
growti of 3.6% annualy durfig 1994-96; conaning infladon to about 3.5% through 1996; and
realizing er  crent accowt equibm (ncudig official tras ) by 1996. To reach these
gOal  Govement has adopted a stateg aimed at (a) strengthening extenal co tive     )
consolidating stucal refr  b enco ng pivute sector initiati throuthe pvisi  of
adequat price incentives relae on market forces, the   ngting of the legal and nstiuio
firawork and the reform of the financial sector, and (c) sedg eral det riee  Th srategy
laid out is also Intended to help create employment, antd shod help redu  povrt over tm, by
maintg  the reentati  of pubec  pnditue  ward educaton, hea, social progm  and
infrastructure main e. The Govemens macro-eco0MIc objectives for the medium-term have
been trnldW mto concrete actions and stabilzaion targm in the F&fhYesr PFP for 1993-96.
25.   Mauritanaos conomic           h has thus fir   c t  on handling crises and on the
basic strategic   s ofmodernization through the fisheies and min'ig sectors  ains ar stil much
too fagiand fhcused on a few ara   Progres in dismantling a top-haW               is
impressive Mautitnias public eefm  particarly stand 01t in the Afican contet as
does the liberalition of cereals madrts) Howev, the public ma e  apparat  is st very
Weak and major efforts a  still needed padculary on manm     of public xpeditures and
evenu o             Much more efrt is caed for in the period ahead to defin  a broad
developn srateg that prmise to take Maurnia towards a high growth path  This cal fr
specic and bold efforts to define operaton  approaches to (i) the gamut of soca, povrty and
evironmental imperai tbat are so citical to this desert country; (i) a broad-bas   apacity-
bulding efot; (2i) a   e  programs for human reource deveopment and (iv) pram  to
build the institutional and regulatory framewok to SUpport the deveopment of both smalholder
riculture and prvate tre and                The core of the Govenm  and the Bns
operationalagenda is focused towards this   enion, fiom recovery ad adjustment twards a
susainblean  equitabe long -term wtategy hAt will allow Mauritni to AMlfiIts considerable
potentiaL
IDA Strategy and Operatona Program, 194.97
26.   IDA's country assitance srategy, which is designed to support the Governmee's
development objectives, ret on three pilars: (i) human resource development and vigorous
effort to allevate poverty; () support for private-sector led grwt with a view towar
promoting a strong supply  ponse; and (i)       he     conomic         et capat
building and governance. This tasl  into the foUowing operadonal imperatv: agrive
pursuit of macroeconomic pocy reforms, intensified social development efforts, and concerted
capacity building in the core Govenmet services. Success in  plementing the many difficulk



II
refoms sti reming vil require a profound chnge in the mind set and behavior of entepreneuS
and civil sevants alike. Intos wll bve to fimction on objective, perf        criteda,
so that access to credit and govmenut servces wil be gurnteed to eveayone on a level playing
field" rather than being subject to personalclan tes vwich pemit individual discretion wihout clear
ccotbility. This i a heavy task, but cruci for an enabliUng environment in which the private
sctor wil have confidence and be alowed to flourish The strategy also reflects a ceal focus on
emironmentao            gv  Murtaniaes Wlrge and special    enges, translated into acton
tbrough the focus on agricultural development, clearer focus on the burgeoning cities, and
conservaion of firie urces.
27.   Homa Resoure Deveopment and Poverty Reduction. Mauitania's fbture wil depend
on how effively and quicky it is able to advance the large human resource development and
poverty reduction agenda. The chalenges are dear. to boost enrlment levels at the prmay
school levl shply (target for year 2000 is 90%) and improve qualty and relevance of teaching; to
pursue and expnd ongoing efforts to enhance vocational and professiontd training; to move quickly
with the iplemeion of a fUlU-scale popuation program; to take ggrese  steps to avert the
scourge of AIDS in Mauritania; to p e acte leadership in enhancing the status of girs and
women and translating that into effective targets and progms execue by line minities and other
techical agencies and to expa  heah coverage and the effectveness of prmay heath caue
failiies, while aceving finacial stabiint i the sector, notably through boosti  avaity of
genic drugs both in the public and prive sectors and itroduction of cost recovery. auriania
needs to focus shaw   on appropiae job skmi in light of the high unemployment and growth in the
ionnfal sector. Food aid progrm  inclding food for work, need cul review to enr that the
most neek* groups are inde  protecte and      progrms do not deter agriual poduction ad
confuse naret signals.    s macroeconomic suppot and Ecnomic and Sactor Work aim at
focuig on these issues, and continuing revie  of public expendit   will serve as  np imo
insument for oaborative effoirts to focs resources on these prioriy objectives.
25.   A second Education Secdor Reurutug ProJe   crrently under prepation for FS,
wi complement the social rfios already being implemnited under the ongoing Education
Vocaional Training and Heat proectL The projectes main objective is to asi the Govrnmet to
make a quantum leap in pimay khool enollments by increasing dth enrollment raio from S9%/ in
1992 to 90°XO in year 2000. Secondary objectves include doublng enrollmet in lower-seconday
education by creating new lower secondary schools in reional capital and maor urban centers;
imprving the quality of secondary education, particulary in science and   m cs, by proiding
up-to-date labotorie; -and imnpoving the inten  efficiency of the education sysm trough better
management of limited resources and the application of efficienc  ea   Particul  will
be paid to mroving the access of gi   to eduation and to promoting the developmet of pie
schoola The project wil also lay the foundation for refrming the higher education ystem, to be
supported under a future operato
29.   EfforL. aime al reducing ural and uban poverty are incorp d into both operatonal
and ESW progams IDA is stiing to         the role of the direct benficares and NGOs in
the desig, p  on and implemention of projects across a wide range of sectors WIth respect
to women's issues, wie a nmber of on-going and planned opeions  (e.g., Health and



Populaton, Edicton, Agricul Svces and Private Setor Delopment) and ESW seek to
addres womens issues, much remins to be done and our infonmion base needs to be broadened.
30. Private Sector Development. Designed for an outdated interventionist state in a protected
economy, Mauritania!s exsting regulatomy fiamework is today laely ireevant as it seves as a
serious constrait to private sector investment. A diagnostic study conducted by HAS (Foreign
Ivesment Advisory Services) in May1993 indicated that there eist several pre-invetment and
post-investment obstacles to the development of the private sector in Maurtania. Among the pre-
investent obstacles are the couWy's lack of any forml structure for foreign or domestic private
faciliton 09or promotion, the lack of readily availe information on investment laws and
procedus, slow and overy cumbersome approval prcedues for investment incentives. The post-
investment obstacles include Emited access to foreign exchange, high taxs, a constrained banking
system  Effective steps to foster private sector development wil have to include a redefintion of
the rol of the te, the s h g  of key institutions, and adherence to a  tong reguatory
framework by an independent and rliable judiciary. The private sector is the only vehcle which
ofts the potenal of sfficient job creation to achiev socia and economic stability. These actions
togehr with the lberalzation of trade and fori  exchange combined with a restucture finacal
sctor and a steamlin  reglatory framework should adow the nationra and foreign pdvate sector
to operate without undue constraints in a more open environment
31.   Private sector promotion is -a featr of a nmber of on-going and pposed   ns
Both ongoing sector adjustment operons (AGSECAL and PESECAL) are dictly addressing
private sector issues. Public enterprie reform has been addressed under a series of prqects, most
recently under the Public Enterprise Sector Adjusment SECAL (PESECAL) and a compamon
Publc Enterprise Sector T.A project, both approved in FY90. These operations are assisdng the
Govenment in mple     its privatzaton progrm as wel as in improving the efficiency of
terpi             in the PE sector, in particular SNIM, the iron ore  enterprise, by far the
largest PE in Mauritna For the future, IDA's efforts wil fcwus on O( financial sector restucwtu
and the              of the regulatory framewwork  C) agruture development; and (17i)
InfIastructure development. Te mam instumt for pivate secor promoton effort wM be a
Fancial and Private Sector Development Credit (FY95) addressing inerelated concerns
between the regulatotyfmstitutional framework and pivate sector development; supporting futer
banking and financial policy refoms; and promoting the development of a sound financial
intermdiation system capable of atacting smal savin  and gentng pivae  invesmn fiinds
32.  The agriclture sector would contiue to be a major focus of IDA resources wih a focus
on promoting policy and   tutonal refms aimed at diversif,ing production and    esing
produtvit,y; provision of extension, resarch and training; and pivate sector participation in
irtion development. The most pm ng oppor    for growth and employnt generatim
at present seem to lie with exploiting the agricltural potential of the Senegl Valey win the
contet of recenty dismantled prici  and madreting controls  The pivate sector has shown
evidence of its wilingness to take avantage of recent refoms to aggresvely expan output
Govenmens role has shifted to policy formulation and provison of i        searh   and
extension    ces; in this capacit, it is temptg to tackle a weighty agenda of difficult msm low
Productivity, transport and dbution bottenecks, weak instional capacity, insufficient sked
labor, a fragile and not yet wel estblied ra credit %tem, shortage of input and lad ten



'3
n Airal Sectord  Adjutment SECAL (AGSECAL), approved in Ferazy 1990, is
spporting the lbeaizaton of cereals maketing and pricing poicy, land tnure and cacity
buig. The  Sricult        vies prect (FY94) pWls an ripation Promotion proect (FY96)
wl compleng  efforts under the AGSECAL.
33.    In the early y     of thew Bans invoment with Mauritania,  the istion lnt
con able support to devloping a network of basic infrastmuture for th newy iependent
county. This support continued through the lae 1980s, when there was a hitus of severa years
during wiich the Bank did not engag in any new i--stucture opeions8 due primarily to lmited
avaiabliy of IDA resource (support Sbr two sector adju   operations ovespet the couWs
IDA alloca)   M n          and budgeting isue we  sorely negcd  during this peiod.
eseci ly in the wake of tWh Pes Gulf War, when previous Arab support for the sectr dried up
(Arab finding      t  o arg 401% of iAfute i0b  during the 1980s). More
recently. with a view to arresting the frher decline of earier i  and addressing the
growing demands for urban srices. especily in Nouakchotts burgeoning resdeil areas, the
Bank has once aain become acthe in the infau   sector with two opati, both of which
hav significant poverty alleviton and intion/capaty bulding aspecs. A Water Suply Project
in Nouakchott is helping to rehablate and extend the capital's water ditibution nework to serve
low income resdeni ar  with piped wae for the first dme  The project i also providing firther
instiond              fo- hr SONELEC, tho wate and power util, to enhance its financial
sustinablt and o        effiency. A Consucton Capaciy Project (AMEXT11  FY93) i
at fosing the growth of private sector partcipation in rebn  of basc infasuture. Tis
operation, modeled on the sucessl AGETIPE operations in other countuies, wM crat short term
employment opportunmies, which is eoxpected to have a sgnifcantly posive effect on income
generon for the urban poor. A Highway and Urban Devdopment operation is planned for
FY97.



14
bowotiva                          AotiomlGoals___________
. Pzote Humn             Maina  high lev1l of inveiment in human        Heal and populatiou (r)
Resoure Devlopvt_g,    capital,  e     and 0vd    of primy education to 90   Tchnical Educaon (FY93)
piwomet  aplyment        percent of popultn by 20M0. S    _trEc    Restructuring (FY9
creation, deal efcriveily    vocational and technical edimation  Reformi  Highway and Urban Dcevlpmnot
with povetty and    soci    snday and highe educatio  Incroase covea    (FY97)
diions of _adtment    of heal   rves. Pmote fmily planning and          WID Assessmet rY93)
AIDS contl Strengthen cos-cvy policies.       Povty Asment (PM94)
ncreas women's paticpaton in tho development    ADS Prevton Strategy (FY)
proes. Stegh  povety alleviation prog°ms.    PFP 1993-9
BD. Prote prvt soecr   Poote ntional and foign prvat Investment.        AGSCAL & PESECAL (Y90)
dc_avalet asupport       Refobrm he legal and inmtitu   Fework          Fi     l and Pidvate Seor
a    g  dulAmow          Promote productoad imprve productvity          Devepmen Credt  9S)
infrastr     developmen  through th provision of agriulurat services.  Irrigation Prmoio 
Streg%then rura credit. Ivmplmet land refom.  Highway and Urban Development
Liuid  noi viable joint-ventures and naa      (FY97
.            pra  ownership in national enerprises.         FIAS suport
._______________________ ,_________________._________________._______ PFP 1993-96
C. Economic              Strngh  budget prpation an control.            Develpmet M_anag   (Y)
cpaciy buildig and       Stbi   tse and strictly avoi subsidies to      PESECAL (FY90)
governance. Consoidate    P&. LimitGovernmentwag bill t a level         ASECAL (F0)
adjustment, deepen policy    consten with infiation  e. Cut, in real tems,  Agricult Svices (FY9
reforms, aohieve         defense oudays. Improve PIP Preparation as well    Fanlaand Pvate Seor
stabilian trgt and       as  tfrtra storial allocation. Reform the      Development Cedit (FY95)
promot strog Supply      inr  tax sm and phae intoducon of a            PER (FY92), PER U '(FY95)
response.                value added tu  Refom the tax  me of the       Education Restructuring (Y6
mining, fisheries and liwvtok sectors. Strengte  Institu_ona Develpmen Note
institutional capcty, refbn th Judiciary sysem  (FY94)
Restncu  Fshea sand Financial sects.          Municpal Development
Consolidat P.RE. and trade refoms. Promote    As
production and imprv   poducivity in qricultre    Irigtion Pmoton (YQ
sector. Decrease die curt accoumt dcfcit,     PFP 1993-96
excluding public trfers, from 19.3 pent of    CO Meetng (FY4)
GDP in 993 to 6.2 pet of GDP in 1996.
Decress the consodated government opeaon
deficit to 3.4 peret of GDP in 1994, wth fAther
adjustments in 1995/96. Conasining  aion to
about 3.5 percet duough 1996. Icase resves
from 1.7 months equivalent in 1993 to 2.3 monts
in 1996.
D. Other.                Ensure ¢t developmnt is environmentaUy         Livesoc (FY
Envirownent            sustainable.                                  AGSECAL (FY90)
Envirounent Assesamt (FY94)
:casdobjec.tab



15
34.  In th  ream of economic management and capacty building, the most complex
challenges  re to strengthen and maintain a lastig Govnmet comtme  to institutional
developmet and governan  goals  Such aciions are necessr   prerequisites  for successM
economic mnae, for buildig institutions in which sa  stra  of society are able to hav
confidence, and for ensuing adequate ecternal support. A Devdopment Management project
(Y88) is supportig the implementation of a civil servce refomi, although progres on this front has
been finy sdow. In the area of economic management, the PER execis crried out in
FY91, confirmed the following serious weanesses in Mcapacity to mobiize dometc
resoucoes, to program, budget and monitor public expenditures as wel as to ensure adequate
transparenad ayin the Governmen 8
Portfolio Peformee and Maagement
35.   Past IDA Assltanc. Cumulative Bank Group comm ts to Mauritia, as of December
31, 1993, amounted to about SDR 519.3 million for 40 operations comprising 35 IDA credits  24
closed operations (SDR 160.1 million) and 11 ongoing opetions (SDR 197.8 mfion); two IFC
investments (US$14.1 million); and 3 Bank loans (US$146 million). The 35 IDA credits totaled
SDR 359.5 millio and inluded three adjustment operations (SAT.L AGSECAL, PESECAL and two
IDA-reflows)  ive acultural projects, seven i              education, one heath, two
iusty, im technica asan  two IIDF, one petroleum exploration and two capciy bunlg
operation, The Bank loans were for im ore mining operaions (US$66 million to MIFERMA in
1960, US$60 mMion to SNIM in 1979 for the GuelbD Io  Ore project, and US$20 million for
SN s a         in i98S).
36.   I1DAs cumre portfolio for Mauiania consist of eleven active operation, two suporting
sector adjustment progrms and nine ivestment procts, with a total creit amount of USS 169.0
million and an undisbursed balance of US$90.6 million (Annex 5 - Statement of IDA Credits). The
sectoral disbuti  of the portfolio is as fogows:agculture and  uma  resources, 3 ac:4
industry/am    and au q  2 each; and institutional development, 1. (See Annex 3).
37.   After sevr yea  of derorating implementon per, the  wee some sgns of
improvanent in FY93 as the ovi  portfolio ting imprd m 21  LFYS2                 3).
However the Human Resources- porio was the ony one where projects under on-going
implementation had truly improved. The Industry portolio also showed a better rat    but this
reflected the dosing of IDF II, a problem pret. Ratinp  for the other sectors wae unchanged
between FY92 and FY93. Another problem project (Smal Scale Igtion) hs also closed receny,
leing only one problem operaton (livesoc) in the acte portflio. This project has been
restuctured within the context of a time bound acion plan of remdi meau. If by the end of
this actkm plan (March 1994) the project does not nove out of the problem category, it wM be
ctosed. hwestme_t di ---      afiv1perfo ma c Imoved makedly between FY92 and FY93, from a
total of $9.8 to $11.2 mimlon. Diursmen  thus far during FY94 have been slower than
anticipate and implementation efiors wi have to be remounted for the remadr of the fiscal yea
in order to reaize pevius (and favorably) estmated FY94 dibur    levels



16
38.   Implementaton issues which bave been highhted m recent ARPP exercises and PCRs fill
under three categories:
Weak Impleentatlom  apacity:  This is primarily due to weak institutiond capty and
sometmes waering Govenmt commitment to project objecie  The Bank is addressing
these complicated isse on a vaiety of fronts.  Most operations now  include capacity
strengthen componen  (this tageted approach is, we feel, likely to show better results than
broader, all-encomp g tdeical assistance opeaton which have not show  good redts in
the pat  We envisage srong  supervision efforts in the months ahead. Tme bound acdon
pbans have now become the norm, with the Resident Misio  staff steghened to motutor
implemenon more dosely, incding re          guidanc to the exuting   ncies in problem
areas The Government has also shown more commtment to resolvng  lemenation issues by
undertaking its own sei  review and by the widespread adoption of more participatozy
approaches to project desig and imple on that includes all stakeholders This process was
utized in the preparation of the Vocational Training prject as well as the Agial Services
oject which is dscussed aer in this document
Procurement and disbement lues A new pocuremnt law, enacted in 1992 (pepared
IDA assise),  has faiated some improvem  in pouremnt problems in recet
years, but procedures continue to be cumbersm  there is a lack of trained manpower, which
leads to frequet delays in mplemaion. Implemeation of the new pouement legsaton,
includ   staff ting, is suppored by the Consuction Capacity Proje  (AMPE ) and we
expect to see improvements to take hold soo. A regular schedule of procent and
dlsll5mmt wordksops is bng paned in NouAc
*     acl M       ets        ues: Inadequeprogr   g   ofcOWMWPa"fSW&W is-along-
stag issue in Mauitaa  This problem stems from the lack of clear budgetay proedures
and a tight iscal dtution. We hv repeatedly discussed this isue with Goverment and bhve
agreed, in the PER and the PFP, on a series of cective nm ues aimed at ensring adequat
countept finds are programmed in the Consolidate Invemet Budget and paments from
the Naional Trasy into the project accounts wM be expedited. Another imrtat element
haa been the esablieof adequate acco*m      ses in me t ical misties which is
allowing control and montoring of rasourc  allocations.
*  Audit CompUance This has improved in recent years, but with thee opaions conn4t   to
have outsandng audits, ther i much soope fir ipo         We have Ilrecmended to
Government tbat, as a matter of prority, it engg a qualified, localproven and reptable audit
firm for a perod of several years in order to capita    on the auditos    mmedatin on
accog and fcina  pocedur
39.   Bank Group Exposmre.               debt burden rmans heay  (pa    11). With the
recovery of iron-ore and fisheries xpats and projecte gwth in non-traditional xots, the debt
ervice ratio is wexcted to decine from 45% of expot receipts in 1993 to 27.70 in 1996. Bank
Group exposure is esmated at about 9% of MAurtaas exteral debt; and 3.1% of export ea ,
w        is projecte to decline to about 1.4% by 1996. (Annex 4- Key Exposu latr).



'7
40. IFC and MIGA activiies. IFC bas financed two iavestments in Maufrtania, an edible-oil
refinery in FY68 (US$10 millio), and a gold  iig joint venure wih Austra2ia i FY91 (USS4.1
nillion).  The Bank and IFC are coordinatg their repectie roles and working closely n
deveopig polcies in the areas of indwtry, the prnvate sector and banking and finae. As part of its
effolts to increase private foreign invesment, Mutaa has joed MIGA and FIAS has aready
caried out a review on the climate for foreign investment in Maurtania.
41.   Aid Coordination. Aid coordination efforts at prsent ae directed towards euring broad-
based donor consenus on the polcy reform agenda, mamum efficiency in the use of exteral
assisance and s6fficid  resources for both investment and adjustment needs, constent with
development priorities and a sound public expenditure program. Local aid coordination mechlanisms
work quite effctively, and a series of sectoral meetings have focued on specifc isues like fisheries
devlopment and mi.    Noneeless, more effective measures are needed to help Mauitania
ensure that the public xpnditue program reflects an appropriate balance between now investments
and rehabilitation, with adequate provision for both investment and recrrent expntes.  The
Muti Consuative Group has not met since 1987, althugh there was a donors' meeting in
1989. A Consultative Group Meefm& focused on the medium term stratew  and the Public
Investment Program 1994-96 is planed for May 1994.
42.   The BM  has been a key player in Maurtas reform efforts, provdmg some SDRs 95
milion since 1987 through Stand-by, SAF and ESAF arrangemens. The Bank and the BE have
cooperated closey with Goverment in the preparation and neg n of Bfe PFPs, with the Bank
tag the lead in sect    and stucturl reforms and the IM  in macroeconomic policies and
stabilization issues.  This colaboration has worked well,        by fequent tehical
discussions and joint missiona
43.   The European Community (EC), the Afian Deveopment Bank (AiDB), the UNDP, FAO,
UNICEF and bilateral donors, particurly France, Germany and lWy ar also key partners and
contributors, both with respect to cofinandng and in the prewarion of economic and sector
analyses and program. Other impritt sources of both ivestment and balance of paymentssupport
over the last five years have been the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and Japan. Frequent exhanges of
views on a vanety of techmical matters have faltatd broad consenss withn this group.
D. Agenda for Board Discussion
44.   Mauritania has embarked on an ambitious macro-economic progam, with close lns to
sector adjustment and development progms in the human resource, agr icult  and public
enterpise sectors. Pragmatism combined with a clear and strong Goverment commitment to the
basic program objectives have generated steady progress since 1992. Notwithstnding these
importat accomplshments, the Mauritanian economy remains frile, with medium-term prospects
constrained by the limited nartual and human capital resoure base, a htgh degree of vunerbiity to
exogenous factors, including an eatremely heavy debt service burden. Mauritanis progress in
achieving sustainable growth, while ensuning equitable access to the benefits of such rowth for all
its people, thw  depends both on    essf  impltation of its   oonoic progranm and



timey  plementation of the stuctura refoms under the Fifth-Year PPP, and on a renewed effort to
define a longe term vWision of broad-based econic and socw  deveopme.
45.   Maurts deveopmet agenda, which seek to deepen and consolidate past reflms,
reflects a bro  consensus amog the Govaenment, IDA and other develont patns on key
priorities in the area of
*  human resources daevopment and povet aydeviato
* promotion of privat sector development; and
*  stronger eonmic manageme:t, institutional developmnt ad improved governne pricea.
To make progress in these aease a sharply focused stategy, effectve aid coordiation and creaive
solutions are needed. We are convinced also that the programs  is  creusingly rest on a strong
foundation of broad-based popular participation and suppoft and digent public sector management
a incudes both increased efficiency and transpwency.
46.   IDA believa Matania has the potentia to make importan strides in addressing the needs
of its people and brigin  ou sustainable economic gmwtL We htend to be responsive to the
countrys efforts tbrough all available means: lending, ESW and donor coordination. IDAs
assistce to Maritan  is filly consistent with the Governmens development objectives and is
targeted to both succsfbl  plementation of the Govemnts reform program and promotion of a
strong supply response along the three pillars cited above. While we are encouraged by recent
progress on a variety of su  (econome reforms and improved mple o) we neverthees
see commitment and   ional c ity as lingerng concers Progress in thes areas would be
m fest in rapid iplentaion ofthe fiflrange of undn s fied i te Fifth Year PFP nd
in conmimpw            in project implemetatio   Hence, we could envisage shifing (albeit
slowly and cautiousy) fonm the curent base-case to a igher scOnario, depending on progress in four
crtical area ( econmic            as meaud by success m  respectig the agreed macro-
economic and financil t     ) fll implemention of ageed su    reorms in particu  in
the fisheries and financ  sectors ad chages in the rgltory famework (il) mesurble progres
on hunan resource development and poverty issues as meaued by a  gnificat mprovement in
basic social indicators, includig enrollment of girs in primary school, in line with agree target and
(w) sustined improvement in project imlementation, as meaured by prqect rating in the ARPP
exeri. Folowing the completion of tlie two ongoing adjustment operations (expected by mid-
1994), the PFP wil be the principal vehicle for monioring progress on macro-reform measures
Since we view limited institutional cpacit as the overwheming consat MDA lendg will &c
on stategic interventions in this area. Balance of payments rqurement wM be closewly morAe ad
tag into account fuue debt relief (which the Governmt itnds to seek from the Paris CUk: and
other creditors on higly concessiona terms), and, if necesay, (and depending on implementation of
areed reforms), we will review the case for additional support in coordination with other donos
47.   The economic and sector work has typicaly absed less than 20% of total resources
devoted to Mauinia country as.ssn    In the ectaton that this pattern wil continue, we have
attempted to target ESW to selected sategic intiona  The planned program includes: (a) an
Institutional Development Assesment which will examine technical and admicapacity
contraints of the principle lne Mistries. It is expcted to help the Govemment fomulate a



'9
stae  for capacity buidi  and asss the don  in targeting fitu  nteentons in this area; (A) a
second PERE which wl asse  pro         m   im mentng th  seies of reforms which were
recommenlded in the first PER, and in addition, undertk an in-deph examination of the agidcut
sector which wa not covered in the first PER  nce, at thb time, k was in the midst of a
restrucundecen        on process; and (iil) a Municipal Delopment Assessment which wi
amine the institutional capacity of Municipal authorites and evaluate the Central Goveruent's
program of devolving resonslit for selected adrmstrtve funtons, some revenue mobilizaUon
utaf, and aitnm of bas¢ic -&u t,lctumre
48.   Risks. While, in the past, Mautania bas            ist abiity to act swiftly and
resolutely, there is some ik that the Govemmenes   onapacity to sstain its agenda of
economic reforms could prve over ambitious.  There is a constant dsk in fluctuations in
iteaional demand and price moveme  for Maukania's key exports. Advere developments in
these areas could delay the full recovery of the Mauiaman conomy and create serous balance of
payments problems. Moreover, mobilizing adequae donor support has been a periodic constin in
the past. Aid coordination will therefore be a central focus of IDA!s overall aitance. The greatest
protection to counter all of these risks and ensure that emtenal partners continue to oftr Maurania
the ncey  uwpport wll be strong and seadfat commitment fiom  the Govnment to
implementig the reorm program in pursuit of sound and equitale economic deveopment
*1



20
PART IL THE AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
49.   Project Objectives. The project is the first five-year time slice of a long-ternm national
program to upgrade the provision of agricltwal sevices atdon-wide, fousing on strengthening the
linkag  between extension, research and sgricultura training. The long-term objectives of this
progrm are to increase   cuural productivity in an evironmenlW   nable manner, to raise
faumers' incomes, and to rationalize the use of public resources in support of arcultural services.
The specific project objectives are to: (a) gradualy harmonize countzy.wide the approach to
exension acties based on Training and Viit management principles, and to reshape extension into
a demand driven service addressing farmers' and agro-pastoralists! needs; and (b) strengthen linkages
between research and extnion, focusig on adaptive and applied research acties.
50.   Project Description. The main components of the project are:
(a)   Extension - consolidating and improving agricultural exension seavices of MDRE
and SONADER, coveaing crop and livestock production and nat-ual resource
management; both at the national level and in 9 of the 12 administrative regions;
(b)   Training - strengtin of two agricultural taUining institutdons: Bogh6 Cooperative
Training Center (CFCB) and National Agricultural Training and Extension School
(ENFVA); tining of extension and research saff and leaders of cooperatives and
prodcer groups.
(c)   Research - str        the agicual research system and imprving the links
with the extension services and the users through producer participation in setting
resech objectives and evauating its results;
(d)   Decelition  and Policy Support - supporting the reorganition and
de ralization of the Mistry of Rural Development and the Emnironment (DRE),
and providn policy support
51.   The project, to be camed out over five years, would provide financin, for civil works,
vehicles, equipment. training short-term conldting services, independent audit of project accounts,
and hiremental operating costs. The total cost of the project is estmated at US$19.8 million
equivalent with a foreign exchane component of US$11.0 milion equivalent (56%). Project cot
and financing  n         are smmarized in Schedule A.  Procurment and disburseme
arrangements are shown in Scbedule B. A fimetable of key processng events and the stats of IDA
operations are given in Schedules C and D respectively. A note on IDA-financed projects with
substantial disbursement lags is provided in the attachment to Schedule D. A map is also attached.
The StaffAppraisa Report; No. 12308-MAU, is also aached.
52.   Project Implementation. The project would be implemented by the Ministry of Rural
Development and the Environment (MDRE). The Director of the Research-Training-Extension Unit
of MDRE (DRVF) would be responsible for the day-today management and coordination of the



2i
project and all teical aspects  However, the Dectors of the National Agricull Research
Center (CNRADA), National Livestock and Veterluay Research Center (CNERV), National
Council of Agricultural Rsearch (CNRA), ENi-VA, CFCB and SONADER would be responsible,
under the guidance of the DRFV Director, for the execuion of thou sub-components directly
related to their respective institutions  To fiitate con o    and co cations betw
DRFV and the various exuting agencies at the national and regional levels, a project coordinating
comaittee, chaired by a high level official of MDRE and composed of the dizctors of the exeaing
agencies, would be established. Parts of the IDA credit proceeds would be made available to
SONADER as a grant under a subsidiary agrent.
53.   Project SustAmbility. The s nabty   of the project would be assred by the song
uman resource developmet compot that would build up the capacity of DRFV and SONADER
to provide effective exenson serices and of the research institutions to borrow and develop
appropria~e technologies The organizToion of fiumes into groups and the streng   of fiamerS
associations would increase their capacity to deal with cedit, input and marketing issues, thus
reducing over the long-run their dependence on extension staff to deal with these issues. MDREs
ability to plan and coordinate agricut    eension at ihe nationa level woud be greatly enhanced
by the project. This would allow for a more fecie system of techology generation, diffudson and
adoption and would pemit imprwve cpacty  leadhip of other aniculturl   ces, thereby
creating a better opporbnity fior obtaing and    m  both inteenal and externa financing. The
a ctra requiof the exteon and r ch system  n te     of office and staff
accommodaions would be in place to continue the natonal program. The recurrent costs ae low
(US$20.1 annuay per farm family) and can be expected to decrease with firther iovemen 
extension and research mana     There will be, however, significant CODtim g costs invl   in
a follow-up project that would be the second five-year time slice of the long term  aional progra
To meet these anticipatecosts, some restrucuring of the Goverenn's expendiures would be
advisable. Presenty about 22% oftotal public ivestment is for "nural dewlopme  (ague and
livestock account for 11 and 2.6ax respectvely), while only 3% of total recurrent epeitum are
alocated for rurdal development".
54.   Lemos fron   s AgPa Lendin. The Bank Group has been invohed in the
ricultural sector of M ni since 1971 and has suported primarily ivestments in irigton,
veock developmt, and drought ei   At preent, two agickual proect ae ongoin
livestock II, MDRE, Cr. 1658-MAU; and the Agricultural Sector Adjustent and bIvement
Project, Cr. 2093-MAU. Recent social and politica tensions have had a negative impat  on prqect
implem tion pernce  The main implementation problems enounteed hrave been:  O
.govnment pog       g budgetig and resource o    a    pcedur  a    unterpar fidig
(Hi) monitoring and evaluaton of project implemenion; A.  ) prouremen; and (v) auditing
arrangemens  All of thiese isuswil be specificallyJ addresed under th prooe project. An
accounting firm wi be hired to put in pla'e a satactory accouning system and its fintoning wM
be a condition of effectiveness. For procurement, a detaied procueent plan was aeed upon
during apprisal and inchludd in the implemntation manaul   The Bank's standa  biddt
docunents wee discussed  d ageed upon during negotiaions. To deal with the problem of
counterpart funding, during n      ways were discussed to emnsre that funds are adequately
budgeted. Also, the Government has agreed, as a condition of eftoovivenessa to open a Project
Account and to deposit US$100,000 eqialent, to be replenished quarterly im advance, according to



23
an agreed upon schle. Monori   an integral part of the project and wM be desibed in some
detail in the sectoral policy letter nd the implementation mal. Loca training for the problem
areas identified above ia frae    and will be finacd under the poCt Finaly, the pilt extson
ives caned out by SONADER ov  the las two ye   and financed under PPF No. P-733-
MAU, have aLowed SONADER and MDRE to gain valuable exeience with the new approach to
extension and to incrwse thei hmiwiy with Bank purment, dibe            and accounting
Procedures.
55.   Rationale for IDA lvolveret.  Th project is an inrl part of IDA!s sector
developmet  rategy and constitutes the first time slice of a long-tem nation  progrm   It is
designed to help afuritanias kmns and patoralts who a  struggling with a hostile envirnmt
and changes brouh about by  pid populion growt   Old was of coping are no loager
approprate and new solutions must be foud. Land is bcoming inceasingl sc   an d the fee
movement of lae herds of animals is problematic  In this situation, poduce  need technical
advice, backed up by well programmed research. IDA has been worling with Mauritania on
Wrovg agicultu    policies and on restucring and denti     its agicul  mstry
through the Agricual Sector A stment and Ivesm   Proect (Cr. 2093-MAU). In additon,
IDA has encouraged etesion reoms through a second livestock prect (Cr. 1658-MAU) and
gince 1992 through support to SONADER's extenion actvie fmded by a PPF. Through
d field visits, the fountion ha bee laid for intoducig an improved exeni  mna
system  IDA has gained consderabl expience in thi domain under the Agriculbl Sevices
nitadve in Sub aan Afica and the prposed prjet is weg placed to provide the necessary
connity n this intitution bu       f rt.  It would  o  assi  Mauritania to acie  its
l,izobojecdvo.
56.   Agreed Actio. Th Govenment ha agreed upon the folowin actons: (a) as   nts
Io) appicaton of agred upon eenio magemet and trAg principle, and definition of th
means ofstranport for the dft  catores of extnion stafA and appro    levels of trvd and
traingu allowc       establimt of a Projoct  Coordttee, CNRA  CST and
Research Fund with mebhi, pocedures and mandates aceabl to MDA; C') us of IDAs
sample bidding doum     modified to suit proect  requms, and in cases where bids are invited
on a fixed pice basis, biddi  docns should includ  ri  adjustnt provisions f the award is
deayed beyond the bid vidity peiod; (tv) the Borrwer will make adequte prvision for
counterpat fnids in its annual budg  provide such counterparth fnding quaterly in advance, nd
pay it into a Project Accouw to be used clbsvey for proect purposes; (v) audit of the prjt
accounts icuding the special accou  by  eatin  indepent audBtors acetable to IDA and
reports 6saictory to IDA on such        within six montfs of the  lo of the fisc  year, (vi)
presentaion of si-monty progress      ;of agreed-upon proce                 oc
monitog yerly reviws, mnid-term reviw and prearon of the project           repot; (b) 
condn Of effectven e        establishment of the Project ACcunt with an initial deposit of
US$100,000 equivalent; (u)   ction of the Subsidiary Gr  Ant  bethe  D   O            md
SONADER; (W-)             ofan accept    account  syste  for the projec and reitmet  of
a qualified      t to keep the acc ts of DIFV; and (tv)    tmet   an indepndet
auditg firm to audit project accounts over a muti-ye  period; (c) u  of _ ihr
ffie research, cona ola=  O(I) adoptLa of the nationa research plan with its pioity rearch
pr     ; oi) deopment of a layot and detaied pla  fo the  rehabiti  of the research



23
stations and labortioes; (ui) siging of an agrment between CNRADA and CNERV and a
quali6ed accounting firm to  talish a co  aountn  system and to prsent a detied itial
bala   shoet for these two rsroh itutes, and to keep the accounts and those of the rarch
fid; and (iv)        isin Aor of the research find is conditioned upon the        of
CNRADA and CERV in accordan  with heir rese     pogam  and manpower.
57.   Euvomental Aspoc    The prect is rated "C'. Maurta has be  facig an acute
iotl  crdsis for the past 20 years or more as a result of drought, popution pressure, wind
erosion, de    tion and loss of vegeta    The projects acivies would  inlde efforu to
improve the sustaiability of productive actes and to inoduce improwv   culturl and herd
managemt pracices which would halt or reduce loss of soil and vegeton. The hitegrated
extension servico  wold hinrpora  the xension agents of the former    n a Proteto
Deptment of MDRE and woud contin  to diffs mathods and idea aimed at prevet
environmental degradation. The enironnta impact of the project would theref&r be highly
positive.
58.   Progm Objective Cateories. The incide    of poverty in Maurnia is hiest among
1agcu  households who account for   r Iel 40-45% of the total populai    The depth
of the povr  is alo the most seve  among rural hseholds. Susained agricultural growth
promoted by this projec would be of pime importance in alleviating nral poverty as wel as in
enhancis food security. The project would also make a speW effort to reach female famers
through having a fil-tim  Women mi Deveopmen (WID) coordinaor in DRFV and Women in
Deveopment Eteion Subjec Maer Speiaists in th Senega Valley and agropastora zones,
=secial training  pgrms for me extsion aget and a concerted eflott to recruit mor femal
extension agents.
59.   Project Beneft  By bringing more pro ie  and sustaina  technology to the 1.S mMion
ural population, te projeci should increas their incomes and well-being  In cont    to the
previous agricultural servce projects implemented in Maurinia by vaious agencies, most of the
rur population would be reacbed by the new  ation  project It is liWy that the benefits of the
project would be evident in the fowing areas: () accelerated adoption and diffihsion of new
aguual               (b) better coordinaton and comple ty in the supply of aicutual
sevices by both the pivae and pubic setors, and better       as and when they arise, to
advere imatic conditions; (c) bhuan resource deopment ipov  levels of teci ski and
knowledge within MDRE and at the producer lve, including a better intgation of womens needs
into the developmet initiatives undertken; and (d) isutional development: by     the
apacies of the insittions of agricutur  education and resarc, the MDRE wM have a greatly
enhanced ability to pl, coordate and deliver agricultural support sevices to the nual sector.
MDRE wil be betr  placed to obtain m mum benefits from all sources of donor asistance and to
initiate its own programs.
60.   Risks. The risks foreseen, which are comon to similar projects supported by IDA, include:
(a) in cive managnent of research and etension personnel; (b) low adoption rates of technical
recommendaons by fiamers and/or dow buld-up of applicable technology by research, especially
given its dependence on owuside sources of tecbnology and inforaton; and (c) the posile failure
of Govenmeat to Ustain t  long-term commitment required to achieve durable im vements in



24
the effdiess of agricra support services in addition ther is the ziak of social tenion along
the Senegal river where there is intnse compedtion for cOuvable land and pastre, between, on the
one hand, farmers and traditonal pastraists, and on the other hand, new, commercially oriented
investors
61.   Meare to dleviae the  ris  hoave been built into project desig  taking into account
lessons lened under previous projects. Conceming the managemat of rearch and extension
services, better         is expect  as a result of the decentfalization of MDRE, improved
organizatio,training, and monitoring and eauation Concerning tecical advice to farmers, there
is dzable room for imprvem  in food crop and livestock production and bettr  ntural resource
manageme_  since many of the countr9s  rmers and herders, espely women, have not yet had
access to   ension advice.  The project alo  focuses on fanner partcipatozy technology
development, the use of radio, the preexension tesig of a sizble body of research results exsti
withm the country and abroad, and on st hg  reseach inkages with the outide wodd.
Finally, the annual review of work plans and bulgets, as wel as the mid-term implemenon reew,
wil provide, good opotunlities for progresreview and long-term com bmentbulig
62.   Reconnuendation. I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of
Agremnt ofthe Asin and recommend that the Executie Dicr approve i
Lewis T. Preston
Predent
Washington D.C.
Fdbuay 9, 1994



- 25 -
*M.un       31-Jwr%
km 1
WRl'tRAF  OS - My Ewuuc Irdios                                                                   Pap I of 2
---D    iv---- i--  iwi   i-wz--- Ps   i*-iwi   i->¶wr                   i
?AnOk AMaDM  (MX of MP at aorrt Mrlet pMc)
GP at m.p                       100.0  10t.0  100.0  100.0  100.0   0.0  100.0  1.0  00.0  100.0  100  10.   MO
lRiy *yt atf.c.                29. 3.8   31.   2.9  25.9   la            I      IA    IA    la    la    IA    la
gok seotW at fc                a"    as3.   ;5.8   a.6   a1T    OR    la    la    ?a    UA   Ia            W      a
Tatteay   atf.c a.9  31.7 39Y                  3   3.2   4C2    IA    IA    IA    PR    la    IA    la           I
Mgt JwMt tam                    10.5   9.6   103   103    9.2   9.1   94    9.0   9.1    93    9A    94    9b
Oqhfmn                           .8   IVA   94   9S0    9017   a.2   374   av7  IA.   Ia    8L3   5.1   5.9
r= dmtc trui t                   3Lo   15   29.0  17.9   MS   a18   18.l  16A6           9   V.2      .    17A   17.7
RhLfc f    fas ww t             6A   S    6.2   5.2   7.0    75    5          5.0   5.1   5.0    48    4.    4.8
Prim flMff bmm                  21.2 WU    IL 73 IU    5         VJ   UJ IA          11.    V2            M    V-9
Reareb&                         -11.8   -.9  -143 ^r.9  ALf2  -ILO             -33    -IAS -1.9  -1.9   -U    -3A
D       tsWIFS                 51.2  50.846A   44A   38469  46A  40  45.5  44.8 44.6  43.8  4.0
Jnrt on0                       60   56.7   W0.?   5U3   57L1  - S9   S51   493   47.1  46.7  46    46.5  46A6
Gus ttc "AV                      16.2   2.6   5.6  10.0   93   12.8  11.6   1          153   5.3   15.7  14.9  14.1
Osmutfaut swfw                    5.8    4.0  -1.5   3.2   6O    5.5   5.8   7.8  106   11.2   Z.0   23  1211
bw,m 1U
MWP at p. (aont US dttlaS)      9WA7 - 901.5  1019 t 113.2  1190.6  99.6  1010.9 tO8  1131.? 1132  I5.8  tU9    1425.9
GOPpe apita (Cmt to)            5136  512.S  517.8  SL.   sn5   4574  458A  4         481A.6  491.9  5m.8  S3.5  SZ3.
h-  edWI r1 fiIA)                753    .1   OD81.6    9   5.0  13.2  1316  1M.1  1.2  133   1.2  12  1Z2
R-C FD= (a X of MP st aawe Fiwimpic)
_~~ ~ ~ ~~~~ ~      --__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
aunmt reia (adl. waw             39    .1      a.6  222   19A4  23    253       .    3.2   MA4   3.4   Ma         .9
Tot1 qurdibaw " rot e le         31.7   3.?    2A4   .9   38   33   MA   23A   31A6   3*    3L1   3SO  Z3.
OAst aiptAs C) a  fft c-)        -6.   -10.6  -7.8   6.7  -54  -1t.9  -33    63    1A    2.5   3.3   3.8   3.9
COUL mdhe                         6.8   S.6   63    5.1   4.5   6.7   IA    IA    IA    IA           I      IA    OR
aefp fbhab                        6.0   5.?   5.3   46    6.4   82    IA         I      IA    IA    la    IA    IA
(Cbwuus d di rdief)
L ANMMM   wan cm (ID      s) a
ss cat ic  pcdat                  1.7   4.8  -1.8    26    1.7   4.9   4.3    34    3.1   3.2    33    3.3   33
Ows mtfc imam                    2.4   7.1  -3.5   9.2   1.?   1.7   33    4.7   2.4    23    2.7   3.5   3.4
FOL MR&FER I P Mn  N MMI (l  piO) M
Vs &ntcvd pwlt                    0.9   2.0   45   -02   -1.1   1.9   13    05    02    03    0.4   04    OA
ToW tmaptia                      -.1   9.0   1.9    25    0.9   44    1.6   0.3  -29   4.9   -8    1.5    13
ki%et SAWa                       .6.5   11.0    .    20   -5.8  -102    2.0   03   -3.6  -1.1  -1.0   1.8    16
KWI ODIC=
:bIity lEPAG)                     4.0   3.9   3.5   3.6   3.8   4.1   IA    IA    IA    IA           I      IA    IA
thmeof e-                         2.8    65   11.5   9.3   7.2   3.3       A     IA    Ia    Ia      I A    Ui    Ia
Sfii? eetr a  t    s1123                                                   IAA
aidt Wth 00                    VL    MA   117.2  1129  4i.8  33.2    a          ?A    IR    11    la    a%    a



- 26 -
RWRmA           31-JM%
*b1
PRJMA CM - rlV Ex dtc sIrdkcin  (Wcd                                                                   Pep 2 of 2
1SII    1     t0 10  991    1010 t9Z     0t9    1951S  19R    t997   t510   t99 
SAE OF  W= ("Mwt US dtlta@
Qw an                             410A   49L.   473.1  51.5  4A   43  4A   4Z4   511. 5;9bA   5L2  58.5  62
of bhfd3 Nbwdls    fm            405   447.6  4Z.1  437.9  41    43.3  43.6  458.1  474.2  455   5114  SU   59.4
hprW IPS                          60Sb  55.9  619.2  S59.1  619.8  570.9   .7  529.1  59.3  551.5  5793   6195  669
of tiddu Nwdutal fa.b           39.9  3B.1  14.1  334.7  43.0  31.5  343.5  39.1  34.7   34   3n1.9  3.0   431.1
R         tambde                 -113.0   -2   -46.   -VA  -157.4  -116.6   .J    -3.?  -17.8  -2t   -3.3  -36.0  -5.6
Noet ft"  pwts                    -71.9  -0.3  -59.0  -61.2  -6.7       8   -M8   -5C.4  -57  -.   -5.1  -46   -42.4
of Fiddr husu de W &W            67.4   0.0    5.1   67.1   57.6  47.2   4S.0   39   3.    AA    3.0   49.2   W
Ibt art  Ows'a Wlw                -aB2   *t.7  -13.9  -154   27.1   -7.9   -6.3  -3.5    1S    5.0    63    9.3   12A6
Owr.        :tt b L.lb*   off   tiask  -21.1  -142.2  -219.0  -1663  -197.0  -1W.2  -1.A 4-A   -70.9  -1.7  -70.1  -703   -103
"e official asm.f                 1503   25.8   S3   I5L1   5L7   17.0  lo. 7   EL9   91.5  51.0  M5    32.5   47.8
t. lal.w A.,    of fkitt 4Zfa   .5.8   1416  -15L7  -5.   -10.   -552   -18.7  -5.8   251.   3X.2   214   -37.8  -325
-, fW dItr       U h  t             0.9'   3.S   8&1    4.9   7.2    A        SA.6    5J    6.2    6.5    6.9    6.9    6.9
not LT tIo   as                    31.5  -3V3   -.   -785   -19.8  -14.2   41U    55.0   40.7   SA    36A4         5  k8
Offidit ¢RS d.9   37A6   S 2 2;.9   71.8    65   MA    59.3   41.5   36.2   372   3.7   3C.8
Pr tats   do*                    -41.4  -IL9  -17.8  -105A  -9.6  -2LY  -11.0   -13   -OA    -OA    -OA    -1    40O
Oder qctal (Iril. emo  & wWw4   AU    13.    43.0   31.5   21.9    .2  -56   -113  -0   -MO   -A    -2    -2.0
0ll 1 bd                       -76.2  -4.6  -15.2  -1Z.2  -9.0  -31.6  -V.9  -53   -3L5   -3.9  -189   S             7.1
Totalt fftu                     72   46A6   1.2  1232   95.0   31.6   2.9   543   as5   2;.9   189   -5.    -7.1
Ttal dww In rwvn C- lsm)           17  -a32   369  -3.1           1   -.2    041  -17.2  -3.9  -31.   '425    -5.7  -7.1
Ia arets *x U lfD                 0.8    1.3   -3.7  -131    3.5    5.8  V7.9   -L82   -9    -7A    -7.0    0.0    0.0
Sw    offlffruw dWeC- tm         12.9   21.5   406  -14.0   -A    -L0   -10   -9.0  -19.5   -.6A  -S5    -5.7   -7.1
Co sinasm  (+b       .             2.2  -3S.4   73.7   W7.   a.8  -?  -10Q9    QO    QO    tL0    O.Q   tL0    Q0
Oift   ef                         53.3   9.2   Mas       4.9  5L    264    0         0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    t.0
FkwLo Sp                            0.0   -0.0    0.0    0      0.0   0.0  13       71.5   M4   600   614    00   4.0
Sar  rss,Y       " Y¶r-ad OudtUf*   .3   9V.0   5L5    71.7   4.0   730   91.0  100.   119S   V6.62  181.7  Wf3   t9>
tms raw%" u wdus of lsmb a          1.1    1.7    1.0    13    1.1    1.4   1.8    2.0    24    2.9    34    33    33
tp7  ana8 a   of ap                51.2    US   46.A   44A    3.18   469   46.6   40   4S.5   44.8   446   43.8   0.0
IImSsXdE                           6L.0   56.7   6.7  52.3   2.1    .9   53L   49.3   47.1   46.7   46.5   465   4.6
Rmxm    1 um   X fd MP            -11.8  -5.9  -14.3  -7.9  -132  -2I0    4.5   -33   -1.6  -1.9   -1.9   -2.7  -36
IEiZL MAH gum mm cm aa0 m
tardweo mpm taf. .ab                0.9    0.2   -     -52  -7.9   2.9    3.3   -0.7    1           13    24    0.7    0.7
Ima18   11"A                                    2.2   4.   -4A6   21.1    7.2  -3.9    0.0    5.0    36    0.0 QQ
Fsh                              -7.6   -63   -12.0   -2      4.?   5.8    0.0   L2.    3.6    12    1.2    1.2    12
u xtdis         , bw     1.b  V    -52    0.7    02    1.0   7.9  -5.6  -10.9  -2.9    48    -03           15    3.0   3.0
Ew  pIrS kW  115. 117. t16" t 273   mi    w             ma            119.0  119.7   WAS   LZ2 MA         MAb        t &9
~lpr       dvc gh           to    11t.2  m112   tl5.8  ttL9   111.1  Ml.9  tno0  tlB    W.9  ltB3   13.9  'lML?  tS
sd~Ie. taiw of                    101.1   1s3   10.9  117.4  118.3  1124 U11.9  1154  1136   1102 10.7  1I.6 t0.5
aIwedwf srataCD Utf         a      19.    784   15S    76.8   76        OR     MR    OR    OR       a      la     1       la
omm   p40lns(Za    ^Usra.M          1.3   13.0    65    5.6   10.2   0O.    3.2    3.8    LS    3.        35    35    3.5
WaP d tmwadimtr)                    SA     8.     2.    9.8   10    7.3    3.6    3.9   3U         3.5     3.     3.5    3.5
Nhll dimat CmO                      6.5    7.0    7.0    7.0   7.0      a             a       R     l a    la      a      a1
mldbou* at                          1.1   -0.9    42   -2.    -W2.? 1        1a       a   l         WA     a      a      a
V  .Wm* picadm dW~ Ehl     xi yld bo* cIdtyr p-0 1M1



-7    -                                   Annex  2
Sodl Indsiators of DewlpelOt 19192                                                                   Page  1 of 2
Mauritani
2.$40      152                S*uaqrnIeuwr
Ur it         ywa         y/_'*)
RUMANRE URCES
ST., urowWtlim,awuclwadpqIa4dai
1 -64m                                                                 3 7                              G U6 0    5 7  8
n         tfi Uit                                    °9A-                              t           f1
palc   r 100 malw
P4~~.alaziangrow'JI rats  ann. a1~~        2.0        2.4                    .02.0                 2.0
PTr    Vow* p bMe                         a_9.4                         9.2         ig         4.9        5.4        3.2
UWV gMWdiffm ial                           e                             8.4        56         2.6        5.9        2.4
Projpedpopm1adon 2000                       la                 .          ..       2.60       669       3.672        769
-__efp"--                                                                         i sm
5bsf^k;wmta                           h' rs pap.           47.5       468        47.9       45.9       29.4        29.5
Tod       me pdpmakas                             L                   650        6.         66         37          3.74
C&(0.4)1w.a  (1549) Cm*
Urban                                               .. ~~~~~~pwIOLW M87   ---
rudaa te                              por m   P*           2A         22.  1      to        1.           9.7
Unde5y bsr                             *r                                   4a           53 1616               1 
life epct_  at binb: o em                                   7         411        43e628                            1.
3    4L8       ~~4L3        524        62.8       67.9
llXIamfor*e                                                                        OA          I"f 198  1,413        238
Pe                        9                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2|    2Zi    37i;   3516 
Feuper 100m_
Urban                                                                   83
P dipan aioeWm"                         %QbefioSm           35.        331d                   40         44
fanl                                          153        13.7       13.5    3 Q0           34. 26
EAodmeUaa atladmmt of labw twa
Sdioclyamccasplswd:&verfc=.--                                                                     
d~~mt                            _:.                                 ..          .          -    *-
NATURALRESOURCI
Area                                     *    q. m          l.2        1.026      1.026     2906       37,        22,76
AgrXcu1wr1deylO                                     8         3                                           X3 389
For  and oodland                         p                    4;         4           4                             64 46
Deforeswriaa rat. (pe )                                                                       ..44 4. 42  44
Urban3.2                                                                                               6.
Ac   ans wtar                            *afpap.              .....                                     678.
Rural                                                        ..          _          ..      241                    46i
Populatio growth                              f    t of                                    sdMdenromnt
4                                                                                    S
3                                        2S,
S                                                                                  Sh 



Annex 2
- 28 -                                           Page 2 of 2
Social Indicato  or Development, 1991.92
Mauritania
2540  ~~~~mo   S Nextlcavm   Next
254                  retina      Sub-                 higkw
INCOME ANDPOVEEF
GNP percap~ta(mmr= 1990)                    uss             15D        300        SW         340        350       1.53
Toaabousedwldhaomz
Sb.,toto rSbauobd                      % of mtoms
Shuetob&=a40%chosghodws                                      -          .40
Shmteobotton20 otbow4miseols..                                                    20
Absc    suwp m =uA.                    USSPSEPw I                                  2
Pop. in asob.ohpovm.tyuzm                 I% ojwp.            .     
Pwsmvalmindmauidon(smdo)               Soat&oGsWp             ..                 30.0
Food                                         of GDP            ..                   -
C.sualuuposu                ibma~~~dw. inetda Som=s  33      I113       203       789       35.755     38.868
ri ~~~~                  197941=100 ~~~~~~~~130.i        48        7L2                 fs          9
ShainofagsiinIaaromGDP         I rcLOD?          32.        29.6       26          17        29.        168
mjpari.                                                          I an.pepm4s .93 161                         278
Homing                          ~~~~~ofGDP          --.
A= hbon    bl.. u                                                       -          Sowb
Fed aa powu1 %ofGDP                                                      --
H  umsuz~~~~gP~~ta ~k3ofacqwuIvmt                 47.6      120.7      113*       101.7      349.5    1,102.2
Uubmn            Veofheussbalds                    -       ~~~~ ~ ~~ ~             ~~~~~14.0  ..  -
Trumhat=da2muunlcdh                      * of GD?P                       -.
cw   .       "so"            ~~~~783    3.403       161        183        540         24
Tomalwd lasgab                              k 
Pplaoprtdeiejmi                       pets=6                                    . 
JNVFSTAENTINHUMANCAMFAL
hikae"   s ew                              OfGDP              . 
PcpvldawapOrO*3idw                        PMq.=s3                    I~         I J:4
hoa*dbelbd                                       I.294               .7           .        755
Acceato h.ahcaw                          %Ofp.                ..         .                                        4
Trnnusized (unde 12 marAbs):me's!.     %of e.grvoup                                         4042
DPT                    ..         ..       30.0       37.9~~~~~~~~M   43.1  671
Oral Rebyrsian Theray wse (smderS)       *of can              .          .       $40        35.7       36.3       39.8
Educadion                               *6o GLDP              ..         .          .
GM"   %.!.                      *of cbol.g             leu 1.     19.0       $10M.                109.0      100.
to=,I                                                 60        13.0      42.00      $9.        98.8       97.4
Saderyu.w!                                                            4.0       16.        182        40.2       5.
Lana.                                                                  10.0 i     1459       32.6       is5
Tesuiwy scmeagnag%tais  mli                                    ..                 12.5
pwo4eacher akx pdm=Y  pubperumdw                   3549                  39         28         26
Pupil                             puils perseedier24                           20          -         17         1 a
tm                                          so~~~%foho                                 38.        22.9
fliusmaOf =dp apL(S M.8                                                                           50.        2US
Newsp.percsralsio                       psw thu.              .         2.3         .        5.2        2CL8       72.0
Smue WOMB$ SAh tRd minb D.puNNO Apo 1691



- 29 -
Annex 3
MAURITANJ  - Bwk Group Fact Sheet, FY92 - 97                   Page 1
IBRD/IDA Lending Program, FY94, FY97
I  past                ICuMuT             Plamed
Cat..r                   IF2A7FYA                       FY95   F .9 I   FY97
Commitmnts (US$m)             284.7   26.2    24.5        19.5    13-16   30-37    24-30
Sect (%
Agriculbe                    24                         93              SO-60
Pubhc Eneprise               24                          7
Idusty &                                                        100
Finance & Private
Sectw Deveopment
rIfzashucture and            20     40       49                                  100
umn  dveopment
Humn Resources                      60       51                         5040
Cacity Bulding               32
TOTAL                   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0      100.0  100.0   100.0
Lnding Is    n ()
Adjustment kone             34                                 100
Specific Inestment          66              100      100               100      100
loans and other
TOTAL                   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0    100.0  100.0   100.O
JUS$nI)         245.8   11.2    30.1    38.6        28.7   28.2    28.0
Adjustment koane            71.2    1.4      18.8    25.0               7.5      8.0
SpeOCfic investmt           174.6    9.8     11.3    33.6       28.7   21.7    20.0
loan and others
Interest (USsm)                69.5    3.0      2.5      2.2       2.3    2.5       2.6
L Rangs that reflec most Wkly scno prented i th Country Stategy Pe.
b. For fiuture lwding, ounded to nearest 0 or 5%.
c. Strcual ajusment loas, secto  jusat las, and deb and debt  vice 8ducio loas
02110194
c:WPSlcwanx3.tab



-30                                 ANNEX 3
Page 2
MAURUANIA - iYC and MIGA Progrm, FY68 - FYM4
C_tego_y                     FY68              FY91             FY94
IPC Approvas (US$S)                        10.0               4.1               0
Sector (%)
Miig                                    10.0                4.1              0
TOTAL                           i00.0              100.0            100.0
investment insrmmnt (%)
Loans                                     88.0              73.2
Bquity                                    12.0              26.8
TOTAL                             100.0             100.0             100.0
'GA Oua_tes (US$m)                          0                 0                 0
1fiGA Com _b b (US$mA)0                                       0                 0
a. Inludes, quas-equity types of both loan and equity insit
12071M93
c.WPSWass=x2.tab



- 31 -
bra 4
1RmU   AS - by  E9ma IIb~                                                                            hp t d t
wu=     m - NW spu    b tPMItI
- -e - t. ~~~~~~~m                                           robctkm 
Jntimd1laati ait  p:1
Jn*dtfn&="p4 .......... .... 
TotLt dit* ditd  & asw    (M00 V   =18. X11   2MS  Z.1   Z1.1    .8    A6    6A  Z.7  51.2   MU   W47? 2.
Not dIUwnm    V                   as   -V.   -.9  -9.7  .19.9  -3.    21.8   41.?   23   33J    NJ   NJ    S
To  i* t arni  da CMD  V         13.7  29.A  39.1   MI.  39.   M.0  170.   141.7  %&I.  V4A.   14.   145.1  142.
DO wd Oft 91Nir Ird=Ws 00 V
217.1  29.9  39.A  1975  1.3  ZM4   Wl.0  217.8  XP.7 a.        J   13.1  INA4  17.9
lD000S                           43.3  3.9  441L.  442M  41MU   436  432  4592  4562  44?  4 .7  411.?  57
lWDS                              40.2  4L7   61.5  456   42.9   45.0   3.?   3L3    2.? 72.0   25A    25   2.
C *~ia~/t00                       11.5   71.8  ?L6   iLl   74.6  18.3 a t1.0  a2B        5.2   GSA       7   VA    ULS
IbWld      r b*s <11 DdnwC      X
WItd Be* W    0S                  V1.3   17VA    18A   M3   2.2    7.3   9.0   5.1   5.    S3    5.9   6.9   7.8
lofwTHtxvetcr OV  lfc 08          I.A   61.?   16   733    81.0 s   3.0   4227  46.3   51.7   4.8  47.?  45.9   47.9
WIid &*O U                         3.6   3.3   3.8   33    3.8   3.2    3          1A    1.4   1.4    15    13    '
c OJsS ditto
0     0.0    0.0 Q  30    0.    0.    0.0   0.0   0.    0O    0            0      0.0
=Xz GAS*              QO O   OD                            QO   u   u O   O                      u  u   u OJ
Vk1uftpMIcadphLtyl smwUS  d, ph.b .umgawt , dt.uwdWo                 v data  ad dut      i.
oqxsp u5. ,
.0+_



- 32 -
The Status of Bank Operatlons In MAURMTANIA:                                Annex S
Statement of JBRD L ns and IDA Credits
(as of December 1993)
LAt ARPP
Amount in u18$ nMilin                 SupeVisio
(le  aeonadam)                   Iatng
Umdis-    DW=bfld  DeVOL   Overal
Loan or Cr.    FY       BI'vwar             purP            IBD        IDA    busd        g (%)   Objec   Object
Number
24 CreditB aod                                              146.0   156.28
3 Loans closed
C15710-MTA    1985   MAURlTANIA   Small Sale IgDn                    1.50      2.78        03        3       3
C16580.MTA    1986   MAURITANIA   Livedock U                         7.60      5.79       4.4        3       3
C18650-SOA    1988   MAURiTANIA   Dvelopma ManmL                     10,00     1.70        7.8       2       2
C19430-ATA    1989   MAURffANIA   Ed. Sto Redruct.                   18.20     4.47        2.8       2       2
C20930MTA    1990  MAURrTANIA   AGSECALIJId. Improv.                 25.00    13.%2       44.4       2       2
C2166WMTA    1990  MAURITANIA   PB. Sectr Adjustment                 40.00    10.73       2.5        1       1
C21670-TA    1990  MAURrTANIA   P.B. Sctor InasL Dev.                10.00     3.48       21.5       1       1
C23110-ATA    1992   MAURITANIA   PQpaPO  and Heth                   15.70    13.89       43.5       2       2
C23890-TA    1992  MAURITANIA   Water Supply                         10.50    10.63       74.5       1       1
C24550-MTA    1993   MAUMRANIA   Cons _to Capacity                   12.00    10.84        -1                1
C25210-MTA    1993   MAURITANIA   TeC1oaVocatioal                    12.50    12.40        -         1        1
TAL Number of Credits    11                                        169.00    90.63
TOTAL                                                146.00    325.26
Of which repaid                                    1i3  33      8 28
14.67    316.98
TOTAL held by Bank and IDA
Amount sold                  63.35
Of which repaid              63.35
TOTAL undisbursed                                                       90.93
12/07193
c:WP51\casanx5.tab



- 33 -
Annex 6
MAUITANI    - Selected Indicators of
Bank Portfolio Perfornae and Managment
IndiatorFY91                       FY92    j Y93
Portfolio Performance
Number of Proects under implementation               11           12         13         11
Average mplemenio period (yea)                        6            6          6         5
Averp Rating
Development Objectiv3s                             2.7          2.0       1.8         1.8
Overall Sta8                                       2.1          2.1       1.8         1.8
Percent of Projects rated 3 or 4
Development Objectives                              27           25        23          9
Overl Stats                                         27           25        23          9
Canelled during FY                                     -                     2          4
Investment Disbur_   factor (%)                     21.5         23.2      17.9
Disbursmentl bg (%)                                    -         17.3      25.0
Memorndum item: % completed projects rated                                 8.0
Portfo Magment
Supervision resou    (totd saff weeks)             161.7        114.9    137.7       142.0
Averag supvision (daffAweespnect)                   14.7         10.1      9.8         29
Supervisionresourees bylocation(C  9%)              100          100       100        100
Percent hedqwuas                                     5           10        18         22
Percent Resident  on                                95           90        82         78
Supervision resoures by rating category
(staff wee  proect)
Ptojects rated 1 or 2                                -         13.6      11.2        13.0
Projects rated 3 or 4                                -          5.3       8.6        12.0
Meffrandum item: date of lastlnext CPPR            10193
CAScasmnx6.tsaWI4.94



34-                         ANNEXI
_ 34                              -
Structure of Gross Domestic Product
42
40 -
38 F
34 
32
30
28 
26
i4
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
22
2.0 
14 
12 
10 -a
a  1 I      -I   I     1     t -    I     IT
I985  1986  1967  1988   19   190  1991  1"2
1 Prtowry sctM   + Scn44r7 wcd     0 ToefGt  ctw    a t NOit  fax
Public Finance
(Percont of GOP)
40
30   - .
0
1985  1986$  187  19   199  1990  1"1  192  1993
4 t      S      e Cx.d     P     0  fuU k



35 -MPX 
External Sector
aer5ent Of GOP)
90
80
60
50
40
30
l           20 _
0
-10-
-20_
-30-
-40
1985   1985   1987   1988   1989   190   1991   192   199
o  Expott    G of                    GNFf      o tnpert of GM   Cun. Acct. SOlbce
External Debt Indicators
250
240
220
200
180
150_
140-
120_
100-
0           40 .
20 .
20
0
-40
-60
1985   1986  187   1988   1989   1990   1991   uiia  19
O  Oebt  vlcf/XOS       +  0.tUWOP           CUr Act SaVOOP



- 36 -
Schedbe
LUAMC REPUBLc OF MAUITANIA&
AGRICULTURAL SERVIC1S PROJECT
ESTIMATED COSTS AND FM NANCING PLAN
C  US $ Million
Esmtd Cogs&__                                         
_LOCAL       FOREIGN      TOTAL
1. Extesion                             3.16        3.35          6.51
2. Research                             1.24         1.79         3.03
3. Traing                              11.35       10.83         L2.18
4.Decentaization and Policy Support     1.86       1 3.28        15.14
|. PPF Refinancin                        0.28        0.52          0.80
Base Costs                            7.89         9.78          17.67
Physical Contingencies                0.44         0.86          1.30
Price Co rtcies                       0.48         0.36         0.84
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                   8.81         11.00        19.8
Note: TotaLs may not add due to rounding.
/Net of identifiable taxes and duties.
FINANCING PLAN
I_____________ LOCAL                      I FOREIGN          TOTAL
l                            U    US $ million    _
rBENEFICIARIES           0.5               o                  0.5
GOVERNMENT               1.1               O       =         1.1
IDA                     7.2                11.0              18.2
TOTAL             8.8               11.0             1 19.8



- 37 -
Page 1 of 2
SLAMC REPUBLIC OF MAUJRfTANIA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Sumlarv of_Pronosed Procurement Arnreuments
(US$ Mllion Equivalent)
PROJECT ELEMENT                 ICB      LCB     Oe   NIF/  TOTAL
1. Works
1.1 NewConstruction           0.5        3.6              0.3j/   4.4
(0.5)     (3.6)                     (4.1)
1.2 Renovation                           0.6                       0.6
_____________ __ _(0.6)                (0.6)
2. Goods
2.1 Vehicles                    2.4      0.3      0.2               2.9
(2.4)    (0.3)    (0.2)           (2.9)
2.2 Equipmet, Mateials          1.6      0.2      0.1               1.9
(1.6)    (0.2)    (0.1)            (1.9)
3. Consultancies
3.1 Policy Support                                0.7               0.7
(0.7)            (0.7)
3.2 Project preparation and                       0.6               0.6
implementation support                        (0.6)             (0.6)
3.3 Instittional Development                      0.5               0.5
_____________________________            _______  (0.5)             (0.5)
4. Miscelaneous
4.1 Traning                                       1.6      0.521   2.1
4.2 Recurrent Costs                              .3.9      0.8.1   4.7
(3.9)            (3.9)
4.3 PPFRadmnein                                   0.8               0.8
(0.8)            (0.8)
4.4 Research Fund                                 0.6              0.6
~~~~~(0.6)                 (0.6)
TOTAL                           4.5      4.7      9.0      1.6    19.8
(of which IDA)                  (4.)1     4fl   (9.0)             (18.2)
Ngk  Figre in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the IDA Credit.
NIF = Not IDA financed.
1/ Fmanced by Goverment.
ai Fmanced by BeniciaiBs.



- 38 -
Schedule B
Page 2 of 2
ISAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAUIUTANI4A
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Disbursemenlts
Cagory                        Proposed MDA
of                            Allocation         % of Expenditurs
ExpendiJt res                 (US$ million)      Fianced by IMA
1. Civil Works                                   100%
A. MDRE                       4,105,000      of          forei8n
B. Reserch Institutes         300,000        expenditure
4,405,000     95%
of local expenditure
2.  Vehicles,  Equipment  and                    100%
Materials                         2,975,000
A. MDRE                       800,000
B. Research Institutes        485,000
C. SONADER
.__________________________        4,260,000
3. Consltant Services                            100%/0
A. MDRE                       970,000
B. Research Intitutes         285,000
C. SONADER                    50,000
1,305,0W0
4. Trawning
A. MDRE                        1,200,000     80%
B. Research Institutes        210,000        100l/o
C. SONADER                     190,000       80%)Y
1,600,000    ,
5. Research Fund                                 100o
CNRA                          500,000
6. IncrementalY Opratg Costs
A MDRE                        2,400,000      80¶'.
B. Research Institutes        600,000        100%
C. SONADER                    530,000        80%/o
3,530,0000
7. Refiancing PPF                 800,000
8. Unallocated                    1,800,000
o:  Incremental operatfng costs are defned as travel allowances, sadaes of contractual
staf operaing and mnance cost of vehicles, equipmn and buildings, office
supplies, bWratory supplies antd commnicadons.



- 39 -
SdedWe c
ISLAMIC RELPBLIC OF MAU_ANA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES lROJECI
Timetable of Key mroject Pmcessing Events
(a) Time taken to prepare: EEPS: 9/19/91 1-1/2 years
(b)   Prepared by: Government, with assistance fiom FAO/CP
(c)   First IDA Mission: October 1991
(d) Appraisal Mission Departure: June 14, 1993
(e) Negotiations: 1Kovember 1993
(f)   Planmed Date of Effectiveness: July 1994
(g)   List of Relevant PCRS and PARS:
Second Rural Sector Technical Assistance Project, PCR 9962
Gorgol rigation Project, PCR 7566
Livestock Development Project, PAR 3208
Irrigation Engineering Project, PAR 3134
Drought Relief Fund Project, PAR 2808.



Schedule D
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
Action Plan X2 Imrove Disbursements
Acftua
Credit              Disbursement  Disbursement Disbursement Problem/Reason
FY   No.    Name          Planned       Rate         is            for Delay            Proposed Action
86   1658   Livestock II  100%          54%          46%           Non-compliance with   A newr magrand
some legal covenants.  accountant were
Fraud led to         appoited. A fillu
suspension of        fledged review
disbursanmts from    mission will take
special account      place in Febnay
Ministeria decree    and will recommuend
reorganized m hinstry    whether or not to
and transerred staff   close the project.
with littde project work
done for 4 months.
90   2093   Agricultural  86%           48 %         44%           Second trnche not    Required measuires
Secal/                                               released because of    are being
Irrigation                                            delays in Iplmntng  implmeted and
Improvement                                           land tenure reform  the second trache
measures, agriculture  release is expected
credit recovery and    for March 1994.
.  reorgniation of the
Mhistryof
Based on MIS data as of August 1993.



70 ~      ~         ~0
---4--  * ~ ~    --------- 
*  a~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



IBRD259
MN*;ANI-                 /., 
AGrICULTURAL" %RICIE4 PROJEaT
*  AURITANIA;
'-; ' .' , ,,,. 'MAU,_
E R.UDAGU~UWMll  . e .,.St,   sW
MOROCCO                     Tj
, : r O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CEAN;   UWA.A NI ''DOR
; . _ s, ..........--. ,.-------------------
A4~~~~~~~~~~~A
4. _  O*/T  AGEI
FORMER                                                          >
--;-- >iv$-$-os4:             SPANISH                                     y---7  I
SAHARA          I    --'                            2j
/  iZoukds  . -          -- .         .      !  MALI
.',' A   e Sto.i.8zX                *    k               * z  *,___  *      I
Lw~~~~~~~~~~~~,
M  Al    ~~~I
AI4wjt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V &.js
Ar44SENEGAL
16                          118



