Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22434
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-25750)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDRs 13.1 MILLION (US$18.2 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
June 29, 2001
Rural Development III
Country Department 15
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 31, 2001)
Currency Unit = Ouguiya (UM)
UM 100.00 = US$ 0.41
US$ 1.00 = 245.00 UM
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADCs         Community Development Associations
(Associations de developpement communautaires)
AMEXTIPE   Mauritanian Agency for Public Works and Employment
(Agence Mauritanienne d'Execution des Travaur d'7nt6r6t Public etpour l'Emploi)
CFCB/CFPR   Boghe Cooperative Training Center/Rural Producer Training Center
(Centre deformation cooperative de Boghe/Centre deformation des producteurs ruraux)
CNERV        National Livestock and Veterinary Research Center
(Centre National d'Elevage et de Recherches VYterinaires)
CNRA         National Agricultural Research Council
(Conseil National de la Recherche Agricole)
CNRADA       National Agricultural Research and Development Center
(Centre National de Recherche Agronomique et de Developpement Agicole)
CP            Planning Unit of MDRE (Cellule de Planification)
CST           Scientific and Technical Commission
(Commission scientifique et technique)
DRFV          Research-Training-Extension Directorate of MDRE
(Direction Recherche-Formation- Vulgarisation du MDRE)
ENFVA        National Agricultural Training and Extension School
(Ecole Nationale de Formation et de Vulgarisation Agricole)
MDRE          Ministry of Rural Development and the Environment
(Ministere du Developpement Rural et de l'Environnement)
SMSs          Subject-Matter Specialists
SONADER    National Agency for Rural Development
(Societe Nationale de Developpement Rural)
WID           Women in Development
PGRNP         Natural Resources Management Project
(Projet de Gestion des Ressources Naturelles en Zone Pluviale)
PDIAIM       Integrated Development Project for Irrigated Agriculture in Mauritania
(Projet de Developpement Integre de l'Agriculture Irriguee en Mauritanie)
WARDA         West Africa Rice Development Association
(Association pour le developpement de la riziculture en Afrique de l'Ouest)
Vice President:    Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager/Director:    A. David Craig
Sector Manager/Director:   Jean-Paul Chausse
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Daniel Moreau



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MAURITANIA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data
2. Principal Performance Ratings
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                    9
6. Sustainability                                                                       11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      14
9. Partner Comments                                                                     14
10. Additional Information                                                             15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   22
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      23
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   24
Annex 8. ICR Mission Aide-Memoire                                                      25
Annex 9. Government's Contribution                                                     40
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P001864                                         Pro ect Name: AGRIC SERVICES
Team Leader: Daniel Moreau                                  TL Unit: AFTRC
ICR Type: Core ICR                                          Report Date: June 29, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: AGRIC SERVICES                                   L/C/TF Number: IDA-25750
Country/Department: MAURITANIA                                             Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: AE - Agricultural Extension; AG - Agency Reforn;
AR - Research
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  03/02/90                                  Effective:  08/23/94           10/25/94
Appraisal:  05/01/93                                   MTR:  12/31/96              05/02/97
Approval:  03/08/94                                  Closing:  12/31/2000          12/31/2000
Borrower/Implementing Agency: GOVERNMENT/SONADER
Other Partners:
STAFF                 Current                                     At Appraisal
Vice President:       Callisto Madavo                            Edward V.K. Jaycox
Country Manager:      David Craig                                 Katherine Marshall
Sector Manager:       Jean-Paul Chausse                           Sallah Darghouth
Team Leader at ICR:   Daniel Moreau                              Franz Schorosch
ICR Primary Author:   Franz Schorosch
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
Outcome: if the rating existed, the project would be rated as marginally satisfactory.



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project was intended to be the first five-year time slice of a long-term national program to
upgrade the supply of agricultural services nationwide, focusing on strengthening the linkages between
extension, research and agricultural training. The long-term objectives of the project were to increase
agricultural productivity in an environmentally sustainable manner, to raise farmers' incomes, and to
rationalize the use of public resources in support of agricultural services. The specific project objectives
were to: (i) gradually harmonize country-wide extension activities based on sound management principles,
and to reshape extension into a demand-driven service responsive to farmers' and agro-pastoralists' needs;
and (ii) strengthen the linkages between research and extension focusing on adaptive and applied research
activities. To facilitate this institution building effort, the project was also aiming at the decentralization of
the Ministry of Rural Development and the Environment (MDRE), the strengthening of the agricultural
training system, and the strengthening of producer organizations.
The project's objectives were central to Government's agricultural strategy (poverty alleviation, increased
food production, improved nutrition, crop diversification) as well as the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy (see Section 3.5: Quality at Entry). Overall, the objectives were clear and realistic and remain
valid today. Since this was the first agricultural services project in Mauritania, the project was demanding
for the existing Govenmment research and training institutions, and especially challenging for the newly
created Research-Training-Extension Directorate (DRFV). As stated in the Staff Appraisal Report, the
objectives of creating a dynamic agricultural knowledge system, with full producer participation, is a
long-term endeavor. The development of the key institutions in agricultural research, extension, and
agricultural training and development of strong farmers' organizations need sustained Government
commitment to achieve durable improvements.
3.2 Revised Objective:
No Change.
3.3 Original Components:
The project had the following components:
(a) extension - consolidating and improving agricultural extension services of the Ministry of
Rural Development and Environment (MDRE) and the National Agency for Rural
Development (SONADER), covering crop and livestock production, and natural resource
management; this was to be done at the national/central level (DRFV) and in nine of the
country's 12 regions;
(b) training - strengthening of two agricultural training institutions;
(c) research - strengthening the agricultural research system and improving the links with the
extension services and the users;
(d) decentralization of MDRE and policy support - support to the reorganization and
decentralization of MDRE and policy support.
Nine regions were selected because in the remaining three regions, agriculture is not possible due
to lack of rainfall.
-2 -



The project components were well selected. They were mutually reinforcing and formed a
comprehensive subset of interventions to improve agricultural services delivery. All key institutions in this
field participated as executing agencies and the project had a synergistic effect. The implementing
agencies had the necessary capacity to carry out their technical part of the project, although in the case of
the two research institutes, a more modest and phased approach should have been taken from the
beginning, and DRFV's financial management capacity should have received more attention during project
implementation.
3.4 Revised Components:
During a special supervision/ restructuring mission in May 1998, extensive discussions were held
with Government officials, project staff and stakeholders to make sure the project would achieve its
development objectives. In this context: (a) a detailed logical framework with specific progress indicators
was developed in a participatory manner; (b) various categories of project beneficiaries were defined more
clearly and specific extension recommendations to suit their needs were developed; and (c) the project was
opened up to other partners, i.e., NGOs, to provide on a contractual basis support for the introduction of
new technologies (animal traction), and to deliver extension services in selected areas; (d) new extension
methodologies were introduced; (e) special attention was given to the strengthening of producer
organizations; and (f) extension advice was broadened to take into account the need for agricultural
diversification.
- Extension Component. The extension approach was widened to help farmers to organize and to deal
with input and marketing problems, and extension advice was broadened to take into account the need for
agricultural diversification.
- Training Component. For one of the training institutions, the National Agricultural Training and
Extension School (ENFVA), it was decided to limit the project's activities to providing support to the
training of extension staff. The task of redefining ENFVA's mandate was taken up by Government with
support from FAO.
- Research Component. Since disbursement conditions for the research component, and therefore its
implementation, were met with two years' delay, it was decided to simplify the research component during
the mid-term implementation review. Investments for research station development were reduced to the
strict minimum and the focus shifted from building a full-fledged, national agricultural research system to
strengthening the capacity of the National Agricultural Research Center (CNRADA), and the National
livestock and Veterinary Research Center (CNERV) to carry out on-farm research. Also, because of the
weak capacity of the existing system, the focus was placed on the execution of a certain number of agreed
upon research projects and to work in close collaboration with international/regional research institutions.
- Decentralization of MDRE. In 1993, the Government and IDA used the tern "decentralization" mostly
in the sense of "deconcentration", i.e., posting of staff from the capital into the regions. Although not
formally modified, the principle was agreed that this component was supposed to support the
deconcentration of MDRE extension personnel.
Although the scope of the training, research and decentralization components were narrowed, the objectives
of the project were not changed. Therefore, these modifications/revisions did not lead to a restructuring of
the project and did not require approval from the Executive Directors. Credit proceeds were reallocated
according to the new requirements.
-3 -



3.5 Quality at Entry:
Overall, the quality at entry is rated as marginally satisfactory. The project's objectives were
consistent with the Government's agricultural policy as reaffirmed in the sub-sectoral policy letter on
agricultural research-training-extension of January 1994 (Annex 3 of the Staff Appraisal Report). They
were also consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy of March 1994 which concentrated on
three objectives: (i) human resources development and vigorous efforts to alleviate poverty; (ii) support for
private-sector led growth with a view toward promoting a strong supply response; and (iii) strengthened
economic management, capacity building and governance. Finally, the project was a direct follow up to the
Agricultural Sector Adjustment and Investrnent Project (Cr. 2093-MAU) which sought to improve
agricultural policies, and restructure and decentralize the agricultural Ministry. Project activities,
particularly extension, had been well tested through two years of pilot activities funded under the Project
Preparation Facility (PPF) P-733-MAU.
However, at the start of the project, the main executing agency, the DRFV (Direction
Recherche-Formation- Vulgarisation), of the MDRE had just been established as part of the Ministry's
reorganization. As such, the DRFV was inexperienced and its management capacity was yet unproven. An
analysis of the Borrower's long-term capacity to sustain its training, research and extension systems
without external financing would have provided a useful tool at appraisal to determine the appropriate size
and institutional structure needed for such systems, particularly for the National Agricultural Research
System. It would also have provided a target/goal for the Borrower and a point of reference for securing
long-term, institutional, and financial sustainability.
The SAR also failed to adequately quantify the project's long-term and intermediate impact on
production, productivity and incomes. It did not provide for a baseline survey and did not provide key
performance indicators and technical guidance on how to carry out an impact evaluation study at the end of
the project.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4,1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall, the outcome of the project is rated as unsatisfactory (marginally satisfactory given the
situation of agricultural services in the country at the start of the project and the technical achievements).
Significant progress was made toward meeting specific project objectives such as the development and
harmonization of country-wide and more demand-driven extension activities, but project outcome was less
than expected as far as institutional capacity building and deconcentration are concerned. Project execution
was delayed and thus the project was negatively affected because of two periods of suspension of
disbursements (November 1997 - September 1998 and September - November 2000) as a consequence of
financial mismanagement, misuse of project vehicles, and non-compliance with IDA procurement rules.
The project impact on agricultural productivity and producers' income is difficult to assess in the
absence of a baseline survey and of a systematic monitoring and evaluation system. The SAR did not
attempt to estimate an economic rate of return for the project. No impact indicators had been defined at
appraisal. Nevertheless, some technologies clearly contributed to increasing food production and income,
and preventing major food production collapse and related food security problems. Some achievements
include the release of a range of crop and forage varieties, and agro-forestry species, the diffusion of
improved stoves, and small, post-harvest machinery, and improved livestock vaccination and disease
control. But project outcome was much less than expected as far as its institutional capacity building
objectives are concerned. Little progress was made for establishing a demand-driven and sustainable
national agricultural services system.
-4 -



Note: Beneficiary Assessment. A beneficiary assessment has been commissioned to gather and analyze
beneficiaries' views. The report is due by late June 2001 and was not available at the time of the writing of
the ICR.
4.2 Outputs by components:
1. Extension. The extension component is rated as marginally satisfactory. Prior to the project,
agricultural extension services were basically nonexistent, except for the extension services of SONADER
along the Senegal River, and some progress was made to reach subsistence farmers in the rainfed areas.
DRFV. The project was able to markedly strengthen the services provided by DRFV through staff of
the Regional Delegations of MDRE and the ones provided by SONADER. To better address women
farmers' needs, 17 female extension agents (over 10 percent of field extension staff) were hired, all
extension agents were trained in gender issues in agriculture, and a national and regional coordinator
for women in development issues was appointed. Key aspects of extension management were greatly
improved, namely: (a) the systematic identification of technology opportunities and needs according
to different agroecological zones and fanner clients; (b) extension, planning and programming; and (c)
development of extension recommendations covering not only crop production, protection, and
storage, but also animal husbandry and natural resources management aspects. At the same time, a
strategy was developed to use mass media in support of extension and to closely cooperate with
NGOs. Despite these improvements, DRFV was slow in adjusting its work procedures to evolving
circumstances, especially the implementation of the IDA financed Natural Resources Management
Project (Projet de Gestion des Ressources Naturelles en zone Pluviale - PGRNP).
Extension recommendations covered a wide variety of technologies and were developed for all
agro-ecological zones and for male and female farmers. They ranged from simple crop (weeding,
thinning, gap filling) and animal husbandry (parasite control, salt licks, feeding) practices to
recommendations concerning fertilizer dosage and timing, composting, seed treatment, the use of
various new varieties, and natural resource management practices. To encourage improved and more
intensive irrigated land use along the Senegal river, emphasis was placed on agronomic topics
concerning the growing of different varieties of rice and on the introduction of: (i) diversification crops
(forage crops, fruit trees, vegetables), (ii) animal traction and (iii) small rice threshers to reduce labor
bottlenecks. Women farmers were assisted primarily through their cooperatives and extension support
concentrated on teaching and demonstrating vegetable growing and conservation wherever there is
adequate water supply, improved wood burning stoves, and the introduction of presses to extract
groundnut oil.
Particularly successful was the training and deployment of livestock auxiliaries, of which 240 (twice
as many as there are field extension agents) are providing animal health services on a continuing and
sustainable basis. The locations for these auxiliaries were carefully identified and they were selected
and nominated by their communities. At the end of their training courses, these auxiliaries were given
a minimum of equipment and received selected drugs on a matching grant basis to constitute a small
pharmacy. They have been linked up with private veterinarians where they exist so that they can
replenish their drugs supply. They were supervised and received refresher training courses from the
few public veterinarians that remain in government service. This formula has worked very well and a
survey of 200 auxiliaries (83 percent of all 240 auxiliaries) in December 1999 showed that they
intervened in more than 850 villages and treated more than 550,000 animals (mostly cattle and small
ruminants) during that year.
-5-



SONADER. SONADER was responsible for providing extension advice to farmers in the collective
irrigation schemes along the Senegal river. It did so relatively well and has shown flexibility in its
approach. Initially, it concentrated on working with contact groups and demonstration plots and
promoted discrete production technologies related to irrigated rice growing. Over time, SONADER
realized that priority problems to be addressed were related to the organization and management of
cooperatives of small producers, otherwise its production advice could not be applied successfully on
a sustainable basis. Then SONADER started working through existing social structures to promote a
package of rice growing technologies developed by the West African Rice Development Association
(WARDA). As part of this collaboration and together with CNRADA, it actively participated in
research and development (R&D) activities not only to improve irrigated rice cultivation but also to
encourage agricultural diversification. These latter activities have been supported by the IDA
financed PDIAIM. Nevertheless, SONADER failed to provide extension advice to the larger,
commercially oriented individual farmers that have acquired land along the Senegal river, and the
project did nothing to assist these producers in accessing, even on a full-cost recovery basis, the
services they needed (this issue is being addressed under the follow-up project, the Integrated
Development Project for Irrigated Agriculture in Mauritania (PDIAIM)).
Extension Methodology. The extension methodology has been improved over time and the extension
approach is no longer based on a strict T&V system, i.e., Contact Groups (CGs) and demonstration plots.
The principles have been adjusted to take account of great differences in population density, the large
distances in some regions between villages/encampments, difficulty of access to many villages, the
seasonality of agricultural activities, the varying social organizations, and the scarcity of researchers. Work
with CGs was increasingly replaced by working with existing natural groupings in the conrnunities,
especially cooperatives, in the case of women farmers. During the mid-term review it was decided: (a) to
refocus extension efforts on a more clearly defined clientele (for example, women farmers with access to
water to practice vegetable growing); (b) to open up delivery of extension services to other providers
(Non-government organizations - NGOs); (c) to give more attention to the strengthening of village
associations and farmer organizations; and (d) to respond to the need of diversifying agricultural
production in the irrigation areas along the Senegal river.
Technical reconmnendations covered a wide variety of technologies for all agro-ecological zones, and
addressed the needs of both male and female farmers. They ranged from simple crop (weeding, thinning,
gap filling) and animal husbandry (parasite control, salt licks, feeding) practices to recommendations
conceming fertilizer dosage and timing, composting, seed treatment, the use of various new varieties, and
natural resource management practices.
At the height of its activities during 1997 (before the first disbursement suspension), the project reached
30,000 farm families in over 1,000 villages, as many as had been planned at appraisal to be achieved by
project end. Because of the second disbursement suspension in 2000, and inadequate procurement
planning, the project was not able to replace its park of vehicles, especially the motorcycles of the
extension agents, before the project closed. Consequently, mobility of extension staff is now severely
limited and their coverage of villages has greatly decreased. Unless the measures described in Section 6.2:
"Transition arrangements to regular operations" are taken soon, the country's agricultural knowledge
system will suffer.
2. Training. The training component is rated as satisfactory since the objectives of this component were
largely achieved for the National Agricultural Training and Extension School (Ecole Nationale de
Formation et de Vulgarisation Agricole - ENFVA) and fully achieved for Boghe Cooperative Training
Center/Rural Producers' Training Center (CFCB/CFPR).
- 6 -



ENFVA provided in-service training for all extension agents. It satisfactorily carried out six-week
training courses to make field extension staff diversified, i.e., to round out their basic education
depending on whether they originally had been trained primarily in agronomy, livestock sciences or
natural resources management. ENFA also trained -together with GTZ - all field extension agents in
Integrated Pest Management techniques and organized two training sessions for Subject Matter
Specialists. However, the Government has yet to decide on the future role of this institution based on
a study done by FAO and in the wider context of its strategy for secondary technical education.
CFCB, which later became CFPR, surpassed the appraisal estimates in terms of number of farmers
trained and had a much larger role in the project than originally envisioned. The center organized four
different farmer training courses: a) vegetable growing; b) vegetable conservation; c) maintenance of
irrigation motor pumps, and; d) management of cooperatives. The center trained about 8,000 farmers
(over 7,000 of them women farmers) in over 1,000 villages. The training modules were delivered on
site, i.e., in the villages selected, and in the case of teaching women farmers vegetable growing,
trainers remained in the villages for a whole growing season. Vegetable production, which a few
years ago was unknown in most villages in the interior, increased considerably everywhere there is
access to water and thus led to a substantial increase of food and to improved nutrition habits.
3. Research. This component is rated unsatisfactory. The ambitious, and probably unrealistic goal of
creating a full-fledged national agricultural research system as laid out in the SAR was not achieved.
However, there were concrete accomplishments in carrying out specific research programs and thereby
strengthening the two main research research institutions (CNRADA and CNERV). The disbursement
conditions could only be met with significant delays and the research component only became effective in
the middle of 1997.  By that time, during the mid-tenn review, it was decided to refornulate the
component and to concentrate fully on on-farm research based on participatory diagnostics with producers
and extension agents.
From 1998 to 2000, the National Agricultural Research Center (Centre National de Recherche
Agronomique et de Developpement Agricole - CNRADA) and the National Livestock and Veterinary
Research Center (Centre National de l 'Elevage et de Recherches Veterinaires - CNERV) have executed
over 50 research projects (mostly testing of new, imported varieties; fertilizer dosages, and plant protection
measures; and topics related to animal husbandry and animal health). All of these research activities were
conducted together with extension staff, which was at times problematic, given the mobility constraints of
the latter. Particularly noteworthy and successful has been CNRADA's -- together with SONADER --
collaboration with one of the intemational research centers, the West African Rice Development
Association (WARDA) that has a Station in Senegal with basically the same agroecological conditions for
irrigated Agriculture as in Mauritania. This collaboration was extremely beneficial. It was based on a
participatory research process, in which international researchers from WARDA and their colleagues from
CNRADA worked together with SONADER extension agents and farners in their fields for testing of a
number of new technologies. These technologies ranged from the introduction of new varieties of rice and
diversification crops together with the appropriate husbandry practices to the development of intermediate
mechanization for rice threshing. In addition the collaboration with WARDA was beneficial to CNRADA's
researchers in providing methodological support and on-the-job training. Under project financing, the
research stations have been rehabilitated and are now well equipped. Overall, when funding was not an
issue, CNRADA and CNERV have significantly improved the quantity and quality of their research output
compared to before project start-up. This was especially true in 1999. The Government took note and
budgetary allocations to both CNRADA and CNERV were increased significantly beyond the level of
inflation.
-7 -



4. Decentralization and Policy Support. The objectives of this component were only partly achieved.
The construction of office buildings for MDRE in eight provincial and 32 departmental capitals,
has been successfully completed. This part was carried out under the responsibility of the Mauritanian
Agency for Public Works and Employment (Agence Mauritanienne d'Ex6cution des Travaux d'Interet
Public et pour l'Emploi - AMEXTIPE) in time and within budgetary limits. This construction program has
greatly facilitated the deconcentration of MDRE staff from the capital to the interior and has allowed to
regroup all the previous units of MDRE into one single unit at the regional and departmental level.
However, the delegation of authority, responsibilities, and financial resources to the regions, in
particular to the regional "Delegations" (which is the basis for a decentralization process) is still in its
beginning. The "Delegues" don't yet have the means to coordinate agricultural development activities in
their regions and extemally funded projects tend to be outside their sphere of influence. No policy studies
to support the policy analysis and planning capacity of MDRE were funded, since the Planning Unit was
busy establishing itself as a Planning Department and finding alternative sources of funds.
Monitoring and Evaluation. The Staff Appraisal Report concentrated on implementation
monitoring and did not provide for an impact evaluation study at the end of the project. No baseline survey
was carried out. Project objectives were not operationalized and no detailed targets were developed. For
the mid-term review in 1997, the Borrower prepared a progress report, including a rudimentary study on
the adoption of certain extension recommendations. During the supervision/restructuring mission of May
1998, a detailed logical framework with specific performance indicators was developed in a participatory
manner. However, by the end of the project no Monitoring and Evaluation system was in place, and the
performance indicators have not been systematically collected nor analyzed.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project had a modest institutional development impact on implementing agencies, as many of
the improvements need to be consolidated to be lasting and additional ways have to be found to more fully
involve producers in the agricultural knowledge system. However, the project was successful in the
strengthening of rural organizations, particularly women's organizations, as well as in the promotion of
para-professionals in the agricultural sector.
MDRE staff are now more firmly implanted in all regions and there has been a marked shift of
personnel and resources from the capital to the regions. Most of this staff work as extension agents and are
in daily contact with farmers and their problems. The creation of DRFV with its support for research,
farmer training and extension, has helped the development and establishment of a comprehensive
agricultural knowledge system for the delivery of services demanded by farmers and herders. All
participating research and training institutions have increased the quality and quantity of their input, and
their staff have gained valuable experience and professionalism.
The project had a beneficial impact on the strengthening of rural producer organizations. In
particular, CFPR used existing women organizations, mostly cooperatives, to teach technical and economic
- 8 -



skills (vegetable growing, conservation and marketing) and to train them in cooperative management
principles.
Finally, and probably most importantly, the project has created a network of more than 240
para-professional livestock auxiliaries that provide basic animal health care against payment in more than
1,000 villages (about one-third of all villages). Besides the costs of initial training, minimal equipment, and
some supervision, the para-professionals operate at no cost to the national budget and are a most valuable
asset for the rural communities.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
None
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Frequent turnover of high-level decision makers. Being part of Ministry of Rural Development and the
Environment (MDRE), the project was negatively affected by frequent changes in Ministers and General
Secretaries. From negotiations in November 1993 to project closing in December 2000, there were 12
Ministers and nearly as many General Secretaries. The project itself had five Directors over its
implementation period.
Inappropriate appointments of Project Directors. Project execution suffered greatly from two director
appointments that severely hampered its execution. IDA was not associated in the selection of these
Directors and did oppose one of them because of his past employment record but to no avail. Both
Directors engaged in financial mismanagement and disregarded IDA procurement procedures. This led to
two lengthy informal suspensions of disbursements from February to September 1998, and from July to
October 2000. During these periods, project activities slowed down considerably. Interactions between
national staff of DRFV and field staff were curtailed, as there were no missions from Nouakchott to the
Regions. Also, activities of participating agencies (CNRADA, CNERV, ENFVA, CFPR) that depended
on DRFV funding were sharply reduced. In both cases, Government reaction was slow and only took
effect once IDA pointed out the irregularities. It took several months before the conditions for lifting
suspension of disbursements were met which involved primarily the restitution of project funds and the
appointment of a new project director. Subsequent directors spent valuable time addressing the financial
mismanagement problems left by their predecessors before being able to turn their attention fully to project
field activities.
Inappropriate Civil Service Structure for managing technical field personnel. Being part of the civil
service also posed some problems to the project in terms of management of (a) personnel, (b) incentives and
(c) equipment. At times, extension agents were reassigned to other parts of the Ministry with no
consultation with the DRFV Director. In addition, travel allowances for extension staff have never been
adjusted during project execution and by the end of the project they have lost more than 50 percent of their
initial value. Extension personnel, in particular supervisors and Subject Matter Specialists, did not have
adequate incentives to do field visit. Moreover, project vehicles were repeatedly used for non-project
purposes, particularly in the capital, and as a result technical support and supervision field visits were
hampered.
Inappropriate Disbursement Conditionalities for the Research Component. Given the small size and
limited absorptive capacity of the research system in Mauritania at the time of the appraisal, the proposed
research organizational structure (a National Agricultural Research Council supported by a Scientific and
-9-



Technical Commission) was not appropriate. Thus, the disbursement conditionalities for the research
component were also inappropriate. This contributed to the two-year delay in the execution of the research
component. However, the Government could have opposed these conditions during appraisal and
negotiations and refused to accept them considering the weaknesses of the national agricultural research
system.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Project Management. DRFV's project management unit's performance was weak. It was established as a
condition of loan effectiveness and the chief accountant was selected and trained by the international
accounting firn which had installed the accounting software, and prepared the procedures manual for the
project. The capacity of the unit to deal with procurement matters was not fully developed since all civil
works and major procurement contracts were to be handled by the IDA-financed Mauritanian Agency for
Public Works and Employment (AMEXTIPE). Although AMEXTIPE provided competent services for
major civil works procurement, its performances in handling equipment procurement contracts were only
marginally satisfactory.
Initially there were no problems because a competent director of DRFV was apppointed who followed IDA
procurement procedures. Project accounts for 1996 were audited on time without qualifications. However,
subsequent directors proved that the system did not have strong enough internal control procedures to
withstand misuse. Staff did not receive adequate in-service training and the procedures manual was not
always respected. Financial management was overly centralized within DRFV to the detriment of the
Regions and the executing agencies, which did not have secondary project accounts. Most importantly,
IDA procurement procedures were not always followed and financial mismanagement led to non-eligible
expenditures, and as a consequence to suspensions of disbursement.
Legal Covenants. While most legal covenants were complied with, overall compliance with the
Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was not satisfactory, since IDA procuTement rules (Article III,
Section 3.03 and Schedule 3) were violated, project vehicles were used for non-project purposes, ineligible
expenditures occurred, and counterpart funds were at times inadequate and not paid quarterly in advance
into the Project Account (Article III Section 3.02. d).
5.4 Costs and financing:
Actual project costs are estimated at US$17.8 million equivalent, compared to US$19.8 million equivalent
estimated at appraisal. About US$1.7 million remains undisbursed and will be cancelled. Of the actual
project costs, IDA contributed for about US$16.5 million and Governnent for about US$1.3 million.
Actual total project costs are lower than estimated at appraisal because of the delays caused by the
suspensions of disbursement and because no extension of closing date was granted. In general, costs of
Consultants' Services were higher that expected because of the need for hiring contractual project staff
(mostly support staff) that had not been anticipated at appraisal.
Audits. Audit reports were prepared on time but for three years (1995, 1998, and 1999), they were
qualified. In particular, the auditors pointed out non-eligible expenditures of UM 200 million during 1997
that led to the first suspension of disbursements. In addition, in their management letters, they made
recommendations on how to strengthen internal control procedures that were reinforced by IDA, but in the
final analysis disregarded.
- 10-



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
Project sustainability is rated unlikely in the long term. The project was not expected to be financially
sustainable since it supported the building up and the strengthening of public services which tend to be
characterized by relatively high recurrent operational cost. The probability that the project will maintain
the achievements generated in relation to its major objectives will depend mainly on the ability of the
national extension and research systems to fund recurrent costs.
Awareness of the need for a strong agricultural knowledge system (research, extension, farmer training) is
increasing within Mauritania's society and among policy makers. Budgetary allocations for research
(CNRADA, CNERV), extension (Delegations Regionales) and farmer training (CFCP) have increased
during project execution at a pace much faster than the rate of inflation, starting from a very low base. The
present levels of budgetary allocation would not allow for the replacement of vehicles and motorcycles
purchased under the project, nor for maintaining the level of research, extension and training activities
reached at the height of project execution in 1997.
Several actions taken during project implementation are expected to progressively pave the road for
financial sustainability of the training, research and extension systems. Such actions include: (i) the
privatization of the veterinary services sector; (ii) the training and promotion of village/ community
extension auxiliaries, as well as of veterinary para-professionals (veterinary auxiliaries); (iii) the increasing
share of the private sector and commercial fanner organizations to finance on demand services from DRFV
and its partner organizations.
The institutional sustainability of the project is likely, given the level of well-trained personnel/humnan
resource assets, the improved training, research and extension systems, and the deconcentrated institutional
structure put in place to implement rural development programs across the country. The sustainability of
impact is also likely through the durability of knowledge and flow of technical information transferred to
producers, as well as through the durable effect of improved water and soil fertility management
technologies.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Presently, there are two ongoing IDA-financed operations in the agricultural sector in Mauritania. One is
the PGRNP, the other one is the PDIAIM. Both have two more years to go and both were designed based
on the principle that agricultural services (research, extension, fanner training) would be provided under
the Agricultural Services Project (PSA). During the mid-term review of the PGRNP in March/April 2001,
which coincided with the final supervision mission of the PSA, the Borrower and the Bank agreed in
principle that PGRNP and PDIAIM would provide continuous funding for agricultural services. The
PDIAM already included provision for agriculture services in the Senegal Valley that are being provided by
SONADER. The PGRNP is being restructured to include financing for providing agriculture services in the
rainfed areas. This funding would be done on producer-led demands and through contractual arrangements
between: (a) PGRNP and DRFV for the planning and supervision of the extension operations; (b) PGRNP
and DRFV and the regional Delegations of MDRE for the delivery of extension services; and (c) PGRNP
and the research and training centers for their services.
IDA's future support for agricultural services will be reviewed, together with the future of PGRNP and
PDIAIM, during the preparation of the Mauritania 2002-2004 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). The
Government on its part, together with the private sector in Mauritania will have to take a combination of
- 11 -



measures to further improve the efficiency and relevance of the national agricultural knowledge system, and
to sustain the required annual investment and recurrent costs.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
Although Bank's performance can be rated as satisfactory during the first stage of preparation, it
was unsatisfactory during appraisal. Overall Bank's performance with regards to lending is rated as
unsatisfactory.
For the research component, project objectives as defined at appraisal were overly ambitious given
the limited absorptive capacity of the national agricultural research system. Disbursement conditions for
research proved to be too much of a hurdle, thereby delaying the start-up of this component by two and a
half years. Too much emphasis was given to institutional aspects at the detriment of dealing with issues of
research management and execution: what kind of research activities to conduct, where (on or off station)
and how to do it in a participatory manner (research methodology). No guidelines for participatory
on-farm research were provided. The economic analysis for the project was rudimentary and no provisions
were made for a baseline study, clear performance indicators, nor impact evaluation at the end of the
project.
7.2 Supervision:
The supervision of the project by the Bank was unsatisfactory.
On the technical side, staff from HQ and the agricultural services specialist based in the Resident
Mission provided valuable implementation support and visited field activities frequently. Also, the
mid-term review and a subsequent special supervision mission allowed to retrofit the project, redesign the
research component, refocus extension activities, and develop a detailed logical framework with specific
progress indicators.
However, on the administration and financial side, project management aspects were not as
intensively supervised as they should have been. Supervision missions were not adequately staffed to that
regard. Until the beginning of 1998 when the auditors pointed out in their audit report for 1997 that the
project was suffering from financial mismanagement, supervision missions did not include financial
management or procurement specialists.  Once misuse of project funds and non-compliance with
procurement procedures became apparent (early in 1998 and during the second half of 2000), IDA reacted
quickly and sent immediately special missions which included financial management specialists. However,
after the first suspension in 1998 IDA should have gone further and addressed issues surrounding project
management in a more comprehensive manner. IDA should have: (a) sought an agreement with the
Govemment on the nomination of future Directors of DRFV based on clear, transparent selection criteria
and acceptable to IDA; (b) insisted on a complete reevaluation of the project management unit's capacity to
implement the project; and (c) requested that the project management unit be put under the close
supervision of a local financial management firm for a transition period until the unit had proven its
competence.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Unsatisfactory.
- 12 -



Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrowers and SONADER's performance during project preparation, including the pilot phase was
satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government implemention performance was unsatisfactory.
Being an integral part of the Ministry of Rural Development and the Environment, DRFV suffered
from frequent changes in Ministers of Agriculture and General Secretaries of MDRE. Since negotiations in
November 1993 until today, there have been 12 Ministers and nearly as many General Secretaries. The
choice of Directors of DRFV did not take into consideration their ability to carry out the required
responsibility. IDA was not associated in the selection process and Government at times maintained
Directors for too long in their position even when it was becoming apparent that they were harmful to the
project. Governments internal financial control (Cour des Comptes) only intervened after IDA signaled
mismanagement. Another set of issues concerns technical personnel management. The notion of an
extension agent or researcher as being a specialized professional was not yet fully understood and
sometimes technical personnel were removed from the field and transferred within the Ministry without
consultation with the Director of DRFV. During election campaigns, field staff and project vehicles have
been used for purposes other than those intended under the credit agreement. In addition, the Government
did not always provide adequate counterpart funds, and did not provide them quarterly in advance as
stipulated in the Development Credit Agreement (Article III Section 3.02d).
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of DRFV's project management unit was very poor and the root cause of most of
the project's problems. Technical staff of DRFV and in the regions performed well, undertook many
interesting initiatives, but adapted slowly to evolving circumstances, especially the arrival of the PGRNP
and the PDIAIM. SONADER carried out its part of the project satisfactorily, although it could have also
been more proactive in adjusting its extension operations to the needs of its clients and to the evolving
policy environment. Both research institutions (CNRADA and CNERV), once funding started, did a good
job in carrying out agreed upon research activities, and CNRADA's collaboration with WARDA, extension
agents of DRFV and SONADER and farmers was exemplary and highly successful. The two training
institutions (ENFVA and CFCP/CFPR) performed as expected. CFCB/CFPR was particularly successful
in training large numbers of women farmers in vegetable growing and conservation.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall Borrower performance is rated as unsatisfactory for the following reasons:
* While the Borrower provided adequate counterpart funds, it did not provide them quarterly in advance.
* Also, the Borrower did not pay enough attention to the selection of project managers and of their
performance.  Once it became evident that a given Director of DRFV/project manager was
mismanaging project funds, Government was slow in taking corrective actions and it took several
months in both instances before conditions for resumption of disbursements were fulfilled.
- 13 -



8. Lessons Learned
*   In a country with low literacy and basic education levels, important investments in various forms of
farmers training are necessary to complement traditional extension methods. Farmer training should
include functional literacy programs and the training of village specialists in critical areas of equipment
maintenance such as irrigation motor pumps, flower mills, etc.
*   In situations where input and output markets are weak or non-existent, agricultural services cannot
limit themselves to the generation and diffusion of technologies. They must either directly or indirectly
assist producers to develop strong organizations at the local and higher levels that can address these
issues. This is especially crucial in irrigation command areas with small farmer cooperatives, where
many technical issues can only be successfully addressed once organizational and management issues
have been resolved. Until cooperatives are functioning well, their members are able and willing to
repay their loans, have access to fresh credit and therefore inputs, and they are able to market their
produce, technical recommendations conceming how to increase production will have limited impact.
Where there are no private input suppliers for seeds and agro-chemicals, the agricultural services might
have to help communities to set-up revolving funds and small storage depots to get the process going.
*   To extend the reach of extension agents and to improve cost-effectiveness and sustainability of
interventions, the use of para-professionals is an ideal tool. This was especially the case with veterinary
auxiliaries in the livestock sector who can offer their services against payment and have therefore a
vested interest in increasing and satisfying their clients. Caution, however, is needed to safeguard
against malpractice and overstepping of competence. Veterinary auxiliaries must be closely tied in with
a network of private and public veterinarians that assure their continuous training and supervision, and
that ensure that the drugs used are authentic.
*   In a situation with a very small and weak national research system, institutional issues should not take
center stage at the beginning. Rather, emphasis should be placed on agreeing on the direction and the
kinds of research activities to be carried out and on a close yearly monitoring of research results. Close
collaboration and partnership with intemational and/or regional research institutions (in this case
WARDA) proved to be very effective in providing on-the-job training and methodological support to
national researchers.
*   In general, training, technology generation and transfer systems should be set-up nationwide on a
demand-driven basis with a multiplicity of private and public services providers. Emphasis should be
made on building the capacity of village associations and of producer organizations to articulate their
demand through a participatory diagnosis process. In parallel, there is a need for sustained efforts in
the strengthening of public and private services providers so they can respond rapidly and efficiently to
producer demands. Finally, sustainable financing mechanisms of such systems should be developed on
a competitive and matching grant basis with the private sector and producer organizations.
*   Even with a technically well designed project, a good financial management system is a key factor for
success. The development of a sound Financial Management System and the training of key FMS
personnel should be a condition of credit effectiveness.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
To date, no official comments have been received from the Borrower on the draft ICR.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
- 14 -



10. Additional Information
- 15-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:                                                        __
Indicator/Matrix                   Projected In last PSR               ActuaULatest Es Lmate
During the supervision/restructuring mission
of May 23 to June 3, 1998, a detailed logical
framework with specific indicators for each
project component was developed. This was
done in a paricipatory fashion with key staff
of all the executing agencies.
Extension:                                                                Achieved
A professional extension system has been
put in place that Is capable of providing
face-to-face advice to farmers in the biggest
1200 villages, and 700 women cooperatives,
and thereby influences directly one-third of
the farming population.
Extension:                           a) Rural radio will be used systematically for Rural radio was used systematically and
extension purposes. Several NGOs will be   DRFV/SONADER are colaborating on a
providing extension advice on a contractual contractual basis with 3 NGOs.
basis.
b) 70% of all farmers contacted will have    N/A
adopted one or several extension
recommendations by the end of the project.
c) yields of adopters will have increased on  N/A
average by 20% by the end of the project.
Their farming income will have increased by
10%.
d) 80% of all SONADER cooperatives will be N/A
functioning, i.e., ber able to obtain credit.
Research                             a) By the end of the project, some 30 priority Over 50 research projects have been inibiated
research programs (primarily on-farm trials)
will have been carried out that have been
approved by a research review commitee.
b) Several of these programs will have been Done (WARDA/ADRAO)
done jointy with international research
institutes on a contractual basis.
Training on farmers and extension agents   a) A 60% of all women cooperatives wil   Achieved.
have received training in vegetable
production, including storage and marketing
techniques.
b) All field extension agents will have  50%
participated in two in-service training courses
to enhance their professional competence.
Output Indicators:
Indlcator/Matrix                   Projected In last PSR               Actual/Latst Estimate
Not Available
End of project
-16 -



Annex lb. Key Performance Indicators in Staff Appraisal Report
Indicator                                    Indicator     Planned       Actual
Extension (MDRE + SONADER)
1. Proeram Inputs/Fielding of Extension Staff
- Village Extension Agents                   No.            188           149
- Supervisor                                 No.           37             38
- Subject Matter Specialists                 No.           48             30
- Extension Managers                         No.           23             10
- Veterinary auxiliaries                     No.           not defined    240 operational
2. Procram Output /1
- Villages covered by Extension Agents       No.           850            1016
- Contact Groups in existence                No.           2700           concept changed
- Farmers (in contact groups) reached        No.           32500          29500
- Micro plots/herds established              No.           4300           concept changed
- Women farmers reached as % of total farmers  %           35             60
- Animals treated                            No.           not defined    562000 annually
- Training of Village Extension Agents       Days/Year     20            irregular and infrequent
- Training of Subject-Matter Specialists     Days/Year      10           irregular and infrequent
3. Results                                   Monitoring
- Evidence of changes in actual farmers'     Survey         I at          I at mid-term review
practices/2                                                mid-term
review
No. of    People per  Total No.
Training                                                                  Villages   village
CFCB
- vegetable conservation                                   not defined    870       4    60M  3240W
- vegetable growing                                        not defined    145       15   OOM  2175W
-management of Cooperatives                                Not defined    800       3     300M  1710W
- maintenance of motor pumps                               Not defined    110       2     200M    20W
M - Men
W -Women
ENFVA
- Polyvalence training of extension agents   No.            150           201
- Training of ext. agents in Int. Pest Management   No.    not defined    150
- Training of Subject Matter Specialists     No.           not defined    18
Research (CNRADA, CNERV)
- Institutional Improvements                                             little action taken
- Research Trials                            No.           not defined    59
Decentralization
- Construction/rehabilitation of office buildings  No.     44             44
- Support to policy formulation              Studies       02             none
I/ Total no. of villages = 3600; total no. of farm families = 120,000.
2/ Adoption rates of technical recommendations per crop/animal species.
- 17 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Proect Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   ActuallLatest   Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component             US$ million    US$ million
Extension                                            6.50           6.26             96
Research                                             3.03           3.20            105
Training                                             2.18           1.96             89
Decentralization and Policy Support                  5.16           5.80            112
PPF                                                  0.80           0.60             75
Total Baseline Cost                                 17.67          17.82
Physical Contingencies                              1.30
Price Contingencies                                 0.84
Total Project Costs            19.81           17.82
Tota( Financing Required             19.81          17.82         :777__
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB           NCB         Other2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                     0.50         4.20         0.00          0.30         5.00
(0.50)       (4.20)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (4.70)
2. Goods                     4.00         0.50          0.30         0.00         4.80
(4.00)       (0.50)       (0.30)       (0.00)        (4.80)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00          1.80         0.00         1.80
Consultancies               (0.00)        (0.00)       (1.80)       (0.00)       (1.80)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00          1.60         0.50         2.10
Training                    (0.00)        (0.00)       (1.60)       (0.00)       (1.60)
5. Incremental Recurrent     0.00         0.00          3.90         0.80         4.70
Costs                       (0.00)        (0.00)       (3.90)       (0.00)       (3.90)
6. Research Fund             0.00         0.00          1.40         0.00         1.40
and PPF                     (0.00)        (0.00)       (1.40)       (0.00)       (1.40)
Total                     4.50          4.70         9.00          1.60        19.80
(4.50)       (4.70)       (9.00)       (0.00)       (18.20)
- 18 -



Project Costs by Procureme t Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category          ICB2                                         N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                          1.13           1.78           0.00           0.20           3.11
___________ (1.13)  (1.78)    (0.00)         (0.00)         (2.91)
2. Goods                          1.92           0.74           1.10           0.00           3.76
(1.92)         (0.74)         (1.10)          (0.00)        (3.76)
3. Services                      0.00            0.00           2.84           0.00           2.84
Consultancies                    (0.00)         (0.00)         (2.84)          (0.00)        (2.84)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00           0.00           1.74            0.40          2.14
Training                         (0.00)         (0.00)          (1.74)         (0.00)        (1.74)
5. Incremental Recurrent         0.00            0.00           4.40           0.70           5.10
Costs                            (0.00)         (0.00)         (4.40)          (0.00)        (4.40)
6. Research Fund                  0.00           0.00           0.87           0.00           0.87
and PPF                          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.87)          (0.00)        (0.87)
Total                          3.05           2.52           10.95           1.30          17.82
(3.05)         (2.52)         (10.95)        (0.00)         (16.52)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financin  b  Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component               Appraisal Estimate            Actual/Latest Estimate
IDA       Govt.     CoF.       IDA        Govt.     CoF.    IDA    Govt.  CoF.
Extension                 6.00       0.50                 5.86       0.40               97.7   80.0
Research                  3.03       0.00                 3.20       0.00               105.6   0.0
Training                  1.98       0.20                 1.96       0.00               99.0    0.0
Decentralization and Policy    4.84  0.30                 4.90       0.90               101.2  300,0
Support
PPF                       0.80       0.00                 0.60       0.00               75.0    0.0
Total Base Costs          16.65      1.00                 16,52      1.30                99.2   130.0
Physical Contingencies    1.30       0.00                                                0.0    0.0
Price Contingencies       0.74       0.10                                                0.0    0.0
Total Project Costs       18.69      1.10                 16.52      1.30                88.4   118.2
- 19 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
The economic rate of return or net present value for the project was not estimated at appraisal, which was
the practice in the relevant Bank's country department at the time. The Staff Appraisal Report did provide
an aggregate breakeven benefits analysis. This aggregate breakeven benefits analysis concluded that the
project would have to increase the target population's income by 0.36% per year to offset the incremental
cost of the project. While there is insufficient data to prove that this has happened, the average growth rate
of agricultural GDP of 3.8% is compatible with the assumption that the project's impact has been such that
the breakeven point has been reached. The ICR mission was unable to collect sufficient information to
estimate actual adoption rates and the impact of the project on beneficiary incomes, as monitoring and
evaluation under the project was deficient.
A Beneficary Assessment has been undertaken but the report was not completed at the time of the ICR.
Table I: Average Agricultural Production Growth.
Cereals     Cereals        Cattle       Small Ruminants       Camelin
Unit           ha        tons           heads            heads              heads
1990/2000        6%          5%            5%                9%                3%
1990/1994       14%          7%            4%                2%                4%
1995/2000       4%          7%             6%               14%                 2%
Table 2. Share of the Agricultural Sector in the Mauritanian Economy.
(UM mio constants 1985)
1993               1995              1999               2000
Agriculture                    3596                4442              4972               4957
Livestock                      10322              10908              12557             13047
Ag. GDP                        13918              15350              17529             18004
GDP                            67570              74045              85047             89489
% Ag. GDP                    20.60%              20.73%            20.61%             20,12%
Growth rate        agriculture                    10.6%              8.8%              -0.3%
livestock                      2.8%               4.3%               3.9%
Total agricultural             4.9%               5.6%              2.7%
National                       5.1%               4.1%               5.2%
(Source MDRE/DPSE)
- 20 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                     Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
10/91                       1   I AS                               S             S
09/92                       3   2 AS, I AR                         S             S
Appraisal/Negotiation
06/93                       7   2 AS, I EC, I AR, I LS, I          S             S
PS, I FA
12/93                       1   l AS                               S             S
Supervision
1/95                        5   3 AS, I AR, I OO                                 S
11/95                       3   2 AS, I 00                         S             S
4/96                        3   1 AS, I AR, I AG                   S             S
2/97                        3   2 AS, 1 AR
5/97                        6   2 AS, 3 AR, I PIO                  u             S
12/97                       3   I AS, I PIO, I DS                 HU             S
5/98                        3   1 AS, I AR, I FA                  HU             S
12/98                       5   I AS, I PIO, I PO, I AR, I TS      S             S
6/99                        1   l AS                               S             S
2/00                        4   I AG, 2 AS, I FA                   U             S
10/00                       2   I NRMS, I FA                      HU             S
(CR
3/01                        8    2 AS, I AR, I AE, 1 FA, I         U             U
PS, I AG, I NRMS
AS = Agric. Sces Spec.; AE = Agric. Eco.; AG = Agriculturalist; AR = Agric. Res.; EC = Economist; 00
= Oper. Officer/Res. Mission; PIO = Project Impl. Officer/Res. Mission; PO = Proc. Spec.; DO   Disb.
Spec.; FO = Fin. Mgmt Spec.; NRMS = Nat. Res. Mgmt. Spec.; TS = Training Spec.
(b) Staff.
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation             107.2                       180.9
Appraisal/Negotiation                     54                       174.4
Supervision                           206.65                       437.8
ICR                                     7.75                       32.10
Total                                  375.6                       825.2
FAO cost for ICR was US$25,650.
- 21 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
0 Macro policies                          O H  O SU OM   O N  * NA
O Sector Policies                         O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
O Physical                                O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
OI Financial                              O H  OSUOM  ON  * NA
O Institutional Development               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
[I Environmental                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction                 O H  O SU * M  O N  O NA
O Gender                            OH *SUOM ON ONA
O Other (Please specify)            O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
OI Private sector development             0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
11 Public sector management               0 H  0 SU * M  0 N  0 NA
M Other (Please specify)                  O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
- 22 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
Ol Lending                                           OHS OS *U OHU
O Supervision                                        O HS O S  *U  OHU
OI Overall                                           OHS OS  *  U  O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                             Rating
OI Preparation                                       OHS OS  OU  O HU
O Government implementation performance             O S O S  0  U  0 HU
L Implementation agency performance                  O HS O 5  *  U  0 HU
O Overall                                            OHS OS  *  U  O HU
On balance, implementation agency performance is rated as unsatisfactory, since DRFV's project management unit
was partly responsible for the two informal disbursement suspensions. However, performance of the other technical
agencies (SONADER, CNERV, CNRADA, ENFVA, and CFCB) was satisfactory.
- 23 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Staff Appraisal Report No 12308-MAU. Islamic Republic of Mauritania. Agricultural Services
Project. --- World Bank. February 7, 1994.
2. Development Credit Agreement. Cr. 2575-MAU. Islamic Republic of Mauritania. Agricultural
Services Project.
--- World Bank. April 26, 1994.
3. Project Agreement. Cr. 2575-MAU. Islamic Republic of Mauritania. Agricultural Services Project.
--- World Bank. April 26, 1994.
4. Agricultural Services Project. Islamic Republic of Mauritania.
Mid-Term Implementation Review Report. --- World Bank. June 30, 1997.
5. Rapport d'Achevement du Projet des Services Agricoles (PSA). Document Principal.
--- Republique Islamique de Mauritanie. Ministere du Developpement Rural et de l'Environnement.
Direction de la Recherche-Formation-Vulgarisation. Nouakchott, mars 2001.
6. Rapport d'Achevement du Projet des Services Agricoles (PSA). Annexes.
--- Rpublique Islamique de Mauritanie. Ministere du Developpement Rural et de l'Environnement.
Direction de la Recherche-Formation-Vulgarisation. Nouakchott, mars 2001.
- 24 -



Additional Annex 8. ICR Mission Aide-Memoire
MISSION DE RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT
PROJET SERVICES AGRICOLES
(du 26 Mars au 7 Avril 2001)
AIDE MEMOIRE
La Mission de supervision finale du Projet de Services Agricoles (PSA) a eu lieu du 26 mars au 7
avril 2001 en Mauritanie. La mission de la Banque mondiale etait composee de MM. Leopold Sarr
(Recherche), El Hadj Adama Toure (Impacts economiques et financiers, politiques et renforcement
institutionnel), Adoulaye Coulibaly (Gestion financi&e), Ahmedou Ould Hamed (Passation des marches),
Franz Schorosch (Conseil Agricole) et Daniel Moreau (Chef de mission). Messrs. Abdelkrim Oka (TTL
du PGRNP et du PDIAM) et Amadou Oumar Ba (Agronome) ont e  associes A la mission et ont participe
aux discussions et reflexions.
La mission a eu des discussions avec les responsables et les equipes des Directions de la DFRV
(Mamadou Diarra), CNRADA (Cheikh Ould Dih), CNERV (Dr. Diallo), DPSE (Mohamed Moustafa
Idoumou Ould Abdi, Baba Ould Boumais). Elle a eu A sa disposition le rapport d'achevement du PSA
prepare par la DRFV. Du 28 mars au 2 avril, la mission a effectue une tournee de terrain avec l'equipe du
PGRNP et de la DRFV dans les Wilaya de Hodh el Charghi (Nema), Hodh el Ghargi (Aioun) et Assaba
(Kiffa). Elle a eu des entretiens avec le personnel des differentes directions regionales, avec des
producteurs et des Associations de Developpement Communautaire. La mission a pu rencontrer son
Excellence Monsieur le Ministre du MDRE, Mr. Ahamdy Ould Hamady pour presenter les resultats de la
mission. Tout au long de ses discussions la mission a recu le soutien dynamique de M. Babetta, Conseiller
Technique du Ministre du MDRE. Une reunion a eu lieu le 5 avril et a permis de presenter aux
responsables de la DRFV, les observations sur l'execution du PSA et les propositions de la mission pour la
poursuite des activites entreprises dans le cadre du PSA. Une autre reunion a reuni les responsables de la
DRFV, du PGRNP, et du PDIAM pour envisager les mecanismes de financement des activites de
Conseil-Formation-Recherche A entreprendre tout au long des 2 prochaines annees.
La mission tient A remercier les autorites Mauritaniennes pour la qualite du travail de preparation
du rapport d'achevement, I'accueil qui a ete reserve A la mission, 1'excellente organisation de la tournee de
terrain, et le climat de franchise qui a prevalu tout au long de son sejour.
- 25 -



1.     Rappel de l'Objectif et Description du Projet.  L'objectif A long terrne du projet visait
l'accroissement de la productivite agricole d'une maniere ecologiquement durable, des revenus des
exploitants et la rationalisation de l'utilisation des ressources publiques pour apporter un soutien aux
services agricoles.
Les principales composantes du projet etaient les suivantes:
(a) Vulgarisation: consolidation et amelioration des services de vulgarisation du MDRE et de la
SONADER pour l'agriculture, I'elevage et la gestion des ressources naturelles dans 9 des 12
regions du pays;
(b) Formation: renforcement de deux institutions de formation agricole;
(c) Recherche: renforcement du systeme de recherche agricole et renforcement des liens entre les
services de vulgarisation et les usagers; et
(d) Appui A la Reorganisation/Decentralisation du MDRE et A la formulation des politiques agricoles.
2.     Durke et Cofuts du Projet. La duree prevue du projet etait de cinq ans. Le total des couts prevu
.tait de 19,8 millions de dollars dont:
*     IDA:            18,2 million de dollars
*     Gouvemement:  1,1 million de dollars
     Bbneficiaires:   0,5 million de dollars.
3.     Taux de rentabilitW  6conomique.  Aucun calcul de rentabilite economique n'avait et fait A
l'epoque de l'valuation du projet. Une comparaison des avantages pr6visionnels du projet avec les couts
additionnels avait fait apparaltre que le point d'equilibre global etait atteint pour une augmentation des
revenus de la population cible d'environ 0,36% par an par rapport a une situation sans projet, ce qui
supposait une application des techniques ameliorees chaque annee du projet sur 10%  des superficies
cultivees.
Impact 6conomique et financier du PSA.
Au niveau des exploitations agricoles. Aucun dispositif d'evaluation de l'impact du PSA n'a e
formellement prevu dans le cadre du PSA qui ne prevoyait pas une analyse de la situation de reference. Le
dispositif de suivi-evaluation interne n'a pas coffectement fonctionne et les quelques resultats financiers
foumis par les composantes sont insuffisants, disperses et souvent obtenus pour une seule ann6e, aui mieux
sur deux ans. Les resultats disponibles ne permettent donc pas de faire l'analyse d'impact du PSA.
Pourtant il est clair que l'impact de certaines activites est appreciable en particulier grace a:
I'adoption des nouvelles varie6s de riz dans la vallee du fleuve Senegal qui ont permis un relevement
significatif de la qualite du riz; la formation des auxiliaires veterinaires qui a eu un effet positif
important sur la sante animale; ou encore I'adoption d'un regime alimentaire plus equilibre dans les
sites ou des jardins maraichers ont ete installes par des groupements de femmes; la diffusion des
foyers amnliores.
La SONADER, A travers une convention avec la DRFV a pu effectuer des enquetes sur l'adoption des
technologies diffusees et leur impact monetaire sur les producteurs. Des indications ont pu atre
- 26 -



fournies sur les revenus supplementaires induits par l'adoption des technologies diffus6es. Parmi les
actions les plus significatives on peut noter la diffusion de foyers ameliores, le traitement des
semences, l'utilisation du compost. La formation des auxiliaires veterinaires est l'une des activites les
plus reussies du PSA tant par la possibilite qu'elle a offerte de demultiplier les activites primaires de
sante animale a moindre couit que par l'impact des actions de ces auxiliaires sur la reduction de la
morbidite du betail. Ainsi jusqu'en 1999, pres de 562 313 sujets toutes categories du cheptel
confondues ont pu etre traites par les auxiliaires.
Une enquete d'impact aupres des beneficiaires est en cours et devrait permettre d'apprecier de facon
qualitative la perception de rlimpact du PSA par les beneficiaires.
Le secteur agricole sous le PSA. Le secteur agricole Mauritanien s'est ameliore globalement sur
la periode d'ex6cution du PSA. Les superficies cultivees en cereales ont progresse annuellement de 6% en
moyenne entre 1990 et 2000. Bien que I'accroissement des superficies annuelles ait et ralenti sur la
periode 1995/2000, les productions n'en ont pas moins connu une augmentation de 7% avec un rendement
moyen global plus eleve apres la mise en oeuvre du projet. De meme le cheptel s'est regulierement accru
sur la m8me periode avec des augmentations moyennes annuelles respectives de 6, 14 et 2% des effectifs
bovins, petits ruminants et camelins.  Le PIB secteur agricole, productions vegetales et animales
confondues, a connu une croissance annuelle moyenne de 3.8 % proche de la moyenne annuelle de la
croissance du PIB du pays (4.1%) en UM constants.
Evolution du secteur agricole dans l'economie de la Mauritanie
(PIB UM millions constants 1985)
1993      1995         1999        2000
agriculture      3596      4442         4972        4957
elevage          10322     10908         12557      13047
PIB agricole     13918     15350         17529      18004
PIB national     67570    74045          85047      89489
% PIB agricole   20.60%    20.73%        20.61%     20.12%
(Source MDRE/DPSE)
4.     Execution des composantes du projet
A/ Composante Vulgarisation (DRFV et SONADER)
Les acquis. Pour la premiere fois dans son histoire, la Mauritanie a pu mettre en place un dispositif de
vulgarisation qui a permis d'etre en contact avec la plupart des producteurs sur tout le territoire national.
Les producteurs qui avant ne demandaient que des appuis materiels commencent a demander des services
d'appui technique.  II est devenu evident que les divers investissements en milieu rural doivent
systematiquement etre accompagn6s par un conseil de proximite pour valoriser ces investissements et
assurer leur durabilit6.
- 27 -



A.1/ DRFV. Les agents de vulgarisation/conseil lies a la DRFV comprennent mieux les problematiques
locales et sont capables de fornuler des programmes de vulgarisation a partir des diagnostics villageois. A
travers des formations, la competence de tout le personnel a ete rehausse d'une maniere significative. Le
personnel de vulgarisationtconseil s'est familiarise avec les outils de vulgarisation et a appris comment
faciliter l'adoption des nouvelles technologies par les producteurs.
Les activites de vulgarisation et les technologies qui ont ete promues par la DRFV et qui ont connu le plus
de diffusion ont 6te:
*      un vaste programme de formation des auxiliaires veterinaires. Plus de 240 de ces auxiliaires
interviennent dans plus de 850 villages et traitent environ 560 000 animaux.
*      le programme special d'aamelioration du sorgho pluvial et de decrue dans les deux HODS et I'
ASSABA. 250 villages ont beneficie des nouvelles semences traitees.
*      la promotion de la diversification des productions agricoles. De nouvelles especes fourrageres de
graminees et de legumineuses ont ete introduites et sont en cours d'adoption par les producteurs du
TRARZA.
*      I'appui aux femmes rurales. Environ 8.000 femmes ont ete formees pour la production de savon
local, la pr6paration et l'utilisation des graines de neem pour lutter contre les insectes, la formnation
en gestion de cooperatives feminines, et la formation en s6chage de legumes. Le maraichage a e
introduit dans 145 villages et 2175 femmes ont ete formees A la conduite de ces jardins maralchers.
22 presses a huile ont et installees aupres de groupements feminins.
*      En plus de ces activites specifiques, la DRFV A travers le personnel de vulgarisation des
Delegations Regionales a permis la diffusion de 39 themes techniques dans 1.016 villages et son
personnel de terrain a e  en contact avec environ 30.000 exploitants.
*      l'utilisation de la radio rurale a permis de diffuser des informations utiles au monde rural et de
cr6er des synergies avec les activit6s de vulgarisation.
Insuffisances.
*      La suspension des decaissements A deux reprises pour de longues periodes a fait que le systeme de
vulgarisation n'a pas fonctionne comme prevu initialement et s'est caracterise par une irregularite
d'intervention sur le terrain.
*      la DRFV  n'a  pas d'autorite  administrative  sur le personnel de  terrain  qui depend
administrativement des Delegations. La stabilite du personnel n'a pas ete assuree de facon
suffisante;
*      La DRFV et les Delegations n'ont pas suffisamment integre la dbmarche PGRNP (creation des
ADC, formulation participative des plans de developpement locaux, micro-realisations) et n'ont
pas modifie leurs m6thodes de travail.
Propositions d'am6lioration.
*      renforcer la decentralisation de la programmation et du suivi au niveau des regions;
*      contractualiser les services de vulgarisation au niveau regional avec les differents intervenants en
milieu rural (contrats de prestation de service entre les Delegations regionales et le PGRNP et
autres projets et programmes en cours d'execution;
*      redefinition des fonctions, recyclage et int6gration des Inspecteurs Regionaux dans le dispositif de
conseil agricole et pastoral;
*      assurer une meilleure coordination des programmes des vulgarisateurs/conseillers avec le PGRNP
- 28 -



(travailler avec les ADC en les aidant A realiser leurs programmes de developpement local) et
autres projets et programmes d'appui au monde rural;
*      renforcer la capacite technique de la DRFV au niveau central par la nomination/recrutement de
Sp6cialistes thematiques (en particulier pour la prise en compte de l'aspect "Genre") et d'un
Directeur Technique;
*      revoir le cadre incitatif actuel qui n'a pas ete modifie depuis sept ans et ne repond plus a la realite
du terrain.
A.2/ SONADER
Acquis. La vulgarisation a la SONADER a connu des hauts et des bas mais d'une maniere generale, elle a
permis de professionnaliser le conseil agricole.
Les activites de vulgarisation qui ont eu le plus d'effets etaient:
* la diffusion d'un paquet de technologies d'amelioration de la productivite du riz;
* l'introduction de la traction animale;
* promotion des engrais phosphates;
- promotion des fosses compostieres;
- introduction des foyers am6liores;
- introduction des batteuses-vanneuses;
* appui aux Organisations Socio-Professionnelles (OSP) en cooperation avec AFVP.
Insuffisances. Dans le contexte socio-economique des cooperatives avec lesquelles la SONADER
travaille, les aspects d'organisation et de gestion sont aussi ou plus importants que les aspects techniques.
Certains aspects techniques ne peuvent pas etre resolus tant que les OSP ne fonctionnent pas
convenablement.
Proposition d'amelioration. L'intervention de la SONADER devrait atre revue dans le sens suivant:
*   un redimensionnement des effectifs en quantite et en qualite, en vue de faire evoluer les activites de
vulgarisation vers un conseil agricole plus specialise au niveau technique et vers des services
d'appui en organisation et en gestion technique et financiere de groupements;
*   Ia revision de l'approche groupes de contact au profit d'entites correspondant plus A la r6alite
sociale et professionnelle;
*   un mecanisme de co-financement des couits de demonstrations et de R&D;
*   le d6veloppement de certains partenariats pour tester la sous-traitance de la maitrise d'ceuvre
directe du conseil avec des ONG lA oiu ces demi0res ont un avantage comparatif.
(Ces am6liorations ont ete prevues dans le cadre de la mise en ceuvre du PDIAIM pour les annees 2001 et
2002).
BI Composante Formation (ENFVA et CFCB/CFPR)
B.1/ ENFVA
Acquis. L'ENFVA sur un objectif de 150 AVB i former a la polyvalence a effectivement forme 201
durant cinq sessions de 6 semaines. En collaboration avec la GTZ, elle a aussi formm 150 AVB lors de cinq
- 29 -



sessions de 5 jours sur la lutte integree. Elle a egalement organise une session de formation de 20 jours
pour les TS agriculture et une session de formation de 18 jours pour les specialistes en organisation des
producteurs (SOP) et les responsables des Bureaux des organisations socioprofessionnelles (BOSP).
Insuffisances. La rehabilitation des infrastructures de l'ENFVA a connu des problemes qui doivent etre
resolus par le Gouvemement pour eviter une degradation acceleree de certains batiments.
Proposition d'amelioration.
*  L'etude pour l'identification et la quantification des besoins en formation du secteur rural a abouti
a une decision concemant le futur de l'ENFVA : le Ministre du MDRE a propose d'6lever 1'
ENFVA au statut d'un Institut Superieur Agronomique et Vterinaire. Cette proposition devrait
etre approuvee prochainement par un Comite Interministeriel.
*  L'ENFVA devrait continuer a former le dispositif de vulgarisation/conseil dans des domaines
precis et sur des bases contractuelles avec le PGRNP et le PDIAM sous la coordination de la
DRFV.
*  L'ENFVA devrait elaborer, en concert avec le PGRNP et la DRFV, des modules de formation des
auxiliaires agricoles au sein des Associations de Developpement Communautaire (ADC).
B.2/ CFCB/CFPR
Acquis. Le CFCB a e  transforme en CFPR et a pleinement joue son r6le de formation directe des
producteurs ruraux dans le cadre du Projet de Services Agricoles (PSA). Le centre a pu realiser les actions
de formation suivantes (1995 a 2001):
Themes                        No. de villages touches   No. de personnes   No. total de
par village       personnes
1) Techniques de conservation    870                 04                   60 Hommes
et sechage de legumes                                                    3.420 Femmes
2) Techniques de culture      145                    15                   00 Homme
maraicheres                                                              2.175 Femmes
3) Gestion cooperative        800                    03                  300 Hommes
1.710 Femmes
4) Entretien et reparation des  110                  02                  200 Hommes
moto-pompes                                                               20 Femmes
TOTAL                         1925                                       560 Hommes
7.325 Femmes
Insuffisances. Dans le cas du maraichage, il est important que les femmes soient formees sur les aspects
economiques pour qu'elles puissent determiner les couits et les benefices de leurs activites.
Proposition d'amelioration. Dans le futur, les modules de formation du CFPR (sur le maralchage, par
- 30 -



exemple) devraient etre plus diversifies pour tenir compte du degre de technicite des producteurs concernes.
Aussi il est important que le CFPR reactualise regulierement les technologies qu'il enseigne dans le cadre
de ses interventions. Pour cela il devra etre plus en contact avec des institutions specialisees dans la
sous-region.
C/ Composante Recherche
La composante recherche du PSA a demarre en 1998 avec beaucoup de retard. Les deux structures qui ont
realise les activites de recherche sont le centre national de recherche agronomique et de developpement
agricole (CNRADA) et le centre national d'e1evage et de recherches veterinaires (CNERV). Le programme
de cette composante a e  defini dans le cadre du programme national de recherche agricole (PNRA) avec
la participation de toutes les parties prenantes (beneficiaires des resultats de recherche, formateurs,
vulgarisateurs, chercheurs et producteurs prives) et l'appui de l'ISNAR. La mission a passe en revue les
realisations de la composante a la lumiere des principaux problemes identifies lors de l'evaluation du projet
et des reorientations proposees par la mission de revue a mi-parcours.
Les acquis. La composante recherche du PSA a renforce le systeme de recherche en Mauritanie et lui a
permis de mener a bien des recherches et essais adaptatifs.
*  Le CNRADA a execute dans le cadre du PSA une cinquantaine d'essais de comportement varietal
(cereales, cultures maraicheres, legumineuses et especes fourrageres), sur la fertilisation
organo-min6rale des principales cultures et la protection des cultures. Ces activites ont e
execut6es annuellement avec une predominance d'essais en milieu paysan. Le CNERV a realise
dans le cadre du PSA des activites portant sur cinq thematiques de recherche (deux en zootechnie
et trois en sante animale). La mise en ceuvre de cette composante a permis pour la premiere fois d'
entreprendre des activites de recherche prenant en compte les contraintes des zones
agro-ecologiques et les systemes de production qui les caracterisent. L'option Recherche en milieu
paysan a favoris6 dans certains cas une vulgarisation plus rapide des technologies, une plus grande
participation des vulgarisateurs et producteurs aux activites de recherche et une meilleure prise en
compte des besoins des b6n6ficiaires.
*  Des collaborations ont e  etablies avec des instituts de recherche intemationaux comre l'ADRAO
et l'ICARDA. Cette collaboration dans le cas de I'ADRAO a permis de d6velopper un programme
commun avec la SONADER sur le riz irrigue; ce programme a concemr  l'evaluation multilocale
de varietes performantes de riz, le test en milieu paysan d'un paquet technologique ameliore et I'
introduction de la batteuse-vanneuse SAC. Dans le cas de l'ICARDA la convention d'accord
prevoit la mise en ceuvre de trois projets de recherche. D'autres collaborations ont e  etablies
avec des reseaux de recherche au niveau de la sous-region (rocars, rocafremi etc..)
* Le conseil national de la recherche agricole (CNRA) qui a pour r6le de s'assurer de la pertinence
des programmes de recherche, de les evaluer et de d6montrer l'importance de la recherche dans 1'
amelioration de la production a ete cree en aofit 1996 par decret mais n'ajamais et operationnel.
* La commission scientifique et technique (CST), organe consultatif et d' aide a la decision du CNRA
et des conseils d'administration des structures de recherche, a et mise sur pied par arrete du
MDRE en mars 1997; cette structure s'est reunie une seule fois en septembre 1997 et a approuve
une cinquantaine de projets de recherche qui constituent la base du programme de recherche
execute dans le cadre de la composante recherche du PSA.
*  Le fonds de recherche n'a pas e  mis en oeuvre comme prevu dans le montage de la composante.
* En ce qui conceme les infrastructures et equipements l'acquisition de vehicules a permis une
meilleure couverture des zones et la realisation des essais en milieu reel. De meme l'acquisition de
- 31 -



materiel informatique a augmente la capacite de traitement des donnees et a pernis un meilleur
acces des chercheurs A l'information. Les rehabilitations realisees, m8me sommaires, ont ameliore
la recherche en station.
Enfin il faut signaler que les activites realisees dans le cadre du PSA  ont contribue a 1'
augmentation de la participation du budget de l'Etat de l'ordre de 40 millions d'UM pour le
CNARADA et de 6 millions pour le CNERV. Cette augmentation a permis, a defaut d'avoir un
statut du chercheur, de rendre plus attrayante la fonction de chercheur.
Les insuffisances. Malgre une orientation claire vers la recherche en milieu paysan on constate des
resultats mitig6s en terme de technologies mises A la disposition des producteurs. Cela est dui en grande
partie aux elements suivants:
*  Le lien recherche/vulgarisation n'a pas toujours bien fonctionne (tres peu d'AMRT, supports de
transfert de technologie peu ou pas finalises; malgre toute la volonte de la recherche l'implication
du dispositif de vulgarisation dans la gestion des essais est restee faible);
* Souvent les beneficiaires potentiels d'une technologie ne sont pas identifies pour suivre les tests et
partager les resultats obtenus;
*  Les intrants utilises dans le cadre des tests ne sont parfois pas disponibles de sorte qu'apres les
tests les producteurs m8me s'ils veulent ne peuvent pas appliquer les resultats obtenus,
-  Le systeme de fmancement mis en oeuvre dans le cadre du PSA n'a pas permnis aux structures de
recherche de realiser correctement les essais; dans certains cas les ruptures de fmancement ont
cause beaucoup de degats et les essais n'ont pu etre menes a terme;
-  La non acquisition du materiel de laboratoire a reduit de facon significative l'efficience du
dispositif de recherche;
*  La formation des chercheurs qui etait prevue dans le cadre du PSA pour ameliorer la qualite de la
recherche n'a pas e  mise en ceuvre A l'exception de la formation en informatique;
*  Le systeme national de recherche agricole (SNRA) n'a pas e  operationnalise et les collaborations
entre institutions de recherche (notamniment avec l'universite ) n'ont pas e effectives;
-  Le demarrage tardif de la composante et les suspensions des decaissements n'ont permis d'atteindre
les objectifs fixes que partiellement.
Propositions d'am6lioration. Les correctifs proposes pour eviter les dysfonctionnements rencontr6s dans
la mise en oeuvre du PSA sont les suivants:
*  En ce qui conceme le financement des projets de recherche: (i) prevoir dans les budgets des
activites de recherche 20% pour la prise en charge des couts indirects; (ii) prevoir une avance au
demarrage de 50% et une justification des depenses au fur et A mesure de la realisation des actions,
accompagnee de rapport technique sur l'etat d'avancement de la recherche, et; (iii) les activites de
recherche strategique devront progressivement etre prises en charge dans le cadre de financements
perennes de I'ltat;
*  Pour le renforcement des liens recherche/vulgarisation: il faudra (i) systematiser les restitutions
des resultats obtenus aussi bien au niveau local et national, avec la participation des parties
prenantes notamment les vulgarisateurs et les producteurs; (ii) veiller A une plus grande fmalisation
des fiches techniques, et; (iii) redynamiser les ateliers de formation des agents du dispositif de
vulgarisation de fa,on A renforcer leur participation A 1'execution de la recherche en milieu paysan;
*  Promouvoir la formation des chercheurs et des responsables de la recherche au niveau de la DRFV
par le biais de sejours de courte duree dans les structures de recherche de la sous-region (voyages
d'etudes, ateliers dans le cadre des reseaux ,formation thematique ciblee etc..);
- 32 -



* Mettre en place une commission nationale regroupant des responsables de l'universite de l'ENS de
la DRFV, du CNERV et du CNRADA et des producteurs pour jouer le role de la CST. Cette
proposition a le double avantage de contribuer a la consolidation du SNRA et d'etre plus souple;
cette commission pourrait, si le besoin se faisait sentir, mobiliser des personnes ressources de la
sous-region.
*  Equiper les structures de recherche en materiel de laboratoire et realiser le minimum  de
rehabilitation necessaire pour les stations de recherche dans la zone d'intervention du PGRNP;
*  Assurer la mobilite des chercheurs soit en les equipant en vehicules soit en prevoyant de prendre en
charge leurs deplacements dans le cadre des contrats A etablir.
D/ Composante Appui i la Reorganisation/Decentralisation du MDRE et a la formulation des
politiques agricoles.
Nous adopterons dans la suite du texte le terme "deconcentration" au lieu de "decentralisation" qui a ete utilise
dans la cadre du projet pour parler en fait de la deconcentration des services du Ministere du Developpement
Rural et de I 'Environnement vers les Delegations regionales.
Un des objectifs specifiques du PSA etait le renforcement institutionnel du MDRE par la decentralisation
de ses services, I'appui A la formation des agriculteurs et le renforcement des organisations de producteurs.
La composante "Appui A la decentralisation du MDRE et A la formulation des politiques" devait
accompagner le mouvement de restructuration du ministere en foumissant les moyens pour le renforcement
des capacites au profit des delegations regionales creees par une dotation consequente en personnel
technique et la construction de bAtiments appropries pour les abriter. Ainsi 8 batiments devaient etre
construits dans les chefs-lieux de regions (Wilaya) et 32 autres dans les capitales d6partementales
(Moughata).
Par ailleurs cette composante prevoyait l'amelioration des capacites du MDRE en matiere d'analyse des
politiques et de planification, le financement d'etudes hautement prioritaires et un appui au Bureau des
questions foncieres.
Les Acquis. L'un des points forts du PSA est d'avoir permis au Gouvemement de disposer d'une structure
coherente des services agricoles couvrant 1'essentiel du territoire ou se menent des activites agro-pastorales
significatives. Le regroupement des services agricoles au niveau des delegations regionales a dte largement
facilite par l'edification de locaux fonctionnels et les equipements fournis par le projet. Le personnel du
MDRE a et effectivement redeploye avec une repartition des effectifs favorables aux d6legations
regionales. La configuration montre nettement une deconcentration vers les delegations du personnel
technique comme indique au tableau suivant:
La situation du personnel foumie par la DPSE fait etat d'un effectif en 2000 de 749 agents au sein des
structures du MDRE avec 358 operant dans les delegations et plus de 200 agents sans affectation
determinee. Le projet a permis le recrutement de 12 AVB femmes, 20 chauffeurs pour les 10 del6gations
couvertes par le  projet, deux  consultants  permanents  A  la  DRFV  (les  chefs de  service
formation-vulgarisation et diversification), une coordinatrice du volet "Woman in Development" (WID) et
le personnel comptable de la DRFV.
- 33 -



Repartition du personnel du MDRE en 1995 et 2000
Structures                       1995                               2000
Nombre d'agents  Proportion  Nombre d'agents       Proportion
Cabinet, Directions         382           57%            152                39%
centrales, personnel a
disposition, autres.
D1l6gations regionales      296           43%            358                48%
Total                       678           100%           910                100%
Le PSA a contribue de maniere significative a la modernisation des services du MDRE par:
* La construction du siege de la DRFV, des dix delegations regionales et des batiments dans 26
inspections departementales;
*  L'acquisition de vehicules, motos et materiels informatiques;
*  une formation du personnel technique.
II est indispensable que le fmancement normal de l'Etat puisse permettre 1Pentretien des batiments et le
remplacement des equipements.
La decentralisation du MDRE s'observe aussi a travers la r6partition des credits de fonctionnement alloue
par l'Etat.
Allocation Budget fonctionnement      1993              2001
Delegations Regionales                27%                60%
Total MDRE                       UM 94 millions    UM 412.5 millions
La part destinee aux del6gations regionales est passee de 27% en 1993 sur un total alloue de U M 94
millions contre plus de 60% pour les trois annees qui ont suivi la mise en oeuvre du PSA. De plus le budget
de fonctionnement du MDRE a connu une augmentation reguliere et substantielle d'une moyenne annuelle
de 24% entre 1991 et 2001 s'etablissant pour cette derniere annee a UM 412,5 millions.
Insuffisances.
*  Dans le domaine de la formulation des politiques les resultats ont et tres limites. La Cellule de
planification du MDRE n'a requ du projet qu'un vehicule et un appui marginal pour son
fonctionnement (984 770 UM par exemple pour l'exercice 1999). Elle n'a ni beneficie de
formation pour son personnel, ni des fonds d'etude ou de consultation qui devaient lui permettre de
conduire les etudes prioritaires.
*  Le personnel du MDRE a ete augmente de facon significative, mais la proportion du personnel au
niveau central et regional est restee encore largement en faveur du niveau central. II importe donc
de faire une analyse prospective du Cadre Organique du MDRE et de revoir en consequence les
profils de postes et l'adequation avec les ressources humaines existantes. Un programme de gestion
(Redeploiement, formation, recrutement) des ressources humaines est a entreprendre. La mission a
pris note qu'une etude institutionnelle du MDRE va demarrer sous peu sur financement de l'IDA.
*  Les proc6dures de prises de decisions et de mobilisation des moyens materiels et humains n'ont pas
- 34 -



e  deconcentrees. Dans un contexte d'utilisation des ressources du projet fondee sur les moyens et
non sur les resultats la consequence manifeste est la dilution des responsabilites entre la DRFV, les
delegations et les autres agences d'execution du projet quant aux resultats du projet. II n'est des
lors pas etonnant de constater que malgre le volume impressionnant d'activites menees, la
planification et la coordination sur le terrain des activites de developpement rural a e  faible, et I'
impact du projet n'a pu etre correctement documente.
*  En outre il fau, noter que dans le rapport de fin d'execution du projet prepare par la DFRV, la
composante restructuration MDRE et appui A la formulation des politiques n'y a e  traitee que
dans sa dimension construction de locaux dans les delegations. II n'emp8che que l'essentiel en
terme d'allocation des ressources du projet, a e  execute de maniere satisfaisante (constructions
des batiments et affectation du personnel dans les delegations regionales). Ceci d6note d'abord du
caractere marginal de la composante notamment dans son volet appui A la formulation des
politiques normalement devolue a 1'ex cellule de planification devenue depuis 1999 Direction de la
Planification et du Suivi-Evaluation (DPSE). Par ailleurs le retard dans la mise en place de cette
direction n'a pas facilite la prise en charge de ce volet qui ne pouvait etre execut6 par la Cellule au
regard de ses capacites.
*  Les fmancements accordes A la Cellule de planification du MDRE sont marginaux et les activites
pour ameliorer ses capacites n'ont reellement commence qu'avec le concours du PGRNP, relaye
depuis un an et de maniere plus substantielle par le PDIAIM. A en juger par les difficultes que la
rmission a rencontre pour rassembler des informations quantifiees sur le secteur agricole, des efforts
importants doivent etre faits pour fluidifier la communication au sein du departement et mettre en
place des procedures claires pour la creation, la gestion et la diffusion des statistiques agricoles.
Une nouvelle dynamique semble se creer dans cette direction grace au PDIAIM dont une des
composantes est dediee aux statistiques agricoles.
5.     Passation de marches. Dans le cadre du montage institutionnel du Projet, les marches ont et
delegues pour l'essentiel A I'AMEXTIPE. La DRFV devait jouer le role de suivi et de coordination entre
l'Agence et les Ben6ficiaires. La SONADER par son Accord de Projet devait passer les marches relatifs
aux acquisitions prevues.
Acquis et Insuffisances. Les marches de genie civil du PSA ont ete executes comme prevu par
I'AMEXTIPE, et dans l'ensemble ces marches ont ete passes dans de bonnes conditions malgre quelques
retards. Cependant l'AMEXTIPE n'etait que le maitre d'ouvrage delegue, et la DRFV n'a pas fait le suivi
necessaire et la coordination entre l'Agence et les beneficiaires. Le volet fourniture n'a pas connu le meme
succes que le genie civil, cette agence n'ayant ni la mame experience ni la mame capacite pour les marches
de fournitures. Les defaillances n'etaient pas au niveau du respect des procedures mais plutot au niveau de
la celerite et de lVefficacit6 de l'ex6cution des marches, par manque de personnel dedie A cette fonction,
nouvelle pour l'Agence.
Par ailleurs, les marches passes par la SONADER n'ont pas souleve de problemes majeurs a part certains
retards.
Observations. Lors de l'evaluation du Projet, il n'a pas e  donne l'importance qu'il fallait A la passation de
marches: la capacite de la DRFV en matiere de passation de marches n'avait pas ete evaluee et il avait e
suppose que l'AMEXTIPE avait une bonne experience des procedures de la Banque sans distinction de la
nature des marches. De plus, il n'avait pas e  mis en evidence le manque de capacite des beneficiaires (y
compris la DRFV) A definir precisement leurs besoins (specifications techniques, Termes de reference,
etc.).
- 35 -



La Direction de la Recherche Formation Vulgarisation n'avait pas une capacite de gestion des marches.
Les marches passes par elle ne respectaient pas tous les procedures (Accord de Cr6dit et Manuel de
procedures). Elle n'avait pas l'autonomie de passation de marches: elle devait passer par la Commission
Departementale des Marches ou la Commission Centrale des Marches au dela de certains seuils. Pour
eviter les lenteurs des circuits de ces commissions, elle faisait recours abusivement a la consultation de
fournisseurs pour les foumitures courantes (au dessus du seuil et du cumul autorises par l'accord de credit).
Avant fin 98 les missions de supervision de la Banque ont rarement implique un specialiste de passation de
marches et aucun correctif n'a ete apporte pour remedier a la faiblesse constatee en matiere de passation
des marches.
6.     Gestion Administrative et Financiere. La mission a analyse les performances du projet en terme
de la gestion administrative et financiere.
Niveau de decaissement. Au 31 decembre 2000, le projet presente un taux de decaissement de 87,85%
avant prise en compte de quelques operations qui ne sont pas encore totalement denouees. Ce niveau de
decaissement meme s'il parait assez eleve, n'est pas entierement satisfaisant, notamment si on le rapproche
au nombre d'annees d'execution du projet. Les composantes vulgarisation, decentralisation et appui a la
formulation de la politique avec respectivement 89% et 90% de realisation, ont les taux de decaissement les
plus eleves. Suit la formation avec un niveau de r6alisation d'environ 88%. Par contre la composante
recherche n'a et decaissee qu'a 44%.
Gestion du Projet. Le projet a connu deux periodes de suspension pour des irregularites dans le domaine
de la gestion administrative, financiere et comptable. Une premiere suspension de FHvrier a Septembre
1998, et une seconde de Juillet a Octobre 2000. Les points suivants ont sans doute e  a la base de ces
problemes:
*  L'instabilite des directeurs et I'absence de rigueur dans les criteres de selection des directeurs: Le
PSA a eu cinq directeurs en cinq ans dont quatre annees reelles d'ex6cution. Cette instabilite dans
ce poste cle a certainement empeche la mise en place d'un systeme comptable et financier
performant.
*  Le non respect des normes minimales de saine gestion fiduciaire des fonds: Les deux suspensions
ont ete decidees suite a la constatation de depenses non eligibles, c'est a dire de depenses effectuees
en violation des procedures de l'IDA et d'une maniere generale des proc&dures de bonne gestion.
Les mesures preconis6es par les missions de supervision de la Banque et specifiquement pour
relancer le projet apres la premiere suspension, n'ont pas e  suivies d'effet, ou l'ont e  tres
tardivement et generalement tres partiellement.
*  Le manque de contr6le financier par les autorites de tutelle (Cour des Comptes).
*  De meme, les recommandations faites annuellement par les auditeurs n'ont pas non plus et
suivies. A titre d'exemple, le rapport d'audit de l'annee 1997 ( exercice au cours duquel les
auditeurs ont releve plus de 200 millions d'ouguiyas de depenses non eligibles) comportait dans sa
partie sur le contr6le interne, plusieurs recommandations pour resorber les faiblesses de
procedures. Ces recommandations n'ont pas ete mises en ceuvre, et cela malgr6 l'annonce de
mesures fortes faites par l'IDA dans sa lettre de commentaire sur ledit rapport d'audit.
* Enfin, le niveau technique du personnel comptable s'est av6re faible par rapport aux exigences du
projet dans ce domaine.
Cloture des comptes du Proj et:
- 36 -



* Le projet ayant cl6ture le 31 decembre 2000, les etats financiers A cette date revatent un caractere
particulier, notanmment afin de connaitre la situation reelle et exhaustive des dettes et creances du
projet. Sur recommnandation de l'IDA, un cabinet comptable a ete recrute pour assister le PSA
dans la preparation des etats financiers. Les etats remis par ce cabinet au PSA et transmis aux
auditeurs n'6taient pas finalises. La mission a rencontre le cabinet avec la direction du PSA, il a
ete demande au consultant de finir son travail conformement A ses termes de references. Le cabinet
a promis de remettre des etats financiers finalises le 12 avril courant, pour que les auditeurs qui ont
d6ja commenca leurs missions, puisent emettre leurs rapports au plus tard le 25 avril.
*  La periode de grace accordee par le service des decaissements expire A la fm de ce mois, autrement
dit le 30 avril 2001. Toutes les depenses eligibles sur le credit IDA doivent etre transmises A la
Banque avant cette date (30 Avril 2001) pour paiement ou remboursement sur le compte de projet.
Passe cette date, aucun paiement ne pourra etre effectue sur le credit l'IDA, meme si de par sa
nature, la depense peut etre consideree comme eligible. La mission recommande donc trWs
fortement de transmettre toutes les pieces en cours A l'IDA avant cette date.
* Le Gouvemement a sollicite l'IDA pour le paiement d'indemnites de depart au personnel
contractuel suite A la cloture du projet. Malheureusement la pratique en la matiere au sein de lIDA
ne nous permet pas de fmancer de telles indernnites.
*  La mission a ete saisie d-u probleme du contentieux existant en ce qui concerne le paiement des
indemnit6s, des frais de deplacement et frais de carburant pendant la periode de suspension des
decaissements (septembre 1997 A septembre 1998) pour un certain nombre de personnel de terrain.
Au vu des documents presentes a la mission (Proces Verbal de la reunion du 27 janvier 2001
r6unissant la DRFV, le delegue des travailleurs du PSA, et l'Inspection du Travail), il s'avere que
la DRFV reconnait aux travailleurs les droits reclames pour la periode de septembre 1997 A
septembre 1998 pour un montant total de 11.507.880 Ouguiyas. La mission recommande donc de
preparer de faqon urgente ume demande de decaissement A cet effet compte tenu de la proximit6 de
la date d'arret des paiements prevue pour le 30 avril 2001.
*  Les Directives de l'IDA sur le recrutement de consultants stipulent que les fonctionnaires ne
peuvent atre recrutes que s'ils ont demissionne de la fonction publique. Un accord de principe sur
la prise en charge des honoraires de l'ancien Directeur du PSA avait e donne le 28 aouit 2000. La
mission recommande donc de transmettre A l'IDA la lettre de demission de l'interesse pour pouvoir
proc6der au reglement des arrieres d'honoraires conformement A la demande d'autorisation en date
du 13 janvier 2001.
7. Viabilit et Suite du Projet. II est evident que le PSA n'a pas eu le temps ni les moyens de mettre en
place un systeme national perenne de recherche-formnation-conseil agricole et pastoral. Des acquis tres
importants ont et obtenus, mais il est necessaire de continuer et consolider les actions entreprises A travers
le PSA de facon A mettre en place un systeme capable de repondre de facon efficace et au moindre coAt aux
besoins des producteurs dans leur diversite agro-sociologique.  Ces aspects de services conseil sont
indispensables pour apporter un appui a l'organisation des communautes rurales pour les aider a etablir un
programme prioritaire d'investissements hls A des services permnettant de maximiser l'impact economique et
social de ces investissements et d'assurer leur perennite. Une proposition de programme d'appui A court et
moyen terme a ete preparee lors de la mission et est annexee A l'Aide Memoire. La mission recommande
qu'au niveau central et regional, les equipes de la DRFV, du PGRNP, et du PDIAM se concertent
rapidement pour s'entendre sur un programme coherent visant A assurer le financement des activites
indispensables pour le developpement des sous-secteurs de l'agriculture et de l'elevage.
Nouakchott, le 6 Avril 2001                Daniel Moreau, Charge de Projet, Banque Mondiale
- 37 -



Additional Annex 9. Rapport d'Achevement du Projet des Services Agricoles (PSA)
REPUBLIQUE ISLAMIQUE DE MAURITANIE
MINISTERE DU DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL ET DE L'ENVIRONNEMENT
DIRECTION DE LA RECHERCHE - FORMATION - VULGARISATION
RAPPORT d'achevement
du
projet des services agricoles (PSA)
(Cr. 2575-MAU)
Introduction
*      Le PSA a e  negocie en 1993
*      II est entre en vigueur mars 1995
*      Pour la composante recherche, les conditions de decaissement n'ont pu etre remplies qu'en aout
1997.
*      Le montant du credit etait US $ 18,2 millions.
*      Les decaissements ont e  suspendus de maniere informelle deux fois: de novembre 1997 a
septembre 1998 et de septembre a novembre 2000.
*      Ceci a affecte les activites sur le terrain de maniere tres negative.
-. Rappel des Obiectifs des composantes du PSA:
Le PSA itait cense constituer la premiere tranche de cing ans d'un nroeramme national a lone
terme visant a amdliorer la fourniture de services awricoles dans tout le pays, et axei sur le
renforcement des liens entre la vulearisatdon, la recherche et la formatdon aericole. Les objectifs a long
terme de ce programme etaient les suivants:
-      accroitre la productivite agricole d'une maniere 6cologiquement viable,
accroitre les revenus des exploitants et
-      Rationaliser l'utilisation des ressources publiques destinees aux services agricoles.
Les objectifs specifiques du projet etaient les suivants:
i)     Dans tout le pays, hartnoniser progressivement les activites du service de vulgarisation en se
fondant sur des principes sains de gestion et modifier ce service pour qu'il soit oriente vers la demande et
reponde aux besoins des exploitants et des agriculteurs-eleveurs; et
ii)    Renforcer les liens entre la recherche et la vulgarisation en se focalisant sur la recherche adaptative
et appliquee. Pour faciliter cet effort de renforcement institutionnel, le projet prevoyait egalement de
decentraliser le MDRE.
II. Evaluation des Obiectifs du Proiet:
Les objectifs du PSA etaient definis dans la "Lettre de Politique Sectorielle en
Recherche-Formation-Vulgarisation Agricole" que le Gouvemement de la Republique Islamique de
Mauritanie a soumis a la Banque Mondiale lors des negociations pour soutenir l'obtention du credit PSA.
Cette lettre de politique faisait reference au Programme de Redressement Economique et Financier (PREF
- 38 -



- 1985-88), le Programme de consolidation et de Relance (1989-91), et le Programme d'Ajustement du
Secteur Agricole (1989-93), dfinissait les objectifs du PSA comme suit:
*      La generation et la diffusion des techniques agro-sylvo-pastorales;
*      Le renforcement des capacites des organisations professionnelles des producteurs dans leur
fonction economique et touchant le plus grand nombre d'exploitants;
*      La contribution A l'amnlioration de la productivit6, du revenu et de la production de ces groupes; et
*      Le renforcement de la formation des producteurs et de leurs conseillers. Ces objectifs sont toujours
valables et devraient former les bases pour consolider les acquis du PSA.
III. Evaluation des R6sultats de l'Obiectif Global.:
Eu egard A l'objectif initial qui lui etait assigne en termes de:
*      couverture de nombre de villages touches
*      couverture de nombre de producteurs encadres/conseilles
*      transfert de technologie
*      professionnalisation de la vulgarisation
*      Renforcement du lien: chercheurs - vulgarisateurs - producteurs
*      Renforcement des capacites des institutions de recherche, de formation, et de vulgarisation;
*      Definition des programmes de recherche suivant les zones agro-ecologiques (PNRA)
Reorganisation des instituts de recherche (CNRADA)
*      Nombre de d'essais de recherche realises,
nous pouvons estimer que le PSA a atteint ses objectifs car les indicateurs montrent des performances
au-delA de ce qui etait prevu (vois Annexe 01. 1). Cependant, le systeme de suivi et 6valuation existant
ne pennet pas de juger d'une maniere quantitative le degre de diffusion des technologies qui etaient
promues par la vulgarisation. Aussi, a ce jour il n'est pas possible d'estimer quantitativement l'impact
6conomique des technologies diffusees ni au niveau des producteurs individuels ni au niveau national.
Des efforts dans ce sens seront faits dans l'avenir avec I'appui de la DPSE.
Ces performances ont ete atteintes grace a:
*      Une politique de formation qui a permis A tous les intervenants (Directeurs, cadres et
vulgarisateurs) de se concentrer sur les activites en sachant des le depart ce qu'il y avait lieu de faire ; et
*      La disponibilite des ressources financieres suffisantes (surdimensionnement des financements
initiaux et economie financiere grAce au glissement monetaire de l'ouguiya).
Pour la premiere fois dans son histoire, la Mauritanie a pu mettre en place un dispositif de
vulgarisation qui a permis d'etre en contact avec la plupart des producteurs sur tout le territoire national.
Aujourd'hui le pays comprend mieux ce que c'est la vulgarisation et la recherche et s'est rendu compte que
ces deux activites sont indispensables pour le developpement et la diffusion de nouvelles technologies et
techniques dans le monde rural. Les producteurs qui avant ne demandaient que des appuis mat6riels du
Gouvemement et des bailleurs de fonds et des ONG commencent A reclamer qu'on les appuie sur le plan
technique et que les divers investissements en milieu rural soient accompagnes par un conseil de proximite.
En meme temps, les responsables de la vulgarisation au niveau national, regional et local ont appris
comment diagnostiquer les problemes des producteurs et comment formuler des plans de vulgarisation, y
compris les problematiques des themes techniques A diffuser. Des series de formnation des AVB,
superviseurs et techniciens specialises se sont tenues et le niveau de competence de tout le personnel a e
rehausse d'une mani6re significative. Le personnel de vulgarisation s'est familiarise avec les outils de la
- 39 -



vulgarisation et a appris comment faciliter I'adoption des nouvelles technologies par les producteurs.
IV. Les activit6s de vulearisation avant donn6 de bons resultats:
a)     Programme de formation des auxiliaires veterinaires.
b)     Programme special d'amrlioration du sorgho pluvial et de decrae dans les deux HODHS et 1'
ASSABA
c)     Promotion de la diversification des productions agricoles (Cellule de Promotion de la
Diversification des Productions Agricoles - CPDPA)
d)     Appui aux femmes rurales
e)      L'utilisation de la radio rural
f      Diffusion d'un paguet de technologies qui ameliore la productivite du riz en Mauritanie
g)     Introduction de la traction animale
h)     Promotion des engrais phosphates
i)     Promotion des fosses compostieres
j)      Introduction des foyers amelior6s
k)      Introduction des batteuses-vanneuses
1)     Appui aux Organisations Socio-Professionnelles (OSP)
a) Points forts de la vulgarisation:
Tant la DRFV qui n'avait que tres peu d'exp6rience en matiere de vulgarisation que la
SONADER, ont su maitriser quelques outils de vulgarisation preconis6s dans l'approche formation et
visites (T&V). Les agents des deux structures ont appris a utiliser des groupes de contacts, des parcelles de
demonstration/temoin, des formations et le calendrier de quinzaine et les ateliers de revue de technologie
entre techniciens specialises et la recherche. Le dispositif avec les postes: agents vulgarisation de base
(AVB), techniciens specialises qui assumait en meme temps la fonction de supervision, les specialistes en
organisation socio-professionnelles, les chefs de service de vulgarisation au niveau des De61gations, les
De16gues, et le personnel au niveau central reflete un dispositif classique de vulgarisation organis6 selon les
principes de gestion d'un systeme formation et visites (T&V). En meme temps, les deux structures ont su
innover et adapter les outils et les postes A leur realite sur le terrain.
La DRFV a introduit avec beaucoup de succes la formule: auxiliaire veterinaire qui est devenu une
des marques du PSA. En meme temps, elle a su mener des campagnes nationales de vulgarisation sur des
themes techniques bien specifiques et renforcer l'activite de vulgarisation par l'utilisation de la radio rurale,
la formation des producteurs par l'alphabetisation fonctionnelle et l'utilisation des groupement f6minines.
La SONADER egalement a su ajuster ses activites de vulgarisation quand elle s'est rendue compte que 1'
approche initiale etait trop focalisee sur les aspects techniques, les groupes de contact, et la demonstration
des themes techniques dans des parcelles de demonstration au d6triment des problemes lies A l'organisation
et a la gestion paysanne dans les cooperatives.
b) Points faibles de la vulearisation:
La rupture de financement A deux reprises pour des longues periodes a fait que le systeme de
vulgarisation n'a pas fonctionne comme prevu initialement et se caracterise par son irregularite. Si bien la
frequence de certains actions telles que les visites et forrnation de quinzaine et les revues mensuelles de
technologie meritaient d'etre revisees, par la force des choses ces actions aujourd'hui ne se font que tres
rarement. On ne peut remplacer un systeme que par un autre systeme si on veut avancer. Pour cela il faut
definir les nouvelles regles et les appliquer systematiquement. Si non, on risque de revenir a la situation
-40 -



avant le PSA quand l'activite de vulgarisation 6tait menee d'une maniere peut planifiee, chaotique et sans
impact.
Une autre faiblesse du systeme de vulgarisation residait dans le fait que la DRFV n'avait pas d'
autorite sur les autres structures du PSA et ne pouvait pas controler le personnel de terrain, car il d6pendait
administrativement des Del6gations. Par consequent, il y a eu des affectations et mutations de personnel de
terrain qui n'etaient pas initiees par la DRFV. Etant donne que la vulgarisation est une profession et que le
PSA investissait des sommes considerables dans la fornation du personnel, sa mutation a d'autres
fonctions au sein de I'administration est un gachis a eviter. Aussi, la DRFV a joue le r6le de caisse d'
avance pour d'autres structures sans toujours pouvoir s'assurer des resultats de ces dernieres.
V. Les iDoints forts et les voints faibles du svsteme existant:
IV_A) Les Doints forts.
Al_ Couverture nationale.
o      Par rapport a la situation Avant - PSA)>, les taux de couverture et d'encadrement ont et
nettement ameliores.
o      Le nombre de regions couvertes par la vulgarisation a augmente de 45% et le nombre des
producteurs a et6 presque triple dans la zone d'intervention du PSA.
o      Le ratio d'encadrement a ete porte a l'optimnum suivant le principe du rapport cofit/efficacite.
o      La societe civile (ONG, OSP, Associations professionnelles diverses) a largement ben6ficie de
cette couverture. Les institutions de recherche et de formation y ont aussi participe dans le cadre d'un
partenariat dynamique et mutuellement avantageux.
A2_ Professionnalisation de la patigue de la vulgarisation
o      Le PSA a permis de mettre en place un dispositif de vulgarisation professionnelle fonctionnel
verticalement et horizontalement.
o      Les principaux acteurs impliqu6s (AVB et autres TS), par les formations continues et bien ciblees,
ont vu leurs connaissances professionnelles ameliorees et leurs outils perfectionn6, y compris ceux se
rapportant au <eGENRE>>.
A3 Snergie entre les structures intervenant
Un effort de synergie positive a ete fait au niveau de tous les intervenants du secteur public et du
secteur priv6.
Des resultats interessants ont ete obtenus dans ce domaine:
-      Relation de partenariat
-      Harmonisation de concepts et pratiques d'outils de vulgarisation et de recherche, notamment le
diagnostic participatif, la MARP,
-      Tenue des Ateliers Bilan/Programme,
-      Evaluation d'impact,
-      Taux de transfert : vulgarisation - recherche - vulgarisation,
-      Programmes speciaux avec des appuis directs aux producteurs individuels ou collectifs
-      Lutte contre l'analphab6tisme (campagne ZSA VOIR POUR TOUM,) en collaboration avec le
Secretariat d'Etat a l'Alphabetisation et a l'Enseignement Originel
-      Mise a contribution des medias publics et prives .. .etc.
- 41 -



IV_B) Les Doints faibles
B 1 Cadre institutionnel:
La DRFV est une direction qui tire toute sa legitimite de la gestion du PSA car m8me le personnel
de vulgarisation qu'elle gere techniquement continue A etre financierement impute aux autres directions
techniques auxquelles il etait affiHie avant la restructuration du MDRE en 1993.
Si cette situation n'est pas repar6e, la DRFV risque de disparaitre et avec elle toute la construction
(le montage) realise depuis cinq ans pour construire un dispositif de vulgarisation dynamique, appuye par
un systeme de fornation competent et une recherche agronomique dynamique.
B2_ Appui de la Banque mondiale:
o      Les contacts avec les Task Managers du PSA n'etaient pas suffisamment etroits pour permettre la
prise de decision corrective A temps.
o      I1 a ete remarque une lenteur des reponses des Task Managers aux questions parfois pressantes.
o      Les missions de supervision n'etaient pas regulieres.
O      Le fait qu'il y ait eu un specialiste agricole A la mission residente de la Banque Mondiale A
Nouakchott (M. Tolba) avait beaucoup aide A alleger cette lourdeur. Une nette arin6oration avait ete
per,ue durant la periode oiu il etait devenu le Task Manager du PSA. Les choses s'etant par ailleurs
nettement degradees et tres rapidement depuis son depart.
o      La lourdeur des procedures de la Banque Mondiale pour executer des depenses aussi pesait sur 1'
execution du PSA car il fallait demander la non-objection presque pour tout.
o      L'exigence faite au PSA de faire passer les plus importants marches exclusivement A travers 1'
AMEXTIPE, a constitu6 un veritable handicap surtout dans le domaine de 1'acquisition des biens et
services, ou des retards enormes ont cause un prejudice certain au bon fonctionnement du PSA qui a pousse
les dirigeants de I'AMEXTIPE A se declarer non competents pour ce genre d'interventions.
B3_ Choix des hommes:
Le PSA a cherche A renforcer des aspects peut tangibles dans le secteur agricoles qui sont la
recherche, la vulgarisation et la formation. Ces activites sont peu connues et comprises par la plupart des
Mauritaniens. Pour reussir le PSA, il fallait des Directeurs de la DRFV et de la principale structure de
recherche, le CNRADA, qui soient en mesure de dormer une vision A ce programme national et qui
pouvaient guider les hommes et les activites de leurs structures. Par consequent, il etait imperatif de faire
un choix rigoureux de ces personnes cles. Or, le constat apres coup, c'est qu'A quelques exceptions pres, ils
n'etaient pas A la hauteur de la tache et leur changement continuel n'etait pas de nature A favoriser le
developpement des institutions fortes.
B4_ Ressources humaines:
La vulgarisation n'a peut etre pas requ tout I'appui qu'elle merite de la part des responsables
regionaux qui par megarde ont parfois utilise les AVB A d'autres taches que la vulgarisation.
Parfois, les competences techniques dans les Delegations ne sont pas associees au travail de la
vulgarisation qui a souvent besoin d'eux sous pretexte qu'ils ne font pas partie du dispositif de
vulgarisation, alors qu'en fait il ne doit pas y avoir de cloisonnement entre les activites du MDRE car elles
sont toutes complementaires.
Aussi, il s'avere qu'au sein de la DRFV le travail n'est pas distribue d'une maniere equitable entre
tous les responsables et c'est un nombre tres reduit de personnes peut etre competentes qui fait tout le
travail tout seuls sans associer les autres.
B5_ Gestion administrative et financiere:
Pour demarrer le PSA sur des bases saines en matiere de gestion administrative et financiere, la
convention entre la Banque Mondiale et le Gouvemement de la Mauritanie contenait deux conditions d'
entree en vigueur du credit:
a)     mise en place d'un systeme comptable acceptable pour le projet et recrutement d'un comptable
- 42 -



qualifie pour la tenue des comptes de la DRFV; et
b)     designation d'un cabinet d'audit independant pour l'audit des comptes du projet pendant plusieurs
annees.
Au debut du projet, un comptable fut recrute apres examen et selection par un cabinet d'auditeurs. En
outre, un manuel de procedures fut elabor&.
Neanrnoins, en retrospective, il est evident que ces mesures n'etaient pas suffisantes:
-      La comptable n'etait pas aussi competente qu'on le pensait, et ne maitrisait pas les aspects
comptables et moins encore le suivi financier du budget. 11 y avait une absence de vision financiere dans la
gestion du PSA,
-      le manuel de proc6dures n'etait pas suffisamnment d&taille et precis,
-      le rythme des audits 6tait trop espace, et
-      les services techniques de la DRFV qui supervisent les activites de terrain n'etaient pas mis A
contribution pour l'approbation des rapport d'activites emanant des structures qu'ils ont eut a superviser.
B6_ Cadre incitatif:
o      Le PSA a cherche A renforcer la vulgarisation au sein du secteur public, c'est A dire, il a accepte de
renforcer une des Directions du MDRE (la Direction de la Recherche, Formation, Vulgarisation - DRFV).
Le programme a accepte de travailler et faire travailler des agents disponibles au sein du MDRE et n'a pas
cherche de se constituer en projet, avec une duree limitee dans le temps et avec des avantages speciaux qui
sont propres aux projets.
o      11 etait evident des le debut que ceci etait un pari difficile A gagner, car tout le monde au sein de 1'
administration a tendance de considerer l'emploie regulier comme un fardeau et ne reve que d'etre affecte A
un projet.
o      Les seuls indemnites qui faisaient parti du PSA etaient les indemnites de deplacement de 7000 pour
les AVB et de 10000pour les superviseurs.
o      Ces indemnites n'ontjamais et actualise depuis 1993 et leur valeur en terme reel a baisse de
450%.
o      En outre, le PSA a cherche A motiver les cadres superieurs de la DRFV A travers un travail
interessant et des voyages d'etudes et des formations. Cependant, A cause des problemes de mauvaise
gestion financiere une bonne partie de ces activites n'ont pas eu lieu. Ces aspect seront A revoir de pres
dans la phase post-PSA.
V. Les enseifnements tire de l'execution du PSA:
Si le PSA etait objectivement le programme le plus important du MDRE, car a lui seul, il
mobilisait trois quarts de son personnel de terrain, les responsables successifs de la DRFV l'ont confine
dans un role de soutien aux fonctions recherche, formation et vulgarisation executees par les autres
structures et ce sont eux contentes de la gestion administrative et donc n'ont pas saisi cette dimension et le
PSA n'a pas su "se vendre". Le PSA et la DRFV se sont confondus dans l'esprit des decideurs.
L'experience du PSA montre que veiller A la bonne gestion administratif et financiere au siege est
aussi ou plus important que le travail technique de conception et d'execution sur le terrain. Le mauvais
choix d'un directeur peu compromettre une operation de 300 A 400 personnes au sein de plusieurs
structures.
Un Directeur de ce type de programme devrait etre choisi sur la base de ses capacites intellectuelles
A gerer la triptyque Recherche-Formation-Vulgarisation et de ses competences A suivre les fonctions
fondamentales, A les promouvoir et A les developper. Il devrait avoir une longue et bonne experience et de la
vulgarisation et de la recherche, ainsi qu'une capacite manageriale solide ou A defaut etre epaule par un
coordinateur technique capable de coordonner les activites techniques.
Le Directeur de cette direction technique doit avoir trois capacites:
-43 -



o      Etre capable d'orienter et de suivre les activites techniques menees dans les domaines de la
recherche, formation et de la vulgarisation ; pour cela il faut qu'il ait une vision claire de l'etat des
technologies utilisees au sein de l'agriculture Mauritanienne et de ce qui se passe dans ce domaine dans les
pays voisins et dans le monde;
o      Avoir la capacite de guider, d'animer et de faire travailler un groupe de collaborateurs ; et
o      Avoir la capacite de promouvoir les activites de cette direction dans son Ministere, au sein du
Gouvernement et vis a vis des producteurs, organismes et du public en general (decideurs, utilisateurs, I'
opinion publique).
Une attention toute particuliere doit 8tre accordee A la bonne formation du personnel de gestion
financiere et comptable
Preparation obligatoire des programmes et budgets annuels a temps
Des audits rapproches (tous les trois mois) sont recommandes.
DNs qu'il y a evidence de mauvaise gestion, tant le Gouvernement que la Banque Mondiale
devraient reagir d'une maniere beaucoup plus vite afm d'eviter que la situation ne se degrade et que le
travail de terrain n'en souffre.
La gestion des moyens financiers doit etre decentralisee de telle sorte que chaque responsable A
quelque niveau que ce soit puisse savoir sur quelle base budgetaire il peut travailler et qu'il soit capable de
suivre les moyens financiers qui lui sont alloues/imputes.
Pour tout cela, il faut developper des manuels de procedures extremement dbtailles et s'assurer que
ces proc6dures sont connues par tout le personnel.
-44 -



MAP SECTION






IBRD 25091
-`,    r       ALEI
MAURItIA                                                                                                      ALGRI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJEC                                                                                 _ARArI
PROJECT AREA                                                                                    AUkITAN A'
PROJEC AREA                                                                                                                MALI
*     COOPERATIVE TRAININGWISOOVKGHE(CFC0)                                                                              ,BURKINAG
A     COP RESEARCH fNSTITUTE ICNWAD                                                                                              rGR ,
28  O   VETERY RESAH N50TUTE ICNERVI                                              MOROCCO R   CCGONEA-
*     REGtONAt EXT&HSI0N OMFFCES                                                                              CC 2  VOTLE
28  ' OCEAN     1A            GHN'
PAVED ROADS                                                                                  _|
- - - -* PAVED ROADS UNDER CONSTRUCTION                                                                        8
IATfERITE/EARTH ROADS
--    - TRAtS                                                                                                             ALGERIA
PRAIROADS
t-   AIRFIEtDs                                                   f;                            =       
4                                                                  -TR AOTSf*Xs - - - - - -
N WtERNATIONAL AIRKORTS
t.   PORTS                                                T       AaiuM ,e /
-  - -  INIERNATIONAL.BOUNDAR\IES
- - - - -INDICATES THIS TERRITORYOf THE     FORMER
FORMER SPANISH SAHARA
(WESTERN SAHARP,A
-24'                                           SPA(NIS'Hv'                                                                      '                 4o
24~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2'
SAHARA
0   50  100  150 20  250(
I(tOMEIERS / 
f                      X   (F 3~~~         ~~~~                            ~      ~~erik  ,'  
I !   Zoouercff     -- ----------;                                          MALI
toGverrot4$\\,,t                                (_)          '   Ouadane                                                   I
bChinguetti                                                       (
20'              *      <        segueil  " %                                                               j            20-
ATLANTIC
OCEAN                                                                ' 4iki.               Tichitt
NOl AX-I41    f>                                                {                    
4  Bo iilimit    C     Tgf             ! MOu&alto
/\Tarmakett                         '- g
/a4Aioun el Atrostss
X                           <             tir  \      p '-. 1eM,Bo t   OW-f --     _16 ___ 
X                     9 _ 1   .ff;         \-'             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nioro du Sahel
T.       ibaby                                     M    A    L   I
e  r  s I r  rW   A  I   @                           This~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~map hos been prepared by The World Banks staf oclvusrnly for
a   ;) [  181 C   Q   ^  L                                      t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~he convemience of reoders ond ,s for the intemrna urr of The Wordd
SEN    E           AL                                                   tBonk Group The donarin-ohons sand and the boundaries shoon on th,s
-nap do not irply, o the port of The World B-k Group, ony judg-ten
ton theb leal sotUs of any tritory or any endors-meot or occepto,ce of
s-ch lboundaris
16                                        12                                       8
AUGUST 1993






m   i}0  (          \                      t                              X    ^                         M                               F~~0  0 
LS/~   ',           0                               m"''''  ''                         A                I I                                              1
rri ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ri
.+ ~~' I4.  '                                                   '       '  ................\   
- - - - - - -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F 
Zot w             n                                             s   t                           'I_                             0 ozX
5', 0SSX   0
'0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n1



