Page  1
                                                   CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2575 MAU
                         Project Agreement
                  (Agricultural Services Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
             SOCIETE NATIONALE DE DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL
                       Dated April 26, 1994
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2575 MAU
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated April 26, 1994, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and SOCIETE NATIONALE DE
DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL (SONADER).
      WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Islamic Republic of Mauritania (the Borrower) and
the Association, (the Development Credit Agreement) the Association
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to thirteen million one hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 13,100,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition
that SONADER agrees to undertake such obligations toward the
Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
      (B)   by a subsidiary grant agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and SONADER, part of the proceeds of the credit
provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made
available to SONADER on the terms and conditions set forth in said
Subsidiary Grant Agreement; and
      WHEREAS SONADER, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. SONADER declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Parts
B, C.2 (b) and D.2 (b) of the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, agricultural extension, research and environmental
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for said Parts B, C.2 (b) and D.2 of the Project.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the implementation of Parts B, C.2 (b) and D.2 of the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit
Agreement.
      Section 2.03. SONADER shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and
land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement
and more specifically, in respect of Parts B, C.2 (b) and D.2 of the
Project.
      Section 2.04. SONADER shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, SONADER shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Grant Agreement or any provision
thereof.
      Section 2.05. SONADER shall: (a) participate fully in the
annual reviews and the midterm review referred to in paragraph 2,
Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement and paragraph (f) of
Section 3.02 of the Development Credit Agreement, respectively, and,
to this end, shall: (i) furnish to the Borrower and the Association
such reports as may be required for that purpose, and in such detail
as the Borrower or the Association shall reasonably request, on the
progress and status of Parts B, C.2 (b) and D.2 of the Project; and
(ii) following each such review, act promptly and diligently, in
order to take, or assist the Borrower in taking, any corrective
action deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming noted in the
implementation of Parts B, C.2 (b) and D.2 of the Project, or to
implement, or assist the Borrower in implementing, such other
measures as may have been agreed upon between the parties in
furtherance of the objective of the Project; and (b) cause the
activities of its extension agents to be fully coordinated with MDRE
extension agents in pursuance of the Program.
      Section 2.06. Without prejudice to the generality of the
foregoing, SONADER shall: (i) at the request of the Association,
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of
the Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement, and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Credit; and (ii) promptly inform the
Association of any condition which interferes or threatens to
interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of
Page  3
the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by SONADER of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Grant
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
               Management and Operations of SONADER
      Section 3.01. SONADER shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial, agricultural extension, and environmental practices under
the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.
      Section 3.02. SONADER shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial,
technical and administrative practices.
      Section 3.03. SONADER shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) SONADER shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
      (b)   SONADER shall:
            (i)   have its records, accounts and financial
                  statements (balance sheets, statements of income
                  and expenses and related statements) for each
                  fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                  appropriate auditing principles consistently
                  applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                  the Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than six months after
                  the end of each such year: (A) certified copies
                  of its financial statements for such year as so
                  audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said
                  auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Association shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and financial
                  statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
                  Association shall from time to time reasonably
                  request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditures, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                  Association has received the audit for the fiscal
                  year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
Page  4
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
      Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of SONADER thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
            (i)   the date on which the Development Credit
                  Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
                  terms; or
           (ii)   the date fifteen years after the date of this
                  Agreement.
      (b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify SONADER
of this event.
      Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                   197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA),
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                             82987 (FTCC)
      For SONADER:
Page  5
            BP 321
            Nouakchott
            Republique Islamique de Mauritanie
            Cable address:                ¦Telex:
                  SONADER                   807 MTN
      Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of SONADER, may be taken or executed by its
Director-General or such other person or persons as the Director-
General shall designate in writing, and SONADER shall furnish to the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
      Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                  SOCIETE NATIONALE DE DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL
                  By /s/ Mohamed Fall Ainina
                                         Authorized Representative
