Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 22508 YU
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED TRUST FUND GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$6.0 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FORA
FINANCIAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE GRANT
June 26, 2001
Private and Financial Sector Development
South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 30, 2001)
Currency Unit = Yugoslav Dinar
I Din. = US$0.0144
US$1 =69.6 Din.
RECIPIENT FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BRA            -      Bank Rehabilitation Agency
CAS            -      Country Assistance Strategy
CBM            -      Central Bank of Montenegro
EAR            -      European Agency for Reconstruction
EU             -      European Union
FFXD           -      Frozen Foreign Exchange Deposits
FMS            -      Financial Management System
FRY                   Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
FY             -      Fiscal Year
GDP            -      Gross Domestic Product
IAS            -      International Accounting Standards
IC             -      Individual Consultant
ICB            -      International Competitive Bidding
ICR                   Implementation Completion Report
lDA                   Intemational Development Agency
TFC            -      Intemational Finance Corporation
IFI            -      International Financial Institution
iS             -      Intemational Shopping
ISA            -      Intemational Standards on Auditing
IT             -      Infornation Technology
LACI           -      Loan Administration Change Initiative
LIB            -      Limited Intemational Bidding
NBY            -      National Bank of Yugoslavia
NS             -      National Shopping
PAD            -      Project Appraisal Document
PAS            -      Procurement Accredited Specialist
PIP            -      Project Implementation Plan
PMR            -      Project Management Report
PSD            -      Private Sector Development
QCBS           -      Quality and Cost Based Selection
RPA            -      Regional Procurement Assistance
SA             -      Special Account
SBCQ           -      Selection Based on Consultant Qualification
SFRY                  Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
SME            -      Small and Mediun Enterprise
SOE            -      Socially Owned Enterprises
Vice President: Johannes F. Linn
Country Director: Christiaan Poortman
Sector Director: Paul Siegelbaum
Task Manager: Gerardo Corrochano



Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Private Sector Development Technical Assistance Project
Project Appraisal Document
TABLE OF CONTENTS
A: Project Development Objective .............................................                                                     4
B: Strategic Context .............................................                                                                 4
C: Project Description Summary .............................................                                                      10
D: Project Rationale .............................................                                                                13
E: Issues Requiring Special Attention .............................................                                               16
F: Sustainability and Risks .............................................. 18
G: Main loan conditions .............................................                                                             19
H. Readiness for implementation .............................................                                                    20
I. Compliance with Bank policies ............................................. 20
Annex 1: Project Design Summary .............................................. 21
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description .............................................                                     22
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs .............................................                                          27
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary ..............................................                                   28
Annex 5: Financial Sunimary .............................................                                               28
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .........................                         .................... 29
Annex 7: Project Processing Budget and Schedule ..............................................                          37
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File .............................................. 38
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits ..............................................                                  39
Annex 10: Country at a Glance .............................................. 40



Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Financial Sector Development Technical Assistance Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
ECSPF
Date: June 26, 2001                                   Team Leader: Gerardo Corrochano
Country Director: Christiaan Poortman                 Sector NManager: Khaled F. Sherif
Project ID: SF-P074127                                Sector: Financial Sector Development
Lending Instrument: Emergency Recovery Grant          Theme(s): Institution Building
Poverty Targeted Intervention:    [] Yes  [X] Nc
Prolect Financina Data
[ I Loan      [ ] Credit            [X] Grant        [ ] Guarantee               [ ] Other [Specify]
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Total Project Cost US$             7.5             Cofinancing:    N/A
Contact person:  Gerardo Corrochano (ECSPF)
E-mail:    Gcorrochano@worldbank.org
Total Bank Financing US$           6.0
Borrower: N.A.
Guarantor: N.A.
Responsible agency: National Bank of Yugoslavia (NBY) and Bank Rehabilitation Agency (BRA)
Project implementation period: 07/01/01 to 12/31/03 - 30 months: FY02-FY04
Project completion date: 12/31/2003
Project closing date: 06/30/2004
Implementing Agencies: BRA
Contact person: Radovan Jelafid, Vice-Governor of the NBY, Radmila Milutinovic, Executive Director of the BRA
Address: Belgrade, Yugoslavia
Tel: 381-11-624-245 (NBY)             Fax: 381-11-625-426    E-mail: jelasic(@,nbj.sv.gov.yu



Page 4
A: PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE
1.   Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The Federal Republic of Yugoslavia's banking sector is deeply insolvent as a result of structural problems
inherited from the pre-1991 socialist system and a decade of mismanagement that followed the break up of
former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (SFRY). The new government, elected in late 2000, has
already undertaken a major effort with the help of donor resources to assess the conditions of troubled banks
and is in the midst of launching the implementation of a comprehensive banking sector reform strategy.
The objective of the proposed project is to support launching and begin implementing a comprehensive
bank resolution strategy. More specifically, the project would:
* support the rehabilitation and rapid privatization of a limited number of large state banks; and,
* support the liquidation and divestiture of all other insolvent banks that are not selected for restructuring.
The proposed project is envisaged as a first step, "early win" operation to initiate the clean-up of the
banking sector. As such, it aims at building up institutional capacity and human capital in preparation for
the larger structural reform effort that is needed in the financial sector. In that context, this project has an
intentionally narrow focus and does not address the comprehensive reform of the financial sector, which
is likely to be the subject of future assistance by the Bank and other donors.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The proposed project will finance services, training and equipment.  Progress in achieving the
developmental objective will be assessed on the basis of:
i. Completion of a detailed bank resolution strategy.
ii. Identification of all insolvent banks.
iii. Selection of banks for rehabilitation or liquidation; launching of implementation process.
iv. Replacement of the existing management of banks selected for rehabilitation.
v. Withdrawal of licenses and launching of liquidation process and divestiture process of all
identified insolvent banks.
vi. Selection of privatization advisors for banks under rehabilitation.
vii. Launching of privatization process for banks under rehabilitation.
B: STRATEGIC CONTEXT
1.   Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project:
The proposed project is consistent with the Memorandum to the Executive Directors of I3RD and IDA
on the Proposed Trust Fund for the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, endorsed by the Board on March 30,
2001 and the Transition Support Strategy (TSS) for the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, approved by the
Board on May 8, 2001. The TSS recognizes that the recovery of Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (FRY)
will be led by growth in the private sector, and calls for the rapid privatization of state assets and the
rapid establishment of a legal and institutional framework to support the development of a conducive
business environment. Both documents emphasize that a well-functioning financial sector is essential for



Page 5
private sector-led growth. However, at present, FRY's financial sector does not fulfill its basic function
of resource mobilization and effective and prudent lending and investing. The project would help to start
the resolution process of the banking sector by providing technical assistance for the liquidation or
restructuring of insolvent banks.
The proposed project has been developed in close collaboration with key donors, and is part of a broader
effort of technical assistance in the financial sector that is also financed by the US Treasury/AID and the
UK DFID. Moreover, the project supports key financial sector structural measures required under the
proposed IMF Standby Arrangement (June 2001-March 2002).
Relevant Documents: Joint World Bank-European Commission (EC), FRY Economic Recovery and
Transition Program (ERTP), May 2001; Transitional Support Strategy for FRY, May 2001; IMF Stand-
by Arrangement, June 2001-March 2002.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
a.   Background:
Throughout the last decade FRY's financial system operated under extremely harsh conditions of
economic instability, high inflation, massive defaults and arrears, and economic sanctions. Significant
portions of the banks' balance sheets were non-eaming assets, either immobile or non-performing.
Mismanagement of the large banks took the form of directed credits ordered by the government, and was
exacerbated by the ownership or control exercised over the large banks by some of the large and troubled
state or socially-owned enterprises. As a result, the size, level of intermediation and overall significance
of the banking system dropped quite significantly during this period. Total banking system assets
declined by more than one quarter since 1994 to an estimated DEM 23 billion in 2000. Excluding some
DEM 7.4 billion foreign exchange deposits (FFXD) that have been frozen mainly in the largest banks
since 1991, savings had slumped to below DEM 100 per capita in 1997 and never recovered. Yet there is
ample evidence that sizeable holdings of foreign exchange exist outside the banking system. In both
retail and corporate banking, deposits are predominantly short-term and lending is limited to retail trade
transactions. Deposit interest rates have remained negative in real terms and discouraged domestic
savings. Large spreads ranging from 10 to 25 percent result in high lending rates and have resulted in a
broad crowding out effect. It can be argued that the condition and abuses committed in the banking
sector have contributed to the increasing presence of non-payments, barter agreements, and inter-
company arrears. Available data on payments transactions in 1999 denotes that bank credits are only 15
percent of total short-term company liabilities.
At present, there are nearly 100 banks in FRY. This includes 81 banks licensed by the National Bank of
Yugoslavia (NBY) that operate predominantly in Serbia, as well as 11 banks licensed by the Central
Bank of Montenegro (CBM). Aggregate banks statistics are somewhat confusing due to the de facto
fragmentation of the NBY and CBM reporting systems, as well as because of the unclear status of a
handful of NBY-licensed banks that have some form of operation in Kosovo. Further confusion exists
regarding the branches of certain banks operating across republican boundaries, and the actual status of
their respective branches and/or subsidiaries, as well as regarding the accuracy of the data of some
Serbian banks that were forced into large mergers that have now been dissolved. NBY statistics also
exclude newly created banks that operate in Kosovo under the auspices of the Banking and Payments
Authority of Kosovo (BPK). Since the approval of the 1993 banking law, some 30 banks have been
under court-driven processes of bankruptcy or liquidation. To date, only one of these 30 cases has been
concluded.



Page 6
The majority of assets of the banking system are concentrated in the 'old banks,' and within this group in
the largest six state owned institutions. FRY's banking statistics make a clear distinction between the so-
called 'old banks' and the 'new banks'. According to this concept, old banks are those that were licensed
before the 1989 Law on Banks and Financial Organizations, as well as branches or subsidiaries that were
therein. New banks are those licensed either under the 1989 law or afterwards under the 1993 Law on
Banks and Other Financial Organizations.
Old banks carry most of the assets and liabilities associated with the legacy of the past. As in other
former SFRY republics, the large banks were primarily owned and controlled by large state- or socially-
owned enterprises. These include most of the large loans denominated in foreign currency, many of
which are long-term and associated with foreign borrowings, and that have gone unpaid for many years
now. Accounts of the old banks also include most of the deposits of the system, mainly denominated in
foreign exchange, and which were frozen in 1991. Overall, these large loans and corresponding foreign
liabilities, as well the frozen deposits and corresponding claims on the FRY represent more than two
thirds of the balance sheet of the system or some DEM 15 billion in offsetting values. There is also a
great degree of association between these large loans (and guarantees) and the largely state-controlled
directed lending programs to industry or agriculture that prevailed during the past decade. The
government directed lending policies were primarily aimed at protecting and subsidizing these sectors
and played a key role in their price control mechanisms and political patronage. The recipients of these
loans have also been some of the largest state-controlled enterprises or socially owned conglomerates,
many of which remain in control of large portions of the shares of the banks. Old banks have a pretty
large developed network of branches, which also translates into high operating costs, an excessively large
number of employees, outmoded manual operations, and generally high cost-to-income ratios.
As stated, new banks are those established after 1989 and are largely exempt from the heavy burden that
plagues the old banks. In general, they are privately owned, small, and more efficient. In some cases,
they are reasonably profitable. However, their activities are somewhat limited, and largely concentrated
in short-term trade financing. Their client base is rapidly growing and is largely constituted by small and
medium sized enterprises. They are also better rated in terms of capital adequacy and prudential norms.
According to a 1999 banking sector study, the "new banks" have had a higher failure rate, but have also
demonstrated more consistent compliance with prudential regulation. The higher failure rate may be
explained by some of these banks not being part of the patronage system that prevailed throughout the
last decade, hence not benefiting from the protection provided to other banks and enterprises on political
grounds. Notwithstanding their better compliance, this large number of small banks has limited potential
due to their limited capital base. Again, if the experience of the region is of any use, one should not take
for granted that this large number of small banks can survive in a competitive environment. To some
extent these banks have enjoyed a very distorted and uncompetitive system that is not necessarily an
indication of their long-term sustainability.
b.   Banking Regulation
FRY's financial sector legislation is comprehensive and generally sound. However, in certain respects,
revisions to key laws will be required to enable the financial sector to be fully supportive of a market-
driven economy and to bring the legislation into harmony with EU legislation and international best
practices. The principal laws comprise (i) the 1993 Law on the NBY, (ii) the 1993 Law on Banks and
Other Financial Organizations, and (iii) the 1989 Law on the Financial Rehabilitation, Bankruptcy and
Liquidation of Banks. Other relevant legislation includes the 1993 Law on the Federal Agency for
Deposit Insurance and Bank Rehabilitation, and the 1996 Laws on Accounting and Auditing.



Page 7
The Financial Rehabilitation Law allows rehabilitation proceedings when potential losses amount to at
least 50 percent of the bank's capital and reserves (as determined by bank regulators). NBY decides
when to place a bank under rehabilitation upon an application from the banlc, its founders or creditors, or
the BRA. The decision is based on the bank's financial status and possibility for viable rehabilitation.
When the decision for bank rehabilitation is made, the duties of the bank's administrative bodies, the
authorities of the bank's executives, and the rights of the shareholders are terminated and the BRA
assumes full control over the bank.
Methods of rehabilitation include (i) new investment in the bank's capital, (ii) writing off claims, (iii)
taking over potential losses with corresponding liabilities, (iv) temporary or permanent purchase of
potential losses of the bank, (v) takeover of the bank by another bank, (vi) sale of all or a portion of the
bank's shares, and (vii) investment in the funds of the bank taking over the bank being rehabilitated.
Financial rehabilitation is considered complete upon a decision to sell the bank's shares, in whole or in
part, the takeover of the bank by another bank, or a decision to place the bank in bankruptcy.
A decision to place a bank in bankruptcy is made by the Govemor of the NBY when, based on a finding
and recommendation of the BRA, the rehabilitation is considered unfeasible. Liquidation and bankruptcy
can also be triggered by revocation of a bank's license by the NBY in cases where the bank has not gone
through the rehabilitation process first. Under Article 30 of the Banking Law, the NBY has wide-ranging
powers to revoke a bank's license. Liquidation presupposes that there are sufficient assets to pay off all
claims. If that is not the case, the bank must be placed in bankruptcy. While the Court is generally
obligated to uphold NBY's supervisory judgement, it has indicated in the past that it may not rule in
favor of bankruptcy referred on the basis of significant violations of law. It is prone to base its decision
on a more quantifiable measure such as capital depletion (reduction of at least 50 percent of authorized
capital and reserves). In at least one case, an institution has been caught between the NBY's license
revocation action and a reverse decision by the Court, resulting in a very extended, iterative process.
C.   Strategic considerations in development of a bank resolution strategy
In the short term, launching an adequate and comprehensive resolution strategy for the banking sector is a
key priority, and the FRY authorities have embarked on the preparation of such strategy, with the
assistance of the WB, IMF, and other international partners. This strategy seeks to draw on the
experiences of other transition countries in addressing similar bank resolution problems, including those
in Slovenia, FYR Macedonia, and Croatia (with similar inherited banking problems and legal
frameworks), as well as a broader array of privatization options from outside these countries as part of
bank rehabilitation and associated transactions. The strategy should be implemented along with a
methodical plan to bring the sector into compliance with prevailing laws and regulations, improve
corporate governance in the banking system, and ultimately, strengthen competition. Banking resolution
should also be seen as part of an integrated and coherent strategy to workout large number of troubled
assets. The latter calls for coordinated actions with the privatization and enterprise restructuring
strategies that should be pursued at the same time.
Despite the lack of accurate information, preliminary data shows that FRY banks are in a very severe
insolvency crisis and that very large amounts of scarce financial and human resources would be required
to restructure the system. Accordingly, the authorities should assess whether the resources required are
best utilized in rehabilitation as part of the strategy (rather than liquidations) and if the additional costs of
bank rehabilitation versus liquidation can be justified once all direct and indirect costs are fully
elaborated. Arguments traditionally advanced to justify rehabilitating rather than liquidating banks
include (i) the risks of systemic impacts from the disruption and loss of confidence caused by a large



Page 8
bank failure, and (ii) the macroeconomic impact of disruption of the banking sector. However, the
potential for further reduction of depositor confidence (which is almost absent in any case) or for
disruption in the payment system appears to be limited. Similarly, the banks requiring resolution are not
active lenders, so any impact on the real sector from a reduction in bank credit is not likely to be
significant.
Structural problems evident in FRY present enormous obstacles to bank rehabilitation. These problems
are still not fully understood or quantified, but early indications demonstrate that there is massive
enterprise sector insolvency and a lack of domestic finance and skills with which to restructure the
sector. Perhaps most critically, this situation is further aggravated by severe budgetary constraints that
make the availability of financing for bank resolution processes extremely scarce and politically costly.
The latter is reinforced by the inflexibility of costs associated with bank resolution that are linked to
implicit or explicit state guarantees covering a high percentage of bank liabilities, including foreign debt.
As in other transition countries, a weak and generally untested legal and institutional framework both for
the workout of enterprises and for bank liquidation, a critical shortage of experienced human capital, and
critically low levels of depositor confidence present additional obstacles to successful bank resolution.
d.   Indicative resolution strategy for FRYs banking sector
With the assistance of key donors (i.e., US Treasury and UK DFID), the Bank and the IMF, the NBY and
the BRA have developed an indicative resolution strategy for the banking system in FRY. Considerable
technical work has also been underway to elaborate more detailed implementation aspects that are
expected to put forward specific proposals on the basis of an in-depth analysis of the costs of resolution
options, the legal tools available, and the institutional and operational requirements of the resolution
strategy selected by the FRY authorities. The approval of this resolution strategy was one of the key
prior actions to the IMF program that is expected to be in place in the second half of this year. The
strategy, which was jointly reviewed and broadly agreed by the Bank and IMF teams together with
the NBY, envisions two main elements: (i) the use of the powers of the BRA to take control of insolvent
banks, and, to the greatest extent possible, liquidate them before passing responsibility to the bankruptcy
courts; and, (ii) the rehabilitation of a few large banks using the BRA's powers designed to allow the
banks to remain open while a fast privatization process is conducted. The strategy explicitly refers to
criteria for selecting banks for rehabilitation which focus on creating economically viable banking
institutions that will be able to meet the needs of the economy in the future. A specific timetable of
implementation has also been disclosed by the FRY authorities, starting from the intervention by the
NBY of the 6 largest insolvent banks on or about mid-2001. As prescribed by the rehabilitation law, this
intervention triggers a resolution process that is expected will lead to the hard decisions of having to
either rehabilitate or liquidate these banks in the terms and conditions prescribed by the law.
Stratev for bank liquidation. It is expected that the majority banks will require liquidation in the course
of the banking sector restructuring. Using court-supervised bankruptcy as a tool for liquidating banks has
proven to be inefficient, and the prospects for undertaking liquidation in the FRY's courts are both
expected. to be equally poor options unless time is made available for significant restructuring of
bankruptcy legislation and civil procedure. To avoid using court-driven processes as the mechanism for
bankruptcy or liquidation of banks, the NBY is attempting to amend the existing Law on Bank
Rehabilitation to allow the appointment of the BRA as a receiver and conduct the liquidation of banks as
an out-of-court procedure. Altematively, or in the case that the timely approval of such amendment
proves unfeasible, it is recommended that NBY and the BRA examine the possibility of conducting a de
facto liquidation of banks while they remain dejure in the status of rehabilitation.



Page 9
Strategy for bank rehabilitation. Where adequate fiscal resources are available, the bank rehabilitation
process will be undertaken with the objective of stabilizing and restructuring the bank concerned to a
point where it can be privatized by sale to a strong strategic investor (preferably another bank).
However, under the circumstances faced by the FRY Government, fiscal resources will be unavailable to
conduct the full rehabilitation process for all major banks. As seen in other transition countries, full
rehabilitation can be costly and time-consuming. Accordingly, the concept of carrying out a less costly
stabilization program for selected large banks rather than attempting a full rehabilitation program is being
considered. Stabilization would involve the provision of a minimum (but still large) amount of assistance
to key large banks followed by their rapid privatization, without the extended period of rehabilitation
allowed for banks to achieve profitability before privatization, as seen in other countries. While
undertaking stabilization rather than full rehabilitation appears to be attractive from a fiscal perspective,
it should also be noted that stabilization is inherently risky. The "stabilized" banks may lack sufficient
liquidity to withstand a depositor run, the banks would face rapid reductions in liquidity unless operating
expenses were to be quickly and massively reduced, and provision must be made for payment of
maturing guarantees.
Cost of restructuring the banking system. While the lack of accurate data has so far made it impossible
to accurately calculate the costs of restructuring the banking system, preliminary estimates over the next
two years are expected to be in the order of 2-3 percent of GDP. These estimates are based on restated
financial statements for end- 1999 which were obtained by the NBY as a result of a recent bank survey.
They are also based on the assumption that only a limited number of banks (maximum 3-4) will actually
end up in rehabilitation, while the majority will follow a path of liquidation and divestiture
(approximately 20 additional banks). The magnitude of these costs and the precarious fiscal situation
being faced by FRY, make it unlikely that such resources will be available in the near future, as well as
further highlight the challenge which will have to be faced by the FRY authorities and which needs to be
fully integrated into the decision making process of choosing an appropriate resolution process. These
costs have been estimated excluding the costs to the state of carving out from the banks' balance sheets
the FFXD and state-guaranteed liabilities to foreign creditors that are likely to be converted into public
debt as a result of FRY's foreign debt negotiations and the recent recognition of FFXD to the public
The implication of the use of end-l999 data is that (with the possible exception of deposit insurance
costs) the estimated costs are likely to be minimums, as it is unlikely that the condition of the banks
reported to have negative capital has improved in the intervening months. It should also be borne very
much in mind that the bank restructuring process has indirect costs associated with the disruption caused
on enterprises that may depend on one or more of the banks that are selected for intervention, as well as
political and social costs. The latter are even more difficult to estimate, yet experience elsewhere shows
these are by no means negligible.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project will assist the FRY's government in rapidly launching the resolution and restructuring effort
for the banking sector. Specifically, the proposed project will address the following sector issues:
i.     The need to complete as quickly as possible an adequate cost assessment and to define
adequate bank resolution options.
Late last year the FRY Government determined that over the next five years, payments on the FFXD will be settled in
cash (or bonds after 2002) in semi-annual installments. Scheduled total repayments over five years amount to DEM 1.6 billion.
The remaining DEM 5.8 billion will be settled between 2005-2011 in cash, bonds (presumably transferable at a discount), or by
real estate (earmarked state property). The total cost of the rescheduled repayment of frozen foreign currency deposits is about
1.5 percent of GDP during 2001-2004 and will increase to some additional 2 percent of GDP in 2005-201 1.



Page 10
ii.    The need to liquidate insolvent banks, and integrate this with the overall workout solution.
iii.    The need to decide whether to rehabilitate any of the most viable banks and if so, to begin
this process with the clear understanding that the purpose of the rehabilitation process is to
create stable and viable banks which can be privatized by sale to strong strategic partners
in the short term.
iv.    The need to define a workout solution for assets carved out of the banking system
integrated with the broader workout of claims and arrears in the economy.
C: PROJECT DESCRIPTION SUMMARY
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for Detailed Project Description):
The proposed technical assistance project is part of a broader effort by a group of key donors in assisting
the preparation and subsequent implementation of a comprehensive bank resolution strategy. Initial
diagnostics of 27 banks have now been completed. Resources are also being made available to the BRA
to integrate the results of such diagnostics into a cost-matrix of resolution options2. The Bank has played
a key role in coordinating these efforts and is making sure that all resources are channeled into a well
coordinated resolution strategy.
As indicated above, and on the basis of the indicative resolution strategy, the proposed project
components have been devised under the assumption that a limited number of banks (maximum 3-4) will
actually end up in rehabilitation and will be subsequently privatized, while the rest will follow a path of
liquidation and divestiture (approximately 23 additional banks). However, as the implementation of the
strategy progresses, these estimates may need to be revised.
Specifically, the proposed Bank TA operation will include the following four components:
a.   Preparation of Banks for Privatization
This component will provide funding for technical assistance to support the preparatory work to
implement stabilization, rehabilitation and pre-privatization efforts of a selected number of banks. This
will include:
i.   Management and advisory services to undertake the implementation of stabilization,
rehabilitation and pre-privatization operations.
ii.   Advisory services to support operational restructuring and cost reduction.
b.   Privatization of Large Banks
This component will provide funding for technical assistance to support rapid privatization of a selected
number of banks on a case-by-case basis using investment banks and sales agents. This will include:
i.   Consultants' fees for the fixed fee component for an investment bank to undertake bank
privatizations.
ii.  Fees for legal advisory services and support.
2    The first is financed by the USAID, the later by the UK DFID. Both programns of TA are fally integrated to
the Bank's TA program to assist the BRA.



Page I 1
c.   Liquidation and Work-out of Deeply Insolvent Banks
This component will provide funding for technical assistance to support rapid liquidation and work-out
of all insolvent banks that are not selected for rehabilitation and stabilization programs. This will include:
i. Management and advisory services for the BRA to take control of the banks selected for
liquidation and workout.
ii. Fees for the fixed fee component for sales agents and real estate brokerage companies to
undertake pool and individual sales of insolvent banks' assets.
iii. Fees for legal advisory services and support.
d.   Project Implementation Support:
This component will support the project implementation capacity by financing the following:
i. Local Project Administrator, to oversee project implementation;
ii. 2-3 local specialists to take care of procurement and financial management issues;
iii. Incremental operational expenses of the PMU, including the advertising fees for recruitment of
bank restructuring specialists; and
iv. Procurement of hardware and software for the operation of the PMU, including training of staff
and the establishment of a financial management system for the BRA.
Component                  Sector      Indicative    % of       Bank-        % of
Costs      Total     Financing     Bank-
(US$ mln)              (US$ min)   Financingz
Preparation of Banks for          Institutional
Privatization                     Development         3.01       40.0%       2.56       42.7%
Privatization of Large Banks      Institutional
Development        1.27       17.0%        0.98       16.2%
Liquidation and Work-out of Deeply  Institutional
Insolvent Banks                   Development         2.55       34.0%       2.10       35.0%
Project Implementation Support    Institutional
Development        0.66       9.0%        0.36        6.0%
Total                                                 7.50       100%        6.00        100%
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The proposed technical assistance program will provide critical support to the govemment's program to
reform the banking sector in order to restore its credibility and an adequate and sustainable level of
financial intermediation, although substantial financial resources are likely to be required to fully
implement the strategy. It will focus specifically on (i) rehabilitation and privatization of a limited number
of the most viable banks, and (ii) rapid liquidation and workout of the remaining insolvent banks.
Although this is not a policy-based operation, it is designed to complement the program of financial sector
reform that the IMF has discussed with the government as a part of their standby operation. Additional
Bank support is also expected to the larger reform effort needed in the financial sector in future policy
operations.



Page 12
3. Benefits and target population:
The project aims to minimize the fiscal cost of banking sector reform by curtailing the loss-making
operations of the state-owned and socially-owned banks by taking actions leading to their stabilization,
privatization, divestiture, and/or liquidation. Given the scarce funds available and the short timeline, this
project will not be able to provide funding assistance to the government to improve their banking sector
infrastructure, prudential regulatory framework and practices, or legal and judicial environment.
However, the Bank will closely monitor these issues and would assist the government by developing
future financial sector operations, and by finding other donor assistance to carry out these activities.
Implementation of banking sector reforms supported by this operation will enhance FRY's prospects for
growth and will reinforce the sustainability of its macroeconomic stabilization. A well-functioning,
transparent and cost-effective financial system is an essential element for private sector development as it
would allow an adequate mobilization of resources and better allocation into productive investments.
The benefits from this project will help contribute to the authorities' objectives to achieve this long-term
goal.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The project is expected to be implemented over a 2.5-year period. The BRA is the main counterpart for the
project, although there will be substantial coordination with the NBY. The overall coordination of the
project would rest with the Project Management Unit (PMU), which has been established in the BRA. The
PMU will be headed by a Director (currently the head of BRA) who will have overall responsibility for the
project. The PMI director will be assisted by a Project Administrator who will oversee the day-to-day
operations of the project. Both the PMU director and Project Administrator will ensure that all project
objectives and monitorable targets as specified in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) are on track and
achieved. Technical expertise on a short-term basis will be provided to the Project Administrator as and
when required. The PMU, apart from the Project Administrator, will have a Procurement Specialist, and a
Financial Management Specialist.  The PMU will be responsible for the day-to-day operations of the
project, procurement and financial management, including reporting to the Government and to the Bank.
Project Financial Management System and Audit
To maintain project accounts and produce reports in accordance with standards acceptable to the Bank, an
interim project-specific financial management system has been established at the PMU. Financing has been
provided under the grant to implement a new financial management system for the BRA. Once this system
has been established, it will take over the functions of the interim system, in addition to maintaining the
accounts of the Agency. TORs for this assigmnent were agreed with the Bank and can be found in the PIP.
To ensure that the Special Account, project accounts and institutional accounts would be audited in
accordance with the Bank Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the
World Bank the PMU has been informed on the process for selection and engagement of auditors. Draft
TORs for these assignments were discussed and agreed with the PMU. Within six months of the end of
each Government Fiscal Year, the PMU would provide the Bank with an audit report of such scope and
detail as the Bank may reasonably request, including a separate opinion by the independent auditor on
disbursement against certified SOEs (or SA in case of LACI) and a full audit report on the project. The
Agency is currently being audited by an international auditing firm acceptable to the Bank, and has agreed
to maintain this firm to audit the project accounts.



Page 13
D: PROJECT RATIONALE
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
An alternative to the approach of intervening insolvent banks by making use of the rehabilitation law
could be envisioned by making use of existing prudential regulations that could be used to force insolvent
banks into bankruptcy. In that event a troubled bank would be unable to borrow funds or simply
ineligible to receive liquidity assistance from NBY and thus it will unable to meet its payment
obligations on transactional balances and deposits. At that point, any of the creditors could attempt
recovering claims through the established judicial procedures. Experience in FRY during the last decade
denotes that nearly 30 banks entered into various processes of bankruptcy and/or liquidation, and so far
only one of them has actually been completed. This scenario could be considered to have more negative
consequences, particularly in terms of the disruption of payments transactions and the large potential for
a faster decline in the value of the assets involved in the liquidation.
Another variation to the rehabilitation route can be envisioned attempting an immediate privatization,
presumably at negative sale prices, in which prospective investors could have taken the lead in
restructuring the banks. This scenario was rejected due to the view that the level of insolvency of the
large banks in particular was considered extremely high and that such process would have been likely to
end in the inevitable liquidation of most of the banks. While such a scenario may seem financially
advantageous, it would have been politically unacceptable for the newly established government of FRY.
Moreover, political uncertainty surrounding FRY and the entire Balkan region make it unlikely that such
investors would have been found in the short-run.
The use of local sales agents was considered for banking privatization and resolution processes. This
was not judged viable given that local banks have very limited experience and do not have access or
strong links to international investors. Under the current environment, engaging investment banks and
sales agents, while using Bank procurement procedures, is the most practical proposal. This method,
which will protect the banking privatization process from bureaucratic micro-management and political
wrangling, should accelerate the pace of privatization significantly.
The proposed assistance is narrowly focused on assisting the BRA, which despite being a federal agency,
deals exclusively with resolution issues of Serbia. In fact, at present, the financial sector of FRY is
completely segmented between Serbia and Montenegro. The project team has had some initial contact
with financial sector authorities in Montenegro, yet discussions were preliminary. Due to the emergency
nature of this operation it was decided that the proposed assistance will tackle the largest share of the
problems by focusing primarily in the resolution of the large banks and the numerous insolvent banks in
Serbia. Policy dialogue on financial sector matters with the Montenegrin authorities will be strengthened
over the coming months. Furthernore, at present there is substantial technical assistance to Montenegro
in the financial sector from other donors, including on bank resolution issues.



Page 14
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
(completed, ongoing and planned):
Sector Issue                            Project                         Latest supervision
(PSR) Ratings.
(Bank Proiects Only)
PSD TA                      Private Sector Development Technical Assistance       Under Preparation
Proec fS-P74145)
Other development agencies
FSD - Technical Assistance to  Proposed TA program for:                      US Treasury
BRA                         m  Management Advice for BRA.
* Liquidation Oversight Training - Train staff in
techniques for monitoring and controlling the
activities of contractors liquidating banks, conduct
of transparent asset sales.
Deposit Insurance Policy Training.
Proposed TA program for:                         DFID
* BRA operations - Finance the 24 BRA staff for 7
months and provide them with IT equipment.
*  Cost/Decision Matrix -Preparation of detailed
rehabilitation/liquidation cost estimates.
* Stabilization Oversight Training - Train staff in
techniques for monitoring and assessment of
banks, credit assessment.
* Deposit insurance payment operations - training,
hardware and software.
* Legal support for BRA.
FSD - Banking Sector        Proposed priority projects for year 2001:        EBRD
* Direct Finance to "New" Banks - Support small
private banks through twinning / institution
development programs.
* Restructuring of "Old" Banks - Support the
restructuring of 1 - 2 "old" banks, provided there
is a real chance of attracting a strategic investor.
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Experience in the region demonstrates that success in technical assistance projects depends largely on the
commitment and ownership of relevant stakeholders, at both the design and implementation stage.
Therefore, preparation of the project has proceeded only after strong commitment of the Government was
clearly demonstrated, and actions required to launching the banking sector reform strategy were initiated.
In this regard, the Bank has recently received from the Government a bank resolution strategy outlining
its plans to carry forward this initial but crucial stage of reform of the banking sector.
Experience gained from other technical assistance projects also suggests that slow implementation of
reform affects the development of the institutions supporting the reform program. This project is
narrowly concentrated on the institutional development of the BRA, which is the agency that is central to
the implementation of the reform of the banking system. To avoid a lengthy implementation period, the
project is designed to be completed in no more than 2.5 years, provided the sufficient fiscal and donor
resources are available to finance the rehabilitation and liquidation processes.



Page 15
Earlier lessons point to the need to retain an adequate flexibility in the project to allow adjustments to
changing priorities within the overall framework of the operation. To this effect, activities for the initial
stages of the project are expected to be agreed in detail, while subsequent activities will be refined as
progress is made in the implementation of the reform agenda of the banking sector.
The proposed project is a critical initial step in what is expected to evolve as an ambitious reform agenda
of the financial sector. To this effect, the project components are being kept focused on the resolution of
the immediate problems of the banking sector. Given the limited institutional capacity in the new FRY
government, implementation will be narrowly concentrated on the BRA and inter-linked with a limited
number of other agencies that are expected to be influential and relevant to the success of banking system
reform. Experience with other projects shows that the restructuring of banks alone is not sufficient to
support the development of a well-functioning financial sector. But given the limited size of the grant,
the funds will be used for the most urgent part of the reform agenda of the financial sector. Other parts
of the reform agenda, such as the creation of sound regulations and supervision, a good supporting legal
framework, adequate rules and practices on auditing and accounting, and a modern payments system, are
expected to be supported by future Bank operations and/or other donor support.
The existence of adequate implementation capacity and management continuity are also necessary
conditions to the success of the project. Implementation will be closely monitored, and performance will
be measured against concrete and specific indicators. Procurement and financial management capacity
are weak, but resources are provided under the project to train PMU staff and for procurement experts to
provide guidance and to transfer the needed knowledge and expertise to their FRY counterparts.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government and the NBY have consistently reiterated their commitment to financial sector reform,
banking sector restructuring and bank privatization. The authorities have recently issued a detailed
banking sector restructuring strategy agreeable to the Bank. This strategy is also an explicit condition of
the IMF's LOI. There is clear recognition and high-level support from the Government and the NBY that
prompt action to support the divestiture and restructuring of the banking sector is a prerequisite for the
resumption of economic growth and private sector development. The project would provide much
needed technical assistance to help the authorities continue with the implementation of this reform
program.
The Bank team is an integral part of the working group that has been established to deal with bank
resolution issues. Representatives of key donors (US Treasury-USAID and UK DFID) and the IMF are
also part of this team. The management of NBY and the BRA lead the working group. Consultations
among the team members and other parts of the govemment also demonstrate the authorities'
commitment to make bank reform a cornerstone of the overall transition program.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
In view of the limited Bank resources for FRY and in light of the financing role of other donors, the Bank
strategy for FRY is based on two key principles: (i) investing in areas where the Bank has a comparative
advantage and (ii) investing in key areas of reform, such as the financial sector, which are considered
crucial to an early and robust reform effort. The Bank has extensive experience and knowledge of banking
sector reform. Thus the Bank is in a unique position to furmish practical advice on bank resolution issues



Page 16
and bank privatization. The Bank can also draw upon its international network of consultants and advisors
to bring the latest best practices and lessons learned to FRY to strengthen the capacity of local institutions.
E: ISSUES REQUIRING SPECIAL ATTENTION
1. Economic
Not applicable
2. Financial
The losses incurred by the state-owned banks have been a substantial cost to FRY's budget. The
proposed project will support efforts to: (i) work-out and liquidate insolvent banks; and (ii) rehabilitate
and privatize a limited number of the most viable banks. Special attention will be given to reduce the
insolvency in the financial sector and curtail the losses of state-owned banks, thereby minimizing
exposure to potential further fiscal costs.
3. Technical
Successful banking sector reforms require high-quality advice and expertise in a number of areas. These
technical skills are weak in the banking sector. The project would ensure that the Government of FRY
has access to the necessary expertise, through top-level advisors and consultants, to facilitate the
achievement of its reform objective in a timely manner. An important element of the project will be for
the experts hired to train and transfer these skills to counterparts.
Retroactive financing Due to the essential requirements of the project to recruit qualified staff and
provide FMS/Procurement training and Ir equipment for the PMU, as well as the immediate needs to
contract a bankruptcy trustee to initiate the liquidation process for the deeply insolvent banks and to start
the search for top-quality bank restructuring specialists by advertising positions in international media,
the funding for these tasks will be made available using retroactive financing method. Expenditures up
to US$ 600,000 which have been paid between May 1, 2001 and the signing date for the purposes
identified above would be eligible to be financed retroactively from the grant funds. Reimbursement will
only be available after the project becomes effective. The procurement for these tasks will be according
to World Bank guidelines.
4. Institutional
4.1   Executing agencies:
Special attention will be given to adequate institutional building needs of the BRA. Moreover, the
project will seek reassurances that adequate funding to the BRA is available for the duration of the
project, either from donor funds or from the FRY budget. In this regard, the project team has received
confirmation from FRY authorities of the availability of donor funding for the BRA. These funds are
reflected as counterpart funds for the project.
4.2. Project management:
The overall coordination of the project would rest with the Project Management Unit (PMU), which has
been established in the BRA. The PMU will be headed by the head of the BRA, who will have overall
responsibility for the project and will report to the Board of the BRA. It should de noted that the Board



Page 17
of the BRA has recently been revamped, and it currently includes the Deputy Prime Minister and the
Serbian Minister of Finance. The PMU will have a project administrator, who will be well versed in
Bank procurement, disbursements and contracting procedures. He/she will be assisted by at least one
Procurement Specialist and one Financial Management Specialist. Additional expertise will be provided
to the Project Administrator as and when required.
4.3  Procurement issues:
The procurement specialist does not have prior experience in Bank procurement procedures. To mitigate
this, training to be provided to the specialist will be financed from the Grant. Funds under the grant have
been allocated to hire a procurement consultant to provide hands on training and to help the PMU during
the initial phase of project implementation.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Although no country financial assessment has been carried out, from a financial management perspective,
the risks associated with the Financial Sector Technical Assistance Project are limited. The Grant
amount is relatively small and includes limited number of large contracts, many of which will be paid
directly by the Bank. Financial flows for small contracts would be made through the Special Account
directly to consultants or suppliers. To mitigate any unforeseen problems, an Operational Manual has
been drafted, which clearly specifies all the fiduciary responsibilities of the PMU, including the
responsibilities of the individual staff, procedures and guidelines for approving and authorization of
payments. The project financial management system will have the relevant safe guards to protect data
entry and integrity. Procurement procedures will be closely monitored by the Bank. Qualified staff have
been selected for the PMU. Training will be provided for both financial management and procurement
staff to enhance their understanding of Bank procedures. The project will be audited by auditors
acceptable to the Bank.
5. Social
The potential liquidation of several banks is expected to lead to layoffs of employees. Special attention
will be given so that the social aspects of the resolution of the banks are fully integrated and funded as
part of the proposed resolution strategy. The Government has demonstrated a high degree of sensitivity
to this issue, as the success in achieving the goal of re-establishing confidence in the banking system will
also depend on the social acceptability of policies related to bank resolution.
6. Environmental                Environmental category  C
No particular environmental issues are expected in the context of this operation.
7. Participatory Approach
7.1   Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The BRA is the prime beneficiary of the project. Representatives of the BRA and the NBY have
participated closely in the design of the proposed operation. Due to the systemic nature of this operation
and strong confidentiality issues involved, it is highly inappropriate to consult with affected groups such
as unions, depositors or shareholders. Nevertheless, the project team will pay attention to the way in
which the announcement of events will be communicated to the public when the resolution of the banks
is launched.



Page 18
7.2   Other key stakeholders:
National Bank of Yugoslavia, The Ministry for Finance, Ministry of Justice, Prime Minister's Office. Early
consultations have been conducted with various levels of the Government. Representatives of most of these
stakeholders are represented on the Board of the BRA, thereby making sure that the policies and
implementation issues embedded in the bank resolution program are known and supported by them.
8. Checklist of Bank Policies
9.   Safeguard Policies
Environmental Assessment (OD 4.01)
Natural Habitats (0P.a3P/GP 4.04)
Forestry (OP 4.36!
Pest Management (OP 4.09)
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)
Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.30)
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37)
Projects on International Waterways (OP 7.50)
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60))
10.  Business Policies
10.1 (check applicable items):
Financing of recurrent costs (OMS 10.02)
Cost sharing above country 3-yr average (OP/BP/GP 6.30)
Retroactive financing above normal limit (OP/GP/BP 12. 10)
Financial management (OP/BP 10.02)
Involvement of NGO's (GP 14.70)
Other (provide necessary details)
10.2. Describe issue(s) involved, not already discussed above:
Not applicable
F: SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKS
1. Sustainability:
The project will assist the government and NBY to begin to implement a banking restructuring strategy and
work towards establishing a more competitive and service oriented banking system that can mobilize a
rising level of financial resources, provide the credit needs of a growing economy, and offer needed services
to assist households and enterprises with their fundamental banking needs. These reforms are critical for
the long-term health and sustainability of the financial sector. In addition, the IMF, in cooperation with the
Bank, is also addressing financial sector issues in its program. Overall, this TA grant supports reforms that
will enhance FRY's long-term prospects for economic growth and development, and promotes better
conditions for new investments that would accelerate the country's integration into the global economy.



Page 19
2.   Critical Risks: (see Annex 1)
Risk                --Risk   Risk Minimization Measure
Rating
From Outputs to Objective
*  Lack of government commitment      S      *  Continued dialogue with the Government and other local
to banking sector reform;                    stakeholders on the benefits of banking sector reform;
inadequate provision of fiscal           *  Close monitoring of adequate budget provisions for
resources;                                   sustained restructuring program of banks;
*  Political uncertainty and regional        *  Support from the IMF Stand-by program.
instability.                             *  Coordinated dialogue with major donors
n  Persistence of an inadequate              *  Direct support and monitoring to the BRA and/or court
regulatory environment/capacity to           bankruptcy system. Conduct of de-facto liquidation using
conduct bank liquidations.                   BRA's rehabilitation framework before triggering court-
driven bankruptcy.
From Components to Outputs
T the Government will not follow      S      *  Structural adjustment conditionality associated with, or
through on its comrmitment to                supportive of, this operation will be sought in the upcoming
withdraw licenses of insolvent               policy based operations;
banks;                                   *  Close coordination with key donors in order to maximize
*  Insolvent banks will continue                both adequate support to reforms and developmental
lending activities.                          impact. Working group around BRA donors activities has
been established with major donors
*  Timely recruitment and contracts   S      *  The early agreement on terms of reference and subsequent
with rehabilitation experts, sales           appointment of foreign experts and advisors can help
agents and investment banks will             maintain momentum in the Government's agenda and
not occur.                                   reduce the risk of delays;
*  A fully fledged Project hnplementation Plan has been
completed together with key project counterparts;
*  Structure of success fees and retainer fees.
*  PMU's will lack capacity to        M      The Project will fimd consultants' fees for one project
perform Financial Management             administrator, one accountant, and one procurement specialist, t
and procurement activities required      to assist with the Financial Management, disbursement, and
by the Project.                          procurement requirements of the project.
Overall Risk Rating                   S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
G: MAIN LOAN CONDITIONS
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
None.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
(a)   The PMU is to maintain satisfactory Financial Management Systems, including records and
accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with accounting standards satisfactory to the
Bank; the PMU is also to provide annual project accounts and institutional audits to the Bank within



Page 20
sixmonths of each fiscal year (with the audit to be carried out by independent auditors in accordance with
intemational auditing standards, and TORs satisfactory to the Bank).
(b) The selection of auditors will be agreed upon during negotiations
(c)  A mid-term review will be conducted by June 31, 2002, based on satisfactory TORs.
H. READINESS FOR IMPLEMENTATION
The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
I. COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES
This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
(signature)                   r
Team Leade      rdoC
(signature)                      l
Sector Manager: khaled F. Sherif /
(signature)
Country Director Jristiaan Poortman



Page 21
ANNEX 1: PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
Financial Sector Development Technical Assistance Project
Sector-related CAS Goal:                          Sector Indicators:                      Sector/ country reports:                (fr. Goal to Bank Mission)
Promote sustainable private sector growth  *  Rehabilitate a selected number of         *  Consultant's reports                  *  Government's commitment to the
through devtelopment and enhancement of       economically viable banks, strengthen their  *  Financial Sector Assessment Program    reforms is sustained.
financial sector.                             capital base and operational effectiveness.   report.                                 *  In the long ron the divestiture of state-
.  Liquidate all remaining insolvent banks                                             owned banks will help create a competitive
environment to stimulate pnvate sector
growth through the liberalization of
resources and more effective provision of
credit;
Project Development. Object.:                 Outcomellmpact Indicators:                    Project reports:                          (from  Objective to Goal),
The project will support the launching and  *  Divestiture  of assets of banks under *  Consultant's reports.                    *  Goverunent and NBY maintain; their
implementa tion of a conmprehensive bank      liquidation                                  *  Project monitoring, supervision and    policy for and conrrninnent to the financial
resolution strategy, which is an essential part of  *  Completion  of lquidation  of insolvent  evaluation reports.                  sector reform program
broader government efforts to reform FRY's    banks.                                                                                *  The rehabilitated banks operate in an
financial sector.                            *  Conpletion of rehabilitation program                                                improved financial and operational
*  Offer for privatization of banks under                                              situation to ensure successful privatization-
rehabilitation
Output from  components:                      Output Indicators:                            Project reports:                          (from  Outputs to Objective)
*  Preparation ofselected banks for           *  Development of a stabilization plan and  *  Consultants'reports.                    *  Continued commnitment of Govemment
privatization                                 improvement of a  rapid  cost reduction  *  Quarterly progress and supervision        to liquidate and privatize state owned
program                                      reports.                                 banks, including provision of adequate
*  Selection of the privatization  advisors, *  Stabilization plan.                    fiscal resources.
inviting proposals from  potential strategic  *  Bank supervision reports.           *  Political stability
investors in preparation of privatization of                                         *  Effective control and monitoring of the
selected banks.                                                                       activities of the banks selected for
resolution.
*  Privatizaton program of selected banks     *  Implementation of an agreed stabilization                                           *  Approval of BRA law amendment to
plan                                                                                  allow the BRA to be appointed as
*  Launching of tender for sale of a number of                                         liquidator/receiver by the courts.
selected banks.
*  Liquidation and work-out program of        *  Announce liquidation/bankruptcy of
insolvent banks                               insolvent banks
*  Replace existng management of insolvent
banks and appointment of receivers'tnsstees.
* Transparent sales of bank physical assets to
solvent banks
* Inventory and transfer of assets to
centralized ovemment work-out unit
Project components:                           Inputs: (budget per comp.)                    Project reports:                         (fr. Components to Outputs)
Preparation of Banks for PNvatization         *  US$ 2.56 million.                          *  Progress Reports submitted by the     *  Timely recrtitment and contract with
PMU;                                     investment bank and sales agent
*  Bank supervision reports.             *  PMU's capability to perform
Privatization oif Large Banks                 *  US$ 0.98 million.                                                                    procurement and FM activities required by
the project
Liquidation antI Work-out of lnsolvent Banks      US$ 2.10 million.                                                                  *  Adequate donor coordination
Project Implem entation Support               *  US$ 0.36 million



22
ANNEX 2: DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
Financial Sector Development Technical Assistance Project
The project has four components designed to support the bank restructuring strategy adopted by
the FRY authorities in May 2001. It will be implemented by the Bank Rehabilitation Agency
(BRA). The restructuring strategy has two main elements, i.e., (i) the liquidation of a large
number of insolvent banks by the BRA (which is expected to become the sole liquidator of
banks as a result of amendments to the BRA laws expected to be passed by mid-June 2001); and,
(ii) the stabilization of a small number of economically more viable banks and their privatization
as soon as possible by the BRA. The Project will support this strategy by providing technical
assistance and operating resources to the BRA to execute the orderly and transparent liquidation
of insolvent banks, carry out the pre-privatization restructuring and managment of banks
selected for privatization, and to provide investment bank and legal support services for the
privatization process.
Project Component 1 - Preparation of Banks for Privatization - US$2.56 million
Assistance for the preparation of banks for privatization will be provided in the form of 3 sub-component
activities:
Senior Executive Managers for Banks Under Rehabilitation
Senior banking executives will be engaged to function as the BRA's authorized representatives in banks
selected for rehabilitation. Authorized representatives of the BRA will receive delegated management
authority to perform all the functions of a bank's management board. It is expected that two executives
will be assigned to each large bank and one to each regional bank under rehabilitation. The senior
executives would be expected to perform the following tasks:
*  Take responsibility for day-to-day executive management and decision-making processes of the
administered bank;
*  Using terms of reference provided by the BRA, oversee the preparation of a Restructuring Plan
for the bank focused on, for example, prudent ALM and credit administration policies, the
reduction of excessive expenses, optimization of income, financial soundness, disposal of non-
core assets, with the objectives of preserving assets and achieving a positive operating cash flow
as soon as possible after beginning rehabilitation;
*  On approval by the BRA, to take responsibility for implementing the bank's BRA-approved
Restructuring Plan; and
*  With the help of mid-level managers and consulting services (see below), help prepare the bank
for the privatization process by coordinating and managing the activities of the bank (such as
preparation of data rooms, provision of data for the information memorandum, etc., to support
the activities of the designated privatization advisers.



23
Senior executives would be supported by additional mid-level managers and consulting resources
provided under the following sub-components.
Mid-level Managers for Banks Under Rehabilitation
Up to nine banking specialists will be retained to take positions as mid-level mangers in banks selected
for rehabilitation. Reporting to and supervised by a bank's senior executive manger, these mid-level
professionals will take responsibility for improving day-to-day bank operations in areas where existing
management has been identified as inadequately prepared and/or too inexperienced to perform required
tasks.
Consulting Support for Bank Restructuring
A pool of banking specialists would be provided using a facilities-type contract to provide services
required to achieve specific restructuring tasks identified by the senior executive managers of banks
under rehabilitation. Services required would be identified by the senior executive managers within the
framework of each bank's approved rehabilitation plan, and would be procured using task orders
approved by the BRA. Specialist / technical services would be available in areas such as:
- Assistance to assess and implement cost reduction programs, including identification of
inefficiencies in business processes (particularly retail banking operations), preparation of staff
reduction plans, and development of streamlined organizational structures,
* Preparation of enhanced policies and procedures for profitability and risk management (credit,
ALCO, etc.); and
*   Systems enhancements and/or training for bank staff.
Project Component 2 - Privatization of Large Banks - US$0.98 million
Assistance for the privatization of banks in rehabilitation will be provided by two sub-component
activities.
Privatization Services
A firm (most likely an investment bank) will be retained to handle all aspects of the privatization process
for a bank under rehabilitation. Contract funding under the Project would cover retainer fees and pre-
privatization expenses. Separate contracts between the firm and the BRA will cover privatizations and
the payment of performance-based incentive fees paid from the proceeds of privatization and capital
increase transactions. Pre-privatization preparations will include, e.g., developing specific information
about a bank, conducting a market survey to determine investor interest in the banks, and preparation of a
sales strategy defining the recommended timing of the privatization process for each bank, and making
recommendations regarding the amount of new capital to be included in each privatization transaction.
Success fee-based functions would include, e.g., preparation of all required documents to launch the
privatization tender process (information memoranda, etc.); coordination and execution of the marketing
and tender process for each bank; providing advice to the BRA throughout the tender evaluation and
selection process; and, advice and assistance during negotiations with the investor selected in each case.



24
Legal Support for the Privatization Process
The services of a law firm (most likely a consortium of an international firm and a FRY-based firm) will
be provided to support a bank's privatization process. Services to be provided would include conducting
legal due diligence; review and clearance for compliance with applicable FRY and other law of tender
documentation (information memoranda, tender notices, etc.), and preparation and execution of the
contract between the investor and the BRA for the privatization of each bank.
Project Component 3 - Liquidation and Work-out of Deeply Insolvent Banks- US$2.10
million
The liquidation of banks (possibly more than 20) will be carried out under the supervision of the BRA.
Given the large amounts of assets involved in this process it is important that the highest standards of
transparency and professionalism be applied to this process. This component has three sub-components
designed to support this objective:
Firms to Act as Bankruptcy Trustees for Banks in Liquidation
Up to five firms will be retained to act under delegated authority from the BRA as the receivers
(trustees) of banks placed in liquidation. For small and mid-sized banks, each firm selected will take
responsibility for the operation of all the BRA receiverships in a geographical territory; and, for large
banks, a single firm will be assigned the receivership responsibility. In each bank the firm responsible
(acting always within the framework of the BRA's legal responsibilities as receiver) will:
*  Secure the bank's records and property and prepare an accurate inventory of the assets and
liabilities of the bank;
*  Prepare (for BRA approval) a plan and budget for the operation of the receivership;
*  Dismiss bank staff not required for effective operation during the projected receivership;
*  Prepare and implement an asset disposition plan for the receivership;
*  Drawing on the resources provided under the other sub-components of this or the Legal Services
Component, execute the orderly and transparent sale and/or disposal of the receivership's assets;
and
*  Maintain accurate records of all aspects of the operation of the receivership in compliance with
applicable laws.
Firms to Execute the Sale of Financial and Non-Financial Assets of Receiverships
Two firms will be retained to provide (real estate and financial assets) sales and brokerage services to
BRA-administered receiverships. Project funding will cover retainer fees and expenses. Separate
contracts between the firms and the receiverships will cover payment of performance-based incentive
fees financed from proceeds of asset sales transactions. The objective of the brokerage services in each
case is to allow the consolidation of assets between receiverships to allow formation of asset packages
attractive to investors (for example, packaging together of former bank branches into national networks



25
for sale to existing and new entrant solvent banks). Asset sales would also be coordinated to avoid
harmful competition between different receiverships' sales activities.
Tasks performed by the two sales / brokerage firms in these regards will include, inter alia:
*  Review and consolidation of the assets to be sold by each receivership;
*  Clarification, if needed, of legal and ownership and value issues;
*  Development of a packaging and pooling strategy for each type of asset;
*  Execution of a marketing program (including development of appropriate documentation and
coordination of the due diligence process) for each asset sale transaction; and
*  Execution (under BRA supervision) of a transparent auction process for each asset package or
pool.
Legal Support for the Liquidation Process
Services of a law firm or consortium of firms (most likely FRY-based) will be retained to provide legal
support to the BRA and to the receiverships throughout the liquidation process. Services purchased
would include, for example:
*  Advice regarding receivership and BRA compliance with legal requirements for receivership
operations;
*  Ad hoc legal services to the BRA and receiverships in areas such as contract and employment
law (e.g., for dismissal of bank employees), conduct of legal defense and/or lawsuits on behalf of
the receiverships and the BRA, etc.
*  Legal review of the activities of the trustee and asset disposal firms to support the sales process
to ensure compliance with applicable FRY and/or other applicable laws; and
*  Transactional support to close asset sales transactions.
Project Component 4 - Project Implementation Support- US$0.36 million
The project will finance implementation management, supporting consultants, information
technology equipment and immediate operational expenses of the PMU, including the cost of
advertising in the international press for recruitment of top-quality bank restructuring specialists.
The Grant would also finance training for the PMU staff, audit of the project accounts and the
establishment of a financial management system for the BRA. Consultants financed by the
component will include a project administrator, who is generally familiar with Bank procurement
requirements, disbursements and reporting procedures, and local specialists, e.g., a procurement
specialist, and an accountant. They will carry out the following tasks:
a. Plan, schedule and direct Project activities in accordance with the Grant
Agreement and referenced documentation, and maintain an open and effective



26
dialogue with Bank staff to realize the efficient utilization of resources and timely
achievement of Project outcomes and objectives.
b. Monitor project expenditures and costs (local and foreign), process Grant
disbursement applications and track disbursements of the Grant and Government
counterpart funding; maintain project records and accounts; prepare physical and
financial forecasts of future activities required to implement the components and
for inclusion in budgetary proposals for the succeeding implementation year(s);
c. Develop a Procurement Plan and ensure compliance with procurement procedures
agreed with the World Bank for the acquisition of equipment, the securing and
administration of suppliers' and technical assistance contracts, and the
consolidation of requests and procurement of goods and services in accordance
with Grant Agreement and the designated World Bank Procurement Guidelines;
d. Finalize TORs for the specialist services, feasibility studies, and training required
in their respective areas of the Project, prepare, clear and issue solicitation
documentation, prepare advertisements in, e.g., international media, for
recruitment of consultants and agreed privatization specialists, appoint bid
evaluation committees, evaluate proposals received for consulting services, obtain
Bank approvals where required, and negotiate and administer the award of supply
contracts;
e. Monitor the receipt of goods and services and implementation of training and
seminars, identify and tap expertise, as needed, to assist in activities such as
preparation of detailed operating and financial control procedures, and update
implementation schedules;
f. Ensure preparation and distribution of consolidated periodic reports (Progress
Report) to the relevant government and other participating institutions, including
the World Bank, reflecting: (a) the status of implementation progress, problems
encountered and corrective actions needed; and (b) current costs of each project
component and estimated costs of completion; quarterly Financial Management
System (FMS) reports, including annual and final audit reports of project
expenditures and Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) and institutional and/or
Special Accounts.



27
ANNEX 3: ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
Financial Sector Development Technical Assistance Project
LOCAL         FOREIGN   \    TOTAL
Project Cost By Component                         US $ million
Preparation of Large Banks for Privatization                    0.80           2.15           2.95
Privatization of Large Banks                                    0.30           0.95           1.25
Liquidation and Work-out of Deeply Insolvent Banks              0.45           2.05           2.50
Project Implementation Support                                  0.51           0.14           0.65
Total Baseline Cost                                             2.08           5.27           7.35
Unallocated                                                     0.08           0.07           0.15
Total Baseline Cost                                             2.14           5.36           7.50
Total Financing Required                                        2.14           5.36           7.50
Goods                                                         0.02            0.00            0.02
Works.
Services                                                      0.48            5.25            5.73
Training/Study tours                                          0.01            0.04            0.05
Incremental Operating Cost                                    1.55            0.00            1.55
Unallocated                                                   0.08            0.07            0.15
Total Project Costs                                  :A4                      536
Interest durnn construction
Front-end fee                     .O
Total Financing Required                                      214             5.36           7.50



28
ANNEX 4: COST BENEFIT ANALYSIS SUMMARY
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
Financial Sector Development Technical Assistance Project
NOT APPLICABLE
ANNEX 5: FINANCIAL SUMMARY
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
Financial Sector Development Technical Assistance Project
NOT APPLICABLE



29
ANNEX 6: PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
Financial Sector Development Technical Assistance Project
Procurement
Procurement of goods financed by the Bank under the project would be carried out in accordance with
the Bank's Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, published in January 1995
(revised January/August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999). Consultant services would be
procured in accordance with the Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers published in January 1997 (revised in September 1997 and January 1999), and the provisions
stipulated in the Grant Agreement. General project procurement (an initial GPN and subsequent annual
procurement notices) and large-value consultants' contracts will be advertised in appropriate U.N.
Development Business media and/or suitable newspapers or trade journals as agreed with the Bank.
Assessment of agency's capacity to implement procurement
An assessment of the capacity of the BRA to conduct procurements indicated in the project design has
been undertaken. While the BRA has identified staff to perform the needed functions of, e.g., program
planning and direction, procurement, disbursement, accounting, the BRA, as an entity without recent
Bank-funded project administration experience, does not currently possess the capacity to perform the
indicated procurement administration functions.  BRA management has identified staff and/or
prospective employees who possess relevant backgrounds and the potential to acquire the skills and
abilities to administer project activities; but such staff will need inputs and training from extemal sources
to begin and later independently execute the projected responsibilities. Funding has been included in the
project budget to engage the procurement training and external specialist advice needed to begin
procurement administration and, over the initial months of project implementation, to expand the BRA's
capacity to responsibly execute Bank procurement administration requirements.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Procurement methods described below and their estimated amounts are summarized in Table A.
Threshold estimated contract values defining applicable procurement methods are indicated in Table B.



30
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
1. Goods                               0.0           0.02 b0.0                0.02
(0.0)        (0.02)                   (0.02)
2. Services                             0.0          5.73            0.0      5.73
(0.0)        (5.73)                   (5.73)
3. Study tours and training'           0.0           0.05           0.0       0.05
(0.0)        (0.05)                   (0.05)
4. Incremental Operating costsd        0.0           0.05          1.5        1.55
(0.0)        (0.05)                   (0.05)
5. Unallocated                         0.0           0.15           0.0       0.15
(0.0)        (0.15)                   (0.15)
Total                                  0.0           6.0           1.5        7.5
(0.0)        (6.0)                    (6.0)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
Note: N.B.F. = Not Bank-fmnanced.
a/ Includes goods to be procured through international and national shopping, consulting services, training,
subprojects, and operating costs.
b/ Includes office equipment, furniture, promotional material.
c/ Includes workshops, meetings, and study tours and all training related expenses, as training materials, rent of
training facilities, per diem and transportation of trainees, except instructors' fees that will be hired as consultants.
d/ Includes incremental expenses of consultants/adrninistrative staff, maintenance of office equipment,
publications, utilities, comrnunications expenses, rent, and office supplies, etc.



31
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(in US$ million equivalent)
QCBS      QBS      SFB      LCS        CQ      Other   N.B.F.
A. Firms/ Training          3.45                        0.09                0.35
A. Firms!/ Training              3''~~     -0.05                                                      3.94
B. Individuals                            -                  -         -         1.87                 1.87
Total    3.45                         0.09      0.05     2.22                  5.81
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB  Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ =Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Conmmercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
Procurement of Goods
Goods to be procured under the project include computers, printers, communications and office
equipment and operating supplies. If the need arises, goods will be grouped in packages of that would be
procured though ICB procedures. Otherwise, goods which must be imported that are below US$ 100,000
per package, such as promotional materials, computers, office furniture and equipment, etc., would be
procured using IS procedures, up to an aggregate limit of US$ 20,000. Periodic purchases of office
supplies, utilities, equipment servicing and communications support services, etc. under Operating
Expenses financing (approximately US$ 20,000 per year, up to a total of US$ 50,000) would be
purchased using competitive procedures.
Selection of Consultant Services and Training
Consulting services include technical assistance for bank stabilization and restructuring / liquidation,
technical assessments, the provision of staff for bankruptcy administration, audits and program training /
study tours. A number of individuals will be engaged to perform bank and project administration
functions, but most of the services are expected to be carried out by consulting firms. Services provided
by firms will include, inter alia, restructuring assessments, legal advice, privatization administrators,
bankruptcy trustees, assets disposal and project audits.



32
Firms
Consultant services provided by firms would be procured using QCBS (approximately US$ 3.45 million)
and CQ procedures (approximately US$ 50,000), in accordance with relevant sections of the Guidelines
as indicated in the procurement sched-ule. Audit and advertising support would be obtained using Least
Cost methods (US$ 90,000). Urgent bank management services (US$ 350,000) would be procured using
a special (short schedule) Quality and Cost selection to meet BRA's needs for initial, potentially court-
ordered or legislated, bankruptcy administration capacity by mid-June, 2001.
Individuals
Specialized bank and project administration, management and advisory services and provision of training
(about US$ 1.87 million) would be provided by individual consultants selected in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Prior review thresholds
The prior review thresholds are summarized in Table B.
Bank's prior review would be required for a) any ICB; b) the first package of a goods or consultant
services method being used for the first time, and any IS package which is expected to exceed US$
25,000 in value. Consultant services contracts with individuals above US$ 50,000, and for consultant
firms above US$ 100,000 and amendments which would cause a contract to eclipse these levels would
likewise be subject to Bank prior review. PMU operating plans and budgets, which would outline
expected operations expenses (competitive) procurements for a fiscal year, would be reviewed and
approved by the Bank.
Procurement Plan
A detailed project Procurement Plan will be prepared by PMI staff as part of their initial Operations
Plan and Manual development exercise. The Operations Manual and Plan will be approved by the Bank,
as will Manual changes and additions and annual Procurement Plan updates.
Frequency of Procurement Supervision
In addition to indicated prior reviews, it is recommended that (i) a full project launch mission be
implemented and an extended procurement supervision mission be effected within the first two months
of Grant Effectiveness to ensure administration preparedness and functioningl and (ii) full procurement
missions should be conducted thereafter on an annual basis to monitor progress and carry out post
reviews of procurement actions. Such post-review field analyses should cover a sample of not less than
10 percent of contracts signed during the prior year.



33
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
UsS thousands                                US $ millions
1. Goods
>100,000                ICB                    All
up to 100,000             IS             First one + over $25K
2. Consultant Services
(a) Individual          >50,000                Indiv.          All TORs-budget-CV -
<50,000               Indiv.                   first
(b) Firms             >100,000               QCBS            All TORlbudget/short list
<100,000                CQ                    + first
TOR/budget/short list +
<100,000                LC                     first
Prior Review Proportions: Goods -- 50%
Consultant Services -- 90%
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
High        x
Average
Low
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
The proposed Grant would be disbursed against the project components as shown in Table C. It is
expected that the proceeds of the Grant will be disbursed over a period of thirty months. The
project Completion Date is December 31, 2003 and Closing Date is June 30, 2004.
Retroactive financing
Due to the essential requirements of the project to recruit qualified staff and provide
FMS/Procurement training and IT equipment for the PMU, as well as the immediate needs to
contract a bankruptcy trustee to initiate the liquidation process for the deeply insolvent banks and
to start the search for top-quality bank restructuring specialists by advertising positions in
international media, the funding for these tasks will be made available using retroactive financing
method. Expenditures up to USS 600,000 which have been paid between May 1, 2001 and the
signing date for the purposes identified above would be eligible to be financed retroactively from



34
the grant funds. Reimbursement will only be available after the project becomes effective. The
procurement for these tasks will be according to World Bank guidelines.
Use of statements of expenses
Some of the proceeds of the grant are expected to be disbursed on the basis of Statement of
Expenditures as follows: (a) goods costing less than US$50,000 equivalent for each contract with
the exception of the first contract; (b) service contracts for individuals costing less than
US$50,000 equivalent each with the exception of the first contract; (c) service contracts for
consulting firms costing less than US$100,000 equivalent each with the exception of the first
contract; (d) training under contracts costing less than $50,000; and (e) all incremental operating
costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the
Recipient. Disbursements against goods and services exceeding the above limits will be made
against full documentation and respective procurement guidelines. Statements of expense will be
certified locally by the BRA. Related documentation in support of statement of expenses will not
be submitted to the Bank, but will be retained by the PMI for at least one year, after receipt by
the Bank of the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement is made. The PMU will
make these documents available to the auditors and supervision missions for review. If ineligible
expenditures, including those not justified by evidence furnished, are financed from the Special
Account (SA), the Bank will have the right to withhold further deposits in the SA. The Bank may
exercise this right until the Recipient has refunded the amount involved; or (if the Bank agrees)
submitted evidence of other eligible expenditures that can be used to offset the ineligible amounts.
Special account
To facilitate timely Project implementation, the Borrower will establish, maintain and operate,
under conditions acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account (SA) in US dollars in a commercial
bank. The authorized allocation of the Special Account will be US$500,000, representing
approximately four months of eligible expenditures. Upon effectiveness of the Grant Agreement,
the Borrower may withdraw US$300,000. When the funds withdrawn from the Grant Account
and any outstanding Special Commitments amount to $900,000, the Borrower may withdraw the
remaining amount of US$200,000 ---by submitting the relevant Application for Withdrawal.
Replenishment applications are to be submitted at least every three months, and must include
reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents.
Project Financial Management
An interim project specific financial management system has been established at the PMU. The
accounting system will be maintained in accordance with international standards, based on
principles of double-entry bookkeeping. The Bank has informed the PMU of Bank requirements
on maintaining accounts and records in accordance with International Accounting Standards
(IAS). This system is capable of providing accurate and timely information regarding project
resources and expenditures, including planning, accounting and financial reporting relating to the
project. The project accounts will be based on a Chart of Accounts drawn-up by the appraisal
mission with the assistance of the PMU. The Chart of Accounts will accommodate the proposed
project to capture sources and uses of funds, assets and liabilities in sufficient detail to satisfy
PMR-based reporting requirements. The proposed system will, in addition to producing periodic
and cumulative budgeted and actual expenditures, link the financial data to measures of output



35
and procurement activities of the project. The Project Management Reporting (PMRs) formats
were discussed and agreed to with the PMU during project preparation. Once the Agency has
been established, a new financial management system for the operation of the agency will be
established, to be financed from the Grant. The interim system will be incorporated into the new
system. TOR for this assignment has been agreed with the bank and can be found in the PIP.
Disbursement arrangements under the project will commence on the basis of traditional
disbursement methods (e.g., direct payments, replenishments of the Special Account on the basis
of SOEs and full documentation). Once the PMU's capacity and experience has improved with
regard to internal controls, implementation, budgeting and forecasting, the PMU, in consultation
with the Bank, will decide on the timing and transition to the use of the quarterly PMRs for
disbursement purposes. It is expected that PMU will have the capacity to prepare the first full set
of PMRs by December 31, 2001.
Internal Controls
Operational procedures and guidelines for overall project management, including financial
management will be documented in an Operational Manual, encompassing all levels of project
management and administration. A draft of this Manual is being prepared by the PMU. The
Manual will include, apart from other administrative procedures,  financial management
procedures and staffing, identification of accounting and auditing standards and procedures used
for the project, project reporting and monitoring, procurement procedures, procedures for cash
management and formats of project management reports. Further actions to strengthen project
financial management is listed below. The PMU will prepare project information for all
components and prepare quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs) including a financial
report, project progress report and procurement management report, for project monitoring and
reporting for submission to the Bank. An outline of reports contained in the system and the
format for the PMRs were discussed with and provided to the PMU during preparation.
Auditing Arrangements
The PMU will appoint independent auditors under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
The auditors selected for the Project are required to be members of the International Federation
of Accountants (IFAC). Audited Project Financial Statements will be submitted to the Bank with
the audit report six months after end of each year audited. Cost of the audit will be financed
through the Bank Loan. The BRA is currently been audited by Deloitte and Touche, and will
retain them to audit the project account. This arrangement will be confirmed at Negotiations.
Financial Management Action Plan
*  The PMU will send to the Bank for approval the operational manual by June 1, 2001;
*  The PMU will confirm by Negotiations that that the BRA's current auditors (Delloitte
and Touche) will be retained to audit the project accounts.
*  The PMU will produce Reports IA (Sources and Uses of Funds), IB (Uses of Funds by
detail) and I E (Special Account) by September 30, 2001;
*  The PMU will prepare full PMRs by December 31, 2001.
*  The PMU will establish the financial management system for the BRA by December 31,
2001



36
Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds
0.02                        100%
Goods
Works                                                  .._..
Consultants Services
Firms                                          3.89                         97%
Individuals                                    1.84                         84%
Training/Study tours                                 0.05                        100%
Incremental Operating Cost                           0.05                        100%
Unallocated                                          0.15
Grant Financing                                       6.0



37
ANNEX 7: PROJECT PROCESSING BUDGET AND SCHEDULE
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
Financial Sector Development Technical Assistance Project
Time taken to prepare the projet(onths)             4___
FirSt Bank mission (ide'ntification)             3/19/2001                 3/19/2001
Appraisal mssion dePartUre                       05/06/2001               05/06/2001 
Negotiations                                     06/07/2001               06107/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    07/01/2001
Prepared by: National Bank of Yugoslavia and Bank Rehabilitation Agency, and the World Bank
Bank staff that worked on the project included:
A. Project Preparation Team
IBanlk Core Team                                                                                  __
Gerardo Corrochano      ECSPF                                   Team Leader, Sr. Financial Economist.
Laura Ard               BFR                                      Lead Financial Sector Specialist   _
Ramin Shojai            ECSPF                                    Private Sector Specialist
Alexander Pankov        ECSPF                                    Financial Sector Analyst
Hiran Herat             ECSPF                                    FMS, Sr. Financial Analyst
Frank Kenefick          ECSPF                                    PAS
Joseph Formoso          LOAGI                   _                Sr. Disbursement Officer
Gennady Pilch           LEGEC                                    Sr. Counsel
Other Agencies
Andrew Lovegrove                                 UK DFID         Lead Bank Resolution Specialist
George Moullinex                                US Treasury      Sr. Advisor to the BRA
Quality Assurance
Paul Siegelbaum         ECSPF                                    Sector Director
Khaled F. Sherif        ECSPF                                    Sector Manager
Peer Reviewers
Luigi Passamonti        FSEVP                                    Sr. Advisor
Roberto Rocha           ECSPF                                    Lead Specialist



38
ANNEX 8: DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
Financial Sector Development Technical Assistance Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
The Project Implementation Plan consists of Terms of References for the implementation of technical
assistance.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
FRY Bank resolution  World Bank/    World Bank        N.A                       Feb 2001
strategy - Technical   DFI)
Annex
FSD Review in FRY   Gerardo         The World Bank   $100,000                   March
in Economic Report   Corrochano                                                 2001
C.    Other
*Including electronic files.



39
ANNEX 9: STATEMENT OF LOANS AND CREDITS
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
Financial Sector Development Technical Assistance Project
NOT APPLICABLE



40
ANNEX 10: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
Financial Sector Development Technical Assistance Project
Europe &    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                             Yugoslavia,   Central  middle-
Fed. Rep.     Asia  income        Development diamond
2000 
Population, mid-year (mi/lions)                      10.6       475     2094    |                  ifr
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS) I/                 990      2,150     1,200
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                     10.5      1,022     2,513                        T
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Populabon (%)                                         0.2        0.1       1.1
Labor force (%)                                       0.6        0.6       1.2     GNP            /                 Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                              per    I                        primary
Poverty (% of population below national povettytine)                              capit                         enrolment
Urban populabon (% of total population)                52        67        43
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       72        69        69
infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               13        22        33
Child mainutriton (% of children under 5)               2         a        15
Access to improved water source (% of population)                          86               Am.,,c t, -,fe
illiteracy I% of pcoulation age 15+)                   ..         3        16
Gross pnmary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)    69       100       114                     Yugoslavia, FR (SerbJMont)
Male                                                 69       101       114                     Lower-middle-fncome group
Female                                               70        99       116
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989      1999      2000
Economic rstlos'
GOP (USS billions)                                      -       10.3      9.0
Gross domestc investment/GOP                                    11.1      14.3
Exports of goods and servicesrGDP                               20.8     28.3                   Trade
Gross domestc savings/GDP                                       -24       -2.5
Gross nadonal savingsvGDP                                        61       9.9                        T
Current account balance/GDP                                     -7.4     -44
Interest payrnentsGOP                                            0.8      0.5      Domestc                        Investment
Total debt'GOP                                                           136.1    Savings      _
Total debt servicelexports                                       4.7      2.2                         i
Present value of debtUGDP 
Present value of debtexports                   .
197949  1989-99     1999       2000   2000403                tnrlel-,te,is
(average annual growth)
GDP                                                  -15.7       6.0      4.8                     Yugoslavia. FR (Serb/Mont.)
GNP per capita                                                                                    Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services                       -45.6       18.6     14.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989      1999      2000     Grnth on- rsnte end C P
(% of GOP)                                                                        20
Agnculture                                           18.2       26.5               o 1
Industry                                             42.5       35.8        o.
Manufacturing                                                                             4    I-20  94    97
Services                                             39.3       37.7       4. 0.
Private consumption                                             75.3     77.2      7
General govemment consumption                                   27.1     25.3                    -GDl    --*-GDr
Imports of goods and services                                   34.2     45.1 10                                           I
1979-49  1990-99      1999      2000     Growt of exports and Imports I%)
(average annual growlh)30
Agriculture                                           4'         12               20
Industry                                             -7.1      -25.6               o 
Manufacturing                                                                    0
Services                                              -6.5     -32.5              lo      94   95   CO   97
Private consumpbon                                              12.9      9 s     20
General govemment consumption                                   -7.1      -3.0      -3
Gross domestc investment                                        381       171    40
Imports of goods and services                                  -32.8     14.9                  -     Expors       Im)ons
Gross nabonal product                                          -15.8       6.0
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estmates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
1/ Excludes Kosovo and is calculated using the market exchange rate.



41
Yugoslavia, FR (Serb./Mont)
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
197S    1S8S       1SSS     2C000    rnbto  %
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                        120
Consumer prices (eop.)                                          49.9    113.5      r 
Implick GDP deflator                                            55.6      77.8  r o_
40L
Government ftnance 21                                                              20
(% of GOP, includes cunent grants)                                                  o
Current revenue                                                          38.8 *    99 96   s7   se   gS
Current budget balance                                                     2.5              -  GDP deflator      CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                                   -0.1
TRADE
(U.SS ffkiUons                              1079    1989       1999      2000      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                                            1,677     1,923    5,00x
Food                                                           352
Fuel and energy                                                  0               4 000
Manufactures                                                   453               3,000
Total Imports (fob)                                            3,296     3,772    Zoos
Food                                                           330
Fuel and energy                                                  6 396    1.000 
Capital goods                                                  725                 o_                                _
Export price irndex (1995d100)                 ..      ..         ..93   9   9                          6 9
Import price index (1995=100)                  .                                               E.. . .     *a Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS ritions)                               1979    1989       1999      2000    | Current account balance to GDP (%I
Expofts of goods and services                                  2,148    2,547
Imports of goods and services                                  3,539    4.004    -10,  93  94   95  95   97
Resource balance                                              -1,391    -1,457    .-2 t
Net incme                                                        -41      -62    I       
Net current transfers                                           668     1,119     J
Current account balance                                         -764     -400     - t
Financing items (net)                                           653       607      7+
Cttanges in net reserves                                        I11      -207       1
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS nitlions)                                    505
Conversion rate (DEC, tocatWSS)                .       2.9      19.6      42.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1999     2000
(US$ mil"ions)                                                                     CompositIon of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
ToWl debt outstanding and disbursed                                     12,267
BRD                                                                   1,812 G0 572    A 1.112
Total debt service                                                         56                          _ 515
IBRD                                                                      0 ..  ..  0
IDA                                          .a                                                                D: 611
Composition of net resource flows                                                   F 
Officlalgrants                                                          271              ,     ,
Offial creditors                                                        2t213
Private creditors                                                        16
Foreign direct investment                                       .        25
Portfolio equity                                                          0                               E 5.003
World Bank program
Commitments                                  ..      ..         .,        0      A - IBRD                   E - Silatersl
Disbursements                                ..      ..         ..        0      S- IDA    0 - Other muBthlatera  F- Private
Principal repayrnents                                                     0      C-IMF                      G - Shorl-tem
Netfiows                                          -  ,,                   o
Interest payments                                                         0
Net transfers                                                             0
Development Economics                                                                                             St29t11
2t Excludes Kosovo.



