                                          Document of
                                       The World Bank




                                                                       Report No: 32663

                         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                            (TF-29799)

                                               ON A

                                    LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 6.0 MILLION

                                             TO THE

                                 SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO

                                              FOR A

                              Financial Sector Development TA Grant




                                           May 3, 2005




Finance & Private Sector Development (ECSPF)
Europe & Central Asia Region (ECA)

                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

           (Exchange Rate Effective April 28, 2005)

                  Currency Unit = Serbian Dinar (CSD)
                          CSD 1 = US$ 0.016
                          US$ 1 = CSD 63.05

                        FISCAL YEAR
                   January 1    December 31

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

 BRA        -       Bank Rehabilitation Agency
 CAS        -       Country Assistance Strategy
 CPIA       -       Country Policy and Institutional Assessment
 DO         -       Developmental Objectives
 FMS        -       Financial Management System
 FRY        -       Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
 FSD        -       Financial Sector Development
 IAS-       International Accounting Standards
 IBRD       -       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
 ICR        -       Implementation Completion Report
 IDA        -       International Development Association
 IMF        -       International Monetary Fund
 MOF        -       Ministry of Finance
 NBS        -       National Bank of Serbia
 NBY        -       National Bank of Yugoslavia
 PAD        -       Project Appraisal Document
 PFSAC      -       Private and Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
 PMR        -       Project Management Report
 PMU        -       Project Management Unit
 PSD        -       Private Sector Development
 QAG        -       Quality Assurance Group
 QSA        -       Quality at Supervision Assessment
 SAM        -       Serbia and Montenegro
 TA         -       Technical Assistance
 TSS        -       Transition Support Strategy
 UK DFID -          United Kingdom Department for International Development
 USAID      -       United States Agency for International Development
 WB-        World Bank

                 Vice President:     Shigeo Katsu
              Country Director:      Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
                Sector Director:     Fernando Montes-Negret
               Sector Manager:       Gerardo Corrochano
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Alexander Pankov

                               SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO
                           Financial Sector Development TA Grant


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               12
9. Partner Comments                                                              13
10. Additional Information                                                       13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             14
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             15
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             17
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             18
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             20
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                21
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            22
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                              23
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                            24

Project ID: P074127                                                  Project Name: Financial Sector Development TA Grant
Team Leader: Alexander Pankov                                        TL Unit: ECSPF
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR                      Report Date: June 23, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Financial Sector Development TA Grant                    L/C/TF Number: TF-29799
   Country/Department: SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO                                              Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Banking (59%); Central government administration (41%)
                  Theme: State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (P); Regulation
                            and competition policy (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 05/01/2001                                     Effective:                           08/23/2001
      Appraisal: 05/07/2001                                        MTR:
      Approval: 06/29/2001                                      Closing: 06/30/2004                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          SAM/BANK REHABILITATION AGENCY
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                         Christiaan Poortman
Sector Director:                Fernando Montes-Negret                         Paul Siegelbaum
Team Leader at ICR:             Alexander Pankov                               Gerardo M. Corrochano
ICR Primary Author:             Ekaterina N. Koryukin;
                                Alexander Pankov


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        HS
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No
The Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA6) took place at the end of Project's lifetime, in November 2004. The
panel assessed the supervision performance of the project as satisfactory overall - a 2 rating on the six-point
scale. The focus of Developmental Effectiveness was highly satisfactory (a rating of 1), while Supervision of
Fiduciary. Safeguards Aspects, Adequacy of Supervision Inputs and Processes, and Candor and Quality of Project
Performance ratings were assessed as Satisfactory (a rating of 2).

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The objective of this Financial Sector Development Technical Assistance Grant (FSD TA) was to support
launching and implementation of a comprehensive bank resolution strategy for the Republic of Serbia .                 1


More specifically, the project was expected to: (i) support the rehabilitation and rapid privatization of a
limited number of large majority state-owned banks; and, (ii) support the liquidation and divestiture of all
other insolvent banks that were not selected for restructuring. The project was envisaged as a first step,
"early win" operation to initiate the clean-up of the banking sector. As such, it aimed at building up
institutional capacity and human capital in preparation for the larger structural reform effort that was
needed in the financial sector. In that context, this project had an intentionally narrow focus and did not
address the comprehensive reform of the financial sector, which was the subject of broader reform
programs supported by the Bank and other donors. Very importantly, the Project supported, on a technical
level, achievement of objectives of the two Private and Financial Sector Adjustment Credits (PFSAC I and
PFSAC II) that had been successfully implemented in 2002 and 2003-04, respectively.

Importance of Objectives to the Economic Development. The project objective was consistent with the
overall strategy and vision outlined in the Memorandum to the Executive Directors of IBRD and IDA on
the Proposed Trust Fund for the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (endorsed by the Board on March 30,
2001) and the Transition Support Strategy (TSS) for the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia approved by the
Board on May 8, 2001. The TSS recognized that the recovery of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
(FRY) will be led by growth of the private sector, and called for the rapid privatization of state assets and
the rapid establishment of a legal and institutional framework to support the development of a conducive
business environment. The TSS emphasized that a well-functioning financial sector is essential for
private-sector led growth. At the time of appraisal (Spring 2001), Serbian financial sector did not fulfill its
basic functions of resource mobilization and effective and prudent lending and investing. The project
objectives were, therefore, of crucial importance to Serbia's transition to market economy.

Clarity and Realism of Objectives. The project objectives were clearly defined and realistic. According
to Quality Assurance Group (QAG) Quality in Supervision panel assessment for the Project, close dialogue
with the authorities and the strong linkage with the PFSAC program that was supporting the financial
sector reform agenda at the policy level, were determinants of the satisfactory outcomes of this project.

Assumptions of reaching Developmental Objectives (DO) were realistic though conditioned on the presence
of adequate political commitment, a risk identified at inception. As noted by the QAG, the use of relatively
broad performance indicators was justified in the light of the political uncertainties and the broad scope of
the program.


_______________
1
 The original name of the Recipient was "the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia" (FRY). The Constitutional Charter of Serbia
and Montenegro was adopted by the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Montenegro and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
effective February 4, 2003 and, as of that date, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia name was changed to "Serbia and
Montenegro" (SAM). Due to the highly devolved nature of the FRY/SAM (most areas of economic policy were in the
competence of the authorities of two constituent republics of FRY/SAM), the actual implementor/ beneficiary of banking sector
reforms supported by the Project was the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, for purposes of this report, the term "Government"
would designate the Government of Serbia, unless otherwise specified.




                                                              - 2 -

Assessment of Risks. The risks, rated overall as significant, were adequately identified at the appraisal
stage. SAM is a post-conflict country with heightened risk of political instability which is even further
increased by the volatile situation in the Western Balkans. Given that this was one of the first projects after
Serbia and Montenegro (SAM) had renewed its World Bank membership, it was also not clear how well
the new authorities would be able to follow through with the difficult transition reforms. In practice, while
overall performance of the main project counterpart, the Bank Rehabilitation Agency (BRA), was
exceptional, there were certain implementation delays caused by changes in the BRA management resulting
from the Agency's transfer from federal to republican authority when the new constitutional charter was
adopted in early 2003, as well as from the Serbian Government reshuffle after parliamentary elections in
late 2003.

It is worth noting that, by mid-2003, the regular risk flags were no longer providing an adequate picture in
regards to this project. On macro risk, the project was flagged by virtue of Serbia being a post-conflict
country. However, since assuming membership, Serbia has demonstrated strong macroeconomic
management as evidenced by the consistently sound Country Policy and Institutional Assessment (CPIA)
ratings. On delayed effectiveness flag, the delay was quite short (1.5 months), and was owing to FRY's
cumbersome and multi-layered ratification procedures after 10-year hiatus in Bank lending. On
disbursements, the project was flagged due to slightly delayed effectiveness, even though the disbursements
had caught up by the project's mid-point. Therefore, in mid-2003, given the successful implementation of
the project and Bank's overall program in Serbia, the project team made the case, and obtained approval,
for a "golden flag."


3.2 Revised Objective:

The Projects Objectives remained unchanged throughout the implementation period.


3.3 Original Components:

This technical assistance (TA) project was a part of a broader effort by a group of donors (WB, UK DFID,
US Treasury, USAID) in assisting the preparation and subsequent implementation of a comprehensive
bank resolution strategy in Serbia. The components have been devised under the assumption that a limited
number of problem banks (maximum 3 or 4) will be subject to rehabilitation and subsequently privatized,
while the rest will follow a path of liquidation and divestiture. The main components at the appraisal were
defined as follows:

(a) Preparation of Banks for Privatization (US$2.56 million) component provided funding for technical
assistance to support preparatory work to implement stabilization, rehabilitation and pre- privatization
efforts of a selected number of banks. The project planned to cover costs of management and advisory
services to undertake the implementation of stabilization, rehabilitation and pre-privatization, as well as
advisory services to support operational restructuring and cost reduction.

(b) Privatization of Large Banks (US$0.98 million) component provided technical assistance funding to
support rapid privatization of a selected number of banks on a case-by-case basis using investment banks
and sales agents. This was to be achieved through financing of investment banks fees to undertake
privatization and legal services and support.




                                                     - 3 -

(c) Liquidation and Work-out of Deeply Insolvent Banks (US$2.1 million) component provided funding
for technical assistance to support rapid liquidation and work-out of all insolvent banks that are not
selected for rehabilitation and stabilization programs. The objectives of this component were to be achieved
through provision of advisory services for the Bank Rehabilitation Agency (BRA) to take control of the
banks selected for liquidation, fees for sales agents and real estate brokerage companies, and legal advisory
services and support.

(d) Project Implementation Support (US$0.36 million) component supported project implementation
capacity by financing project management costs, local specialists, incremental operating costs and some
procurement of hardware and software for the operation of the Project Management Unit (PMU) in the
BRA.

3.4 Revised Components:

As the exact content of Government's banking reform was still under discussion at the time of project
appraisal and negotiations (Spring 2001), planned TA activities were not overly specified in the project
documents. This flexibility was used in order to direct project's resources in support of shifting priorities
of Government's reform program. Consequently, while there were no changes in the definition or a number
of the components, the amounts have been revised by the Recipient in consultation with the Bank team to
meet actual TA needs during the implementation period.

Revised component allocations were as follows:

(a) Preparation of Banks for Privatization ($0.10 million)

(b) Privatization of Large Banks (US$1.6 million)

(c) Liquidation and Work-out of Deeply Insolvent Banks ($3.9 million)

(d) Project Implementation Support (US$0.42 million)

Most notably, as the authorities decided not to pursue rehabilitation option, but instead decided on a more
rigourous liquidation approach for troubled banks, the funding has been moved from that component to
support the bank liquidation and privatization. In this respect, the component (a) Preparation of Banks for
Privatization, that included activities related to rehabilitation process (such as financing senior and
mid-level executive managers in the banks under rehabilitation, and consultancy for bank restructuring),
has been largely unutilized and the funds were reallocated. At the same time, component (c) Liquidation
and Work-Out of Insolvent Banks absorbed more resources than originally planned (see section 4.2 below
for more details).

Closing date. Due to implementation delays caused by the extended period of political uncertainty in the
second half of 2003 (see Section 5.1 below), the project closing date was extended once by six months
(from June 30, 2004, to December 31, 2004) to support the ongoing bank privatizations.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

QAG rated the project at entry as "Sound". The project identified well TA needs and critical path for
support of the implementation of a bank resolution strategy. As mentioned in Section 1.1 above, the
project was consistent with the overall strategy and vision outlined in the Memorandum to the Executive



                                                      - 4 -

Directors of IBRD and IDA on the Proposed Trust Fund for the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the
Transition Support Strategy for the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The project has been prepared in close
collaboration with key donors such as US Treasury/AID and the UK DFID. The results framework was
also rated as sound insofar as it was designed to track the progress towards meeting developmental
objectives.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Achievement of objectives and outputs under the FSD TA was highly satisfactory. As confirmed by the
results of the stakeholder survey (see Annex 9 for more details), the project played a crucial role in helping
the government initiate and implement a comprehensive bank resolution strategy in a bold and transparent
manner almost unprecedented in the transition region. It can be argued that the project over-achieved its
original development objective insofar as it supported economically sound liquidation of large insolvent
banks, as opposed to their rehabilitation, an option initially favored by the authorities. Very importantly,
the project provided timely and high-quality technical assistance to help the authorities achieve the relevant
policy objectives under the PFSAC program.

More specifically, progress in achieving the developmental objective can be assessed on the basis of the
following indicators listed in the original Project Appraisal Document:

    (i) completion of a detailed bank resolution strategy;
    (ii) identification of all insolvent banks;
    (iii) selection of banks for rehabilitation or liquidation, launching of implementation process;
    (iv) replacement of the existing management of banks selected for rehabilitation;
    (v) withdrawal of licenses and launching of liquidation process and divestiture process of all identified
    insolvent banks;
    (vi) selection of privatization advisors for banks under rehabilitation; and
    (vii) launching of privatization process for banks under rehabilitation.

As elaborated in Section 4.2 below, all seven indicators have been achieved under the project. The first
five indicators had been met in the second half of 2001 and early 2002, and the last two indicators ­ by
mid-2004.

As a result of banking sector restructuring directly supported by the project, the Serbian financial sector
has undergone dramatic transformation over the past four years. The total number of banks in Serbia
decreased from 83 in early 2001 to 47 in end-2004, and to 44 in end-2004. The project was instrumental
in cleaning up the base for the new financial system and restoring depositor confidence and allowed an
opportunity for banks to take advantage of the Euro conversion process to build deposits. The restoration
of confidence in the banking sector has been dramatic, evidenced by the astonishing growth in bank
deposits, which rose from virtually negligible level in 2000, to nearly Euro 1.0 billion at end- 2002, and to
nearly Euro 1.9 billion at mid-2004. As reserve requirements were progressively reduced and the economy
started to revive, banks also resumed lending to the real sector. Total credit to the non-government sector
(including credit to households) expanded from Euro 1.6 billion at end-2001 to almost Euro 3.0 billion at
mid-2004. Reflecting growing investor confidence in the policy framework, foreign bank penetration of the
sector has been rapid with eight new licenses issued in 2001-03. The foreign banks' asset share of more
than 50 percent at end-March 2005 is impressive given their relatively recent market entry.



                                                        - 5 -

4.2 Outputs by components:

(a) Preparation of Banks for Privatization. This component is rated as satisfactory. It was envisaged to
provide assistance for the preparation of banks for privatization through implementation of formal
rehabilitation program for a number of banks. At the time of appraisal, the authorities still believed that at
least a few sizeable banks could be rehabilitated, and cost estimates of project components were based on
that assumption.

However, once the in-depth estimated of potential rehabilitation options were completed in Fall 2001, it
became clear to the authorities that there were almost no candidates for rehabilitation given the levels of
insolvency and major fiscal constraints. Instead, the authorities made a bold decision and closed the four
insolvent banks, in what has been widely recognized as an unprecedented, far reaching approach to
restructuring the banking system. Only one relatively small bank -- Niska Banka ­ had been selected for
rehabilitation under BRA auspices, with technical assistance provided by Germany's GTZ. After
successful rehabilitation program, including a merger with two smaller regional banks, Niska Banka has
been offered for sale in early 2005. The component also provided funding for consultants placed by the
BRA in most state-owned banks to help the Agency execute its fiduciary duties in the period leading up to
privatization. The most important assignment was the engagement in end 2003 of an on-site international
advisor for Vojvodjanska banka a.d. Novi Sad, the largest majority state-owned bank in Serbia.

As seen from the above, this component has been substantially reduced in size and funds were reallocated
to support bank privatization and liquidation needs. While from the disbursement point of view this might
have been considered as less than satisfactory outcome, the substance of the matter is that using funds for
bank rehabilitation is normally considered by most experts as inadvisable, especially in a transition
situation, so this reallocation of funds should be regarded as very fortunate and highly supportive of the
achievement of the project developmental objectives.

(b) Privatization of Large Banks. This component is rated as highly satisfactory. It provided technical
assistance to the BRA to conduct privatization of a number of banks which had become state-owned as a
result of debt-for-equity swap to cover the resolution of debt owed by Serbian banks to the Paris and
London Club governments and banks, initiated by the Government in mid-2002. The BRA is responsible
for running the sale process, as well as ensuring proper controls and governance in state-owned banks to
preserve their value prior to resolution. The privatization method used was case-by-case international
tender on the basis of transparent and competitive procedures. The Bank's support under the TA Grant has
been absolutely central to the Government's privatization program insofar as it provided the BRA with the
funding (i.e., retainer fees) required to engage consulting teams led by reputable investment banks to
conduct legal and financial due diligence, prepare the sale documents and organize the tenders. The quality
of privatization advisors engaged under the project has been quite high.

After some delay during the extended period of political uncertainty in 2003, the bank privatization process
has picked up steam in 2004 and early 2005, supported at the policy level by the Bank's PFSAC II. As of
April 2005, one majority state-owned bank has been sold to a Greek banking group through open tender,
three more medium-sized banks have been offered for sale with multiple bids expected, and international
financial advisors have been engaged by the BRA to prepare three more banks for sale by 3rd quarter of
2005, including the country's largest state-owned bank, Vojvodjanska Banka. The authorities are
committed to complete the divestiture of all state holdings in the banking sector by end of 2006, as




                                                      - 6 -

discussed with the Bank in the context of ongoing programmatic assistance program.

Table 1. Summary of Bank Privatization Process

  No. Banks              Total   Advisor EOI Number of     Advisor     Buyer EOI    Binding   Number of Winning     Date Sale
                         Share   Advertised      EOI       Selected     (Tender)   Bids Due     Binding   Bidder    Purchase
                                              Received   Date Signed Announce                    Bids              Agreement
                                                                         ment                  Received              Signed


  1   Jubanka            88.6     19-Jul-03      22          BNP       28-May-04 26-Nov-04        2       Alpha -   26-Jan-05
      Belgrade                                            27-Nov-03                                       Greece

  2   Continental        98.4     19-Jul-03      22          BNP       24-Sep-04    mid May                         31-Jul-05
      Banka Novi Sad                                      27-Nov 03                  2005

  3   Novosadska         83.0     19-Jul-03      22          BNP       24-Sep-04   mid May                          15-Jul-05
      Banka Novi Sad                                      27-Nov-03                  2005

  4   Niska Banka Nis    99.7    24-Nov-03       12           ING      31-Jan-05   31-Jul-05                        30-Sep-05
                                                          10-Oct-04

  5   Vojvodanska        99.3    24-Sep-04       14       30-Apr-05    15-Aug-05   31-Jan-06                        31-Mar-06
      Banka Novi Sad

  6   Panonska Banka     87.0    24-Sep-04       11       15-May-05    31-Aug-05   15-Feb-06                        15-Apr-06
      Novi Sad

  7   Credy Banka        69.0    07-Mar-05       11
      Kragujevac (1)

  8   Cacanska Banka     45.8    15-Nov-04        8           (2)
      Cacak
  9   Privredna Banka    95.5        (3)
      Pancevo
  10  Komercijalna       38.9        (2)
      Banka Beograd

  11  Agrobanka          20.8
      Beograd

  12  Privredna Banka    15.0
      Beograd



      (1) This bank represents the combined bank after Srpska Region Banka Beograd was merged into Credy Bank
      (2) The process for selection of financial advisor for the sale of minority shares in the bank has been put on hold until
      the decision on EBRD's proposal is made.
      (3) Advisor EOI will be requested in 4Q 2005
      EOI - Expression of Interest
      Highlighted dates are estimated dates.




(c) Liquidation and Work-out of Deeply Insolvent Banks. This component is rated as highly
satisfactory. It provided technical assistance to the BRA for withdrawal of licenses and implementation of
liquidation process for deeply insolvent banks. In particular, the component financed the following
activities: (i) consulting services to assist the BRA to perform its duties as a bankruptcy trustee for banks
in liquidation; (ii) workout of financial and non-financial assets of receiverships; and (iii) legal support for
the liquidation process.

Given the inability of the budget to re-capitalize the more seriously distressed banks, and the likely negative



                                                         - 7 -

franchise value of most such banks, some 25 insolvent banks representing nearly two-thirds of the assets of
the banking system have been closed in 2001-2004. This process culminated in January 2002, when the
authorities made a bold decision to apply the same definitive solution to the country's four largest banks,
which at the time represented 57 percent of total recorded banking assets. The dramatic cleansing effect
                                                                                      2


this measure had on the country's banking system is illustrated by Figure 1.

                     Figure 1. The Initial Impact of the Banking System Restructuring



                                                      US$ million


                           15,000


                           10,000


                            5,000


                                0
                                               9/30/01                         1/31/02

                           -5,000


                                          Total Assets     Total Liabilities    Total Capital


                                           Source: National Bank of Serbia data


Over the past three years, the BRA has achieved significant progress with liquidation process. The early,
most difficult stage of liquidation process was carried out satisfactorily largely due to the BRA's timely
engagement under the Grant of teams of foreign and local consultants to provide liquidation management
and operational services for each of the four banks. The total number of employees in four large insolvent
banks has fallen from 8,349 in January 2002 to some 400 by the end of year 2004. Efficiency of
receiverships was greatly increased by consolidating them in a single unit (Bank Consolidation Unit), with
the start-up costs financed under the Grant.

As regards the asset resolution, the BRA has been quite pro-active in renting or selling the real estate
property of bankrupt banks.        Consistent with experiences in other transition economies, the workout of
non-performing loans and enterprise equity stakes has progressed more slowly, held up by the need to
obtain authorization of the Bankruptcy Court and the simple fact that the bulk of non-performing loans are
due from large socially- and state-owned enterprises, themselves in the process of privatization.                      The
process has accelerated since mid-2004, as evidenced by the sale of several large enterprise stakes and
resolution of a number of historic bank loans to developing countries. With support provided under the
Grant, the BRA has completed the inventory of all financial assets, and identified a portfolio of unimpaired
loans with a book value of approximately $45 million that was offered for sale in May 2005 upon getting
the approval of the court.
________________
2
 The timely resolution of problem banks meant that associated costs to the budget (including payouts to depositors and
severance pay of bank employees) have so far been much lower in Serbia (some US$83 million for the four largest banks, or
around 0.7% of GDP) than in the neighboring economies where the authorities attempted costly rehabilitation programs with
mixed results (20.6% of GDP in the Czech Republic, 26.5% in Bulgaria, 12.9% in Hungary). Source: Tang, et. al. (2000)



                                                           - 8 -

 (d) Project Implementation Support. This component is rated as highly satisfactory.                Under this
component one of the first Project Management Unit (PMU) in the country has been established at the
BRA. The PMU (with a core staff of four) now handles five projects, including projects financed by other
donors ­ UK DFID and Sweden's Sida. The PMU staff has benefited from in-depth training in Bank's
procurement, disbursement, and financial management techniques. Given the lack of project implementation
capacity in Serbia in general, it is expected that the PMU will continue to provide project administration
services to the Bank and other donor on a fee basis.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Not applicable.


4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable.


4.5 Institutional development impact:

Institutional development impact is rated as high. The project played a key role in creating the institutional
capacity for implementing complex bank restructuring process. The Bank's successful coordination of
donor support with its own resources had a major impact in both maximizing the impact of resources by
improving efficiency and targeting of assistance and in improving operational efficiency of the BRA by
ensuring that appropriate support could be provided at the time it was required. Very importantly, the
Bank's assistance to the BRA was based on international best-practice, with lessons applied from Croatia's
and Russia's bank restructuring agencies, and aimed at achieving harmonization with European
requirements.

During the period of project implementation, the BRA grew in size from about 10 staff to some 40 staff, its
skills improved and it is now capable to handle bank receiverships with own resources. The BRA's new
technical expertise is witnessed by its capacity both to handle complex bank failures ­ including the
implementation of liquidation procedure for the four largest banks in Serbia ­ and to carry out large scale
privatizations to strategic investors. It is expected that this capacity with be sustained as the BRA's
mandate expands to include the functions of deposit insurance agency in the near future.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

General political instability in Serbia has been a major factor affecting the pace of implementation of bank
restructuring program at the policy level, although the authorities should be given credit for staying on the
course of reform and more than achieving the planned project outcomes. In the first 1.5 years of project
implementation, the BRA and the NBS had an ambiguous legal status of federal entities, which had been
finally resolved with the passage of new Constitutional Charter in February 2003, transferring both
institutions to the republican level. The assassination of the Serbian Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic in
March 2003 led to prolonged period of political uncertainty, with several rounds of presidential and



                                                       - 9 -

parliamentary election held in the course of the year, which finally resulted on the formation of new
coalition government in February 2004.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Government commitment. The Serbian authorities consistently displayed strong commitment to the banking
sector reforms supported under the Project, and, in broader terms, under PFSAC program. After taking
office in February 2004, the new government reaffirmed its commitment to the project objectives and made
a commendable effort to accelerate the implementation of the program before the closing date of December
31, 2004.

BRA management issues. Prolonged period political instability in Serbia in 2003 resulted in disruptions in
governance of the BRA. The BRA Council was reconstituted at least twice, and the director of the Agency
was also changed twice, reflecting the shifts in power at the government level. It should be noted, however,
that the BRA continued the technical work on bank liquidations and selection process for privatization
advisors despite the delays at the policy level.

Paris and London Club debt restructuring. As noted above, in July 2002 the Government initiated a
debt-for-equity swap to cover the resolution of debt owed by Serbian banks to the Paris and London Club
governments and banks. The result of this operation was a de facto nationalization of a large part of the
banking system, with the state becoming majority equity holder in nine banks (including, at that time, the
largest bank in the system, Vojvodjanska Banka) and significant minority stakes in seven others. The
objective of this move was to speed up reform of the sector through offering the state stakes for sale to
strategic investors. The BRA's operational mandate supported under the Project was thus significantly
expanded to include the implementation of a number of bank sales, with the progress to date described in
section 4.2.b of this report.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

There were no major issues that negatively affected the project from the implementing agency (i.e., BRA)
side.


5.4 Costs and financing:

The current project cost is around $7.5 million, consistent with the $7.5 million estimated in PAD. There
were no major implementation or disbursement delays. The counterpart contributions have been provided in
a timely manner.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Sustainability is rated as highly likely. The activities supported by the Project, such as liquidation of
insolvent banks and privatization of state-owned banks, are largely irreversible. The reforms have
substantial buy-in across the political spectrum. The authorities are committed to complete the unfinished
agenda in the area of banking sector restructuring by the end of 2006, with the ongoing support under the



                                                      - 10 -

Bank's PDPL program.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

Appropriate arrangements have been made to continue providing adequate TA to the BRA for completion
of bank restructuring privatization program by the end of 2006. The Bank's Privatization and
Restructuring of Banks and Enterprises Technical Assistance Credit has a $3 million BRA component that
will continue to support the ongoing contracts with bank privatization advisors initiated under the Grant.
Other donor funding that will continue supporting the program in the next two years includes grants
extended by UK DFID and Sida, as well as the resident US Treasury banking advisor.

BRA is expected to become a self-sustainable Deposit Insurance Agency once it completes its
responsibilities in the area of banks privatization and liquidation by the end of 2006. The draft deposit
insurance law is ready and will be submitted to Parliament in 2006. UK DFID has provided specialized
TA and training resources to prepare the BRA for this new role.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Bank performance at Lending stage is rated as highly satisfactory. This was one of the first Bank
projects after FRY's renewed membership in the World Bank had been approved; yet the project was
prepared with the record speed (less than three months between concept review and project's approval by
RVP) in response to the urgent technical needs of the Client. The Bank team prepared the project in very
close cooperation with the working group for banking sector restructuring comprised of representatives of
NBY, BRA and key donors, including UK DFID, US Treasury, and USAID. This participatory approach
helped crystallize the authorities' commitment to pursuing difficult project objectives, and built on
synergies between various donor agencies to achieve the maximum impact from the TA.

To initiate the BRA's work on preparing for the liquidation of large banks even prior to project
effectiveness, provisions had been made for retroactive financing. Pre-implementation mission had been
carried out in June 2001 to help build the capacity of PMU through a week-long series of intensive
workshops on Bank procurement, disbursement, and financial management procedures.


7.2 Supervision:

The bank performance at supervision is also rated as satisfactory. The Bank team provided focused
supervision of the project supported activities, interacting closely with the counterparts both at the technical
(i.e., BRA) and policy level (NBY and MOF), and coordinating its activities with relevant donors as
needed. The skill mix of the supervision team was fully adequate. Very importantly, the same team has
been involved in preparation and supervision of the financial sector sections in PFSAC program.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Overall Bank performance is rated as satisfactory.



                                                     - 11 -

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The Beneficiary performance during the preparation period is rated as satisfactory. Extensive
consultations were held with the beneficiaries. The management of the National Bank and the BRA in
particular took an active part in the project preparation.


7.5 Government implementation performance:

The performance during implementation is rated as satisfactory. The project received consistent support
from the Serbian Government and the National Bank given its importance for achieving the policy
objectives of Bank's PFSAC and IMF programs. The authorities can be complimented for providing
adequate operational budget for the BRA both during its transition from the Federal to Republican status,
and afterwards. At the same time, the authorities could have potentially mitigated the disruptions in BRA's
operations during the period of political instability in 2003.


7.6 Implementing Agency:

The performance of the BRA was highly satisfactory. The BRA facilitated the project implementation
and proved to be efficient in addressing issues within its control.

In particular, the PMU established at the BRA provided excellent support to the project through efficient
management of procurement, disbursements and financial management functions, as well as handling of the
counterpart funding allocations. Once its capacity was established, the PMU managed to build excellent
reputation within the system. Given its high standards of performance, it is now administering other Bank
and donor projects.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Overall, the Beneficiary's performance is rated as satisfactory.


8. Lessons Learned

The following lessons can be highlighted, which are also consistent with the results of stakeholder survey
(Annex 8):

l Importance of specific drawing lessons from other transition economies.The project design reflected
    best practice lessons from the Bank's prior operations in ECA, tailored to Serbian environment. In
    particular, it recognized the need for an expedited and transparent bank resolution process run by a
    fully resourced public agency. Both at the preparation and implementation stages the project benefited
    tremendously from direct experiences of staff and consultants who had practical experience with bank
    restructuring programs in countries such as Croatia, Hungary, Slovakia, and Russia.

l TA linkage to Bank's policy reform program. Technical assistance in support of politically difficult



                                                      - 12 -

    transition reforms have a higher chance of success if designed as an integral part of Bank's broader
    sector assistance strategy, supported at the policy level by relevant conditions in adjustment
    operation(s). The reverse is also true ­ as observed in the ICRs for both PFSAC I and II, the Bank's
    ability to provide extensive technical assistance on a timely basis has been enormously important in
    enabling the PFSAC program to achieve its objectives on banking sector restructuring, as recorded in
    relevant policy conditions on liquidation of insolvent banks and privatization of state-owned holdings in
    the banking sector.

l Reform champions at the policy level. The implementation of a complex and politically sensitive TA
    program does not only require a fully functioning implementing agency, but also constant support at
    the level of senior policy-making. In this case, from the very inception the Project enjoyed full support
    of the reform-minded senior policy makers at the NBS and MOF, who ensured the policy environment
    conducive to achieving the project objectives.

l Importance of donor coordination. The effective coordination by the Bank of technical assistance
    provided by bilateral donors can be a critical factor in quickly developing the institutional capacity to
    implement high impact reforms. At every stage of project preparation and implementation, the team
    maintained a robust dialogue with donors in order to avoid duplication of efforts and leverage support
    for the reforms outlined in PFSAC program. The Bank project served as a catalyst in organizing and
    coordinating support for Government's banking sector reform program by UK DFID, US Treasury,
    USAID, and Sida.

l Flexibility built into the TA operations is essential when dealing with rapidly evolving operational
    environment, requiring adjustments in the project implementation to reflect the shifting policy priorities.
    In this case, the project was able to provide timely assistance as the emphasis of the program first
    shifted from bank rehabilitation to liquidation of insolvent banks and then to privatization of
    state-owned banks.

l Creating efficient institutional arrangements is a critical factor for implementing the complex technical
    assistance program. In this case, the Bank team has invested major effort early on in setting up fully
    operational, competent Project Management Unit at the BRA to make sure that the activities under the
    project are implemented in a timely and transparent manner, in full accordance with the Bank's
    standards on procurement, disbursement, and financial management.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

(1) Comments from the Ministry of Finance, Republic of Serbia

Belgrade, 26, May 2005

Comments for Serbia and Montenegro FSD TA ICR

The Financial Sector Development Grant financed by IDA in Serbia and Montenegro has been disbursed in
the amount of US$5.83 million. The grant was instrumental in achieving objectives and meeting conditions
of the PFSAC I and II programs. This timely operation was an important piece of the overall reform
agenda to restructure and strengthen private and financial sectors in the country. In this project, the Bank
successfully applied lessons from past experience with bank restructuring in other transition countries and



                                                     - 13 -

we, from the side of the Government, would like to express our appreciation of the excellent cooperation we
have achieved with the Bank while working on this program.

The objectives of the Grant were fully achieved and we are very pleased with the outcomes of the project.
It helped us to initiate and implement a comprehensive bank resolution strategy and thus privatizing state
assets. With the help of the grant funds Serbian financial sector undergone dramatic transformation: total
number of banks decreased from 83 in early 2001 to 47 in end-2004; deposits in the banks grew from
virtually negligible level in 2000 to nearly Euro 21.9 billion in mid-2004; credit to non-government sector
also expanded from Euro 1.6 million in 2001 to almost Euro 3.0 billion in 2004; the foreign banks' asset
share grew over 50% by March 2005.

We appreciate the institutional building effect of the project which helped to build institutional capacity in
the country by strengthening the Bank Rehabilitation Agency (BRA) that is now able to manage bank
privatizations and liquidations. We were also very glad to develop in-house capacity for the
implementation of the World Bank-funded projects due to specific regulations and procedures, unfamiliar
to the staff in the Ministry and among beneficiaries. The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) established in
the BRA proved to be very efficient and capable and we will continue using it for other projects in the
sector.

We would also like to comment on the factors affecting project implementation. We agree with the ICR's
assessment that unstable political situation at times negatively affected the project implementation schedule
but we would like to emphasize that from our side we were very committed to the reforms and acted in a
timely manner to address the problems.

In respect of the Bank performance and coordination, based on the experience during the preparation and
implementation stages, in our view the Bank's performance was highly satisfactory. The coordination level
with other donors was excellent.

Detailed comments on the ICR contents will be provided by the Bank Rehabilitation Agency and we
endorse them.


Vesna Dzinic, Assistant Minister




(2) Comments from the Agency for Deposit Insurance, Rehabilitation, Bankruptcy and Liquidation of
Banks, Republic of Serbia


  AGENCY FOR DEPOSIT INSURANCE,
   REHABILITATION, BANKRUPTCY
      AND LIQUIDATION OF BANKS


Knez Mihailova 2/I, 11000 Belgrade
Tel: +381 11 3287 738 fax: +381 11 3287 741




                                                     - 14 -

Mr. Alexander Pankov
Finance and Private Sector Development
Europe and Central Asia Region
The World Bank

Subject: Comments for Serbia and Montenegro FSD TA ICR

On behalf of the Bank Rehabilitation Agency, (BRA), we would like to express our thanks and
appreciation to the World Bank for the grant extended to Serbia to help revitalize our banking
system. In our opinion, it was a very successful program for a myriad of reasons:

The grant enabled us to obtain the necessary experience to engage several outside consulting
firms to provide technical assistance in early 2002 to close the 4 largest state owned banks in the
banking sector. This was a very important first step as it removed very large banks from the
system that were hopelessly insolvent and unable to provide the banking services needed to
transform and modernize the banking sector.

With the largest insolvent banks purged from the system, we were able to devote our attention to
privatizing the remaining state owned banks once the State ownership structure was resolved
through the conversion to equity of the Paris and London Club liabilities. The grant money
enabled us to engage the necessary privatization advisors for the banks. To date, this has proven
to be a very successful program having successfully privatized one bank, Jubanka, for 152 million
Euros or 150% of book value, and to have received two other outstanding offers for Novosadska
and Continental banks that will provide excellent revenue for the State budget. This will go along
way in helping Serbia meet it's obligations to the Paris and London Club of creditors.

In addition, the grant money allowed us the opportunity to obtain advice and guidance resolving
the assets acquired from the failed banks and those that will be retained by the State from the
banks being privatized.     With this assistance, we were able to consolidate all assets from the
failed banks to one data center and developed uniform policies, procedures and teams for the
liquidation of all banks. These teams are made up of former bank employees and work in
specialized areas across all banks. The Bank Consolidation Concept (BCU) has enabled us to
reduce staff, cut costs and speed up the final resolution process.

And finally, because the World Bank provided the BRA this assistance, other donors signed on to
participate in our banking sector reform and for this we are very grateful.

We are very satisfied with our experience with this grant, with the World Bank staff we dealt with
and look forward to continuing a relationship with the World Bank.

Milorad Dzambic, Executive Director



(b) Cofinanciers:




                                                - 15 -

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                             - 16 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                   1
               Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
Divestiture of assets of banks under           Most real estate assets of bankrupt banks     Most real estate assets of bankrupt banks
liquidation                                    has been sold or rented out. The BRA will     has been sold or rented out. Also notoable is
                                               identify a portfolio of unimpaired loans that the sale of several large enterprise stakes
                                               will be offered for sale upon getting the     and resolution of a number of historic bank
                                               approval of the Bankruptcy Court.             loans to developing countries. The BRA has
                                                                                             also identified a portfolio of unimpaired loans
                                                                                             with a book value of approximately $45 million
                                                                                             that was offered for sale upon getting the
                                                                                             approval of the Bankruptcy Court.

Completion of liquidation of insolvent banks   25 banks have been put into liquidation,      Receiverships have been consolidated into a
                                               including the country's four largest banks.   single unit; total staff at bankrupt banks
                                               External receivers have been appointed to     reduced to less than 400.
                                               conduct the liquidation of insolvent banks in
                                               behalf of the BRA

Completion of rehabilitation program           The rehabilitation program will be formally   The rehabilitation program was formally
                                               completed by the end of 2004 as the only      completed by the end of 2004 as the only
                                               bank in the program is offered for sale.      bank in the program had been offered for
                                                                                             sale.

Offer for privatization of banks under         The only bank that had undergone formal       The only bank that had undergone formal
rehabilitation                                 rehabilitation program, Niska Banka, will be  rehabilitation program, Niska Banka, has
                                               offered for sale.                             been offered for sale in early 2005. Outside
                                                                                             the formal rehabilitation program, one large
                                                                                             state-owned bank was sold in early 2005,
                                                                                             negotiations with winning bidders are close to
                                                                                             completion for two more majority-state owned
                                                                                             banks, and two more are now undergoing
                                                                                             pre-privatization due diligence. Taken
                                                                                             together, these seven banks represent more
                                                                                             than four-fifths of state's total holdings in the
                                                                                             banking sector.

                                                                                             Process of selection of financial advisors is
                                                                                             underway for two more small state-owned
                                                                                             banks, and the authorities are committed to
                                                                                             complete the divestiture of all remaining state
                                                                                             holdings in banking sector by end 2006.


Output Indicators:
                                                                                   1
               Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
Development of a stabilization plan and        Selection of financial advisors for banks in  Financial advisors have been engaged to help
improvement of a rapid cost reduction          the BRA portfolio will be underway            the BRA prepare and execute privatization of
program                                                                                      seven majority state-owned banks.

Selection of privatization advisors, inviting
proposals from potential strategic investors in
preparation of privatization of selected banks


Implementation of an agreed stabilization      A number of majority state-owned banks will   One bank was sold to a strategic investor in
plan                                           be offered for sale through international     early 2005. Three more majority-state owned
                                               tender                                        banks have been offered for sale, and three
Launching of tender for sale of a number of                                                  more are now undergoing pre-privatization
selected banks                                                                               due diligence


Announce liquidation/bankruptcy of insolvent 25 banks have been put into liquidation,        25 banks have been put into liquidation,
banks                                          including the country's four largest banks.   including the country's four largest banks.




                                                                    - 17 -

Replace existing management of insolvent        External receivers have been appointed to     External receivers have been appointed to
banks and appointment of receivers/trustees conduct the liquidation of insolvent banks in     conduct the liquidation of insolvent banks in
                                                behalf of the BRA                             behalf of the BRA


Transparent sale of bank physical assets to     Most physical assets have been either sold or Most physical assets have been either sold or
solvent banks                                   rented out.                                   rented out.


Inventory and transfer of assets to centralized Inventory of assets has been completed, and Inventory of assets has been completed, and
government workout unit                         assets have been centralized at the Bank      assets have been centralized at the Bank
                                                Consolidation Unit under the BRA              Consolidation Unit under the BRA


1End of project




                                                                   - 18 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                        Component                         US$ million   US$ million
(a) Preparation of banks for privatization                   2.56            0.30              12
(b) Privatization of large banks                             0.98            0.54              55
(c) Liquidation and Work-out of insolvent banks              2.10            4.42             210
(d) Project implementation cost                              0.36            0.57             158

Total Baseline Cost                                          6.00            5.83
                           Total Project Costs               6.00            5.83
                   Total Financing Required                  6.00            5.83


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB           NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                             0.00           0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                             0.00           0.00         0.02         0.00          0.02
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.02)         (0.00)       (0.02)
3. Services                          0.00           0.00         5.73         0.00          5.73
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (5.73)         (0.00)       (5.73)
4. Training and Study                0.00           0.00         0.05         0.00          0.05
Tours
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.05)         (0.00)       (0.05)
5. Incremental Operating             0.00           0.00         0.05         1.50          1.55
Costs                               (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.05)         (0.00)       (0.05)
6. Unallocated                       0.00           0.00         0.15         0.00          0.15
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.15)         (0.00)       (0.15)
   Total                             0.00           0.00         6.00         1.50          7.50
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (6.00)         (0.00)       (6.00)




                                                - 19 -

Consultant Selection Arrangements (at appraisal) (in US$ million)

                               QCBS         QBS               SFB     LCS    CQ     Other
A. Firms                               3.45                              0.09   0.05       0.35
B. Individuals                                                                             1.87
                          Total        3.45                0         0   0.09   0.05       2.22


Consultant Selection Arrangements (Actuals) (in US$ million)

                               QCBS         QBS               SFB     LCS    CQ     Other
A. Firms                               3.68                              0.04   0.17       0.23
B. Individuals                                                                             1.63
                          Total        3.68                0         0   0.04   0.17       1.86




                                                  - 20 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
    1. Works                                0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
    2. Goods                                0.00               0.00              0.02             0.00              0.02
                                           (0.02)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.02)
    3. Services                             0.00               0.00              5.73             0.70              6.43
                                           (4.03)             (1.57)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (5.60)
    4. Training and Study                   0.00               0.00              0.05             0.00              0.05
    Tours
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.03)            (0.00)           (0.03)
    5. Incremental Operating                0.00               0.00              0.05             0.01              0.06
    Costs                                  (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.05)            (0.00)           (0.05)
    6. Unallocated                          0.00               0.00              0.15             0.00              0.15
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.13)            (0.00)           (0.13)
       Total                                0.00               0.00              6.00             0.71              6.71
                                           (4.05)             (1.57)            (0.21)            (0.00)           (5.83)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
(a) Preparation of banks        2.56         0.46                     0.30         0.08                  11.7      17.4
for privatization
(b) Privatization of large      0.98         0.29                     0.54         0.02                  55.1      6.9
banks
(c ) Liquidation and            2.10         0.45                     4.42         0.49                  210.5    108.9
Work-out of insolvent
banks
(d) Project implementation      0.36         0.30                     0.57         0.12                  158.3     40.0
cost
TOTAL                           6.00         1.50                     5.83         0.71                  97.2      47.3




                                                           - 21 -

        Component               Appraisal Estimate  Actual/Latest Estimate   Percentage of
                                 Bank       Govt.      Bank       Govt.    Bank
                                                                              Appraisal
                                                                                      Govt.
Goods                            0.02        0.0         0.02                100%
Services                         5.73        0.0           5.6         0.7    98%         N/A
Training/Study tours             0.05        0.0         0.03                 60%
Incremental Operating Cost
                                 0.05        1.5         0.05         0.01   100%         1%
Unallocated                      0.15        0.0         0.13                 87%
Total                            6.00       1.50          5.83        0.71  97%       47%



Project Costs at Appraisal (in US$ Million)

Project Cost by Component                 Local Foreign Total
(a) Preparation of banks for privatization
                                             0.80     2.15   2.95
(b) Privatization of large banks             0.30     0.95   1.25
(c ) Liquidation and Work-out of insolvent
banks                                        0.45     2.05   2.50
(d) Project implementation cost              0.51     0.14   0.65
                      Total Base-line cost   2.06     5.29   7.35
Unallocated                                  0.08     0.07   0.15
                               Total Cost    2.14     5.36   7.50

Project Costs At Appraisal (in US$ Million)

Project Cost by Category                  Local Foreign Total
Goods                                        0.02            0.02
Works                                                        0.00
Services                                     0.48     5.25   5.73
Training/Study Tours                         0.01     0.04   0.05
Incremetnal Operating Costs                  1.55     0.00   1.55
Unallocated                                  0.08     0.07   0.15
                      Total Base-line cost   2.14     5.36   7.50
Front-end fee
                               Total Cost    2.14     5.36   7.50




                                                  - 22 -

Project Costs Actual (in US$ Million)

Project Cost by Component            Local Foreign Total
(a) Preparation of banks for
privatization                         0.19    0.19   0.38
(b) Privatization of large banks      0.00    0.56   0.56
(c ) Liquidation and Work-out of
insolvent banks                       1.51    3.41   4.92
(d) Project implementation cost       0.52    0.03   0.55
                Total Base-line cost  2.22    4.19   6.41
Unallocated                           0.04    0.09   0.13
                           Total Cost 2.26    4.28   6.54

Project Costs Actuals (in US$ Million)

Project Cost by Category             Local Foreign Total
Goods                                 0.02           0.02
Works                                                0.00
Services                              2.14    4.16   6.30
Training/Study Tours                          0.03   0.03
Incremetnal Operating Costs           0.05    0.01   0.06
Unallocated                           0.04    0.09   0.13
                Total Base-line cost  2.25    4.29   6.54
Front-end fee
                           Total Cost 2.25    4.29   6.54




                                               - 23 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


Not applicable.




                                      - 24 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              May 2001                  4    Program Team Leader
                                             Operations Analyst
                                             Procurement Specialist
                                             Financial Sector Specialist (UK
                                             DFID)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              June 2001                 6    Program Team Leader
                                             Operations Analyst
                                             Procurement Specialist
                                             Disbursement Specialist
                                             Financial Management
                                             Specialist
                                             Financial Sector Specialist
                                             (UK DFID)


 Supervision

              01/28/2002                4    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER                  S               S
                                             (1); OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1); FSD
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              10/30/2002                4    OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);              S               S
                                             PROGRAM TEAM LEADER
                                             (1); CONSULTANT (1); UK
                                             DFID CONSULTANT (1)
              05/21/2003                2    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER                  S               S
                                             (1); TASK TEAM LEADER (1)
              09/18/2003                5    SECTOR MANAGER (1); TTL              S               S
                                             (1); SENIOR FSD SPECIALIST
                                             (1); CONSULTANT (1); PAS (1)
              09/30/2004                3    TTL (1); CONSULTANT (1);             S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)


 ICR
              April 2005                2     TTL (1); CONSULTANT                 S               S
                                              (1);




                                              - 25 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    40                        162.6
  Supervision                              35                        151.7
  ICR                                       3                          20.0
  Total                                    78                        334.3




                                            - 26 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Background documents
l Yugoslavia: Transitional Support Strategy, July 25, 2001, R2001-0049/2
l Yugoslavia Transitional Support Strategy Update
l Federal Republic of Yugosalvia: Breaking with the Past. Report No 22267-YU, July 15, 2001
l Serbia Financial Sector Policy Note, 2004
l Serbia Economic Memorandum, 2004


Project Appraisal Documents
l Federal Republic of Yugosalvia Financial Sector Development Technical Assistance Grant, 2001
l Serbia and Montenegro, Privatization and Restructuring of Banks and Enterprises TA Credit, 2003


Program Documents
l First Private and Financial Sector Adjustment Credit, 2002
l Second Private and Financial Sector Adjustment Credit. Report No 25855 - YU, May 14, 2003


Implementation Completion Reports
l Implementation Completion Report, Private and Financial Sector Adjustment Credit. Report 27530,
   December 19, 2003

Project Documents
l Aide Memories and Project Status Reports




                                                - 29 -

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results


An Intensive Learning ICR (ILICR) survey was organized to supplement the findings of the ICR
for the Financial Sector Development Technical Assistance (FSD TA) Grant. The main objective
of the survey was to summarize the achievements of the FSD TA Grant in meeting the project
development objectives, the lessons learned during the implementation of the project and their
applicability in designing similar projects in the future.

                               Chart 1: Respondents (15)




                            Donors          Government
                              16%               5%

                                                              BRA
                                                              37%



              Service Providers
                    42%




The Survey focused on six major areas (evaluated on a four-scale grade): (i) Achievement of
Project Development Objectives; (ii) Institutional Building Impact; (iii) Quality of Project Design;
(iv) Recipient's performance; (v) Bank performance; and (vi) Perception of major problems in
Financial Sector in the beginning of the project and at the time of project completion. A narrative
section seeking comments on the most practical and useful aspects of the projects, areas in need
of improvement and additional comments was also included. The survey was organized on a
participatory approach basis, involving main stakeholders of the project, including Bank
Rehabilitation Agency, Government, service providers, and other donors. The request to fill out
the survey was sent to about 20 people who were directly involved in the project and 15
responses were received. Chart 1 provides distribution of respondents among the four broad
categories.




                                                 - 30 -

Achievement of Development Objectives. Overall, respondents felt that the project fully
achieved its developmental objectives (see Chart 2). The average score for the first objective
(Project contribution to the rehabilitation and privatization of banks) was 3.67 and for the second
objective (project's contribution to liquidation of the insolvent banks) - 3.71. It was noted by
some respondents that the project provided highly experienced assistance in bank privatization
and liquidations, and that this project was a "kind of project needed in transitional countries", as
well as that this grant successfully "contributed to the soundness of the banking sector in Serbia".


                          Chart 2: Achievement of Developmental Objectives


           5

           4

     (1-4) 3

           2
     Rating
           1

           0
              1     2     3       4      5     6      7       8     9     10     11     12    13    14 15

                                                      Respondents

                         Project's contribution to rehabilitation and privatization of selected banks
                         Project's contribution to liquidation of the insolvent banks




                                                   - 31 -

Institutional Building. As illustrated in Chart 3, institutional building impact was rated generally
as high. Impact on institutional building of the BRA was rated at 3.2 on average. However,
impact on the government capacity to manage bank privatizations and liquidations was rated at
2.79 on average (possibly due to the fact that the government was less directly involved in the
process). In written comments, it was noted that the project has provided a valuable expertise in
the area where the limited local expertise was available, enabling the important capacity building
component. The transfer of knowledge was listed among most practical and useful aspects of this
project.

                                                  Chart 3: Institutional Building


                 4.5

                   4

                 3.5

                   3
      (1-4)      2.5
                   2
           Rating1.5

                   1

                 0.5

                   0
                       1     2       3      4      5        6     7    8      9     10    11     12      13     14     15

                                                                  Respondents

                  Improvement of institutional capacity of BRA
                  Improvement of institutional capacity of the government to manage bank privatizations and liquidations




                                                           - 32 -

Project Design. Respondents were asked to rate the original project design, i.e. its soundness,
flexibility, clearness of components definition and adequacy of risk factors analysis (see Chart 4).
While soundness, flexibility and clearness aspects received the highest grades (3.60, 3.40, 3.53
respectively), risk factor analysis was rated slightly lower (3.0). The respondents noted that the
considerable flexibility built into the project design worked exceptionally well. As a result of this
flexibility, no major adjustments in the project were needed and reallocation of resources between
the components was fairly easy ­ a fact not very common to Bank-financed projects as noted by
some respondents.


                                         Chart 4. Project Design


           5

           4

     (1-4) 3

           2
     Rating1

           0
               1    2     3     4      5     6     7     8    9     10     11     12     13    14 15

                                                   Respondents

                     Soundness of the project design          Flexibility of the project design
                     Clearness of project components          Adequacy of risk factors analysis




                                                  - 33 -

Recipient Performance. As illustrated in Chart 5, all respondents rated highly the performance of
the BRA at 3.8 (most of the respondents rated it as excellent). One of the respondents also
commented that the PMU within the BRA performed in a professional, ethical and transparent
manner and that the procurement was handled competently and objectively. A comment was made
by one of the donors that due to the professionalism of the PMU they started using the same unit
to handle their grant funds. At the same time, government's responsiveness to the project needs
was rated less satisfactorily at 2.8.


                                    Chart 5. Recepient Performance


           5

           4

     (1-4) 3

           2
     Rating
           1

           0
             1     2     3       4     5    6     7    8      9     10    11    12  13  14   15

                                                  Respondents

                                   Government's involvement in the project
                                   Government's responsiveness to the project needs
                                   Project Management Unit's (BRA) performance




                                                - 34 -

Bank Performance. Overall, the respondents expressed high level of satisfaction with the level of
advice and expertise received from the Bank (see Chart 6). The Bank Team was perceived as
responsive and highly professional. In their written comments, respondents noted that, in this
operation, the coordination level with stakeholders and other donors was excellent. One of the
respondents commented that this FSD TA Grant was "one of the best TA operations ­
responsive, well managed and well coordinated with other donors". Inflexibility of Bank rules
was also noted as a cause of some problems in otherwise satisfactory project implementation
environment.


                                     Chart 6. Bank Performance


                5

                4
     (1-4)      3

                2
          Rating1

                0
                   1  2  3     4     5     6      7    8      9   10    11    12    13     14   15

                                                  Respondents

                         The Bank's team responsiveness to the country's needs

                         Expert advice received from the Bank

                         Bank's disbursement and financial management arrangements

                         Bank's procurement arrangements




                                               - 35 -

Financial Sector Development Impact. To test the hypothesis that the project positively
contributed to the improvement of the financial sector in Serbia, the survey included a section to
measure five major perceived impediments at the beginning of the project and at the end. Chart 7
illustrates that all issues that were rated as highly problematic in year 2001 improved substantially
by the end of the project in 2004. The survey acknowledges that in addition to FSD TA grant
other factors have contributed to this improvement (including Bank financed two PFSAC
projects, IMF programs, and projects supported by other donors ­ UK DFID, USAID, etc.), but
it is strongly felt that this project provided excellent support in alleviating these impediments to
healthy financial sector development.



                     Chart 7. Perception of FSD Problems (Average Values)

        4.00



        3.50



        3.00



        2.50



        2.00



        1.50


         1.00



        0.50


        0.00

                  Weak          Lack of
                Insovency     capacity for     Lack of
              Regulations                                  weakness of
                                 bank       capacity for
                                                             banking           Lack of

                              privatization     bank                        experience in
            Project Start                   liquidations    supervision
                                                                             bank asset

            Project End                                                      resolutions

Conclusions. The survey was useful to confirm that the project was successful in achieving its
developmental objectives as well as has good learning value with a potential to be successfully
replicated in other developing countries. Comments from the respondents were useful in
crystallizing the lessons learnt in the course of implementation of this project.




                                                   - 36 -

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results

Given the overwhelmingly positive feedback to the questionnaire, and a limited number of stakeholders, it
was decided to hold a series of bilateral discussions with stakeholders in lieu of a workshop. The team has
discussed the finding of the ICR with represenatives of the implementing agency (BRA), Serbian
Government (Ministry of Finance), and key donors (UK DFID and US Treasury). These discussions
confirmed the general assessment that the FSD TA Project has successfully achieved its development
objective of launching and implementation of a comprehensive bank resolution strategy for the Republic of
Serbia.




                                                    - 37 -

- 38 -

