Report No. PID10335
Project Name                     Yugoslavia-Financial Sector Development...
Technical Assistance Grant
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           ECSPF
Project ID                       YFSF74127
Borrower                         Government of Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Implementing Agency              Bank Rehabilitation Agency (BRA)
Belgrade, Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
phone 381-11-624-245
fax. 381-11-625-426
Environment Category             C
Date This PID Prepared           May 9, 2001
Date Initial PID Prepared        April 23, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         May 2000
Projected Board Date             N/A
1. Country and Sector Background
The FRY's banking sector is deeply insolvent as a result of structural
problems inherited from the pre-1991 socialist system and a decade of
mismanagement which followed the break up of former SFRY. The new
government, elected in late 2000, has already undertaken a major effort with
the help of donor resources to assess the conditions of troubled banks and is
in the midst of developing a comprehensive bank resolution strategy.
2. Project Objectives
The objective of this project is to support government efforts to reform FRY's
financial sector and to restore basic functions of mobilization and allocation
of resources in the banking system. For this purpose the proposed project
will support the launching of a comprehensive bank resolution strategy. More
specifically, the project would:
- support the rehabilitation and rapid privatization of a limited number
of large state banks, and,
- support the liquidation and divesture of other insolvent banks that are
not selected for restructuring.
The proposed project is envisaged as a first step, "early win" operation to
support jump-starting the cleanup of the financial sector, as well as to
build up institutional capacity and human capital in preparation for the
larger structural reform effort that is needed in the financial sector. In
that context, this project has an intentionally narrow focus and does not
address the comprehensive reform of the banking sector, which will be the
subject of future assistance by the Bank and other donors.
3.   Rationale for Bank's Involvement
In view of the limited availability of Bank resources for FRY and in light of
the large financing role of other donors, the Bank strategy for FRY is based
on two key principles: (i) investing in areas where the Bank has a comparative
advantage and (ii) investing in key areas of reform, such as financial sector,



which are considered crucial to an early and robust reform effort. The World
Bank has extensive experience and knowledge of the banking sector reform. The
Bank is thus in a unique position to furnish practical advice on bank
resolution issues and bank privatization. The Bank can also draw upon its
international network of consultants and advisors to bring the latest best
practices to FRY in order to strengthen the capacity of local institutions.
The Bank will also assist in implementation of the project through hands-on
supervision and conveying knowledge of Bank procurement methods to FRY
counterparts.
4. Description
The proposed grant will have four main components.
i. Preparation of Large Banks for Privatization: Under this component
funding will be provided for technical assistance to support the
preparatory work to implement stabilization, rehabilitation and pre-
privatization efforts.
ii. Privatization of Large Banks: This component will provide funding for
technical assistance to support rapid privatization of a number of
important banks through case-by-case techniques using investment banks
and sales agents hired through internationally competitive tenders.
iii. Liquidation and Work-out of Deeply Insolvent Banks: This component will
provide funding for technical assistance to support rapid liquidation
and work-out of insolvent banks that are not selected for
rehabilitation and stabilization programs.
iv. Project Implementation Support: This component will support the project
implementation capacity.
5. Financing
Total project cost is estimated at US$6.5 million. Bank financing will be in
the amount of US$6.5 million, and would finance consultant services, training
and eqiupment.
6. Implementation
The project is expected to be implemented over a thirty months period. The
BRA is the main counterpart for the project, though substantial coordination
will also be done with the NBY. The overall coordination of the project would
rest with the proposed Project Management Unit (PMU), which has been
established in the BRA. The PMU will be headed by a Director (currently the
head of BRA) who will have overall responsibility for the project. The PMU
director will be assisted by a Project Administrator who will oversee the day-
to-day operations of the project. Both, the PMU director and project
administrator, will ensure that all project objectives and monitorable targets
as specified in the PIP are on track and achieved. Technical expertise on a
short-term basis will be provided to the Project Administrator as and when
required. The PMU, apart from the Project Administrator, will have a
procurement specialist, and a FMS specialist.    The PMU will be responsible
for the day to day operations of the project, procurement and financial
management, including reporting to the Government and to the Bank.
7. Sustainability
-2-



The program will assist the government and NBY to implement their banking
restructuring strategy and work towards establishing a better-functioning and
more competitive banking system that can mobilize a rising level of financial
resources, thus efficiently servicing the credit needs of a growing economy.
These reforms are critical for the long-term health and sustainability of the
financial sector. In addition, the IMF, in cooperation with the Bank, is
also addressing financial sector issues in its program, which would help
achieve the sustainability of the reforms supported by the project.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The Bank experience in other transition economies has demonstrated that
adequate institutional framework is an essential condition for the success of
broad-based structural reforms. Lessons learned in the transition process
indicate that institutional reform should be a key component of an early
assistance strategy. Accordingly, the proposed grant emphasizes developing
the local institutional capacity, thus creating the foundation for the future
structural reforms
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
In accordance with the Bank's Operational Directive on Environmental
Assessment (OD 4.01 Annex E), the proposed project has been placed in
Category "C" and does not require an environment assessment.
Contact Point:
InfoShop
World Bank
1818 H. Street, N.W.,
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax (202) 522-1500
E-Mail: pic@worldbank.org
Project Team Leader
Gerardo Corrochano
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone No.: 202-473-3568
Fax No.:           202-522-3687
Note:     This is information on an evolving project.    Certain components may
not necessarily be included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending May 18, 2001.
- 3 -



