Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TRUST FUND NUMBER TF029799
Trust Fund Grant Agreement
(Financial Sector Development Technical Assistance Project)
between
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(Acting Jointly as the Administrator of the Trust Fund for FRY)
Dated August 23, 2001
TRUST FUND NUMBER TF029799
TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated as of August 23, 2001, between FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA 
(the Recipient), AND INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) 
AND INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) (jointly, the 
Administrator).
WHEREAS (A) the Board of Governors of the Bank, acting on the recommendation of 
its Board of Executive Directors, decided on April 30, 2001, pursuant to Resolution 
No. 539, to transfer from Bank surplus, by way of grant, $30,000,000 to a trust fund 
for the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (TFFRY), established by Resolution of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank (IBRD Resolution No. 2001-0005) and Resolution of the 
Executive Directors of the Association (IDA Resolution No. 2001-0003), and to be 
administered by the Administrator, to be used for financing an emergency economic 
recovery and transition program in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia;
(B)
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
the Administrator to assist, from the TFFRY, in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend a grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth 
in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions" (the General Conditions) set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"BRA" means the Bank Rehabilitation Agency of the Recipient, or any 
successor thereto;
(b)
"NBY" means the National Bank of Yugoslavia, the Recipient’s central 
bank, or any successor thereto; 
(c)
"Operational Manual" means a manual, satisfactory to the Administrator, 
adopted by the BRA, setting forth procedures and rules related to the Project 
implementation, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(d)
"PMU" means a project management unit established by the Recipient within 
the BRA, and referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
(e)
"Project Management Report" means each report referred to in Section 4.01 
(c) of this Agreement, and prepared in accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
and
(f) 
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to make available to the Recipient, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Grant Agreement, a grant in 
an amount of six million Dollars ($6,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
reasonable cost of goods, services training, and incremental operating costs, required 
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
(b)
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
a commercial bank a special deposit account, in Dollars, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Administrator, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2004, or such later date as the 
Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Recipient 
of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, technical, administrative, 
and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, and except as the Administrator and Recipient shall otherwise agree, the 
Recipient shall, for the purposes of the Project, ensure that during the term of the 
Project the PMU operates in accordance with the Operational Manual and is maintained 
with  staff and resources necessary and appropriate for the Project.
Section 3.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
Page  3
the goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 24 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the 
Administrator, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s 
objectives; and
(b)
afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Recipient on said plan.
Section 3.05. The Recipient shall: 
(a)
maintains policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon from time 
to time between the Recipient and the Administrator, the carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator, on or about November 30, 2002, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to subparagraph 
(a) above, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Administrator, December 31, 2002, or such later date as 
the Administrator shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Administrator’s views on 
the matter.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Administrator, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Administrator, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of 
such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Administrator shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning 
said auditors, as the Administrator may from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
Page  4
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Administrator has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Administrator’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Administrator for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Recipient, not later than 
December 31, 2001, or such later date as the Administrator shall agree, to prepare 
quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the Administrator, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the three-month period following the period covered by 
said report; and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant during the period covered by said report 
and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant during the four-month period following the period 
covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion by the Recipient of the action plan referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Recipient shall prepare, in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Administrator, and furnish to the Administrator not later 
than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management 
Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the Grant has been  
fully disbursed and the parties have fulfilled their obligations thereunder.
Section 5.02. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purpose of Section 36 (a) of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Deputy Prime Minister of the Recipient’s government is 
designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 32 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
30 of the General Conditions:
Page  5
For the Recipient:
Federal Government
Bul. Mikajla Pupina 2
Belgrade 11070
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Facsimile:
(381 11) 311-2979
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
By /s/ Miroljub Labus
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
   AND DEVELOPMENT AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(Acting as Administrator of the TFFRY)
By /s/ Elaine Patterson
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Grant Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)  Consultants’ services
(a)
Services by individuals
   1,840,000
84%
(b)
Services by firms, includ- 3,890,000
97%
ing auditing services
Page  6
(2)
Goods
20,000 100%
(3)  Training
      50,000
100%
(4)  Incremental operating costs
50,000 100%
(5)
Unallocated
     150,000
TOTAL
   6,000,000
2.  
For the purpose of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "Incremental operating costs" means reasonable incremental 
expenses incurred on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, 
including office supplies, publication of procurement notices, vehicle operation, 
travel and supervision costs, but excluding salaries of officials and employees of the 
Recipient;
(b)
the term "Training" means the fees of educational and other institutions 
and organizations that provide training services, cost of study tours, cost of 
workshops, related travel expenditures, boarding, lodging and per diem allowances.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$600,000 may be made in respect of the Categories set forth in the table in paragraph 
1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but 
after May 1, 2001.
4. 
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods, under 
contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each, with the exception of the first 
contract, or goods procured under international and national shopping methods; (b) 
services of consulting firms, under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent 
each, with the exception of the first contract; (c) services of individual 
consultants, under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each, with the 
exception of the first contract; (d) training under contracts costing less than 
$50,000; and (e) all incremental operating costs, all under such terms and conditions 
as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is strengthen the financial sector in and to 
restore the basic functions of intermediation in the banking system in the Republic of 
Serbia.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Recipient and the Administrator may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A: 
Preparation of Banks for Privatization
Assistance in the stabilization, rehabilitation and pre-privatization of 
selected banks, through the provision of consulting services.
Part B: 
Privatization of Large Banks
Support of a rapid privatization process of selected number of large banks, 
using case-by-case privatization techniques, on the basis of transparent and 
competitive procedures, and assistance of internationally recognized investment banks 
and sales agents, through the provision of consulting services.
Part C: 
Liquidation and Work-out of Deeply Insolvent Banks
Assistance in the rapid liquidation and work-out of all insolvent banks that are 
not selected to participate in the rehabilitation and stabilization programs 
implemented by the NBY and BRA, through the provision of consulting services.
Part D: 
Project Management and Implementation
Page  7
Assistance in the management and implementation of the Project, including the 
procurement and financial management areas, through the provision of consulting 
services, including the audit of accounts and financial statements referred to Article 
IV of this Agreement, incremental operating costs and goods.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 
(the Guidelines), and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
International  Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to all contracts procured under Part B of this Section I, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b) 
 With respect to the first contract procured under Part C, and all 
contracts procured under Part C and estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the execution of any contracts under procured shopping 
procedures, the Recipient shall provide to the Administrator a 
report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Recipient shall provide to the Administrator a 
copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  8
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines), and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Training, implementation of management systems and study tours under Part D of 
the Project, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Least-cost Selection
Audit services and advertising services under Part D of the Project, estimated 
to cost less than $90,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for specialized bank and project administration, management and 
advisory services under Parts A and D of the Project shall be procured under contracts 
awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to the first contract procured under each Part C.1 and C.2 
of this Section II, and each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 
2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first contract for the employment of individual 
consultant, and for each contract under Part C.3 of this Section II estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference 
and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval 
Page  9
shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, services, training and incremental operating costs required 
for  the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant allocated from 
time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 
1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Administrator 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $300,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Grant 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Administrator pursuant to Section 7 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of $900,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Administrator shall, on 
behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Administrator requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Administrator shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Administrator the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Administrator shall, on behalf of 
the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Administrator from the Grant Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
Page  10
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 6 of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator, 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of 
the audit reports required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said 
Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Recipient of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 16 of the 
General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Administrator pursuant to Section 7 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Administrator shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further withdrawals 
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Administrator shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so 
request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Administrator shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the Bank 
all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 5
General Conditions
Section 1.  Application of General Conditions
Without limitation or restriction upon the scope of any other provisions of this 
Agreement, these General Conditions set forth certain basic terms and conditions 
applicable to this Agreement.
Section 2.  Definitions
The following terms have the following meanings wherever used in these General 
Conditions:
(a)
"Administrator" means the Bank and Association, acting jointly as 
administrator of the TFFRY;
Page  11
(b)
"Closing Date" means the date specified in Section 2.03 of this Agreement 
after which the Administrator may, by notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of 
the recipient to withdraw from the Grant Account.
(c)
"Dollars" and the sign "$" mean dollars in the currency of the United 
States of America.
(d)
"Effective Date" means the date on which this Grant Agreement shall enter 
into effect as provided in Section 36 of this Schedule.
(e)
"Grant" means the grant provided for in this Agreement;
(f) 
"Grant Account" means the account opened by the Administrator on its 
books in the name of the Recipient to which the amount of the Grant is credited;
(g)
"Project" means the project for which the Grant is made, as described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and as the description thereof may be amended from time 
to time by agreement between the Recipient and the Administrator; and
(h)
"Taxes" includes imposts, levies, fees and duties of any nature, whether 
in effect at the date of this Agreement or thereafter imposed.
Section 3.  Grant Account
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to the Grant Account and may be 
withdrawn therefrom by the Recipient as provided in this Agreement and in these 
General Conditions.
Section 4.  Currencies in which Withdrawals are to be Made
Except as the Recipient and the Administrator shall otherwise agree, withdrawals 
from the Grant Account shall be made in the respective currencies in which the 
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant have been paid or are 
payable. 
Section 5.  Valuation of Currencies 
Whenever it shall be necessary for the purposes of this Agreement to determine 
the value of one currency in terms of another, such value shall be as reasonably 
determined by the Administrator.
Section 6.  Withdrawal from the Grant Account
The Recipient shall be entitled to withdraw from the Grant Account amounts 
expended or, if the Administrator shall so agree, amounts to be expended for the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and of these General 
Conditions. Except as the Administrator and the Recipient shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not a member of  the Administrator, or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Administrator, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.
Section 7.  Special Commitments by the Administrator
Upon the Recipient’s request and upon such terms and conditions as shall be 
agreed upon between the Recipient and the Administrator, the Administrator may enter 
into special commitments in writing to pay amounts to the Recipient or others in 
respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant 
notwithstanding any subsequent suspension or cancellation by the Administrator or the 
Recipient.
Section 8.  Applications for Withdrawal or for Special Commitment
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account or 
to request the Administrator to enter into a special commitment pursuant to Section 7 
of the General Conditions, the Recipient shall deliver to the Administrator a written 
application in such form, and containing such statements and agreements, as the 
Administrator shall reasonably request. Applications for withdrawal, including the 
documentation required therefor, shall be made promptly in relation to expenditures 
Page  12
for the Project.
Section 9.  Reallocation
Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Grant or the percentages for 
withdrawal set forth or referred to in this Agreement, if the Administrator has 
reasonably estimated that the amount of the Grant then allocated to any withdrawal 
category set forth in this Agreement or added thereto by amendment will be 
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that category, 
the Administrator may, by notice to the Recipient:
(a)
reallocate to such category, to the extent required to meet the estimated 
shortfall, proceeds of the Grant which are then allocated to another category and 
which in the opinion of the Administrator are not needed to meet other expenditures; 
and
(b)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce 
the percentage for withdrawal then applicable to such expenditures in order that 
further withdrawals under such category may continue until all expenditures thereunder 
shall have been made.
Section 10.  Evidence of Authority to Sign Applications for Withdrawal
The Recipient shall furnish to the Administrator evidence of the authority of 
the person or persons authorized to sign applications for withdrawal and the 
authenticated specimen signature of any such person.
Section 11.  Supporting Evidence
The Recipient shall furnish to the Administrator such documents and other 
evidence in support of the application as the Administrator shall reasonably request, 
whether before or after the Administrator shall have permitted any withdrawal 
requested in the application.
Section 12.  Sufficiency of Applications and Documents
Each application and the accompanying documents and other evidence must be 
sufficient in form and substance to satisfy the Administrator that the Recipient is 
entitled to withdraw from the Grant Account the amount applied for and that the amount 
to be withdrawn from the Grant Account is to be used only for the purposes specified 
in this Agreement.
Section 13.  Treatment of Taxes
It is the policy of the Administrator that no proceeds of the Grant shall be 
withdrawn on account of payments for any taxes levied in the territory in which the 
Recipient is located on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, 
procurement or supply thereof. To that end, if the amount of any taxes levied on or in 
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant decreases or 
increases, the Administrator may, by notice to the Recipient, increase or decrease the 
percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect of such item in this 
Agreement as required to be consistent with such policy of the Administrator.
Section 14.  Payment by the Administrator
The Administrator shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the 
Grant Account only to or on the order of the Recipient.
Section 15.  Cancellation by the Recipient
The Recipient may, by notice to the Administrator, cancel any amount of the 
Grant which the Recipient shall not have withdrawn, except that the Recipient may not 
so cancel any amount of the Grant in respect of which the Administrator shall have 
entered into a special commitment pursuant to Section 7 of this Schedule.
Section 16.  Suspension by the Administrator
If any of the following events of suspension shall have occurred and be 
continuing, the Administrator may, by notice to the Recipient, suspend in whole or in 
part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account:
(a)
The Recipient shall have failed to perform any other obligation under 
Page  13
this Agreement. 
(b)
The Administrator shall have suspended in whole or in part the right of 
the Recipient to make withdrawals under any grant agreement with the Administrator 
because of a failure by the Recipient to perform any of its obligations under such 
agreement with the Administrator.
(c)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Project can be carried out, or that the Recipient or any Project 
implementation entity will be able to perform its obligations under this Agreement.
(d) 
The member of the Bank which is the Recipient: (i) shall have been 
suspended from membership in or ceased to be a member of the Bank or Association, or 
(ii) shall have ceased to be a member of the International Monetary Fund.
(e)
After the date of this Agreement and prior to the effective date, any 
event shall have occurred which would have entitled the Administrator to suspend the 
Recipient’s right to make withdrawals under the Grant if the Agreement had been 
effective on the date such event occurred. 
(f)
A representation made by the Recipient in or pursuant to the Agreement, 
or any statement furnished in connection therewith, and intended to be relied upon by 
the Administrator in making the Grant, shall have been incorrect in any material 
respect.
(g) 
The Recipient or any Project implementation entity shall, without the 
consent of the Association, have: (i) assigned or transferred, in whole or in part, 
any of its obligations arising under this Agreement; or (ii) sold, leased, 
transferred, assigned, or otherwise disposed of any property or assets financed wholly 
or in part out of the proceeds of the Grant, except with respect to transactions in 
the ordinary course of business which, in the opinion of the Administrator, do not 
materially and adversely affect the ability of the Recipient to perform any of its 
obligations under this Agreement or to achieve the objectives of the Project, or the 
ability of the Project implementation entity to perform any of its obligations arising 
under, or entered into pursuant to, this Agreement, or to achieve the objectives of 
the Project.
(h)
Any action shall have been taken for the dissolution, disestablishment or 
suspension of operations of any Project implementation entity.
(i)
The Project implementation entity shall have ceased to exist in the same 
legal form as that prevailing as of the date of this Agreement.
(j)
In the opinion of the Administrator, the legal character, ownership or 
control of any Project implementation entity shall have changed from that prevailing 
as of the date of this Agreement so as to materially and adversely affect the ability 
of the Project implementation entity to perform any of its obligations arising under, 
or entered into pursuant to, this Agreement, or to achieve the objectives of the 
Project.
(k)
Any other event specified in this Agreement for the purposes of this 
Section shall have occurred. 
The right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall continue 
to be suspended in whole or in part, as the case may be, until the event or events 
which gave rise to suspension shall have ceased to exist, unless the Administrator 
shall have notified the Recipient that the right to make withdrawals has been restored 
in whole or in part, as the case may be.
Section 17.  Cancellation by the Administrator
If: (a) the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account 
shall have been suspended with respect to any amount of the Grant for a continuous 
period of thirty (30) days; or (b) at any time, the Administrator determines, after 
consultation with the Recipient, that an amount of the Grant will not be required to 
finance the Project's costs to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant; or (c) at 
any time, the Administrator determines, with respect to any contract to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in 
by representatives of the Recipient or of a beneficiary of the Grant during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Recipient having taken 
timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Administrator to remedy the 
Page  14
situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract 
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the 
Grant; or (d) at any time, the Administrator determines that the procurement of any 
item is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement 
and establishes the amount of the expenditures in respect of such item which would 
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Grant; or (e) 
after the Closing Date, an amount of the Grant shall remain unwithdrawn from the Grant 
Account, the Administrator may, by notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to make withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount of the Grant shall be cancelled.
Section 18.  Amounts Subject to Special Commitment not Affected by Cancellation or
Suspension by the Administrator
No cancellation or suspension by the Administrator shall apply to amounts 
subject to any special commitment entered into by the Administrator pursuant to 
Section 7 of the General Conditions except as expressly provided in such commitment.
Section 19.  Effectiveness of Provisions after Suspension or Cancellation
Notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension, all the provisions of this 
Agreement shall continue in full force and effect except as specifically provided in 
this Agreement.
Section 20.  Cooperation and Information
The Recipient and the Administrator shall cooperate fully to assure that the 
purposes of the Grant will be accomplished. To that end, the Recipient and the 
Administrator shall:  (a)
from time to time, at the request of any one of them, 
exchange views with regard to the progress of the Project, the purposes of the Grant, 
and the performance of their respective obligations under this Agreement; and furnish 
to the other party all such information related thereto as it shall reasonably 
request; and (b) promptly inform each other of any condition which interferes with, or 
threatens to interfere with, the matters referred to in paragraph (a) above.
Section 21.  Insurance
The Recipient shall insure or cause to be insured, or make adequate provision for the 
insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant 
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to 
the place of use or installation. Any indemnity for such insurance shall be payable in 
a freely usable currency to replace or repair such goods.
Section 22.  Use of Goods, Works and Services
Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall cause all 
goods, works, and services financed out of the proceeds of the Grant to be used 
exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 23.  Plans and Schedules
The Recipient shall furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the Administrator 
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract 
documents and construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material 
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Administrator shall 
reasonably request.
Section 24.  Records and Reports
(a)
The Recipient shall: (i) maintain records and procedures adequate to 
record and monitor the progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to 
be derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds 
of the Grant, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable the 
Administrator’s representatives to visit any facilities and construction sites 
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant and any plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property, equipment, 
records and documents relevant to the performance of the obligations of the Recipient 
under this Agreement; and (iii) furnish to the Administrator at regular intervals all 
such information as the Administrator shall reasonably request concerning the Project, 
its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure 
of the proceeds of the Grant and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(b)
Upon the award of any contract for goods or services to be financed out 
Page  15
of the proceeds of the Grant, the Administrator may publish a description thereof, the 
name and nationality of the party to which the contract was awarded and the contract 
price.
(c)
Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any event not later than 
six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Recipient and the Administrator, the Recipient shall prepare and 
furnish to the Administrator a report, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Administrator shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the 
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance 
by the Recipient and the Administrator of their respective obligations under this 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Grant.
Section 25.  Maintenance
The Recipient shall at all times operate and maintain, or cause to be operated 
and maintained, any facilities relevant to the Project, and promptly as needed, make 
or cause to be made all necessary repairs and renewals thereof.
Section 26.  Land Acquisition
The Recipient shall cause to be taken all such action as shall be necessary to 
acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be 
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the Administrator, promptly 
upon its request, evidence satisfactory to the Administrator that such land and rights 
in respect of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 27. Enforceability
The rights and obligations of the Administrator and Recipient under the Grant 
Agreement shall be valid and enforceable in accordance with their terms 
notwithstanding the law of any State or political subdivision thereof to the contrary. 
Neither the Administrator nor the Recipient shall be entitled in any proceeding under 
this Article to assert any claim that any provision of these General Conditions or of 
the Grant Agreement is invalid or unenforceable because of any provision of the 
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
Section 28. Failure to Exercise Rights
No delay in exercising, or omission to exercise, any right, power or remedy 
accruing to any party under the Grant Agreement upon any default shall impair any such 
right, power or remedy or be construed to be a waiver thereof or an acquiescence in 
such default. No action of such party in respect of any default, or any acquiescence 
by it in any default, shall affect or impair any right, power or remedy of such party 
in respect of any other or subsequent default.
Section 29. Arbitration
(a)
Any controversy between the parties to the Grant Agreement, and any claim 
by any such party against any other such party arising under the Grant Agreement which 
has not been settled by agreement of the parties shall be submitted to arbitration by 
an Arbitral Tribunal as hereinafter provided.
(b)
The parties to such arbitration shall be the Administrator on the one 
side and the Recipient on the other side.
(c)
The Arbitral Tribunal shall consist of three arbitrators appointed as 
follows: one arbitrator shall be appointed by the Administrator; a second arbitrator 
shall be appointed by the Recipient; and the third arbitrator (hereinafter sometimes 
called the Umpire) shall be appointed by agreement of the parties or, if they shall 
not agree, by the President of the International Court of Justice or, failing 
appointment by said President, by the Secretary-General of the United Nations. If 
either side shall fail to appoint an arbitrator, such arbitrator shall be appointed by 
the Umpire. In case any arbitrator appointed in accordance with this Section shall 
resign, die or become unable to act, a successor arbitrator shall be appointed in the 
same manner as herein prescribed for the appointment of the original arbitrator and 
such successor shall have all the powers and duties of such original arbitrator.
(d)
An arbitration proceeding may be instituted under this Section upon 
notice by the party instituting such proceeding to the other party. Such notice shall 
contain a statement setting forth the nature of the controversy or claim to be 
submitted to arbitration and the nature of the relief sought and the name of the 
Page  16
arbitrator appointed by the party instituting such proceeding. Within (30) thirty days 
after such notice, the other party shall notify to the party instituting the 
proceeding the name of the arbitrator appointed by such other party.
(e)
If within sixty (60) days after the notice instituting the arbitration 
proceeding, the parties shall not have agreed upon an Umpire, any party may request 
the appointment of an Umpire as provided in paragraph (c) of this Section.
(f)
The Arbitral Tribunal shall convene at such time and place as shall be 
fixed by the Umpire. Thereafter, the Arbitral Tribunal shall determine where and when 
it shall sit.
(g)
The Arbitral Tribunal shall decide all questions relating to its 
competence and shall, subject to the provisions of this Section and except as the 
parties shall otherwise agree, determine its procedure. All decisions of the Arbitral 
Tribunal shall be by majority vote.
(h)
The Arbitral Tribunal shall afford to all parties a fair hearing and 
shall render its award in writing. Such award may be rendered by default. An award 
signed by a majority of the Arbitral Tribunal shall constitute the award of such 
Tribunal. A signed counterpart of the award shall be transmitted to each party. Any 
such award rendered in accordance with the provisions of this Section shall be final 
and binding upon the parties to the Grant Agreement. Each party shall abide by and 
comply with any such award rendered by the Arbitral Tribunal in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section.
(i)
The parties shall fix the amount of the remuneration of the arbitrators 
and such other persons as shall be required for the conduct of the arbitration 
proceedings. If the parties shall not agree on such amount before the Arbitral 
Tribunal shall convene, the Arbitral Tribunal shall fix such amount as shall be 
reasonable under the circumstances. The Administrator and Recipient shall each defray 
its own expenses in the arbitration proceedings. The costs of the Arbitral Tribunal 
shall be divided between and borne equally by the Administrator on the one side and 
the Recipient on the other. Any question concerning the division of the costs of the 
Arbitral Tribunal or the procedure for payment of such costs shall be determined by 
the Arbitral Tribunal.
(j)
The provisions for arbitration set forth in this Section shall be in lieu 
of any other procedure for the settlement of controversies between the parties to the 
Grant Agreement or of any claim by any such party against any other such party arising 
thereunder.
(k)
If, within thirty (30) days after counterparts of the award shall have 
been delivered to the parties, the award shall not be complied with, any party may: 
(i) enter judgment upon, or institute a proceeding to enforce, the award in any court 
of competent jurisdiction against any other party; (ii) enforce such judgment by 
execution; or (iii) pursue any other appropriate remedy against such other party for 
the enforcement of the award and the provisions of the Grant Agreement. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Section shall not authorize any entry of judgment 
or enforcement of the award against any party that is a member of the Bank or 
Association except as such procedure may be available otherwise than by reason of the 
provisions of this Section.
(l)
Service of any notice or process in connection with any proceeding under 
this Section or in connection with any proceeding to enforce any award rendered 
pursuant to this Section may be made in the manner provided in Section 28 of the 
General Conditions. The parties to the Grant Agreement waive any and all other 
requirements for the service of any such notice or process.
Section 30.  Notices and Requests
Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made under this 
Agreement and any other agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agreement 
shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or 
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or 
facsimile to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at 
such party’s address specified in this Agreement, or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. Delivery made by facsimile transmission shall be confirmed by mail.
Section 31.  Evidence of Authority
Page  17
The Recipient shall furnish to the Administrator sufficient evidence of the 
authority of the person or persons who will, on behalf of the Recipient, take any 
action or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken or executed by the 
Recipient under this Agreement, and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
Section 32.  Action on Behalf of the Recipient
Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents required or 
permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of the Recipient may be taken 
or executed by the representative of the Recipient designated in this Agreement for 
the purposes of this Section or any person thereunto authorized in writing by such 
representative. Any modification or amplification of the provisions of this Agreement 
may be agreed to on behalf of the Recipient by written instrument executed on behalf 
of the Recipient by the representative so designated or any person thereunto 
authorized in writing by such representative, provided that, in the opinion of such 
representative, such modification or amplification is reasonable in the circumstances 
and will not substantially increase the obligations of the Recipient under this 
Agreement. The Administrator may accept the execution by such representative or other 
person of any such instrument as conclusive evidence that in the opinion of such 
representative any modification or amplification of the provisions of this Agreement 
effected by such instrument is reasonable in the circumstances and will not 
substantially increase the obligations of the Recipient thereunder.
Section 33.  Execution in Counterparts 
This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which shall be 
an original.
Section 34.  Conditions Precedent to Effectiveness of Grant Agreement
The Grant Agreement shall not become effective until evidence satisfactory to 
the Administrator shall have been furnished to the Administrator:
(a)
that the execution and delivery of this Agreement on behalf of the 
Recipient have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental and 
corporate action;
(b)
if the Administrator shall so request, that the condition of the Grant 
recipient (other than a member of the Bank or Association), as represented or 
warranted to the Administrator at the date of this Agreement, has undergone no 
material adverse change after such date; and
(c)
that all other events specified in this Agreement as conditions to 
effectiveness have occurred.
Section 35.  Legal Opinions or Certificates
As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 34 of the General 
Conditions, there shall be furnished to the Administrator an opinion or opinions 
satisfactory to the Administrator of counsel acceptable to the Administrator or, if 
the Administrator shall so request, a certificate satisfactory to the Administrator of 
a competent official of the Recipient showing:
(a)
on behalf of the Recipient, that this Agreement has been duly authorized 
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Recipient and is legally 
binding upon the Recipient in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
such other matters as shall be specified in this Agreement or as shall be 
reasonably requested by the Administrator in connection therewith.
Section 36.  Effective Date
(a)
Except as the Administrator and the Recipient shall otherwise agree, this 
Agreement shall enter into effect on the date upon which the Administrator dispatches 
to the Recipient notice of its acceptance of the evidence required by Section 34 of 
the General Conditions.
(b)
If, before the Effective Date, any event shall have occurred which would 
have entitled the Administrator to suspend the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account if this Agreement had been effective, the 
Administrator may postpone the dispatch of the notice referred to in paragraph (a) of 
Page  18
this Section until such event or events or situation shall have ceased to exist.
Section 37. Termination of Grant Agreement for Failure to Become Effective
If this Agreement shall not have entered into effect by the date specified in 
this Agreement for the purposes of this Section, this Agreement and all obligations of 
the parties thereunder shall terminate, unless the Administrator, after consideration 
of the reasons for the delay, shall establish a later date for the purposes of this 
Section. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date.
