Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5058-PAK
STAFF APPRAISAL RE PORT
PAKISTAN
SEC)ND SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
May 11, 1984
Industrial Development and Finance Division
South Asia Projects Depar tment
|hi document has a resticted distribution and my be used by recipients nly in the performance of
their offica dutie  It contens amy net odrwise be disclosed without World Bank autoizatio



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Pakistan Rupees (Rs)
US$1 = Rs 13.5
Rs 1 = US$0.0741
ABBREVIATIONS USED
ABL     -  Allied Bank of Pakistan Limited
DSI     -  Directorate of Small Industries
GOP     -  Government of Pakistan
UBL     -  Habib Bank Limited
IACP    -  Investment Advisory Center of Pakistan
IDBP    -  Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan
IIC     -  Industrial Investment Credit
MCB.   -  Muslim Commercial Bank
NBP     -  National Bank of Pakistan
NWFP    -  North West Frontier Province
PBC     -  Pakistan Banking Council
PSIC    -  Punjab Small Industries Corporation
SBP     -  State Bank of Pakistan
SIC     -  Small Industries Corporation
SID     -  Small Industries Department
SIDB    -  Small Industries Development Board
SIRD    -  Small Industries Refinance Department
SSI     -  Small Scale Industries
SSI I  -  First Small Industries Pro'ect
SSI II -  Proposed Second Small Industries Proiect
SSIC    -  Sind Small Industries Corporation
UBL     -  United Bank Limited
FISCAL YEARS
Government of Pakistan : July 1-June 30
Commercial Banks        : January 1-December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF SECOND SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY          ..................................    iii
I.  INTRODUCTION             .................................... . .. .........  1
II.  SECTORAL FRAMEWORK ................................*...                      3
A.  Economic Setting ........................................               3
B.  Industrial Sector ..... .................................               4
C.  Financial Environment ..        ............. .................. *      5
D.  Small Scale Industries Sector ...........................               7
-  Characteristics and Performance ....           ..................   7
-  Policy Environment and Development Strategy ....          ......    8
-  Credit Demand (FY85 and FY86) .....           ...................  10
-  Sixth Five-Year Plan Obiectives ......................    11
III.  THE PROJECT            .................................................    12
A.  Obiectives and Scope ................      ..      ..................    12
B.  Proiect Costs and Financing Plan             ........................    13
C.  Lending Component .................      ..     ....................    14
-  Role of Commercial Banks in SSI Financing             ............    14
-  Participating Institutions ...........................    14
-  Refinance and Monitoring Agencies              ....................    15
-  Subproiect Eligibility Criteria               ......................    16
-  Subloan Terms and Conditions .........................    17
D.  Technical Assistance Ccmponents ........                               17
- Technical Assistance Program for SSI .17
- Investment Promotion and Proiect Development
for Baluchistan ....................................    18
-  Proiect Identification and Development for NWFP    ......    19
-  Management Training Program for SSI ...............        ...    20
-  Subproiect Preparation Fund .......            ...................    21
-  Subcontracting Study ...........................            ...    21
IV.  THE CREDIT            ..................................................    22
A.  Terms and Conditions  ...............      ..     ..................    22
B.  Administrative Procedures ...............................    23
V.  BENEFITS AlTD RISKS .       ....................................    25
-  Benefits             ............................ ........  .......    25
-  Risks           ................................................   26
VI.  RECOMMENDATIONS ..............................................   26
This report was prepared by Messrs. J. Pernia and G. Vivado (ASPID),
H. Qureshi (Res. Mission), and L. Chico (Consultant) following an appraisal
mission to Pakistan in October 1983. The report was finalized after a
post-appraisal mission in March 1984, consisting of Messrs. J. Pernia,
C. Punsalan, G. Vivado (ASPID), and H. Qureshi (Res. Mission).
Ihbis document has a restrited distribution and tnay be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-.
LIST OF ANNEXES
1. Profile of Subprojects Under Credit 1113-PAK
2. Profile of Commercial Banks
3. Comparative Capital Intensity, Capital Productivity and
Labor Productivity of SSIs
4. Organizational Profile of SICs
5. Subloan Pipeline of Commercial Banks
6. Estimated Project Costs and Financing Plan
7. Small Industries Refinance Department of IDBP - Strategy Statement,
Policies and Procedures, Work Program and Organization
8. Implementation Timetable for the Technical Assistance Components
9. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
10. Documents Available in Project File



-iii-
PAKISTAN
SECOND SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Beneficiaries:           Allied Bank of Pakistan Limited (ABL)
Habib Bank Limited (EEL)
Muslim Commercial Bank (MCB)
National Bank of Pakistan (NBP)
United Bank Limited (UBL)
Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP)
Federal Ministry of Industries
Provincial Small Industries Corporations (SIC)
Pakistan Banking Council (PBC)
Amount:                  SDR 47 million (US$50.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard
OnLending Terms:         The Government would relend the proceeds of the
Credit through the Industrial Development Bank of
Pakistan to the five participating commercial banks
at terms which would provide a spread of 4%-5.25% to
the banks and an administrative fee of 1.5% to IDBP,
with an onlending rate of llZ to the final
subborrowers. The Government would bear the foreign
exchange risk. The participating banks would repay
their loans over 12 years, including a grace period
of five years. The proceeds of the Credit to be used
for technical assistance would be passed on to the
executing agencies at IDA terms.
Project Description:    The Proqect would provide credit to promote invest-
ments in promising small scale industries (SSI)
subsectors and to accelerate modernization and
improve productivity of existing SSI units.  To
complement the credit scheme, technical assistance
would be provided to SSIs through the provincial
Small Industries Corporations and the federal
Ministry of Industries in proiect identification and
investment promotion, project preparation and exten-
sion services, and management training. Present
Government policies augur well for continued growth
in the industrial sector generally and among SSIs in



-iv-
particular. The main risk is that adverse political
or external econom1c factors could affect growth in
the sector and demand for SSI credit. The technical
assistance component is vulnerable to institutional
weaknesses. The experience accumulated under the
first Project, together with strong institution
building inputs through training and consultancy
services, should reduce this risk.
Estimated Costs:                                           Local   Foreign  Total
--USS million-
Lending Component                86.00    30.00   116.00
Technical Assistance
Components                     2.36     0.92      3.28
Total                   88.36    30.92   119.28
Financing Plan:                                           Local   Foreign  Total
-US$ milion--
IDA                              19.08    30.92    50.00
Participating Commercial Banks 21.54         -      21.54
Subproject Sponsors              47.00       -      47.00
GOP                               0.74       -       0.74
Total                   88.36    30.92   11928
Estimated Disbursements:        IDA  FY   85    86      87      88      89     90
-US$ million- - --
Annual          2.60  12.00  14.00  14.00   5.00   2.40
Cumulative      2.60  14.60  28.60  42.60  47.60  50.00



PAKISTAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTIONT
1.01    The Government of Pakistan's (GOP) Sixth Five-Year Plan (FY84-88)
stresses the contribution of small scale industries (SSI) in achieving the
targets for industrial employment, exports and output. This is expected to
be realized through private investment and activity, with Government provid-
ing support through expanded financial, technical and infrastructure services
for SSIs. The first SSI Credit (SSI I) of US$30 million, which became effec-
tive in October 1981 and has been fully committed and about 80% disbursed,
has supported GOP's SSI objectives and strategy by improving institutional
arrangements for channeling credit and technical services to SSI. The
proposed Second SSI Project (SSI II) would continue this support by building
on institutional capabilities developed in SSI I and expanding the credit and
technical assistance schemes to meet increasing demand from SSI. An IDA
Credit of US$50 million equivalent (SDR 47 million) in support of a US$120
million project is recommended.
1.02    The First SSI Project.  In the past, SSI lending was carried out
jointly by the Small Industries Corporations (SIC) and the commercial banks,
but this arrangement resulted in overlapping responsibilities, friction
between institutions, delays in loan processing and, finally, poor loan
recovery performance. Moreover, concerns with lending drew the SICs away
from the other important functions of SSI promotion and extension. The First
SSI Project has succeeded in rationalizing institutional roles by assigning
the lending function completely to the commercial banks and reorienting the
SICs toward technical assistance. Through training and organizational
arrangements, the Project assisted the commercial banks in organizing and
staffing appropriately for project-based SSI lending. At the headquarters of
each bank, a Small Industry Department (SID) was formed to undertake project
appraisal. Key officers of the SIDs received an intensive five-week training
on SSI project appraisal and supervision. About 400 branches were designated
by the five banks to process IDA subloans; managers of these branches under-
went training on SSI lending policies and procedures. With these prepara-
tions, the five banks, with the Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan
(IDBP) as refinance and monitoring agency and the Pakistan Banking Council
(PBC) as coordinator, have demonstrated their capability for SSI lending by
fully committing the US$26 million subloan component of the Credit more than
one year ahead of schedule. Disbursements to subprojects have reached US$21
million and full disbursement is expected by December 1984. Subloans averag-
ing US$48,000 have been approved for 646 subprojects with fixed cost per job
of US$3,250. Major subsectors financed have been agro-industries, light



-2-
engineering, textiles and garments, and wood products. While most sub-
projects are still under construction and subloans have not yet matured, a
random sample of subprojects already operating indicates that lending deci-
sions being made under the scheme are sound, with rigid sponsor screening and
solid appraisal techniques (Annex 1).
1.03    To reorient the SICs toward promotion and extension services,
implementation of the technical assistance components was made their sole
responsibility. To promote coordination between the SICs and the commercial
banks, a subproject preparation fund was established under which SICs could
assist sponsors in preparing subproject proposals for appraisal by the com-
mercial banks. This fund will be increased under SSI II. Implementation of
the other technical assistance components, however, has been delayed, due to
problems with civil works for the service centers, difficulty in locating and
hiring appropriate consultants for the export promotion and project promotion
components, and indecision regarding on-lending terms by GOP for the subsec-
tor studies fund. Except for identification of consultants for subsector
studies, these problems have been resolved and new target completion dates
have been agreed with the concerned agencies. These dates are well within
the original appraisal estimate of project completion, December 31, 1985.
However, these delays mean that technical service elements of SSI II will be
limited to "software" components, to provide time to evaluate the "hardware"
facilities financed under SSI I.
1.04    The Proposed Second SSI Project would provide expanded credit and
technical assistance to SSIs to promote investments in promising subsectors
and accelerate modernization of existing SSI units to improve productivity.
IDA would provide US$48 million equivalent for on-lending by the five commer-
cial banks to SSIs, which is expected to result in investments of about
US$115 million and about 35,000 full time jobs in about 1,450 units. Techni-
cal assistance amounting to US$2 million would support elements of the SIC
technical assistance program related to investment promotion and project
development in the less-developed provinces of Baluchistan and North West
Frontier Province (NWFP); subproject preparation to assist subborrowers in
project formulation and loan application; a training program to improve
overall management performance of SSIs; and a study on subcontracting to
identify policy measures and technical assistance required to promote sub-
contracting between large and small industries. SSI II also would continue
to assist the participating commercial banks in reinforcing organization and
staffing for SSI lending, through training and systems improvements, espe-
cially at the branch level, as decentralization is increased, and with
emphasis on end-use and project supervision, as subloans under SSI I start
maturing.
1.05    Other Bank Group Operations.  The Bank Group strategy for industry in
Pakistan has focused on effective transfer of financial resources to the
private sector through institution building of financial intermediaries,
coupled with project promotion and subsector analyses. Aside from SSI I,
other Bank Group operations in the industrial sector of Pakistan have con-
sisted of 14 loans and credits to three development finance institutions for
onlending to medium and large industrial projects, of which 13 operations
totaling US$324 million were for the private sector and one amounting to
US$30 million was for public sector projects. The recently approved
Industrial Investment Credit (IIC) of US$100 million for financing of medium



-3-
and large projects in the private sector will be channelled not only through
the traditional developmeat finance institutions, but also through two com-
mercial banks with a view co broadening and improving credit channeling to
industry. Work on the overall policy framework was furthered under the first
Structural Adjustment Loan; within industry, the SAL focused on movements
in the reform of the incentive structure, improvements in the efficiency of
the public manufacturing sector, and streamlining of investment licensing
procedures.
II. SECTORAL FRAMEWORK
A. Economic Setting
2.01    During the past five years, Pakistan's economy developed favorably
despite adverse international economic conditions and high demands for
defense expenditure and refugee assistance related to the Afghan situation.
Since 1977, GDP has grown at an average annual rate of 6.3% in real terms.
Growth rates in both agricultural and industrial production were substan-
tially above those achieved in the 1970-78 period and compare favorably with
the performance of other developing countries in recent years. Exports grew
by 9.2% p.a. in volume and 15.3% p.a. in value; the current account deficit
in the balance of payments declined significantly relative to GDP; the for-
eign exchange reserves of the country rose from the equivalent of 1.2 months
of imports in 1978 to 3.5 months in 1983. Conservative fiscal policies
reduced the budget deficit relative to GDP and government borrowing from the
banking system. Similarly, conservative policies were pursued in credit
expansion with the result that, with the real gains in production, inflation
was reduced to an annual rate of about 6% in 1983, in spite of upward adjust-
ments in the administered prices of energy and higher prices of tea, wheat
and rice.
2.02    For the period 1984-88, the Sixth Five-Year Plan projects a similarly
positive performance. Important increments are envisaged in agricultural
yields which would result in greater self-sufficiency in food products, as
well as in export surpluses, particularly in wheat, rice, fruit, vegetables,
poultry and other meats. The Plan contemplates the modernization of tradi-
tional manufacturing activities and the rapid development of the engineering
and agro-processing industries. These objectives are conceived within an
overall strategy in which the private sector is assigned the primary role in
production and the public sector is charged with providing adequate
infrastructural facilities and social services. Continued growth in excess
of 6% p.a. is expected through 1988. This expectation appears reasonable in
relation to the economy's recent performance and present potential.  However,
several important factors may affect GOP's ability to provide the infrastruc-
tural, financial, and fiscal support implicit in the Plan's projections.
These include: the unfavorable terms of trade for traditional Pakistan
exports; the country's continued dependence on imports; the low internal
level of savings; and increased demands on GOP's budget for recurrent expen-
ditures. Of particular importance will be GOP's resource mobilization
efforts. As a result of restraints on current and capital expeaditures to
meet fiscal discipline objectives in recent years, there is now built-up
pressure for higher GOP allocations in many areas. Without a substantial



-4-
resource mobilization effort, it will be difficult for GOP to make the expen-
ditures on economic and social infrastructure commensurate with the projected
GDP growth rates.
B. The Industrial Sector
2.03    In FY83, industry accounted for about 23% of GDP, employed 19% of the
economically active population, and contributed 57% of total exports. Since
1977, real annual growth has averaged 9% for industrial value added, 10% for
private fixed industrial investment, 10% for manufactured exports, and 4% for
industrial employment. The expansion of the sector has been across all
established subsectors, led by the production of sugar and mild steel. The
positive performance of the industrial sector was possible due to GOP's
attitude and actions favorable to the promotion of the private sector. Start-
ing in 1977, GOP reversed earlier government measures by denationalizing most
agricultural processing and a few industrial units, introducing a constitu-
tional guarantee against nationalization, and widening areas open to private
sector activity.  More recently, GOP has streamlined investment sanctioning
procedures and has granted a series of fiscal and credit incentives for
iavestments and exports. GOP also has taken initial steps to liberalize
imports, in the context of a wider revision of its trade policies and regula-
tions. Public sector involvement in industry has been reduced systematically
(except in some key areas such as steel and fertilizers) and the management
practices, productive efficiency, and financial performance of public
industrial corporations are more closely monitored. These measures have been
supported by Bank Group sector work, the Structural Adjustment Loan, and
industrial development projects.
2.04    The Sixth Five-Year Plan assigns a prominent role to industry, with
real growth in industrial output expected to average 9% and the volume of
manufactured exports 11% annually. The targeted sectors for higher growth
and output are: engineering products, agro-processing industries, and
agricultural inputs. Exports of manufactured goods will be promoted, with
particular emphasis on non-traditional, labor-intensive products. Investment
will be encouraged through government measures on deregulation, rationaliza-
tion of the incentive structure, and improvements in infrastructure. Con-
tinued investor confidence is expected to result in increased industrial
investments from 4.0% to 5.3% of GDP during the Plan period. In total
figures, industrial investment for the five years is projected at Rs 83
billion, of which Rs 62 billion is expected to be contributed by the private
sector.
2.05    GOP's plans for the industrial sector in the coming years sustain
the policies and strategy pursued since 1977: a premier role for the private
sec.or in investment and production; promotion of efficient import substitu-
tion industries; and a rapid growth in exports of manufactured items. GOP
plans to continue improvements in the efficiency of public enterprises and to
provide the infrastructural facilities and services required by both private
and public industrial enterprises. The success of the Plan, with respect to
industry, will depend largely on GOP's ability to continue to address
weaknesses in industrial policy, regulations, and procedures. The system of
incentives still favors import substitution rather than export-oriented



-5-
enterprises. The tariff structure requires rationalization to provide a more
uniform degree of effective protection. Procedures for investment sanction-
ing, imports, access to foreign exchange, incorporation, and pricing also
hamper the normal functioning of industries in various subsectors. It is
expected that GOP's initial measures to address these issues (para. 2.03)
will be followed by additional steps in the same direction.
C. Financial Environment
2.06    Financial Sector.  Pakistan's financial system consists of five
nationalized commercial banks, 18 foreign commercial banks, four specialized
banks, eight development finance institutions, several insurance companies, a
housing finance corporation, and two stock exchanges. The system is regu-
lated and supported by the State Bank of Pakistan (SBP) which is the
country's central bank. The activities of the nationalized commercial banks
are coordinated by the Pakistan Banking Council (PBC), which also monitors
their performance. The commercial banking sector is the most important part
of the financial system, with total assets as of June 1983 of Rs 212 billion,
or about 90% of the total assets of the system. Commercial banks are also
important in terms of geographic coverage, with 7,000 branches throughout the
country, and in terms of their varied financial services. Within commercial
banking, the five nationalized banks account for 89% of deposits, and 87% of
advances (Annex 2). Although the established foreign banks are allowed to
perform all banking functions and services, as a matter of policy, they have
concentrated most of their activities in foreign trade financing.
2.07    Credit Allocation and Islamization.  In recent years, the financial
sector has expanded rapidly at an average annual rate of 16% in current
values. However, its long term development is constrained on the resource
side by the low level of domestic savings, which recently has been counter-
balanced by the inflow of foreign remittances from Pakistani workers abroad.
On the lending side, two important guvernment policies are influencing the
development of the sector. The first is the use of commercial banks to
provide term financing to agriculture and industry through credit targetting.
The second factor relates to GOP's stated policy of Islamization of the
economy which, aside from some tax measures, aims principally at a reform of
the financial system. The eventual objective is the abolition of "riba", or
interest, and its replacement by a system operating on the principle of
profit and loss sharing (PLS). The specific changes that GOP has introduced
in the system to date have been: (a) the introduction of PLS short term
working capital loans (Musharika); (b) authorization to issue participation
term certificates based on the PLS principle to replace debenture financing;
(c) authorization to set up :4odaraba companies, which operate as investments
funds in accordance with Islamic tenets; and (d) conversion of the operations
of some non-bank financial institutions to a non-interest earning basis.
2.08    The move toward Islamization has blurred the immediate relevance of
two important issues in the financial sector - interest rate levels and
centralized credit allocation. Since the process aims at replacing interest
by profit and loss participation as a return to capital, GOP has decided, for
the moment, not to address directly the interest rate issue. However,
indications are that, where Islamic financial instruments have been used,



-6-
they have had a positive impact by making rates of return to capital more
responsive to market conditions. At present, however, most of the financial
system continues to operate on the basis of established rates of interest,
leaving room for arguments in favor of partial and selective credit alloca-
tion as a necessary instrument to meet the country's developmental objec-
tives. These arguments would lose substance as rates of return on capital
are further liberalized, but so far Islamization is being implemented
gradually and it is still too early to evaluate its full implications.  For
the present and foreseeable future the PLS concept and the interest rate
practice will co-exist within the system. In particular, GOP is committed to
maintain interest-based financing for operations involving foreign funding.
As the process is extended and more experience is gained, closer analysis of
the system may be required to evaluate whether substantial mcdifications have
taken place and whether it is necessary to adopt Bank Group financing to
these changes.
2.09    Interest Rates and Inflation.  To date, all lending for SSI has been
made on traditional interest-based arrangements. The interest rates cur-
rently charged are 11% p.a. for term loans for fixed investments and 14% p.a.
for short-term working capital loans which rates apply also to medium and
large industries. These rates have been established by GOP through SBP.
Foreign currency term loans for medium and large industries, which are
provided mainly by development finance institution and under the recently
approved Industrial Investment Credit are also at 11% p.a., with a 3% p.a.
foreign exchange risk fee, payable to Government which carries the exchange
risk. Under the first SSI Credit, subloans carried an interest rate of 11%
p.a. in line with the general term loan rate for industry. However, subbor-
rowers were not required to pay the standard exchange risk fee of 3% p.a.,
since the expectation was that most of the lending would be for rupee pur-
chases as the foreign content of SSI in Pakistan is low. Experience under
the first SSI Credit has confirmed this assumption since only 10% of subloans
were used as foreign currency subloans for direct imports by subborrowers.
Most subloans were applied to rupee expenditures for local equipment and
locally available imported equipment (55Z), factory buildings (20%) and
permanent working capital (15%). A similar pattern of expenditures is
expected under the proposed Credit. While strictly speaking, subborrowers
should pay an exchange fee for the portions of subloans used for direct
imports, it is administratively difficult to separate these costs for many
small subloans. The proposed final lending rate under this Project is 11%
p.a. without an exchange fee to which GOP has agreed. Given the inflation of
6% in 1983 (para. 2.01) and against the rate of 10.5% in 1982, this rate
represents a positive return to capital. The average inflation rate for 1984
may oe higher, as excernal resource flows in the latter part of 1983 con-
tributed to monetary expansion which translated into higher prices in the
first quarter of the year (11% on an annual basis). With GOP's proposed
reduction in monetary expansion down to 13% from 26%, and no visible struc-
tural inflationary pressures, it is likely that inflation in the medium term
will remain below 10% and that the proposed lending rate would remain posi-
tive in real terms. To ensure that the lending rate under this Project
remain positive in real terms, a provision in the legal documents for regular
review and, as necessary, periodic adjustments of interest rates was agreed
on during negotiations (para. 6.01).



-7-
D. Small Scale Industries Sector
Characteristics and Performance
2.10    GOP traditionally has attached importance to the SSI sector.  Already
in 1959, a committee was formed to examiae means to promote small industrial
and agricultural activities and in the sixties, institutions were established
to serve the needs of small enterprises. More recently, following the
separation of East Pakistan, Small Industries Corporations were formed at the
provincial level to channel government assistance to the sector. Aside from
the obvious social objectives of these measures, considerations of industrial
development also have been important in GOP support of SSI. Generally, small
firms are less affected by economic variations, as they have greater
flexibility with respect to production schedules and employment of labor.
Similarly, small investors are less vulnerable and sensitive to political
changes. Moreover, SSIs geaerate a good portion of their capital needs from
the informal capital markets and require less infrastructural support than do
larger firms. These factors help explain why small scale industries con-
tinued to grow during the difficult years of the seventies, while output from
larger firms declined. Investments in small firms represented 20% to 30% of
total industrial investments in the seventies vs. 10% to 14% in the sixties.
In recent years, SSIs have constituted close to 4.7% of GDP, 27% of
industrial value added, and 30% of manufactured exports. SSIs employ about
two million workers in about 80,000 establishments. 1/
2.11    The majority of SSIs are located in the proviaces of Punjab and Sind,
with a smaller proportion in NWFP and Baluchistan. This geographic distribu-
tion reflects population concentrations, availability of raw materials and
infrastructure, access to markets and local entrepreneurship. Traditionally,
SS1 units concentrated on processing local raw materials, such as cotton and
other agricultural products. More recently, expansion has been notable in
food processing, engineering products and construction materials. Other key
SSI activities focused on exports on the basis of adding value to imported
raw material, and are characterized by carpets, sports goods, cutlery and
surgical instruments.
1/  An Asian Development Bank report, *"An Analytical Study on Small-Scale
Industries in Pakistan", puts SSI's share of industrial value added
closer to 40%. These figures, however, must be taken only as indicative
of trends and relative contributions, as only limited and not fully
reliable data on SSI are available in Pakistan. The most recent SSI
census was conducted in the mid-seventies and was restricted to the
Punjab. Since then, tile sector has expanded significantly and the
definition of small industries has been revised recently. Some of the
data on the sector are based on the application of notional growth rates
to 1969-70 figures, which may well underestimate the size and contribu-
tion of the sector, particularly in the case of value added and invest-
ment. The recent growth in non-traditional exports, most of which have
come from the sector, must be the result of greater investment in SSI
than is reflected in the published figures.



-8-
2.12    Efficiency.  SSIs in Pakistan are more labor intensive and,
generally, more efficient users of capital than large scale units; investment
cost per job is about US$1,800 compared with US$21,000 for a sample of larger
private projects financed by the Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment
Corporation. The average capital-output ratio of SSIs was 0.8 compared to
between 1.0 and 1.5 for large scale industries. SSIs also proved to be more
efficient producers of goods, especially for the rural markets, where quality
requirements are less stringent.  For example, small powerloom units were
found to produce grey cotton fabrics at a third of the production cost of the
mill sector; however, due to quality differences, the powerloom fabric
fetched only 80% of the price of the mill cloth. Compared to selected East
Asian developing countries, 1/ SSIs in Pakistan are more labor intensive and
more efficient users of capital, but have the lowest labor productivity
(Annex 3). These characteristics suggest that, compared to SSIs in these
Asian countries, Pakistan SSIs utilize less capital intensive traditional
technoLogy, with substantial room for appropriate modernization to improve
labor productivity without sacrificing their labor intensity and capital
productivity.
2.13    Potential.  Agro-industries, selected textile products and light
engineering are expected to continue to be growth areas in the medium term.
In the recent past, agro-industries accounted for about 30% of SSI invest-
ments. This subsector is expected to continue to be of major importance as
sustained expansion in farm output generates bigger agricultural surpluses
for processing. Substantial capacity increases are expected in rice and
flour milling, oil extraction and ice and cold storage for the fishing,
poultry and cash crop sectors. Also, project opportunities in the handling,
storage and processing of fruits and vegetables for domestic and export
markets could be numerous. Growth in the powerloom sector, which accounted
for about 15% of past investments, is expected to continue in response to
expanding domestic demand for fabrics, particularly in catering to rural
requirements. Initial estimates place the capacity requirements at about
50,000 new looms at the cost of US$120 million for the Sixth Five-Year Plan
period. 2/ Investments in garment manufacturing for exports based on local
cotton fabrics as well as imported blend fabrics are expected to increase
substantially. Potential in light engineering, which accounted for about 20%
of past investments, probably will continue to be mainly in engineering
workshops, in response to maintenance requirements of agricultural equipment,
faster urbanization, and industrialization. Another growth area, at least in
the short term, would be re-rolling mills, in connection with the fast grow-
ing ship-breaking industry.
Policy Environment and Development Strategy
2.14    GOP's policies for industrial development do not differentiate
between large and small industry. Rather than protecting or subsidizing
small firms, the Government has maintained a strategy of increasing SSIs'
1/ Philippines, Thailand, Malaysia and Singapore.
2/ World Bank Report Nc. 4346-PAK, "Pakistan: Textile Industry Study",
August 16, 1983.



-9-
access to credit and technical services. SSIs are allowed to set up and
operate with little regulation, and market signals are the main determinants
of SSI investments and their viability. GOP's policy provides that all SSIs
be in the private sector. Subsectors with strong potential, high value
added, and limited economies of scale are promoted-but not reserved-for SSI
production. There is a push to develop SSIs in more remote urban and rural
areas, but this objective again is pursued by promotion and provision of
services, rather than through subsidization. Thus, SSIs are allowed to
prosper or decline with the market.
2.15    SSI Financing.  With the introduction of the lending scheme under
the First SSI Project, GOP abolished the special credit scheme through the
SICs. Now commercial banks have sole responsibility for SSI lending
activity. To ensure SSI's access to credit, annual targets for loans to the
sector, expressed as net increments to the amount of outstanding SSI loans,
axe set by the State Bank of Pakistan based on GOP's Annual Development Plan
projections for SSI investments and value-added growth. These are then
divided among the five banks on the basis of deposit size. Achievement of
target levels is monitored monthly; the targets themselves are revised during
the year in reaction to actual credit demand from SSI for investment and
working capital. Since these targets have been quite conservative in rela-
tion to SSI needs, contributing about 40% of SSI requirements, they have not
resulted in undue allocation to SSI. On the other hand, they do not repre-
sent a constiaint since they can be exceeded, as they have been in recent
years. Since IDA funds were made available in FY82, the SBP targets have
been increased accordingly. Total commercial bank SSI loans increased sub-
stantially in the last two years, reflecting additionality of IDA funds
(para. 2.20). Moreover, with the availability of long term resources from
IDA, fixed investment loans have increased. Also, IDA's first Project rein-
forced the banks' capabilities in project-based term lending to SSIs.
2.16    Technical Assistance for SSI.  The promotional and technical assis-
tance activities in support of SSI are a provincial government respon-
sibility, carried out by the Punjab Small Industries Corporation (PSIC), the
Sind Small Industries Corporation (SSIC), the Small Industries Development
Board (SIDB) of NWFP, and the Directorate for Small Industries (DSI) in
Baluchistan. 1/ These organizations used to be area offices of the West
Pakistan Small Industries Corporation, established in 1965 in Lahore and
divided along provincial lines in 1972. Consequently, their policies, out-
look, organizational structure, and programs of assistance are similar,
although PSIC is the best organized and has the largest technical staff.
PSIC has directed most of its assistance to the organized small industry
sector in the Lahore, Gujranwala, and Sialkot districts. The Punjab is the
center for the manufacture of sports goods, cutlery, and surgical instruments
and also has a large concentration of small manufacturers of other engineer-
ing products. Annex 4 presents a profile of the four SICs.
2.17    To a large extent, the SICs have focused their assistance to the
sector on providing physical facilities, developing industrial estates,
1/ The acronym SIC in this report refers to all of these agencies.



-10-
building and equipping service centers, and establishing training and produc-
tion centers for handicrafts.  Insufficient attention has been given to
building effective programs to promote viable new enterprises and to provide
extension services to existing firms.  The first SSI Project encouraged the
SICs to develop these services through subsector studies, project develop-
ment, and practical export promotion componeats (para. 3.10). The SICs will
need to continue to build their capabilities in these and other "soft-ware"
aspects of SSI promotion. The technical assistance components of SSI I1 are
designed to assist them further in these areas.
Credit Demand (FY85 and FY86)
2.18    Past Investments in SSI.  Investments in SSI grew from Rs 725 million
in FY79 to Rs 1,337 million in FY83, at an average annual rate of 17%. While
this rate was slightly slower than growth of investments in larger private
industry, which averaged 23% p.a., SSI investment growth compares favorably
with total investments in large industry which stagnated due to contraction
in iavestments in public enterprises.
Table 2.18: INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENTS
(FY79-83)
SSI      Private LSI      Public LSI     Total LSI        Total
1979         725         1,755          6,659           8,414          9,139
1980         819         2,591          6,593           9,184         10,003
1981       1,069         3,291          4,836           8,127          9,196
1982       1,221         3,596          4,684           8,280          9,501
1983       1,337         3,877          4,579           8,456          9,793
2.19    The Sixth Five-Year Plan envisages Rs 9.4 billion of private sector
investment in the SSI sector. Compared to the actual growth of 17Z p.a, in
the last five-year plan period, this target, which implies an annual average
growth of 12%, appears conservative and attainable.  This investment fipe
is consistent with economy-wide growth objectives, SSI potential, anticipated
inflation, and current interest in SSI investment as reflected in credit
demand at the commercial bank level. Under the Plan, SSI investments would
be about Rs 1,500 million in FY85 and Rs 1,700 million in FY86.
2.20    SSI Loans.  The growth trend in SSI investments is confirmed by the
pattern of bank credit to SSI. Kost SSI financing is provided by the five
nationalized commercial banks. Commercial bank SSI loans grew from Rs 815
million in FY79 to Rs 1,537 million in FY83 at an average rate of 22% p.a.
and at substantially higher levels in the last two years. On the average,
about 70% of SSI loans were for working capital and 30% for fixed invest-
ments. Loans from the commercial banks accounted for about half of the
working capital requirements and about a third of fixed investments of SSI.
For FY84, the State Bank of Pakistan target figures for net additional
lending to SSIs total Rs 1.6 billion for investment and working capital
financing.



-11-
Table 2.20: COMMERCIAL BANK SSI LOANS
(Net Increase in Outstanding)
(FY79-83)
(Rs million)
FY        ABL       HBL      MCB       NBP        UBL      Total
1979       71      339       132        32        241       815
1980       53      265       109       314        154       895
1981       60      335       134       152        127       808
1982      118      596       165       257        331      1467
1983       83      499        98       234        623       1537
2.21    Subloan Pipeline.  Recent levels of financing by the banking system
and their pipeline of projects suggest continuing strong credit demand by
SSI. Since full commitment of the subloan component of SSI I in September
1983, the five commercial banks have sanctioned 277 more subloans amounting
to US$14.5 million. These, together with a pipeline of about US$20 million,
provide the proposed Credit with a strong start-up (Annex 5). At the present
subloan commitment rate of over Rs 35 million per month and factoring out
expected cancellations of about 15Z, the banks would have firm subloan com-
mitments of about Rs 195 million by June 1984, which would require IDA
financing of US$10 million at the proposed refinancing rate of 70%.
2.22    Taking the conservative Sixth Plan projections and using the past
financing pattern for SSI investments and working capital needs, the demand
for institutional credit by the sector for FY85 and FY86 would be about
Rs 1.1 billion for fixed investments and Rs 2 billion for working capital,
assuming a conservative 7X real annual rate of growth in output. On this
basis, if IDA were to finance 30% of the credit demand for fixed investments
and 10% of that for working capital, a pattern which seems reasonable based
on the experience of the first Project, the requirement for IDA funds would
be about US$20 million per year.
Table 2.22: CREDIT DEMAND FOR FY85 AND FY86
(Rs Million)
Institutional
Total        Credit Demand        IDA Share
Fixed Investments            3,200          1,100 (33%          330 (30%)
Working Capital              4,000          2,000 (50%)         200 (10%)
Total            7,200          3,100               530
Sixth Five-Year Plan Objectives
2.23    Recognizing the importance and potential of the sector, the Sixth
Five-Year Plan envisages a continuing prominent role for small industry,
notably in export growth in such subsectors as engineering and
agro-processing. The Plan projects Rs 9.4 billion of direct private invest-
ment in the small scale sector during the five-year period, which is
projected to result in 350,000 new jobs, 7.3% real annual growth in output,



-12-
and 15% p.a. growth in export volume. To attain these objectives, the Plan
places great emphasis on (a) the expansion of agro-processing, to add value
to exportable surpluses, (b) the forward integration of the textile industry
to produce high value articles for export, such as ready-made garments and
speciality cloth, and (c) the adoption of subcontracting arrangements with
SSI units by the large engineering manufacturers. There is already some
success in these areas as evidenced by increasing export volumes of processed
agricultural products and made-up textile products. However, much more needs
to be done to develop projects along these lines, especially in the area of
subcontracting. A study on subcontracting will be undertaken under the
proposed Project to identify incentives and technical assistance needed to
increase subcontracting between large and small firms. Overall, the SSI
sector encounters problems in production methods, labor skills, management
capacity, technology modernization, product quality, and effective marketing.
Increased technical assistance and extension service efforts will have to be
made by SICs and closer attention paid by the banks to investor identifica-
tion and project preparation. The proposed Project is designed to assist the
banks and the SICs in responding adequately to these requirements.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Scope
3.01    The objective of the proposed Project is to increase SSIs' contribu-
tion to industrial employment, exports and output by providing expanded
financial and technical services, utilizing institutional arrangements and
building on assistance programs developed under the first Project. The
geographic scope would be nation-wide, as in the first Credit. The second
Project includes technical assistance, especially in project promotion, for
Baluchistan and NWFP, to help increase their share of SSI investments and
credit. All SSI subsectors would be eligible for financing on the basis of
established subproject eligibility and viability criteria. For selected
promising subsectors, particularly in new areas of investments and for
Baluchistan and NWFP, project development would be accelerated through the
formulation of project profiles. Major subsectors demanding credit would
continue to be agro-industries, light engineering, textile products. Subsec-
tor studies to be completed under the first Project would be used in promot-
ing investments in new areas such as in more advanced agro-processing and
engineering activities and new manufactured exports.  The proposed Project
would serve all SSIs as defined by GOP, i.e., units with fixed assets exclud-
ing land and buildings of not more than Rs 5 million (US$370,000); however,
the majority of units probably would be much smaller, with fixed assets
excluding land and buildings below US$70,000. Assistance would promote
modernization of SSIs to improve productivity and growth of efficient small
scale production. Technical assistance would be provided to improve technol-
ogy through programs for technical information disseminatiou, project iden-
tification and preparation and management training.



-13-
3.02    Components.  The major components of the project would be:
(i) term loans to SSIs for fixed investments and permanent working
capital through the five commercial banks, with review and partial
refinance by the Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan and
coordination by the Pakistan Banking Council;
(ii) training for the commercial banks to improve the quality of their
SSI loan officers, increase delegation of the appraisal function
outside of headquarters and build systems for end-use and
project supervision;
(iii) assistance to Baluchistan and NWFP in project promotion;
(iv) a training program to improve SSI management performance;
(v) assistance to subborrowers in project preparation; and
(vi) a study on subcontracting to identify measures for expanding
subcontracting linkages between large and small industries.
B. Project Costs and Financing Plan
3.03    Costs of the proposed Project are estimated to total about US$120
million, of which IDA would finance US$50 million equivalent (SDR 47 million)
or about 40Z. IDA financing would cover 70% of subloan amounts while the
commercial banks would provide the other 30%, up from the 20% provided by
commercial banks in the first Credit (para. 3.09); sponsors would contribute,
on the average, 40% of subproject cost. Thus, IDA's share in financing a
subproject would decline from about 50% in SSI I to about 40%, resulting in
an increase in domestic resource mobilization, consistent with country objec-
tives. For the technical assistance components, IDA financing would cover
capital costs, training and consultancy amounting to about US$2 million; GOP,
the SICs and the banks would fund local administrative and staff cost
estimated at US$1.3 million. The components, cost estimates and financing
sources are summarized below: 1/
1/ Detailed cost estimates can be found in Annex 6.



-14-
Commercial   Subproject
IDA       Banks       Sponsors    GOP/SIC  Total
(in US$ million)
A. Lending Component          48.00      21.00        47.00         --    116.00
B. Technical Assistance
Components
1. Training for
Commercial Banks       0.15      0.15            -         -        0.30
2.  Baluchistan - DSI      0.38        --            -         0.23     0.61
3.  NWFP        - SIDB    0.15         --            -        0.12      0.27
4. M{anagement Training
Program for SSIs     0.74       0.39            -        0.39      1.52
5. Subproject Prepara-
tion                 0.20         -             -          -      0.20
6.  Subcontracting Study  0.05                       -          -       0.05
7.  Contingencies          0.33        -             -          -       0.33
Subtotal                 2.00      0.54            -        0.74      3.28
GRAND TOTAL               50.00     21.54         47.00        0.74   119.28
C. Lending Component
Role of Commercial Banks in SSI Financing
3.04    The five commercial baaks have been heavily involved in financing
SSIs, particularly for their seasonal working capital needs. SSI financing
by the commercial banks reached Rs 1.5 billion in FY83 of which about 70Z was
for working capital finance, accounting for about half of the working capital
requirements of the sector. While commercial banks traditionally have focased
on short term requirements, fixed asset financing has increased recently,
with the availability of long term funds under the first SSI Project. Fixed
investment loans were about Rs 450 million accounting for about a third of
total fixed investments in SSIs in FY83.
3.05    The lending component of SSI II aims to enhance the commercial banks'
role in SSI financing. As in SSI I, the objective would be to improve SSI
lending by: improving subproject selection through sharpened appraisals;
increasing investment lending by providing matching long-term resources; and
improving SSI lending policies, systems aad procedures, by complementing the
commercial banks' strengths in credit analysis and geographic coverage with
project-based lending methodology.
Participating Institutions
3.06    The five commercial banks would continue to be responsible for
appraisal, supervision, and collection of subloans under the proposed Project
and would continue to bear the credit risks. Under Credit 1113-PAK, these
banks have demonstrated capabilities for selecting sponsors, and for apprais-
ing and implementing SSI subprojects. At the headquarters of all banks,



-15-
Small Industry Departments (SID) were established to undertake project
appraisal, and about 400 key branches were designated to process IDA subloan
applications by undertaking credit analysis, forwarding applications to the
SIDs for appraisal, disbursing approved subloans, and maintaining subloan
accounts. Under the proposed Project, appraisal will be decentralized to
circle offices 1/ where smaller SIDs staffed with a credit/financial analyst
and an engineer/technical person are already being organized. The 400 desig-
nated branches will continue to undertake the same functions as under the
first Credit. However, as subloans under the first Credit start to mature,
special attention will be placed on organizing the systems for end-use and
project supervision and completion, and on appropriate training for the
branch stafi concerned.  A training program on project appraisal for Circle
SID officers and on end-use and project supervision for staff of L.signated
branches was prepared by PBC and IDBP, in consultation with the participating
commercial banks, and discussed during negotiations. Details of the training
program as well as adequate staffing patterns were agreed on at negotiations.
Refinance and Monitoring Agencies
3.07    The Small Industry Refinance Department (SIRD) of IDBP, which has
functioned effectively in subproject review, refinance, coordination and
monitoring under SSI I, will continue to undertake the same functions under
SSI II. In addition, it will develop project profiles based on subprojects
already approved, which profiles would be used in reviewing future sub-
projects in the same subsector as well as in monitoring overall subsector
performance and problems. SSI I has proved that using the commercial banks
as the "retailers" and a development bank as the "apex" has resulted in a
good blending of commercial and development banking, with the commercial
banks providing geographic coverage and good credit analysis and the develop-
ment bank providing orientation in project-based lending. As the SIRD is
already fully organized functionally, an appropriate increase in staff is all
that is required under SSI II. Based on discussions during the appraisal
mission, SIRD would need to recruit four professionals, one for the sub-
project review and monitoring section, two for the finance and disbursement
section, and the fourth for the research and training section, with
appropriate supporting staff. The expansion of the finance and disbursement
section would allow increased attention to the end-use function, especially
ex-post review of commercial bank disbursement and procurement documentation
(paras. 4.07-4.08). SIRD's strategy, policies and procedures, work program
and staffing pattern were discussed and confirmed during negotiations
(Annex 7). PBC will assist in coordinating training and reporting, and
monitoring the performance of the commercial banks; these are functions which
PBC has performed not only under the first Project but also for the general
operations of the commercial banks.
1/ The five commercial banks have more than 7,000 branches. Branches are
grouped for administrative purposes under zonal offices and, in turn,
zonal offices under circle offices. There are 45 circle offices outside
Karachi.



-16-
Subproject Eligibility Criteria
3.08    The proposed Project would continue to use eligibility criteria as a
means for improving subproject selection. Experience under SSI I has shown
that appropriate eligibility criteria can serve as a good proxy for economic
appraisal for small subprojects (free limit) for which detailed economic
analysis would be impractical. For subloans above the free limit, the com-
mercial banks would be required to calculate domestic resource cost (DRC) as
a measurement of economic viability. 1/ Criteria under the first Project
will be utilized with some modifications. The National Credit Consultative
Council has revised the definition of small industry from Ks 3 million to
Rs 5 million in fixed assets excluding land and buildings. This definition
is now the one accepted by the financial sector, the Provincial Governments,
the Federal Government, and will be used in SSI II. Future adjustments by
GOP in the definition of SSI will not automatically change the definition of
SSI under this Project but will be considered by IDA. To avoid promoting
artificial smallness, the definition would be considered on a before-the-loan
instead of after-the-loan basis so that, under this Project, a small firm can
use the loan to graduate to a larger scale. However, a subloan would be
limited to a maximum of Rs 5 million to keep the leading principally for SSI
as defined. The fixed cost per job criterion would be increased from
Rs 60,000 to Rs 100,000 to accommodate subloans for balancing and modern-
ization, which may have low employment generation potential but are important
in improving productivity and assuring permanent workplaces. Moreover, since
most SSIs in Pakistan are labor-intensive (para. 2.12), this criterion would
be used as a flexible guideline, reflected in the strategy statements of the
banks rather than as a requirement in the legal documents. The free limit
would be increased from Rs 800,000 to Rs 1.5 million in recognition of
appraisal quality demonstrated under the first Credit, and to align with the
commercial banks' internal "free-limit" structure. Based on experience under
SSI I, the other on-lending terms are considered adequate and are proposed to
remain the same:
(i)  subloans would be for the establishment of new units or for
balancing, modernization, replacement or expansion (BMRE)
of existing ones in the manufacturing sector, including
industrial services and agro-industries;
(ii) working capital financing would be allowed only as a part of a
fixed investment subloan, for permanent working capital needs;
(iii) a minimum of 30% of subproject costs would be provided by the
sponsor in the form of equity; and
(iv) at least 50% of the credit would be allocated to subloans of less
than Rs 1,500,000.
I/ Participating bank loan officers would compare a subproject's DRC with
the official exchange rate and get an indication of its economic
viability.



-17-
Subloan Terms and Conditions
3.09    Sublending terms and conditions would be similar to those under
SSI I, with IDBP receiving a 1.5% fee, the commercial banks a 5.25% spread
for free-limit and a 4% spread for above free-limit subloans, and a final
lending rate of 11%, which is the current rate for term loans to industry,
regardless of size (para. 2.09). Under SSI II, the proportion of subloan
amounts financed by the commercial banks would be increased from 20% to 30%,
to spread IDA funds to more subprojects and increase local resource mobi-
lization. IDA's contribution would be roughly equivalent to the foreign
exchange requirements of the whole SSI subsector. Subloans would be applied
to finance plant and equipment, factory buildings and permanent working
capital. However, for factory buildings, only a maximum of 15% of a subloan
can be applied in order to discourage over-investment in buildings. IDA
funds may not be used to finance land. Subloan maturities would be at least
3 years and up to a maximum of 10 years, with a grace period of up to 24
months, as in SSI I. As in the first Project, lending targets by province
would not be resorted to since lack of infrastructure, skills and raw
materials, and other disadvantages will continue to constrain SSI lending in
the less developed provinces. However, the strategy statements of the par-
ticipating banks would include notional targets for lending outsid- the
Punjab in order to signal to the branch officers the need for greater promo-
tional efforts in the other provinces.
D. Technical Assistance Components
Technical Assistance Program for SSI
3.10    Promotion and extension services for SSI are the responsibility of
the SICs (para. 2.16). A basic shortcoming of the past SIC approach was
insufficient interaction with the private sector with SIC activities tending
to run parallel to the private sector and become commercial rather than
promotional activities. Under SSI I, the technical assistance components
were designed to avoid this problem. The service centers were structured to
have strong management input from the private sector through the creaticn of
management committees in which the officers of relevant private sector
associations were represented. This has proved to be a useful experiraent so
that the practice has been extended by the PSIC to all its service centers.
Emphasis was placed on using the service centers as a tool for developing an
assistance program for the private sector rather than for commercial produc-
tion. The primary target group for the service centers was defined and
technical assistance needs identified beforehand to ensure relevance. The
project and export promotion components and the general project preparation
fund of SSI I also were designed to benefit the private sector. While these
programs under SSI I have not been completed (para. 1.03), preparation for
their implementation has resulted in increased interaction between the
private sector and the SICs and has helped in reorienting the latter's out-
look. Under the project preparation fund, the SICs have assisted 630 private
sector loan applicants prepare their project proposals for presentation to
the commercial banks. Under the export promotion program, the SSIC and the
Export Promotion Bureau have identified about 100 private firms as par-
ticipants and have started working with them in preparation for the planned



-18-
marketing activities. Under the project promotion program in Baluchistan,
DSI has identified several private entrepreneurs as potential project spon-
sors, matching them with the opportunities identified.
3.11    Characteristics of SSI II Components.  The technical assistance
components of SSI II are designed to continue re-orienting the SIC programs
toward private sector assistance and to support elements of SIC programs in
which SICs appear to have comparative advantage. The proposed components are
focused on easier rather than more involved aspects of SSI technical assis-
tance strategy in which the SICs have greater chances of becoming effective;
these are investment and project promotion, technology information dissemina-
tion, project preparation and management training.
3.12    These components would follow through on activities initiated under
SSI I, to ensure effective dissemination of services. Capabilities to imple-
ment the investment promotion program undertaken by the Investment Advisory
Center of Pakistan (IACP) for DSI under SSI I will be built within DSI, under
SSI II, to ensure continuity of this important program for Baluchistan. A
similar capability will be built within the Small Industries Development
Board of NWFP, which is the other less developed province. The subproject
preparation fund by which the SICs assisted more than 600 subborrowers under
SSI I will be continued under SSI II. Finally, the TA components of SSI II
are software-oriented and would require less time to become operational than
the hardware components of SSI I. During negotiations, agreement was reached
on a timetable for implementation of the various technical assistance com-
ponents (Annex 8). The proposed components are expected to cost GOP, the
SICs and the banks about US$1.3 million in staff and administrative costs
fo: a three-year period. IDA would finance about US$1.85 million for equip-
ment costs, consultancy services and training.
Investment Promotion and Project Development for Baluchistan
3.13    Baluchistan is the least developed province and accounts for only 1Z
of the total number of SSI units in the country. The development constraints
of the province are numerous and would take large amounts of human and physi-
cal capital to resolve over the long term. However, even within the current
situation, there are SSI project opportunities whicn can be exploited through
an effective promotional program which would bring together the immediate
elements needed for project development, i.e., the right entrepreneur for the
right project and financing under the SSI lending scheme. With this
hypothesis, an integrated promotional scheme was launched under SSI I to
identify immediate project possibilities, in the context of existing con-
straints, identify prospective sponsors, and assist in project development
and implementation. The Government of Baluchistan employed IACP to undertake
this program since the DSI was not adequately staffed for this purpose.
Under this program, IACP has identified 50 project possibilities and is
preparing 10 project feasibility studies. It also has identified 35 poten-
tial entrepreneurs and investors to match with these projects. Since this
program appears to have a good chance of success in generating projects, the
Government of Baluchistan wants to continue with it for the remaining 40
project opportunities identified and sustain the promotional effort by build-
ing capability for this function within the DSI itself. During the field
studies conducted by IACP, six DSI officers were attached with various IACP



-19-
teams for training. They would form the core of a unit in DSI which will
carry on the promotional program on a permanent basis.
3.14    Under the same program, a study of the existing marketing system in
the province would be conducted. A serious constraint to successful project
implementation in Baluchistan is effective marketing of processed or manufac-
tured products, which is highlighted by the province's relative isolation as
a result of a poor infrastructural base. This isolation, in turn, probably
leads to trading patterns (within and outside the province) which may be more
complex than if markets were more accessible. Consequently, increased costs
are incurred, greater margins are applied to cover risks, and additional
storage and transport facilities are required. All these factors, their
effects, and related costs need to be analyzed, particularly for those sec-
tors in which opportunities already have been identified, with a view to
guide actions by the Provincial Government to promote SSI and general
industrialization. Aside from defining marketing problems, this study also
would identify opportunities for private marketing and service organizations
to help overcome logistical barriers.
3.15    Proposed Assistance and Estimated Cost.  The cost of these components
for Baluchistan is estimated to be US$0.61 million for three years. Local
staff and administration costs of about US$0.23 million would be met by DSI.
IDA would finance the cost of office equipment of US$0.06 million, consult-
ancy services of US$0.25 million, staff training of US$0.02 million for the
investment promotion scheme and US$0.05 million of consultancy services for
the marketing study, totaling US$0.38 million.
Project Identification and Development for NWFP
3.16    The North West Frontier Province is the second least developed of
the four provinces of Pakistan. It accounts for only 7% of the total number
of SSI units in the country. The province, however, has adequate infrastruc-
ture and local resources to be able to attract more investments in the SSI
sector. However, based on past patterns, there might be a need to attract
entrepreneurs and skilled workers from the Punjab to accelerate exploitation
of project opportunities. The Province's Small Industry Development Board
has requested IDA assistance in setting up a unit similar to the one for DSI,
which will undertake sectoral opportunity studies, identify potential
projects in different areas of the province, prepare project profiles,
promote investments and attract entrepreneurs in and out of the province to
invest in these projects. Since SIDB is stronger than DSI, it is felt that
the capability for project development and promotion could be built within
SIDI from the outset to enable it to continue with these activities beyond
the proposed three-year project period. Already there is a core group in
SIDB which could be expanded to undertake this function.
3.17    Proposed Assistance and Expected Cost.  The total component cost is
estimated to be US$0.27 million for three years. Local staff and administra-
tion costs would be approximately US$0.12 million. It was understood that
SIDB had already an approved budget equivalent to the amount required for the
first year. IDA would finance the equipment cost estimated at US$0.04 mil-
lion and foreign and local consultants at US$0.11 million, totaling US$0.15
million.



-20-
Management Trainiag Program for SSI
3.18    Discussions with entrepreneurs, agencies concerned with SSI develop-
ment, as well as knowledgeable individuals in industry and the academic
field, indicate the need for management training for SSIs. Some ad hoc
training does exist on specific technical skills, such as those undertaken by
the SICs, but there is no organized effort in providing managerial training.
There are successful models in Asian countries of institutions providing
management training where various short-term training courses and seminars in
standard packages are regularly conducted on a fee-paying basis. Typically,
SSI operators are people who have not had any formal training in management.
Short packaged courses on production planning and control, marketing manage-
ment, accounting, etc., conducted in a format and at a level suitable for
SSIs have been found to assist in improving managerial performance of SSIs,
resulting in some gains in productivity.
3.19    Alternatives have been explored in locating such an institution
within an existing federal or provincial agency, or an existing training
organization or university. The most feasible alternative appears to be the
setting up of a new but small institute, with modest core staffing, and
drawing on part-time expertise and resources from various sectors (SICs,
banks, entrepreneurs, and academics) and effectively linked with SICs which
are directly in contact with the potential clientele and could provide the
delivery network. The institute would be attached to the Federal Ministry of
Industries. It will be governed by a board consisting of representatives
from the Federal Ministry of Industries, the SICs, the PBC, IDBP and the
academic and business sectors. A training council will be organized at the
operating level, which will determine the types of training programs offered
in various locations. The courses offered, possibly from a few days to a few
weeks, will be "mobile" and conducted in areas (nation-wide) where SSIs are
concentrated. The SIC. could provide the training venues. A core staff
consisting of a head and five training specialists, with the appropriate
support staff, will be based in Lahore in the Punjab province where
approximately 55X of small industries are situated. They will be primarily
involved in course design, identifying suitable resource persons, development
of training materials, and course scheduling. Recruitment of the training
institute's director and at least one training speciaist would have to be
completed before funds for this component would be disbursed. This was
agreed on at negotiations.
3.20    Proposed Assistance and Estimated Costs.  The expected operating
costs for a core staff and administrative expenses amount to approximately
US$0.40 million for three years; the cost of part-time resource persens are
expected to be covered by fees initially charged; the cost of a training
advisor for 24 months would be US$0.24 million; training and office equip-
ment, US$0.08 million; a study tour to similar institutions abroad by its key
staff, US$0.02 million; totaling US$0.74 million. IDA would finance the
total cost of operations for the first three years. To ensure the continuity
of the institute beyond the Project, an endowment fund of about Rs 10 million
is proposed to be contributed by the Provincial Governments, the Federal
Ministry of Industries, the five commercial banks and IDBP. Earnings from



-21-
this fund would support the institute beyond the three-year period. Disbur-
sement of 50Z of the endowment fund of Rs 10 million would have to be com-
pleted before funds for this component would be disbursed.  This was con-
firmed at negotiations.
Subproject Preparation Fund
3.21    While che participating commd.-rcial banks will continue to have sole
responsibility for receiving subloan applications, subproject appraisal and
credit checking, experience under SSI I shows that some prospective
sub-borrowers, especially newer and smaller entrepreneurs, have difficulty in
preparing their project proposals in a form required by the banks for
appraisal purposes. For new projects, there were problems in market research
and analysis and preparation of financial projections. For existing
projects, a major problem area sas reconstructing operating performance from
inadequate records. To assist subborrowers in these respects, a subproject
preparation fund was established under SSI I by which the Small Industries
Corporations could be funded to undertake this function. To date, more thaa
600 subborrowers have been assisted by this fund. Funding for subproject
preparation will be continued under SSI II.
3.22    Institutional Arrangements and Cost.  The procedures and schedule of
fees established under SSI I will remain. On request by a subborrower or a
banker, an SIC would undertake project preparation. An SIC would be paid out
of the fund only upon completion of the subproject study and its acceptance
by a bank. At that time, the SIC can claim 10 of the fee. The other 90% of
the fee is paid only upon approval of the subproject and the subloan by the
bank. The subproject preparation fund would continue to be administered by
IDBP's Small Industries Refinance Department. Application for IDA withdrawal
will be made by IDBP with the SIC concerned as the designated payee. The
SICs will receive these funds at IDA terms. An amount of US$0.2 million or
about 0.5% of the subloan component will be allocated for this purpose.
Subcontracting Study
3.23    In response to the desire of the Government, as reflected in the
Sixth Plan, to develop subcontracting between large and small industries, IDA
would finance a study on subcontracting in the engineering sector, with PBC
as implementing agency. The study would analyze existing incentives which
micigate against subcontracting by public enterprise to domestic SSI sup-
pliers; propose an incentive system to promote subcontracting; identify
processes and components which could be easily subcontracted in the short
term; recommend measures to strengthen capabilities of large industries to
provide technical assistance to small industries; and survey the top 100 SSI
engineering firms to assess their capabilities for subcontracting. The study
is expected to cost US$0.05 million.



-22-
IV. THE CREDIT
A. Terms and Conditions
4.01    Leuding Component.  The proposed IDA Credit of US$50 million equiv-
alent (SDK 47 million) would be made to the Government of Pakistan on stand-
ard terms. Under the proposed Credit, the subloan component of US$48 million
equivalent would be onlent to the Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan by
means of a subsidiary loan agreement between GOP and IDBP. Signing of the
subsidiary loan agreement by GOP and IDBP would be a condition of Credit
effectiveness. IDBP, in turn, would onlend this amount to the five commer-
cial banks through participation agreements betweea IDBP and the banks.
Signing of participation agreements by at least two banks and approval and
issue by these participatiag banks of a circular governing operating policies
and procedures, eligibility criteria, and sublending terms and conditions>
would be conditions of effectiveness of the Credit (para 6.03). Drafts of
the subsidiary loan agreement, the participation agreements and the proposed
circular of the participating banks were discussed and agreed to during
negotiations.
4.02    Technical Assistance Components.  The US$1.06 million of technical
assistance for the SICs would be passed on to the respective SICs at IDA
terms. The US$740,000 for the management training program component and the
US$50,000 for the subcontracting study would be disbursed to the proposed
training institute and the PBC, respectively, as a grant from GOP, since both
are federal agencies. As in SSI I, the US$150,000 for training for the
commercial banks will be onlent to the commercial banks at 6.5% p.a. without
the 1.5% IDBP fee. Approval by relevant authorities of the PC 1 documents 1/
for each of the SIC components would have to be completed before disburse-
ments against the respective components can be made. For the proposed train-
ing institute, approval by a relevant authority of its charter would be
required before funds for it may be disbursed. These were confirmed at
negotiations.
4.03    Relending Terms.  For the subloans, the final lending rate would be
11% (para. 3.09). As in SSI I, to provide sufficient incentive to the com-
mercial banks to lend to smaller subprojects and to compensate for higher
administrative costs and risks of SSI lending, the commercial banks would
receive an interest spread of 5.25X for free-limit subloans and 4% for sub-
loans above the free-limit. IDBP, as the refinance agent, would receive the
same fee of 1.5% to cover administrative costs and the financial cost of
bridge-financing. The overall interest spread structure is shown below:
1/ Approval of the Planning Commission Form No. 1 (PC 1) is the basis for
budget allocation in Pakistan.



-23-
Free-limit         Above Free-limit
Subloans                Subloans
z                      X
1.  Lending Rate to Subborrower          11.00                  11.00
2.  Spread to Commercial Banks            5.25                   4.00
3.  Spread to IDBP                         1.50                  1.50
4.  GOP Spread                             3.50                  4.75
5.  IDA Rate                              0.75                   0.75
Commitment charges would be waived by GOP since the Credit involves many
subprojects and five participating institutions.  However, commercial banks
could charge commitment fees to their subborrowers accordiag to their normal
practice.
4.04    Repayment Terms.  Since the maximum allowable maturity of subloans is
10 years (para. 3.09) the commercial banks would repay IDBP on a fixed amor-
tization schedule nf 12 years inclusive of a grace period of five years;
banks would be allowed to use recycled funds arising from shorter subloan
maturities only for lending to SSIs which meet the eligibility criteria.
IDBP's amortization schedule to GOP would coincide with the banks' repayment
schedule to IDBP since IDBP's liabilities under the Credit would be contin-
gent on repayment bv the commercial banks.
4.05    Exchange Risk. As in other recent IDA/IBRD credits/loans, GOP would
carry the exchange risk.  However, subborrowers would not be required to pay
the exchange risk fee. Experience under SSI I shows that only a small por-
tion of subloan amounts was used as foreign currency subloans for direct
imports while most of the subloan amounts were used for local purchases of
domestic or foreign goods (para. 2.09).
B. Administrative Procedures
4.06    Refinance Arrangements and Revolving Fund.  All subloans which are
approved by the commercial banks and subsequently authorized by IDA are
eligible for refinance for up to 70% of subloan amounts (para. 3.09). A
commercial bank can claim refinance against subloan disbursements from IDBP
on a periodic (e.g. monthly) basis by furnishing IDBP a certification that
disbursements have been made and required procurement procedures have been
followed.  Each bank would keep, in a case-by-case file, documents evidencing
disbursements and procurement of goods. These files will be opened to
inspection by IDA and IDBP review missions. Under the first Credit, IDBP had
a credit line of Rs 10 million from the State Bank of Pakistan which served
as a revolving fund from which refinance was made to the participating Banks.
The SBP credit line will be increased to Rs 50 million to accommodate
expected refinancing needs under the proposed Project. IDA will advance US$2
million from the proposed credit to augment this fund once the Credit is
declared effective. IDBP will refinance the participating banks using these
funds. After refinance, it will, in turn, seek reimbursement from IDA on a
periodic basis, proceeds from which will be used to replenish the revolving
fund. Increase in the SBP line of credit from Rs 10 million to Rs 50 million
was discussed and confirmed at negotiations.



-24-
4.07    Procurement.  Goods and services costing US$20,000 equivalent or more
per item or US$50,000 equivalent or more per contract shall be procured
through international shopping (limited international tendering) on the basis
of at least three competitive quotations; for contracts of goods and services
with single items costing less than US$20,000 or combined items costing less
than US$50,000 equivalent, the participating bank would ensure and certify
that these are reasonably priced and are suitable to the requirements of
subprojects. Under existing procedures, the banks require their clients to
obtain three competitive quotations for fixed investment loans. For sub-
loans, under the proposed Project, the banks would be required to maintain
records of the method of procurement, summarizing offers and awards per
subproject. IDBP would periodically review these records which are kept in
commercial bank branches. Based on IDBP reports on these reviews, IDA super-
vision missions would examine some records on a sampling basis.
4.08    Disbursements.  In view of the large number of subprojects and the
small size of subloans, the normal DFC procedure of disbursing against expen-
ditures of individual subprojects would be inappropriate. Thus, all disbur-
sements for foreign or local expenditures made by the commercial banks will
be financed equally at 70% of subloan amounts.  Disbursements would be
refinanced against certified statement of expenditures for which appropriate
documentation would be retained by the commercial banks and made available
for IDBP/IDA supervision missions. IDA's reimbursement would be limited to
expenditures made by a subborrower not more than 180 days prior to IDA's
receipt of IDBP's request for reimbursement, except for those expenditures
allowed to be retroactively financed (para. 4.11). For the technical assis-
tance components, IDA would disburse 1OOX of expenditures for consultants and
training; for CIF cost of imported equipment and supplies; and for the
ex-factory cost of local equipment and supplies.  For imported equipment and
supplies which are purchased locally, IDA would disburse only 75%, giving a
25Z average allowance for taxes and duties. For the training institute, IDA
funds will meet 100% of all expenditures for the first three years of opera-
tion, up to a maximum of US$740,000. Withdrawal applications will be sub-
mitted to IDA by the implementing agency concerned. Disbursement of the
training funds for the commercial banks would be for 100% of foreign costs
and will be channeled through IDBP. The Credit is expected to be committed
in three years and disbursed in six years from Board date (Annex 9). This is
shorter than the regional subsector disbursement profile of ten years and the
Bank-wide subsector profile of eight years. However, these projections are
based on experience under SSI I which, after only three years, is already 60%
disbursed. 1/
4.09    Reporting, Accounts and Audits.  The participating banks would submit
semi-annual progress reports on commitments, disbursements, collections and
arrears under the project to IDBP. IDBP will consolidate the report for
transmittal to IDA. In addition, the banks would maintain proper accounts
for subloans including supporting disbursement and procurement documents,
which would be audited annually, according to current practice. After full
disbursement of a subloan, a participating bank will prepare a subproject
1/ It is 80% disbursed at the participating commercial bank level (para
1.02).



-25-
completion report, comparing actual vs. projected costs and benefits of the
subproject. IDBP would consolidate these reports and include them in its
semi-annual report to IDA.
4.10    The technical assistance implementing agencies would prepare and
submit semi-annual progress reports direct to IDA. Accounts specific to the
components would be maintained separately and would be audited annually
according to curreat practice. Audit reports should be submitted to IDA no
later than six months after the close of the fiscal year.
4.11    Retroactive Financing.  Despite full commitment of Credit 1113-PAK,
it was agreed with the commercial banks, IDBP and PBC that subloan sanction-
ing should continue in order not to disrupt the momentum generated under the
first Project. Accordingly, the commercial banks continued processing sub-
loans, subject to availability of funds, and by February 29, 1984, had sanc-
tioned 277 subloans amounting to US$14.5 million. To ensure that investments
in these subprojects are realized, it is recommended that retroactive financ-
ing be allowed to meet 70Z of the disbursements related to these subloans.
These disbursements are expected to amount to about US$7 million at the
expected signing date. It was agreed at negotiations that retroactive
financing will be allowed up to a maximum of US$5,000,000 equivalent or 10%
of the Credit.
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
5.01    The SSI sector has been an important segment of the Pakistan economy
and is expected to continue to play a major role in the development effort
under the Sixth Five-Year Plan. The proposed Project would dovetail with
GOP's strategy for the sector of making investment and working capital credit
more readily available to small industries, and of providing them complemen-
tary support through effective technical services. The IDA credit would fill
a significant portion of the resource gap for SSI lending, especially for
fixed investments, complementing the short-term resources of the commercial
banks available for 'orking capital lending.  Application of project-based
lending methodology by the commercial banks is expected to improve project
selection to ensure not only financial, but also economic viability, of
subprojects. It is anticipated that about 1450 subprojects would be
financed, resulting in an investment of about US$115 million. Differential
spreads according to the size of the subloan would continue to induce the
banks to give increased attention to smaller subborrowers. As in SSI I, it
is expected that about 85% of the subloan amounts would be for lo-ans of below
Rs 1.5 million. Direct employment generated is projected to be about 35,000
full time jobs, with fixed cost per job averaging about US$3,500. With the
greater participation of the commercial banks in financing individual sub-
projects (para. 3.09), domestic resources mobilized for SSI lending would be
increased and gradual reduction of IDA participation would be signalled in
advance.
5.02    The proposed project continues to hava strong institution building
aspects. The lending component of the Project szould have important effects
in strengthening tne credit delivery system for SSIs through the commercial
banks network of branches. Capability for project appraisal and supervision



-26-
will continue to be improved not only at bank headquarters, but in 45 circle
offices and 400 branches. The technical assistance components will build oa
the existing structure of the SICs enhancing their comparative institutional
strengths and increasing their interaction with, and relevance to, the
private sector. Overall, the complementary but distinct roles of SSI lending
by the commercial banks and technical assistance by the SICs would be more
clearly delineated and operationally effected under the Project.
5.03    Increased attention given to the less developed areas of Baluchistan
and NWFP through more intensive project promotion activities would assist in
achieving GOP's objective of more balanced development without resorting to
distorting measures of allocation or subsidization.  The technology informa-
tion and extension services components are expected to have a significant
impact in modernizing SSI technology and improving productivity. Management
practices in small industrial enterprises are to be upgraded through the
management training program for SSIs.
Risks
5.04    As is generally the case for industry, the SSI sector may see its
performance affected by present infrastructural deficiencies, which can
discourage investment, affect production, or reduce marketing efficiency.
The still limited capabilities of the SICs in terms of adequately qualified
staff and logistical support may also make it difficult to extend project
benefits as widely and deeply as desired. The Project itself, through train-
ing and consultancy services, will continue to build the SIC's to become more
effective channels for promotion and extension services.
5.05    Inasmuch as the small industry sector is exclusively a private
activity, investment in the sector and the performance of individual
enterprises is subject to effects from overall economic aad political condi-
tions. Should these suffer important changes or adverse developments, the
sector will naturally be affected, although to a lesser extent than large
industries which require greater investments and have greater visibility.
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01    During negotiations, GOP's agreement was obtained on the following:
(i)  onlending terms and conditions, margins, eligibility criteria
and refinance arrangements (paras. 3.08-3.09 and 4.06);
(ii)  budgetary allocations by GOP, the SICs and the banks as counterpart
funds for the techaical assistance components of the Project
(para. 3.12);
(iii) increase in the SBP credit line to Rs 50 million for IDBP's
revolving fund (para. 4.06);
(iv) procedures for procurement, disbursement, reporting, accounting
and auditing (parns. 4.07-4.10);



-27-
(v)  amount and procedures for retroactive financing (para. 4.11);
(vi)  staffing patterns and training programs for participating banks
and the SIRD (paras. 3.06-3.07);
(vii)  an annual review and appropriate adjustment of onlending rates
(para. 2.09);
(viii)  terms of reference for consultants to be employed for the
technical assistance components;
Cix)  staffing patterns of the SICs for their respective componeuts;
(x)  timetable for disbursement of 50% of the Rs 10 million endowment
fund for the training institute (para. 3.20);
(xi)  timetable for the recruitment of the training institute's director
and at least one training specialist (para. 3.19);
(xii)  timetable for the approval by relevant authority of the training
institute's charter (para. 4.02); and
(xiii)  an implementation timetable for the technical assistance components
(Annex 8).
6.02    During negotiotions, drafts of the following documents were discussed
and agreed on:
(i) subsidiary loan agreement betwveen GOP and IDBP;
(ii)  parcicipation agreements between IDBP and the participating
commercial banks;
Ciii)  circular containing operating policies and procedures of the
participating banks.
6.03    It is recommended that the following conditions be met prior to
Credit effectiveness:
(i)  signing of the subsidiary loan agreement between GOP and IDBP,
satisfactory to IDA (para. 4.01);
(ii)  signing of participation agreements between IDBP and at least
two participating banks (para 4.01); and
(iii) approval by the respective boards of these banks and issue of a
circular containing operating policies and procedures under the
Project, satisfactory to !DA (para. 4.01).
6.04    The proposed Project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA Credit
of US$50 million equivalent (SDR 47 million) with standard terms, under
conditions outlined in Chapter IV.



-28-
ANNEX 1
Page  1
PAKISTAN
SECOND SHALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Profile of Subprojects Financed Under Credit 1113-PAK
Credit Utilization
1.      The US$26 million subloan component of Credit 1113-PAK was fully
committed to 646 subprojects by the five commercial banks by September 30,
1983, more than one year ahead of schedule. As of February 29, 1984, disbur-
sements by the commercial banks to subprojects had reached US$26.3 million,
of which 80% or US$21.0 million are eligible for refinancing by IDA. Actual
disbursements by IDA as of the same date was US$10.3 million, reflecting a
disbursement lag of about US$11 million.
2.      Despite full commitment of Credit 1113-PAK, the commercial banks
continue to sanction subloans under the same terms and conditions as those
of Credit 1113-PAK and in anticipation of the proposed second credit. This
was done in order to lend momentum to the proposed second credit. As of
February 29, 1984, the five banks had committed another US$14.5 million to
277 subprojects of which 70% or US$10.2 would be eligible for refinancing
under the proposed credit. Moreover, another US$8.1 million of subloans are
being processed and US$11.5 million are in the pipeline. Compared to the
first project, which took six months to take-off, the proposed second project
will have a strong start-up.
Subproject Profile
3.      Subloan Characteristics.  The average subloan size has been
US$48,000; free-limit subloans averaged US$43,000 while above free-limit
subloans, US$172,000. The ratio between free-limit and above free-limit
cases was 96:4 in number and 85:15 in amount compared to the IDA requirement
of 50:50 in amount, indicating that a large percentage of subloans were for
smaller enterprises. Subloans had an average maturity of 7 years and 3
months. On average, subloans were applied to factory building construction
(20%), machinery and equipment (65%) and permanent working capital (15%).
Only 10% of subloan amounts were used in foreign exchange for direct imports
by subborrowers; most subloans financed local goods as well as imported but
locally available goods. Including these indirect foreign costs, the foreign
exchange application of subloans is estimated to be about 30%. The average
equity contribution of 67% by sponsors was much higher than expected at



-29-
ANNEX 1
Page 2
appraisal (40%) and the minimum equity requirement of 30% indicating greater
domestic resource mobilization than expected and stronger capital structuring
of subprojects by the commercial banks. Overall, the financing pattern was
as follows: sponsor's equity of 67%, commerciaL bank financing of 7% and IDA
finaacing of 26%. The subloan component of US$26 million has resulted in
total investments of Rs 1.3 billion or US$93 million.
4.      Subproject Characteristics.  The first Credit has financed 453 new
subprojects and the BMRE (balancing, modernization, replacement and expan-
*            sion) of 193 existing units.   Subsector distribution was as expected at
appraisal. About 35% of subprojects sanctioned belong to the five subsectors
identified at appraisal as growth areas: light engineering, textiles and
garments, surgical instruments, sports goods and leather products. Another
40% are in agro-processing activities, such as ice and cold storage, oil
extraction, cotton ginning, rice/flour milling and fruit/vegetable
processing.



-30-                         ANNEX 1
Page 3
Table I
Subsectoral Distribution-of Subprojects Under Credit 1113-PAK
Subsectors                                        No.        Amount
(RB million)
1.  Textiles and Garments
Weaving                                          46           27.57
Finishing                                         4            5.28
Specialized Textiles                             29           17.23
Garments                                         14           13.05
2. Surgical Instruments                               18           12.20
3. Leather and Leather Goods                           9            7.18
4. Sports Goods                                        5            3.74
5. Light Engineering
Workshop                                         37           22.07
Rerolling                                        23           17.06
Wires and Cables                                  8            4.51
Agri Implements                                  19           10.41
Electrical Goods                                 10            5.21
Others                                            7            6.80
6. Furniture and Wood Products                        24           13.17
7. Oil Extraction                                     48           30.23
8. Cotton Ginning                                     46           33.62
9. Ice and Cold Storage                               76           39.54
10. Marble Processing                                   6            4.39
11. Printing and Packing                               28           22.95
12. Fruits and Vegetables and Other Agro. Business   31             21.38
13. Rice/Flour Milling                                 33           15.41
14. Hotel                                              10            8.73
15. Poultry Farm and Feeds                             27           15.76
16. Miscellaneous                                      88           64.87
646         420.36
5.      About 90% of the subloans approved are for projects located in the
Punjab (60%) and Sind (30%) provinces, with NWFP receiving only 7Z and
Baluchistan 3% of IDA subloans. This distribution was somewhat more lopsided
than as expected at appraisal, but is reflective of population distribution
and past lending pattern of the commercial banks. More intensive promotional
work in the less-developed areas is included under the proposed SSI II to
increase their share of SSI investments. About 38% of subprojects have fixed
costs (excluding land and buildings) of Rs 500,000-999,000; 32% are in the
range of Rs 100,000-499,000. Average subproject size is about Rs 736,000,
much lower than the size ceiling of the Rs 3,000,000 of fixed assets (exclud-
ing land and building).



-31-
ANNEX 1
Page 4
Table 2
Size Distribution of Subprojects under Credit 1113-PAK
(Rs in million)
1. FIXED ASSETS EXCLUDING LAND AND BUILDINGS             NO.       AMOUNT
a-               Less than Rs  100,000                 37         2,156
b- Rs  100,000 to,         Rs  499,000                209        62,400
c- Rs  500,000 to          Rs  999,000                246       171,536
d- Rs 1000,000 to          Rs 1999,000                126       168,272
e- Rs 2000,000 and above                               28        71,382
Total        646        475,746
2. TOTAL ASSETS
a- Less than Rs 500,000                                56        18,614
b- Rs  500,000 to Rs  999,000                          94        82,518
c- Rs 1000,000 to Rs 1999,000                         295       480,007
d- Rs 2000,000 to Rs 2999,000                         105       251,376
e- Rs 3000,000 and above                               96       428,397
Total        646      1,260,912
6.      Economic Impact.  The 646 subprojects sanctioned under the first
project are expected to generate about 22,500 new jobs at a total cost per
job of about US$4,000; fixed cost per job is about US$3,250. The subprojects
financed under this Credit are almost totally dependent on local raw
materials (97%). Exports constitute a significant portion of subprojects in
specific export-oriented subsectors such as surgical instruments, sports
goods and garments but overall constitute less than 5% of total output. The
646 subprojects are expected to produce sales of Rs 3.7 billion and value
added of about Rs 843 million. Capital/output ratio is 0.4 compared to the
SSI sector average of between 0.6 to 0.8.
7.      Credit Institutions' Participation.  Among the participating banks,
National Bank of Pakistan was the most active with 178 subloans sanctioned,
followed by United Bank Limited with 163 and Habib Bank Limited with 147;
Muslim Commercial Bank had 103 while Allied Bank Limited was last with 55.
This reflects the relative sizes of the commercial banks, i.e. three big
banks and two smaller ones, and was as expected at appraisal.
8.      Performance.  Based on a sample of subprojects visited, lending
decisions being made under the credit appear sound. The quality of sponsor
selection is high, with a good balance between existing and new clients,
traditional (usually from the trade sector) and new (usually professionals
and former Pakistani expatriates) entrepreneurs. Subproject appraisal is
generally good, but appraisal report presentation could be improved.
Moreover, there is a tendency to under-estimate working capital requirements
and over-invest in buildings.



-32-
ANNEX 2
PAKISTAN
SECOND SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Profile of Commercial Banks
(1982)
(Rs million)
ABL      EBL       KCB      NBP       UBL       TOTAL
Total Assets                 8,160   63,880   19,455   41,466   38,651   171,612
Deposits                    5,604   40,840   12,735   30,838   27,101   117,118
Total Advances              4,560   25,074    9,305   14,921   18,538    72,398
Industrial Loans            1,556    5,367    2,031    7,850    1,396    18,200
All SSI Loans
(net increase)               118      596       165      257       331     1,467
SSI I Loans (X)                  9       23        17       26        25        100
Capital and Reserves           178    1,279       387      839       791     3,474
Net Profit                       5      273        44       99        29        450
Branches                      698    1,845    1,341    1,381    1,670        6,935
Branches Designated
for IDA Leading              40        80        41      200        42       403
Proposed Circle SIDS             8       12         8        7        10         45



-33-
ANNEX 3
PAKISTAN
SECOND SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Comparative Capital Intensity, Capital Productivity
and Labor Productivity of SSIs 1/
Capital         Capital             Labor
Intensity      Productivity       Productivity
K1L             (Y/K)             (Y/L)
(US$)                              (US$)
Pakistan (1976)                1,762             1.2               2,185
Philippines (1975)             3,746             0.78              2,933
Thailand (1976)                5,480             0.48              2,652
Malaysia (1973)                3,197             1.01              3,246
Singapore (1978)              13,413             0.73              9,790
Sources:  Pakistan   : Census of Manufacturing, 1975/76.
Philippines:  National Census of Statistics Office, unpublished
version of 1975 census results.
Thailand   : Tambunlertchai, Lochaweachit, 1980.
Malaysia   : Department of Statistics (Malaysia), Census of
Manufacturing Industries, Peninsular Malaysia, 1973.
Singapore  : Department of Statistics (Singapore), Report on the
Census of Industrial Production 1918, unpublished
version.
1/ The figures were computed in local currency and converted into US
dollar equivalents at official exchange rates of respective data year.
Respective index is computed as below.
Capital Intensity    : K/L
Capital Productivity : Y/K
Labor Productivity   : Y/L
Where: K stands for value amount of fixed assets
Y stands for amount of value added
L stands for number of employees



-34-
ANNEX 4
PAKISTAN
SECOND SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Organizational Profile of SICs as of December 1983
PUNJAB       SIND               NWPP             ALUCKISTAN
1. Date Established                1965          1972               1972           1972
2. No. of Staff (officers)         2006 (961)    681 (168)           564 (45)      161 (85)
3. Operating Budget (FY83)        Rs 28 m       Rs 21m aRs 8m                       Rs 14 m
4. Total Assets                   Rs 279 m       Rs 40 m            Rs 69 a         Rs 6 a
5. Major Activities
(a) Industrial Estates (acres)  15 (1035)       6 (307)             7          1
(b) Service Centers                8            5                   5          1
(c) Carpet Centers                84           48                  16          36
(d) Handicraft Centers             9            1                   6          55
Ce) Handicraft Retail Outlets    5              6                  -           1
(f) Projects Prepared under
SSI I (value)             569           102                 32
(Rs 340 a)   (Rs 111.4 a)
(g) Skills Training Centers
(trainees)                 25 (3700)    88 (1315)            -            _
(h) Textile Centers               -             -                  8            -
6. Name of Operating Units  a) Administration  a) Planning    a) Estates          a) Planning 6
b) Planning and    b) Credit and  b) Appraisal           Development
Coordination        Advisory  c) Planning      b) Procurements
c) Finance and      c) Handicrafts d) Cottage        c) Marketing
Accounts      d) Export and         Industries d) Projects
d) Handicrafts           Commerce  e) Marketing    e) Small
e) Service Centers e) Project and f) Afghan              Industries
f) Works                 End-Use         Refugees        Estates
g) Industrial       f) Finance and g) Works          f) Accounts
Promotion             Accounts                        & Audits
and Advisory    g) Purchase and
Services              Licensing
h) Survey
i) Secretariat
7. No. of Zonal Offices               7             2                  5                  0
Source: Mission's questionnaire for SICs, Oct. 1983.



-35-
ANNEX 5
PAKISTAN
SECOND SMALL INDUSTRL.S PROJECT
SubLoan Pipeline of Commerci2l Banks for SSI II
(as Lf February 29, 1984)
(Rs million)
ABL        BBL        MCB         NBP          UBL       TOTAL
No. Rs.   No.  Rs.   No.  Rs.    No.  Rs.    No.  Rs.   No.  Rs.
Subloans Already Approved     23  17.6  108   65.1  19  21.9   55   36.1   72   54.3  277  195
Subloans Being
Processed at
Headquarters                 8   7.1   32   31.8  18   20.8   25   20.2   22   29.1  105  109
Estimate of Subloans
Being Processed
at Branches                  20  15.0  60   35.0  25   25.0   60   40.0   55   40.0  220  155
Total                 51  39.7  200  131.9  62   67.7  140   96.3  149  123.4  602  459
A=  =    ==-       _     = =      =     ==     = _             



-36-
ANNEX 6
PAKISTAN
SECOND SNAIL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Estimated Proiect Costs and Financing Plan
(US$ million)
IDA      IDA     GOPI    Com.   Private
Component                         Foreisn   Local    SIC      Bank    Sector   Total
A. Lending Component                30.00    18.00      -    21.00    47.00   116.00
B. Training for Commercial Banks    0.15        -       -     0.15       -       0.30
C. Baluchistan DSI
Capital Cost                   0.03      0.03      -       -        -       0.06
Consultancy                    0.16      0.14      -       -        -      0.30
Training                       0.02            -       -            -      0.02
Administrative Cost               -        -     0.23      -       _        0.23
Sub-total                    0.21      0.17    0.23      -        -      0.61
D. NWFP SIDB
Capital Cost                   0.02      0.02      -       -        -      0.04
Consultancy                    0.03      0.08      -       -        -      0.11
Administrative Cost              -         -     0.12      -                0.12
Sub-total                    0.05     0.10    0.12       -        -      0.27
E. Management Trainins Program
Capital Cost                   0.05      0.03    0.39    0.39       -      0.86
Consultancy                    0.24        -       -       -        -      0.24
Training                       0.02        -       -       -        -      0.02
Administrative Cost              -       0.40      -       -        -       0.40
Sub-total                    0.31     0.43    0.39    0.39        -      1.52
F. Subproiect Preparation
Consultancy                      -      0.20       -       -        -      0.20
G. Subcontracting Study
Consultancy                    0.05        -       -       -        -       0.05
R. Contingencies                    0.15      0.18      -       -        -       0.33
TOTAL                       30.92    19.08    0.74   21.54    47.00   119.28
.= ee   ,S,



-37-
ANNEX 7
Page 1
PAKISTAN
SECOND SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Small Industries Refinance Department of IDBP
Strategy Statement, Policies and Procedures,
Work Program and Organization
1.      The objective of the Statement is to outline the Small Industries
Refinance Department's (SIRD) strategy for its operations during FY85 and
FY86 as a refinance agency under IDA's Small Industries Projects.
Priorities. Consistent with overall priorities and policie. spelled
out in the Government of Pakistan Sixth Five Year Plan (FY84-FY88) SIRD would
scrive towards the development of the small industries sector by providing
financial assistance to small industrial units through the participating
banks. The following types of projects would be encouraged:
(a) enterprises engaged in light engineering activities, production
of engineering material for other manufacturing industries,
industrial machinery for domestic use and exports, and those
catering to the aeeds of large industrial enterprises by
manufacturing for them spares and consumable stores.
(b) enterprises using agricultural inputs and/or supplying inputs
for agriculture.
(c) enterprises which are export-oriented or import substituting and
those manufacturing high value added goods for domestic/export
markets.
(d) enterprises based on agricultural and industrial waste, local
raw material, locally produced machi.aery and equipment.
(e) enterprises in the small industrial sector which contribute
to geographical dispersal of IDA Credit assistance and to the
development of less-developed regions of the country.
(f) enterprises which are labour-intensive and contribute in
the reduction of unemployment at a comparatively lower
capital cost.



-38-                            ANNEX 7
Page 2
2.       Portfolio Diversification and Sectoral Priorities.  SIRD would
strive for a wider dispersal of the IDA Credit, particularly in the
less-developed regions of the country. For this purpose, SIRD would adopt
the following guidelines:
(a)  the SLID, in collaboration with the participating banks, would
make efforts to direct financiag towards promising subsectors
such as leather products i.e. leather garments, shoes, etc.;
food items, preservation of fruit, fruit juices, light engi-
neering units, textile made-ups, ready-made garments, hosiery
and knitted material, towels, ecc. for export as well as
domestic markets, agro-based industries, marble products,
agricultural equipment and parts thereof, woodworking and
furniture and automotive parts.
(b) To enable participating banks to diversify their areas of
assistaace under the IDA Credit by subsectors, SIRD would provide
them with the requisite information based on the subsector
studies carried out and surveys coaducted by the Planning and
Pre-investment Studies and Promotion Departments of IDBP from
time to time.
(c) On the basis of IDBP's long experience in the field of term
financing, SIAD would extend assistance to participating banks
in improving their appraisal standards.
(e)  SIRD would extend assistance to particating banks in organizing
their end-use and supervision functions in respect of subprojects
availing long term finance under SSI-I and the proposed SSI-II
Credits of IDA.
(f) SILW would take measures to avoid/forestal excessive financing in
a particular subsector where saturation point has been reached
and further financing may create idle/extra capacity.
(g) SIRD would keep watch on the utilization of IDA Credit with
reference to allocations made in the policy statements of
participating banks, for the underdeveloped regions of the
country and, if required, suggest ways and means to achieve
targets fixed by the banks.
(h)  SIlD would monitor more closely the performance of each of the
participating banks with regard to its operations under the IDA
Credits and provide assistance, where needed, in improving its
performance.



-39-
ANNEX 7
Page 3
3.      Operating Policies and Procedures
(a) Subloan Review. For subloans above the free limit (Rs 1.5
million), SIRD would review the appraisal reports submitted
by the commercial banks in order to determine whether the
subprojects are economically justified, financially viable
and technically sound, and whether they meet the eligibility
criteria. SIRD would summarize the project proposal and would
forward its review and the commercial bank's appraisal report to
IDA for approval of the subloan. Communication would be sent to
the banks through SIRD. For free limit subloans, SIRD would
review subprojects only in respect of the eligibility criteria.
(b) Disbursement and Collection. SIRD would submit to IDA
withdrawal applications containing siummary information on its
disbursements to comnercial banks for IDA's authorization and
reimbursement. For -ree limit subloans, the commercial banks
would submit subprojecets individually or in batches. SIRD would
briefly review these to see whether the projects meet the
eligibility criteria and, if so, reimburse the banks up to 70% of
their eligible disbursements. SIRD would also collect principal
and interest from the commercial banks based on their respective
amortization schedules and accordingly repay GOP.
Cc)  Subloan Monitoring.  SIRD would monitor the subloans financed
by the banks through semi-annual reports submitted by the
participating banks. These reports would provide tabulated
information on a subproject basis regarding the types and sizes
of subprojects approved, names of companies financed, location,
subsector group, subloan amount and breakdown of fixed investment
and permanent working capital, rate of disbursement, collection
performance and arrears position. IDBP would consolidate this
information and prepare for IDA semi-annual progress reports on
the overall utilization of the credit, broken down for each
bank. SIRD would inspect supporting procurement and disbursement
documents to ensure proper utilization of the Credit proceeds.
The participating banks would submit regularly to SIRD supervision
and subproject completion reports which SIRD would consolidate and
include in its semi- annua' reports to IDA.
(d)  Subsector Support.  SIRD would continue to administer and provide
design support to the subsector studies fund under SSI I, which
would be used to finance studies of promising SSI subsectors, and
to develop project profiles and models intended to assist the
participating banks in project appraisal. The subsector study
would estimate credit and investment requirements in order to
provide feedback to commercial banks ia developing their SSI
pipelines. Based on its own subsector analyses, SIRD would
identify subsector potential and constraints and feed these



-40-
ANNEX 7
Page 4
information to the participating banks for the formulation of
appropriate action programs.
(e) Training. SIRD would organize training for officers of
participating banks in SSI project appraisal and supervision
methodology.  The training would be conducted locally with the
assistance of local training institutions. In the case of senior
officers, the training would take the form of overseas on-the-job
training with leading commercial banks and training institutes.
4.      Work Program.  SIRD's work program for FY85 and FY86 is given below:
(a)  Sanctions/Approvals.  Keeping in view the first credit experience
and the subproject pipelines of the participating banks, the
sanctions/approvals in the next two years are estimated as under:
FY85          360            Rs 416 million
FY86          361            Rs 417 million
It has been assumed that 80Z of the approved cases will be free
limit cases involving an average subloan amount of Rs 1 million and
20% above free limit cases involving an average subloan amount of
Rs 3 million.  In 1985-86, excess approvals up to 20% of the amount
of the second credit will also be made to cover for possible
cancellations or withdrawals.
(b) Disbursement of Refinance. Based on the above estimates of
approval, the following amounts of refinance are expected to be
disbursed to the participating banks:
1984-85                Rs 314 million
1985-86                Rs 218 million
(c) Collections. During FY85, repayments by the commercial banks are
expected to total Rs 37.3 million. In FY86 a similar repayment
figure is expected. The system for collection will be reviewed
to handle these and future volume of operations.
(d) Training
(i)  Overseas Training.  (1) Under the second credit, processing of
loan applications is proposed to be decentralized to circle
offices of the participating banks. Participating banks' SSID
officers at head office and these circle offices are proposed
to be sent to Manila for a four-week training course on
project appraisal and supervision methodology and for a
two-week on-the-job training with leading DFIs dealing in SSI
financing. Twenty-five officers from the five banks have



-41-
ANNEX 7
Page 5
already been selected by PBC for this purpose. Asia Business
Consultants, Manila, have already been requested to submit
their proposal in this regard. The training course is
expected to be held sometime in July - August 1984. (2)
Three to four IDBP officers are also proposed to be sent for
an on-the-job training with leading DFIs in SSI financing in
Manila or South Korea sometime in July - August 1984.
(ii)  Local Training.  Training in project appraisal and supervision
methodology for participating banks' officers posted at SSIDs
of circle offices will also be arranged in 1984-85 with the
Institute of Business Administration in Karachi or Lahore
and/or the Development Banking Institute ot the National
Development Finance Corporation. The training program for
1985-86 will be developed later in response to requirements.
(e) Subsector Studies. Proposals for carrying out the following
subsector studies have already been invited from a number of
international and national consultants: cooking and other household
equipment, agro-based industries, marble products, agricultural
equipment and parts thereof, automotive parts and accessories,
furniture and wood products. Proposals have also been invited for
a reappraisal of the following subsector: surgical instruments,
cutlery products, sports goods. IDBP has already received
proposals from some consultants and the remaining proposals are
expected to be received by the end of March 1984. Selection of
proposals and consultants with the approval of the participating
banks and IDA is expected to be finalized by the end of May 1984
and the contract will be awarded to the selected consultant with
the approval of the World Bank. It is estimated that reappraisal
of the three subsectors named above and three subsectors studies
out of the six mentioned above will be made in 1984-85, while the
remaining three subsector studies will be conducted in 1985-86.
(f) Project Profiles. Based on the above subsector studies, project
profiles shall also be prepared and distributed to the participat-
ing banks for information and guidance of their SSIDs at Head
Office and Circle Offices.
(g)  Follow-up.  The progress of utilization of the credit and the
establishment and operations of the subprojects shall also be
reviewed and analyzed in accordance with the operating policies
and procedures (para 3), and in consultation with the World Bank
periodically.
(h)  Promotion of the Second Credit.  Meetings with chambers of commerce
and industry and trade bodies will be organized in 1984-85 at all
important cities to explain the salient features of the Credit and
changes made in the eligibility criteria and appraisal procedures.



-42-
AN=S 7
(i)  Review of Proposals relatins to Common Subsectors.  IDBP will
review proposals received from the participating banks relating to
important SSI subsectors and provide feedback to the banks on the
status of these subsectors and on ways of improving appraisal
standards.
(j)  Surveys of SSI Units in the Country.  IDBP will carry out analytical
surveys of small industrial units set up in the country with IDA
Credit assistance or otherwise to find out the sectoral develop-
maet problems and prospects of SSI uaits in the country. On the
basis of findings of these surveys, IDBP would provide necessary
guidance to the banks.



-43-
ANNEX 7
Page 7
PAKISTAN
SMALL INDUSTRY REFINANCE DEPARTMENT
Organizaton Chart
Dopuly ManagrecorI
~~~~~~~~I
SubpOeC Rsioew                        toxex &                             Res &h
&   i Montoring                    Dtursement                            Tranig
i  2 P1eWsIPioesx                                                          2 Ainds
2 Rofrssoral                          Poa orioals                      2 Pofncolna'
Exthr' under SS I
-   -Prpoosd under SI fl
jofl  '0WB has Ithee deputy managing d~oCts who reot diectly to thle mwiag4ngSctr
World Bonrk-26210
L



-44-
ANNEX 8
Page 1
PAXISTAN
SECOND SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Implementacion Timecable for the Technical Assistance Components
A.  Management Training Program for SSI
Target Dates
Critical Activities                              Start              Completion
1.  Disbursement of 502 of
endowment fund                              July 1, 1984        September 30, 1984
2.  Constitution of the Board and
formulation and approval of charter         July 1, 1984       July 31, 1984
3. Identification and hiring of
director and one training specialist        July 1, 1984       December 31, 1984
4. Identification and hiring of
two-year consultant                         July 1, 1984       December 31, 1984
5.  Constitution of Training Council            January 1, 1985   January 31, 1985
6. Identification and partial hiring of
four other training specialists             October 1, 1984   March 31, 1985
B. Investment Promotion and Project Development for Baluchistan
Tarset Dates
Critical Activities                              Start              Completion
1. Identification and hiring of
long-term (three-year) consultant           July 1, 1984       December 314  1984
2.  Identification and hiring of key local
professional staff i.e. overall head,
head of investment promotion, head of
research and head of planning               July 1, 1984       December 31, 1984



-45-
ANNEX 8
Page 2
3. Identification and partial hiring of
subsector consultants                        January 1, 1985   June 30, 1985
4. Identification and hiring of other
local professional staff                     January 1, 1985   June 30, 1985
C.  Projecc Identification and Development for NWFP
Target Dates
Critical Activities                              Start               Completion
1. Identification and hiring of
long-term (three-year) consultant            July 1, 1984       December 31, 1984
2. Identification and hiring of key local
professional staff i.e. overall head,
head of investment promotion and head
of research                                  July 1, 1984       December 31, 1984
3. Identification and partial hiring of
sabsector consultants                        January 1, 1985   June 30, 1985
4.. Identification and hiring of other
local professional scaff                     January 1, 1985   June 30, 1985
D. Subcontracting Study
Target Dates
Critical Artivities                            Start              Completion
1.  Identification of consultants                July 1, 1984       December 31, 1984
2.  Survey of 100 SSI engineering firms          October 1, 1984   March 31, 1985
3.  Survey of large engineering firms            October 1, 1984   March 31, 1985
4.  Survey report                                April 1, 1985      April 30, 1985
5.  Draft final report to PSC for comments    May 1, 1985           .May 31, 1985
6.  Submission of final report to IDA            June 1, 1985       June 30, 1985
for comments



-46-
ANNEX 9
PAKIST-N
SECOND SHALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements 1/
CUsS OOOs)
IDA Fiscal Year                        Semi-Annually          Cumulative
1985  July - Dec                           0.10                   0.10
Jan  - Jun                           2.50                   2.60
1986  July - Dec                           6.00                   8.60
Jan  - Jun                           6.00                  14.60
1987  July - Dec                           7.00                  21.60
Jan  - Jun                          7.00                   28.60
1988  July - Dec                           7.00                  35.60
Jan  - Jun                           7.00                  42.60
1989  July - Dec                           3.00                  45.60
Jan  - June                          2.00                  47.60
1990  July - Dec                           2.40                  50.00
1/ Assuming Board presentation in June 1984.



-47-
ANNEX 10
PAKISTAN
SECOND SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Documents Available in Project File
1. Brief Assessment of Small-Scale Industries Program under the Sixth Plan
of Pakistan, by L. Chico (Consultant), December 1983.
2. Proposal for the Establishment of a Small Industries Promotion Unit in
Baluchistan, by L. Chico (Consultant), December 1983.
3. Proposal for the Establishment of a Project Development Unit in the
SIDB of NWFP, by L. Chico (Consultant), December 1983.
4. Proposal for the Establishment of a Center for Technical Information
and Extension Services in SSIC, by L. Chico (Consultant), December 1983.
5. Proposal for Setting-up of a Pakistan Institution of Entrepreneurship,
by L. Chico (Consultant), December 1983.
6.  Questionnaire on SSI Financing by five commercial banks.






