Docmnent of
The World Bank
FOR OFCaAL USE ONLY
Report No.  13182
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
SECOND SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
(CREDIT 1499-PAK)
JUNE 20, 1994
Country Operations, Industry and Finance Division
Country Department III
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(annual average)
Rs per US$ 1.00           US$ per Rs 1.00
FY83                           12.75                     0.078
FY84                           13.48                     0.074
FY85                           15.16                     0.066
FY86                           16.13                     0.062
FY87                           17.17                     0.058
FY88                           17.55                     0.057
FY89                           19.18                     0.052
FY9()                          21.39                     0.047
FY91                           22.37                     0.045
FY92                           24.37                     0.041
Note: Since January 8, 1982, the exchange rate for the rupee has been managed with respect to
a weighted basket of currencies.
ABBREIVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USEI)
GOP         Government of Pakistan
IDBP        Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan
NCBs        Nationalized Commercial Banks
NWFP        North West Frontier Province
PBC         Pakistan Banking Council
PCIs        Participating Credit Institutions
PICIC       Pakistan Industrial Credit & Investment Corporation
PIET        Pakistan Institute for Entrepreneurship
SAR         Staff Appraisal Report
SBP         State Bank of Pakistan
SICs        Small Industry Corporations
SID         Small Industry Department
SIRD        Small Industry Refinance Department
SSI         Small-Scale Industry
(OVERNMENT OF ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U. S. A.
ome. of Director-General
Operatlons Evaluation
June 20, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Pakistan -
Second Small Industries Project (Credit 1499-PAK)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report on Pakistan - Second Small
Industries Project (Credit 1499-PAK), prepared by the South Asia Regional Office, with Part II
contributed by the Borrower. The credit was approved on June 14, 1984 and closed on June 30, 1992
with an undisbursed balance of SDR 3 million, two years behind schedule.
The PCR is of satisfactory quality and provides a candid assessment of the major issues. The
main objectives of the project were the support of the Government's efforts to improve the contribution
of small scale industries to output, employment and exports, through the provision of: (a) a line of credit
to the Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP), for disbursement to subproject borrowers,
through designated nationalized commercial banks, and (b) technical assistance to institutions providing
financial and managerial assistance to the sector, through training and preparation of studies.
Despite meeting quantitative lending objectives set at appraisal, implementation of the project was
hampered by design deficiencies, inefficiency of the Apex Agency, low recovery rates of sub-loans, high
levels of arrears and portfolio infection of the commercial banks, inadequate recording of commitments
and disbursements, and indifferent project supervision and monitoring.
The project outcome is rated as unsatisfactory and given the high level of arrears, sustainability
is uncertain. The impact of the project on institutional development was negligible. An audit is not
planned.
Attachment
Robert Picciotto
by H. Eberhard Kopp
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.



I



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
SECOND SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
(Credit 1499-PAK)
CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface           ................................................................ i
Evaluation Summary .                          ....................................................... i
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE ........................ 1
1.    Project Identity  .................................................   1
2.    Background    ...................................................   1
Policy  Context   ...............................................  1
Sector Development Objectives ...................................  2
IDA's Industrial Strategy  ........................................  3
3.    Project Objectives and  Description   ..................................  3
4. Project Design and Organization.                                                                                                   4
5.    Project Implementation  and  Results   .................................   5
The  Credit Component .........................................  5
The  Technical Assistance  Component  ..............................  8
6.    Project Sustainability  .............................................  9
7.    IDA's Performance  .............................................   10
8.    Borrower's Performance   .........................................   11
9. Project Relationship .11
10.    Co-financing   ..................................................   11
11.    Project Documentation  and  Data   ..................................  12
12.   Lessons Learned    ..............................................   12
PART H. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ....                                                                            ........... 14
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION   ..................................... 16
1.      Related  Loans/Credits                     ....................                     .......................   16
2.      Project Timetable                   .....................                       .........................   17
3.      Credit Disbursements                      ....................                       .......................   18
4.      Status of Covenants                      ....................                     ........................   19
5.      Project Results: Major Technical Assistance   .........                                   ..          ...............   19
6.      Use  of IDA   Resources                      ...................                     .......................   20
A.  Staff Inputs  ..............................................   20
B.  Missions   ................................................  20
7.1.        Project Implementation                       ...................                    .......................   21
A.  Summary  Credit Characteristics  ...............................   21
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Contents (cont'd)
Page No.
B. Sub-Sectoral Distnbution ....................................  22
C. Sectoral and Geographical Distribution  ......................... 23
D. Analysis of Data by Type of Business, Sub-Loan Terms, Sub-Loan
Amount, Value of Total Assets and Fixed Assets .................. 24
E. Distnbution by NCBs  ......................................  25
F. Manpower Employment Size  .................................  26
7.2.     Characteristics of Sub-Projects  ................                     ....................  27
7.3.     Collection Performance Till 1992              ...............           ...................  32
7.4.     Actual and Estimated Disbursements                ..............          ..................  33



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
SECOND SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
(Credit 1499-PAK)
PREFACE
1.          This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Small Industries
Project in Pakistan, for which Credit 1499-PAK in the amount of SDR 47.0 million (US$50.0
million equivalent) was approved on June 14, 1984. The credit was closed on June 30, 1992, two
years behind schedule. It was not fully disbursed and SDR 3.0 million would normally have been
cancelled on the October 31, 1992 deadline for receipt of withdrawal applications. However, the
books are still open because the Special Account has not been fully refunded. The amount of Rs
1.6 million (US$60,000 equivalent) is expected in the coming weeks.
2.          The Country Operations, Industry & Finance Division of the South Asia Region's
Country Department III prepared the PCR (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and HI). On
December 21, 1992, IDA sent a letter to the Borrower with the request to prepare Part II by
April 30, 1993, and the Borrower submitted Part II at the beginning of April 1993.
3.          Preparation of this PCR was started during IDA's final supervision mission in
January 1993 and is based inter alia on the Staff Appraisal Report; Development Credit
Agreement; supervision reports; correspondence between IDA and the Borrower; and internal
IDA memoranda.



I



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
SECOND SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
(Credit 1499-PAK)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.          Objectives. The Second Small Industries (SSI-II) Project was part of a series of
term-loans and technical assistance to the small-scale industries (SSIs) sector with the objectives
of providing resources, strengthening institutions that provide financial and technical services to
SSIs and improving the performance of the sector as a whole. The first loan to the sector, SSI-I,
provided resources and rationalized the role of the institutions operating in the sector. It assigned
a lending function to the commercial banks and promotion and extension services to other
institutions. The second loan, SSI-II, built on the success of SSI-I and emphasized strengthening
of the financial institutions. The third loan, which is still being implemented, has focussed on
overall financial viability of the institutions and has been trying to bring more discipline into the
financial system.
2.          The SSI-II project aimed at supporting the Government's efforts to increase the
contribution of SSIs to employment, exports and output. The project continued IDA's
involvement in the SSI sector by providing a line of credit through the nationalized commercial
banks (NCBs) with the assistance of the Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP) as the
Apex institution and technical assistance to strengthen institutions which were providing financial
and managerial assistance to the sector. The technical assistance components included the
following: (i) training for NCBs' staff; (ii) assistance in project promotion to the Small Industries
Corporation of Baluchistan and North West Frontier Province (NWFP); (iii) improvement of SSI
management; (iv) assistance to sub-borrowers in project preparation; and (v) financing of a study
to identify measures for expanding subcontracting linkages between large and small industries.
3.          Implementation and Issues. The Board approved the credit in the amount of SDR
47.0 million (US$50 million equivalent) on June 14, 1984, IDA and the Government signed the
Development Credit Agreement on July 10, 1984, and the credit became effective on October 9,
1984. Upon request from the Government, IDA twice extended the original closing date of June
30, 1990 to June 30, 1991 at first and finally to June 30, 1992 because of delays in project
implementation (para. 5.9); in particular, the Government wanted to complete the technical
assistance related to the establishment of a management institute for SSI entrepreneurs (paras.
4.4, 6.3).
4.          The credit was fully committed two and a half years after effectiveness, and
disbursements were ahead of schedule during the first three years. At the beginning of 1988,
although disbursements remained on schedule, they started to slow down mainly due to: (i)
competition from the Government's subsidized credit programs; and (ii) increase of the credit
amount due to the depreciation of the Rupee. It took more than two years to disburse the last
US$4.0 million of which technical assistance represented US$0.7 million. The credit closed on
June 30, 1992 with an undisbursed balance of SDR 3.0 million.



- iii -
5.           Two issues impaired the implementation of the project: (i) the inefficiency of the
IDBP as Apex Agency; and (ii) the low recovery rates of sub-loans and high level of infection of
the NCBs' portfolios by arrears. IDBP did not properly record disbursements and commitments,
supervise the NCBs and oversee the implementation of the technical assistance. IDA still has not
closed its books because the Special Account has not been fully refunded (para. 5.2). IDA tried
to resolve the problem during its supervision missions. It has now provided a consultant firm to
help IDBP fulfill its Apex functions under SSI-III, the subsequent project. The NCBs did not
properly appraise and monitor the SSI sub-loans and therefore had recovery problems. IDA took
actions to address the problem of non-performing loans. It suspended further commitments to
four of the five NCBs under the SSI-III project because of their low recovery rate of sub-loans
provided both under SSI-II and SSI-I. The suspension of the NCBs' participation, which
happened during implementation of SSI-II, forced the NCBs to implement remedial actions under
both SSI-II and III (para. 5.4).
6.          IDA rarely received annual audited and quarterly project progress reports as
scheduled. The NCBs seldom submitted their audited financial statements to IDA on time. They
claimed that IDBP was responsible for the delays because they were forwarding the reports to
IDBP to send to IDA. Although the NCBs complied with the auditing and accounting covenants
as defined under the Development Credit Agreement, their financial statements were never
audited in accordance with internationally accepted auditing standards and their accounts did not
reflect the true financial weaknesses because they were not required to apply international
accounting principles in regard to provisions and recognition of income. IDA resolved the issue
of prudential regulations of the State Bank of Pakistan (SBP) through its Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan (FSAL). Likewise, IDBP did not submit the audit reports of the Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs) and the Special Account on time. IDA had threatened to suspend
disbursements under the Special Account because delays had reached almost 24 months by the
time it received the audit reports (para. 5.7).
7.           Results and Performance. Compared to quantitative lending objectives set at
appraisal, the project could be viewed as successful because the employment target was met,
viability of sub-projects was above the world average and the NCBs were successful in committing
and disbursing the funds to SSIs, even though they performed poorly in terms of recovery rates.
A reduced investment amount (US$103 million actual vs. US$115 million planned) yielded (based
on estimates at the time of sub-project approval) about 9,000 more jobs with an average
investment size of Rs. 46,908, well below the maximum allowed size of Rs. 200,000 and 92% of
the sub-projects were new ones (para. 5.1). Furthermore, the rate of failure was below the
average rate for the SSI sector worldwide (10% of the sub-projects have gone into arrears; 16%
have been closed down). However, interviews of sub-borrowers indicated an inadequate level of
permanent working capital due to the NCBs' inappropriate appraisal standards, lack of monitoring
and supervision from NCBs, delays in sub-loan approvals, lengthy and complicated sub-loan
appraisal procedures and lack of support services (para. 5.5). Nonetheless, the project was
instrumental in assisting the NCBs in developing a strategy of providing domestic long-term
resources to SSIs. It contributed toward the linkage of formal and informal financial markets
(para. 6.2).
&            The technical assistance components were partly successful. With the exception of
delays experienced in the establishment of the SSI management institute, all technical assistance
components were executed on time. Credit officers of NCBs were trained in appraisal and



- iv -
supervision techniques but the trained officers were not assigned to SSI lending (para. 5.8). The
SSI management institute became operational more than five years after effectiveness of the
credit and the objectives set at appraisal were not fully met (paras. 5.9, 6.3). The financial
support provided for investment promotion and project development for Baluchistan and project
identification and development for NWFP did not produce the expected results because
recommendations could only be effectively implemented after sufficient investments in education
and infrastructure have taken place. Moreover, the SICs have started their own credit program
because the NCBs did not finance their sub-projects (paras. 5.10, 6.4). The Government did not
implement recommendations proposed under the subcontracting study because it was not ready to
play the role of facilitator and intermediator and design the right incentive framework. In
addition, large industries were not ready to grant technical assistance to small industries (para.
5.11).
9.           Lessons Learned and Recommendations. The two prerequisite conditions for
success for this type of operation are a solid, competent and proficient Apex Agency as well as
sound and stable financial intermediaries. IDA needs to define performance criteria and
sanctions for its Apex Agencies. IDA should also provide technical assistance and increase its
supervision when it is faced with weak Apex Institutions during project implementation (para.
7.1). Although IDA was dexterous in using the covenant from the follow-up project to monitor
the performance collection ratios of the NCBs (para 11.1), it appears that the covenant was too
confined to allow it to assess the financial viability of the NCBs. IDA therefore needs to focus
not only on institutional development but also on financial sector policy reform, so institutions can
be strengthened in an overall efficient and effective financial framework (para. 7.3). In addition,
IDA also needs to define clear performance standards and sanctions for its financial
intermediaries. IDA should also pay greater attention to its role as administrator (para. 10.1) and
devote more resources to supervision of technical assistance. IDA could transfer supervision tasks
to its Resident Missions provided that preparation and clear definition of task have been
undertaken and adequate staff resources have been provided before the responsibilities are
transferred to Resident Missions (para. 7.2). Lessons learned and corrective actions taken under
SSI-II were not incorporated in the design of the SSI-III Project because implementation
problems surfaced after appraisal of SSI-III in April 1987; nonetheless, IDA has applied these
lessons during supervision of the SSI-II and Ill projects and SSI-III benefitted from lessons
learned under on-going projects to the industrial sector.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
SECOND SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
(Credit 1499-PAK)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Name:       Second Small Industries Project
Credit No:   1499-PAK
Amount:    SDR 47.0 million (US$50.0 million equivalent)
RVP Unit:   South Asia, Country Department III
Country:    Pakistan
Sector:     Industry
2. BackMround
Policy Context
2.1         In 1984, at the time of the project's approval, the Government of Pakistan (GOP)
was projecting a positive performance with a GDP average annual growth rate of 6.3% for the
next five years. The main elements of the Sixth Five-Year Plan (1984-88) were greater
self-sufficiency in food products, high export growth as well as modernization of traditional
manufacturing activities and the rapid development of the engineering and agro-processing
industries. The private sector was to play a primary role in production, while the public sector
would be responsible for providing adequate infrastructure and social services.
2.2          During the implementation of the project, Pakistan succeeded in maintaining a
strong growth performance (averaging more than 6% p.a.), but could not achieve the structural
transformation needed. Increasing macroeconomic imbalances, growing public sector
indebtedness, and underlying structural weaknesses convinced the Government of the need for
corrective action. Since FY89, the Government has embarked on a partially successful
macroeconomic and structural adjustment program in order to reduce fiscal deficits, strengthen
external accounts, increase the savings rates, improve private sector investment and activity, and
improve basic social services.
2.3         At the time of appraisal of the project, the Government defined small industry
units as enterprises with fixed assets (excluding land and buildings) not exceeding Rs 5 million
(increased to Rs 10 million in 1987 and 20 million in 1992). During the project period, GOP
allowed small-scale industries (SSIs) to be set up and operated with little regulation. Except for
location permits in accordance with zoning regulations, licensing was not required. The GOP
mandated that credit to SSIs be provided at interest rates which were positive in real terms but
were still lower than prevailing rates. The interest rate was set at 11% p.a., i.e. equal to the



-2 -
mandatory rate of 11% set by SBP for small industry loans. This rate was not adjusted during the
life of the project.
2.4            During the project period, the GOP heavily regulated lending to the SSI sector
and forcefully implemented its targeted credit policy and subsidized loan programs through a set
of incentives and sanctions.' In a further effort to stimulate the industrial sector, the GOP, in
June 1986, announced two new lending programs for the industrial sector, one for the financing
of locally manufactured machinery (LMM), and the other for export. At initial lending rates of
6% and 3% p.a. respectively, these programs appeared to undermine the gains towards a more
market-oriented interest rate regime and negatively affected disbursements of the project (para.
5.1).
2.5            The SSI-II project improved upon the initial success of SSI-I which rationalized
the institutional roles of the various government organizations serving the sector. Under SSI-I,
the lending function was completely assigned to the NCBs, while the various Small Industry
Corporations (SICs) were re-oriented away from providing credit toward technical support to
enterprises. The same design was used under this project (paras. 4.1 and 4.2). In retrospect,
although SSI-I was successful in achieving objectives set at appraisal, the low recovery rates of
sub-loans which surfaced years after completion of SSI-I demonstrated that IDA should have also
focused on the viability of the institutions.
Sector Development Objectives
2.6            The GOP traditionally has attached importance to the SSI sector. As part of the
Sixth Five-Year Plan, the GOP looked towards the sector in achieving its economic and social
objectives. SSIs were more labor-intensive but they were competitive compared to large
industries. Their capital-output ratio was 0.7 compared with 1.0 to 1.5 for large industries. These
and other characteristics suggested that there was considerable room for appropriate
modemization to improve labor productivity of SSIs without sacrificing their labor intensity and
capital productivity. The project was to dovetail with GOP's strategy for the sector in making
fixed assets and permanent working capital loans more readily available to small industries. The
credit was to fill a significant portion of the resource gap for SSI lending.
2.7            It was expected that the project would serve agro-industries, light engineering and
textile products. Sub-sector studies completed in the project period showed that the
agro-industries sector, which accounted for about 30% of SSI investments, was likely to exceed
this percentage. Substantial capacity expansion was expected in rice and flour milling, oil
extraction and ice and cold storage for the fishing, poultry and cash crop sectors. Project
opportunities were also identified in handling, storage and processing of fruits and vegetables for
domestic and export markets. Growth was expected in the powerloom sector, which accounted
for 15% of past SSI investments, and garment manufacturing for exports based on both local
cotton and imported blend fabrics. In light engineering, the investment level of 20% of SSI
Annual targets for loans to the sector, cxpressed as net increments to the amount of outstanding SSI loans, were set by the
SBP based on the GOP's Annual Development Plan projections for SSI investments and value-added growth. These
then divided among the five nationalized commercial bank (NCBs) on the basis of deposit size. Achievement of target
kwels was monitored monthly. Al the end of the project period, SBP increased the target and required each NCB to lend
5% of its portfolio to SSI.



-3-
investment was expected to continue concentrating in engineering workshops, in response to
maintenance requirements of agricultural equipment, faster urbanization and industrialization.
IDA's Industrial Strategy
2.8          IDA's strategy was to support the industrial sector mostly through credit projects
and related institutional development. Since 1989, the strategy has included financial and
industrial policy reforms. IDA transferred resources to the private sector via financial
intermediaries which received technical assistance for institution building. Technical assistance
also included project promotion and sub-sector analyses. Besides the support provided to the SSI
sector, the industrial sector received 14 loans and credits through the three development finance
institutions (DFIs): National Development Finance Corporation, Pakistan Industrial Credit &
Investment Corporation, and IDBP for on-lending to medium and large industrial projects, of
which 13 loans totaling US$324 million were for the private sector and one of US$30 million for
the public sector. The three Industrial Investment Credit Projects of about US$400 million for
financing of medium and large projects were disbursed through the DFIs and the NCBs with a
view of deepening the financial sector. At the end of the project period, the GOP and the Bank
started a review of the financial sector, which eventually led to the FSAL in 1989.
2.9          IDA's strategy for the SSI sector gradually expanded over time. The SSI-I project
of US$30.0 million supplied money and improved the institutional arrangements for channelling
credit and technical services to SSIs (para. 2.5). The SSI-Il project, in addition to filling the
resource gap for lending to SSIs, developed and strengthened the institutional framework and
expanded the efficiency of the sector (paras. 3.1-3.4). The SSI-III project of US$66.5 million,
including co-financing of US$12.5 million, centered on efficient delivery of financial resources and
technology and export marketing services. It would expand the capacities of SSI financing but
more importantly look at the viability of financial institutions and SSIs' operations, improve
technical performance of industrial enterprises as well as accuracy and reliability of SSI statistics
for future policy and strategy formulation.
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.1          Project Objectives. The project was to increase the SSIs' contribution to
employment, exports and output by providing financial and technical services. In this regard, the
project provided long-term funds to SSI entrepreneurs for fixed investments and permanent
working capital. The other objective was to provide technical assistance to strengthen institutions
which provide financial and managerial services to SSIs.
3.2          Project Description. The project was to build on the success of SSI-I and expand
the focus by creating an institute for SSIs and providing support to the two less developed
provinces. The project consisted of a line of credit to help the five NCBs finance investment
projects of SSIs with review and partial refinancing by IDBP and coordination by the Pakistan
Banking Council (PBC), and the following technical assistance components: (i) training for the
commercial banks to improve the quality of their SSI loan officers, decentralize appraisal
functions and build systems for end-use and project supervision; (ii) assistance to Baluchistan and
NWFP in project promotion; (iii) improvement of SSI management performance; (iv) assistance
to sub-borrowers in project preparation; and (v) identification of measures for expanding



-4 -
subcontracting linkages between large and small industries. The project was to generate total
investment of US$115 million, of which IDA was expected to finance US$48 million equivalent.
This investment was to support an estimated 1,450 sub-projects, generating about 35,000 full-time
jobs.
3.3           The project was also intended to strengthen the institutional framework of the
SSI sector. To this end, the project included US$2 million of technical assistance. IDA was to
finance training for the NCBs' staff to improve the quality of project appraisals and to build
systems for end-use and project supervision. It was also to provide technical assistance to support
the SICs in project promotion, technology information dissemination, project preparation and
management training. A particular emphasis was given to Baluchistan and NWFP, the two less
developed provinces. In Baluchistan, IDA was to finance a study to analyze constraints faced by
entrepreneurs and recommend actions which would promote SSIs and general industrialization.
In NWFP, IDA was to help establish a unit which would undertake sectoral opportunity studies,
identify potential projects, prepare project profiles, promote investments, and attract
entrepreneurs to invest in these projects. The Federal Ministry of Industries was to receive
assistance to establish a small management training institute.
3.4           In support of the Sixth Five-Year Plan's objective to stimulate subcontracting
between large and small industries, the project was to finance a study on subcontracting in the
engineering sector. The study was to analyze existing incentives which might mitigate against
subcontracting by public enterprises to domestic SSI suppliers; propose an incentive system to
promote subcontracting; identify processes and components which could be easily subcontracted in
the short term; and recommend measures to strengthen capabilities of large industries to provide
technical assistance to small industries.
4. ProJect Design and Organization
4.1          Financial Structure. The project was conceived as a continuation of IDA's frst
involvement in the SSIs sector through financing of viable sub-projects. Except for the project's
aim to strengthen subcontracting between large and small industries, the project was not
envisaged to have other major innovative features. The project aimed to deepen the term-lending
market structure started under SSI-I by channeling the funds through the NCBs with IDBP as
Apex organization.
4.2          Participating Institutions. The Small Industry Refinance Department (SIRD) of
the IDBP was to handle the Apex functions. SIRD, established under SSI-I, was to continue the
functions of review, refinancing and monitoring of sub-projects and developing project profiles
based on sub-projects already approved. Under SSI-II, the role of SIRD was expanded.
Although the NCBs were primarily responsible for appraisal, supervision, and collection of sub-
loans, SIRD's additional tasks included: disbursements and collection, progress reporting, training,
and sub-sector studies. SIRD was to take measures to ensure that the NCBs' portfolios were in
accordance with sectorial and regional priorities. In addition, it was to assist the NCBs to
improve their appraisal standards and organize their end-use and supervision functions. Under
SSI-I, each NCB established at its headquarters a Small Industry Department (SID) to undertake
project appraisal and a total of about 400 key branches were to be designated to process IDA
sub-loan applications, disburse approved sub-loans, and maintain sub-loan accounts. Under this



-5-
project, appraisal was to be decentralized to circle offices' where smaller SIDs staffed with
credit/financial analysts and engineers/technical persons were to be set up. In addition, the 400
designated branches would have continued to undertake the same function as proposed under
SSI-I.
4.3          Training Program. A training program on project appraisal for branch SID officers
and on end-use and project supervision for staff of designated branches was to be prepared by the
PBC and IDBP in consultation with the NCBs which would be responsible for implementation.
Total costs for training were estimated at US$0.30 million of which IDA was to finance US$0.15
million and the NCBs the remainder.
4.4          SSI Management Training. During appraisal it was found that there was no
organized effort in providing managerial training for the SSI sector. The project was to assist the
Federal Ministry of Industries in establishing the Pakistan Institute for Entrepreneurship Training
(PIET) which would coordinate existing management training capacity and make it available to
SSI entrepreneurs. The costs of running the PIET including costs for staff, part-time resource
persons, training and office equipment, was estimated at US$0.74 million for the first three years.
IDA was to finance the total cost of operations for the first three years. However, to ensure the
continuity of the Institute beyond the project, an endowment fund of Rs 10 million was to be
contributed by the Provincial Govemments, the Federal Ministry of Industries, the five NCBs and
IDBP. Fees from PIET's services and interest from the fund were to finance the Institute beyond
the first three years. Disbursements of 50% of the endowment fund and recruitment of the
Institute's director and at least one training specialist were to be completed before IDA's funds
were to be disbursed.
4.5          Sub-Project Promotion and Sub-Project Preparation Fund. Through the Provincial
SICs of Baluchistan and NWFP, the two least developed provinces, SSIs were to receive support.
IDA was to contribute US$38,000 to the Baluchistan and US$15,000 to the NWFP SICs. In
addition, the sub-project preparation fund, established under SSI-I, was to continue. Under this
program the SICs of the four provinces, on the request of a sub-borrower or a bank, were to
assist entrepreneurs in project preparation. An amount of US$200,000 was allocated for this
purpose.
4.6          Subcontracting Study. In an effort to develop subcontracting between large and
small industries, IDA was to finance a study to survey the top 100 SSI engineering firms to assess
their capabilities for subcontracting. The study was expected to cost US$50 thousand.
5. Project Implementation and Results
The Credit Component
5.1          The credit was approved on June 14, 1984, signed on July 10, 1984, became
effective on October 14, 1984 and closed on June 30, 1992 with an undisbursed balance of SDR 3
million. At first, commitments and disbursements moved fast, and two and a half years after
2'    The five NCB had a total of more than 7,000 branches and 45 circle offices outside KachiL



-6 -
effectiveness, the credit was fully committed and disbursements were higher than estimated at
appraisal during the first three years. Early in 1988, disbursements started to slow down. The
two main reasons were: (i) competition from the newly introduced subsidized credit scheme
(LMM) which carried significantly lower interest rates; and (ii) the reduction in the value of
SDRs necessary to fund Rupee investments due to the depreciation of the Rupee (the credit
amount increased by US$6.6 million). The credit component financed 1,336 units compared to the
planned 1,450. The total investment made was US$103 million (vs. US$115 million planned), of
which IDA contributed SDR 44 million (instead of SDR 45 million planned). Based on estimates
at the time of sub-project appraisals, the investments yielded approximately 44,000 jobs or 9,000
more than the 35,000 expected at the time of project design. However, by now the actual number
of jobs might have decreased below 44,000 because of sub-projects that have not been performing
(para. 5.4). The average sub-loan size was US$56,672 while the average fixed cost per job was
Rs 46,908 (US$1,900). As envisaged, financing mainly went to agro-industries (36%), cotton
ginning (20%), textiles (16%), light engineering (10%), ice and cold storage (9%) and oil
extraction (7%). Over 92% of sub-projects were new, the balance was expansion projects.
5.2         The Role of the Apex Institution. Because of positive experience with IDBP
under SSI-I, IDA expected that IDBP would perform its tasks and responsibilities with little
coaching. Experience, however, did not bear this out. IDBP neither kept appropriate records of
amounts disbursed and sub-projects refinanced, nor performed follow-up audits and professional
scrutiny of sub-project appraisals (para. 4.2). During the implementation of the project, IDBP
could not keep track of individual sub-projects, so IDA decided to stop refinancing of sub-projects
because of lack of accurate information on commitments and disbursements. IDBP's
ineffectiveness resulted in a discrepancy in the Special Account. IDA has not closed the books,
although the loan was closed on June 30, 1992, because IDBP and IDA disagreed over the
amount to be refunded. IDBP has now been able to reconcile the account and has explained that
part of the difference was due te unrecorded payments. IDBP has instructed SBP to refund Rs
1.6 million (US$60,000) to IDA.
5.3         In retrospect, it appears that many of the problems encountered can be traced
back to the lack of a strong local institution to oversee the implementation, not only of the credit,
but also of the technical assistance components. The staff appraisal report (SAR) indicated that
IDBP would fulfill the Apex role (para. 4.2). However, IDBP did not effectively and efficiently
perform its role because of lack of adequate and competent staff. The weak project appraisals
and supervision of the NCBs, the lack of proper recording of disbursements and commitments
would have been corrected if IDBP itself was capable of monitoring and supervising the NCBs.
5.4         Low Recovery Ratio. One of the biggest problems encountered was the low
recovery rates of sub-loans by the NCBs and high level of infection of their portfolios by arrears.
As of March 1993, 216 projects had been closed down and another 137 projects were not
servicing their debts. Four of the five NCBs were suspended from making new commitments
under the subsequent project (SSI-III) because they were recovering less than 75% of SSI-I and
II loans. IDA could not suspend the NCBs under SSI-II because of the lack of a covenant.
However, the suspension of the NCBs under SSI-III resulted in a significant effort to improve
collection performance ratios under the SSI-II and III projects. Loan recovery has been a serious
problem for the industrial sector as a whole. Recovery of sub-loans in Pakistan's banking system
is one of the lowest in Asia. The high level of non-performing loans can be traced back to



-7-
political interference, weak management, lack of accountability, and absence of professional
motivation.
5.5          Reasons for Low Recovery Ratio. During project implementation, IDA
conducted a survey in order to assess and analyze the reasons for the NCBs' low recovery rates of
sub-loans. Interviews of the survey revealed the following problems faced by the entrepreneurs:
o     Inadequate investment amount. During appraisal, the NCBs usually arbitrarily cut
down the sub-loan size (by about 25%) because they assumed that sub-borrowers
had inflated investment costs. (This assumption reflected their experience with
over-invoicing in big projects such as sugar mills). Sub-borrowers accepted the
reduced approved amount, and the associated hazard of inadequate financial
resources at a later date.
o     Lack of working capital. Sub-borrowers used funds earmarked for working capital
to finance investments in fLxed assets as the loan amounts approved by NCBs were
not adequate to sustain viable sub-projects.
o     Delays in loan approval. As a result of delays, the costs of sub-projects increased.
Loans were approved on the basis of feasibility studies which were years out of
date. 'he assumptions were not revised during or after delays and NCBs approved
loans that did not cover the cost of sub-projects. Sub-borrowers therefore had to
roll over funds to cover the shortfall (approvals would often take between one and
two years).
o     Poor financial and marketing planning and poor financial control. This situation
led to cost overruns resulting in cash shortages.
o     Lack of monitoring and supervision by NCBs. The NCBs neither monitored nor
supervised sub-projects to evaluate the existing and projected financial and
operational performance during and after sub-projects' implementation. The
NCBs' inspections were limited to rare visits during construction to determine
disbursement of the next tranche of sub-loans.
o     The NCBs' branches were not familiar with SSI lending procedures. To avoid
making mistakes, the branches simply did not process sub-loan applications and
procrastinated.
o     Sub-loan appraisal procedures were lengthy and complicated. Sub-borrowers
were subjected to repetitive review processes with similar negative remarks at all
levels of the NCBs (Branch, Zone, Circle, etc).
o     Lack of proper technical personnel within the NCBs to adequately appraise sub-
loan applications. For example, mechanical engineers were evaluating fishing sub-
projects.



-8 -
0     Lack of adequate support services. The NCBs rarely helped sub-borrowers
complete application forms.
5.6          Decentralization of Appraisal Decisions. The agreed decentralization of appraisal
and supervision functions to circle offices did not take place (para. 4.2). The 400 branches for
SSI lending were never designated. In retrospect and based on data obtained under the SSI-Il
project, it emerges that failure of the NCBs to effectively decentralize their approval procedures
negatively affected project implementation and reduced the NCBs' interest in successfully
providing long-term resources to SSIs. Under SSI-III, the Habib Bank decentralized part of its
operations which resulted in a reduction of approval time to a maximum of 2 months after loan
application and an improvement in the quality of appraisal (recovery rate near 78%).
5.7          Poor project management by IDBP was also reflected in non-compliance with the
reporting and auditing requirements. Problems were delays and inaccuracy of information. IDA
seldom received audited annual reports and quarterly project progress reports on time. The
NCBs submitted their audited financial statements with considerable delays. IDA had to remind
them of their financial covenants. IDBP was responsible for forwarding audit as well as project
progress reports and the NCBs blamed IDBP for the numerous delays. The NCBs complied with
the auditing requirements as agreed under the Development Credit Agreement. They were not
required to furnish long form audits. Although the extemal auditors never qualified the NCBs'
financial statements, their accounts were not audited according to the international auditing
standards and guidelines. Their financial statements did not show the true financial condition
because accounts were recorded in accordance with the Banking Act which does not require the
use of intemational accounting principles. As the progress reports were not analytical and
informative, IDA requested specific information on sub-projects and financial performance of SSI
lending. At one point, IDBP did not submit the audit reports on SOEs and the Special Account
for about 24 months because it had fired its auditor who had qualified its financial statements and
its new auditor was unacceptable to IDA. IDA was ready to suspend disbursements through the
Special Account when the issue was resolved. It took more than one year for IDBP to rehire an
auditor acceptable to IDA.
The Technical Assistance Component
5.8          Training of Credit Officers. The objective of institution building in terms of
improving appraisal and supervision capacities of the NCBs was not achieved to a satisfactory
level. Trained officers were generally not assigned to small industries lending operations.
Furthermore, training was used on an ad-hoc basis, usually to reward senior employees or
management. The misuse of the training funds resulted in the low quality of sub-project
appraisal. IDA did not convince the NCBs to reassign lending officers who were trained for this
purpose under SSI-I and II technical assistance. Since then, IDA has become more involved in
selection of staff to be trained, content of training courses and reassignment of trained staff.
5.9          SSI Management Training. The appointment of the director of the Institute took
more than five years. Further delays occurred in appointing the training specialist and because
the director wanted to change the role of the Institute. While IDA and GOP had agreed that the
Institute was to coordinate existing training programs of other organizations and make them
available to SSI entrepreneurs, the new director insisted on developing his own agenda. The
current direction appears to duplicate efforts of other training centers, in particular private



- 9 -
management training institutes for SSI entrepreneurs. As a result, IDA only contributed
US$177,000 out of the planned US$740,000.
5.10         Sub-Project Promotion and Sub-Project Preparation Fund. These funds were
disbursed and utilized as planned. While under the SSI-I project NCBs financed nearly all sub-
projects analyzed and proposed by the SICs, the situation was somewhat different under SSI-II.
The SIC of the NWFP reported that the NCBs approved only 3% of the sub-projects they
promoted because the NCBs argued that the SICs' appraisal standards were inadequate. As a
result, the NWFP SIC (to be followed later by Punjab and Sindh) started their own credit
program funded by their Provincial Govemment and bilateral donors. One of the objectives of
the SSI-I and 11 loans was to channel all credit operations through formal financial institutions,
such as the NCBs, while the SICs would concentrate on support services (para. 6.4). This
objective was not achieved. In addition, recommendations to promote industrial development in
the two less developed provinces were not implemented. In order to effectively implement the
recommendations, the GOP would need to adequately provide the two provinces with
infrastructure and education investments.
5.11         Subcontracting Study. The study was carried out during the first year of the
project. Unfortunately, the GOP did not apply the recommendations because it did not want to
design special incentives to facilitate exchange between large and small industries. Likewise, the
large industries did not want to transfer technology and other supports to SSIs as needed to
promote subcontracting. The study contributed only marginally to the development of
subcontracting.
6. Project Sustainability
6.1          Enterprises. The project contributed significantly to the expansion of the SSI
sector. The SSI manufacturing sector increased its share of value-added from 27% at the time of
project appraisal to nearly 33% in 1992. While several enterprises have not succeeded (about
10% have gone into arrears and 16% have been closed down) the rate of failure has been below
the average failure rate for the SSI sector worldwide. The project contributed to a sustainable
expansion of the sector, although the reliability of the data is uncertain (para. 11.3).
6.2          Participating Financial Institutions. The project did not succeed in improving
appraisal and supervision capacities of the NCBs which continue making their lending decisions
based on collateral they can seldom realize, rather than sub-project viability and cash-flow.
However, the project clearly contributed to increasing the access of SSIs to the formal financial
sector. TMe NCBs are now lending their own long-term funds to the SSI sector. Even though the
performance of the NCBs has been questionable, the benefits at the institutional level may well
be sustainable because the collection performance ratios of SSIs have been no worse than those
of the larger loans and the experience led the NCBs to shift some of their resources to the small
industries sector.
6.3          Pakistan Institute for Entrepreneurship Training (PIET). The closing date of the
project was postponed twice to allow the Institute to meet conditions for disbursement.
Unfortunately, the late appointment of the director and the apparent change of the Institute's



- 10-
objectives may render the Institute inviable because of the lack of adequate starting capital and
future fee income due to inappropriate services.
6.4           Small Industries Corporations (SICs). The project, following the initial objectives
of SSI-I, succeeded in diversifying the functions of the SICs and developing within the institutes
technical assistance capacity for SSIs. Most of this technical assistance is now provided on a fee
basis. It is therefore reasonable to assume that this component of the SICs is sustainable. The
SICs have, contrary to the project objectives, reintroduced their own credit programs that offer
subsidized rates. It is questionable, based on previous experience of IDA and other international
organizations,3' whether these credit operations will be sustainable.
7. IDA's Performance
7.1           In retrospect, IDA's performance could have been better. The capacity of the
Apex Agency was grossly overestimated. SSI-II was intended to build a strong foothold for the
SSIs in the NCBs' domestic lending which could have been fully achieved with a strong, efficient
and effective Apex Agency. IDA should have provided a senior consultant to train and supervise
the Apex operations of IDBP, especially when IDBP was losing its competent staff due to its
deteriorating financial situation. In addition, IDA should have worked more closely with the
NCBs to design and supervise implementation of the training for credit officers and provide
follow-up supervision and guidance to assist credit officers in applying their knowledge.
7.2           The problems resulting from poor reporting by the NCBs and lack of supervision
by IDBP was compounded by the delegation of responsibilities to the Resident Mission by IDA's
headquarters. IDA decentralized its supervision and the Resident Mission started to review and
approve sub-projects before proper preparation and adequate staff resources were in place. As a
result, during the transition, the accounts could not be reconciled and it became impossible to
trace disbursements and approvals. Consequently, IDA had to hire a consultant to reconcile the
accounts of the Resident Mission, IDBP and the NCBs. Learning from its mistake, IDA financed
a consultant to design a monitoring and filing system for the SSI-III project, hired at its Resident
Mission a Project Advisor fully in charge of implementation matters, and it maintains good lines
of communication among IDBP, the NCBs and its Resident Mission.
7.3           IDA's supervision was too narrowly focused on implementation of the project
instead of development of the sector. Although this oversight was corrected towards the end of
the implementation period, supervision missions should have devoted more time to reviewing the
overall financial situation of the NCBs and assessing the impact of non-financial constraints on
development of SSIs. It is recommended that IDA focus on the financial viability of institutions
as well as financial sector policy reforms which would not only strengthen institutions but also
allow them to operate in a more efficient and effective financial framework.
1'     UNDP/UNIDO/ILO/Government of the Netherlands: Development of Rural Small Scale Indutrial Enterprise: Lass
from Experience. UNIDO, Vienna, 1988.



- 11 -
8. Borrower's Performance
8.1         During appraisal, the GOP correctly analyzed the sector's need for credit and
certain policy impediments such as subcontracting. Unfortunately, during implementation the
Government decided to take a different route than that agreed during appraisal because it
believed that the problem was more related to the level of interest rates than access to credit.
The introduction of heavily subsidized credit schemes undermined this loan and represented a
departure from the objectives of eventually establishing market-based interest rates.
8.2         While the GOP correctly appraised the need to improve subcontracting
procedures, it did not make use of the recommendations of the study (para. 5.11). In addition,
recommendations made for Baluchistan and NWFP were not implemented (para. 5.10). In both
cases, the GOP was not ready to grant needed incentives.
9. Project Relationship
9.1         The successes of the project were due to the Government's commitment to the
SSI sector. During project implementation, the Government started to reform the financial sector
by introducing prudential regulations and moving to a more market-based structure. In this
process, the Government and IDA often had different views. However, the interactions have
resulted in an acceptable policy reform and lending program.
9.2         The relations among IDBP, the Resident Mission and the NCBs could have been
improved. The tardiness of IDBP in sending reports and complying with the rules and regulations
as agreed in negotiations and laid down in the Development Credit Agreement and related
documents left a lot to be desired.
10. Co-financing
10.1        Although it was mentioned neither in the SAR nor in the Development Credit
Agreement, the Governments of the Netherlands and Norway co-financed the project to the
extent of US$2.5 and US$6.0 million equivalent, respectively. Their funds were to finance both
loans and technical assistance. At the beginning of the implementation period, the Netherlands
Government sent its funds directly to IDBP instead of IDA. IDA sent a letter to the GOP
pointing out the mistake and suggesting that the funds be left with the GOP but used for the
same purpose. Because IDA did not receive the Netherlands funds, it did not administer them
and inferred that it did not have to supervise them as administrator. Nonetheless, during the last
supervision mission, IDA inquired about sub-projects financed by the Netherlands funds and
discovered that IDBP could not trace the funds. Following a special audit requested by IDA,
IDBP's auditors now have informed IDA that they have found the missing accounts. Their report
is expected in the coming months. It is recommended that IDA pay more attention to its co-
financing funds.



- 12 -
11. Project Documentation and Data
11.1        In general, the Development Credit Agreement and related documents were
adequate and appropriate for achieving the project objectives. However, learning from
experience, IDA fell back on a covenant which was part of the SSI-III project to monitor the
NCBs' collection performance ratios. The suspension of NCBs from further commitments was
effective in bringing discipline and should have been included in the Development Credit
Agreement. The covenant proved to be both relevant and adequate and it is recommended that a
covenant of this kind be included in all legal agreements for projects of this nature.
11.2        The Development Credit Agreement and relevant documents should also have
included performance criteria for the Apex Agency and sanctions in case of non-performance.
The monitoring of performance criteria would have allowed timely action such as providing a
consultant to help IDBP or transferring the Apex functions to a more competent institution.
11.3        Reports and documents submitted to IDA have been incomplete. Although IDA
financed a consultant out of its supervision budget to remedy the situation, the reliability of the
data is still uncertain; IDBP, the NCBs and IDA do not have the same information on sub-
projects and cannot reconcile their accounts. The mishandling of records reflects the Apex
Agency's inefficiency.
12. Lessons Learned
12.1        The main lessons learned and confirmed by the on-going projects are summarized
below:
An efficient and effective Apex Institution is crucial to the success of this type of
project, particularly during the period of institutional development and sector
strengthening. In its project designs, IDA should agree on performance criteria
and sanctions in case of non-performance; and during project implementation, it
should provide adequate technical assistance for potentially weak Apex Institutions
and continually supervise and monitor their work.
o     IDA needs to define clear performance standards and sanctions (including
suspension) in case of non-performance for participating financial intermediaries.
o     IDA should not transfer responsibilities to its Resident Missions before
preparation and clear definition of tasks are complete. Furthermore, Headquarters
should insure that Resident Missions have adequate staff to accomplish tasks.
o     IDA should agree on policy directions and action plans for implementation of
studies, and during project implementation should insist that recommendations
under the various studies be discussed in open meetings with all concerned parties.
o     When defining its covenants, IDA should take into account that financial markets
and policies may change, particularly when it is pressing for financial reforms. It



- 13 -
should not confine its evaluation and supervision to the narrow window of its own
loans but look at the financial viability of intermediaries.
o     IDA should devote more attention and staff resources to the supervision of
technical assistance.
o     Technical support to less developed regions can only be effective when adequate
infrastructure and technically qualified personnel are in place.
o     IDA should take a more proactive role in administrating its co-financing funds.



- 14 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.          IDA Credit 1499-PAK agreement, which was signed in July 1984, was the second
project in Pakistan dealing exclusively with the small-scale industry (SSI) sector. Previously, the
first IDA credit of US$30 million was made available in April 1981 for the development of the
SSI sector. SSI-I was smoothly implemented and was utilized by the terminal date. Encouraged
by the positive results of SSI-I, GOP negotiated SSI-H (Credit 1499-PAK) with IDA for SSI loan
of US$50 million (SDR 47 million).
2.    SSI-II had the following specific objectives:
o     To encourage the development of SSI units by providing credit to promote
investments in promising SSI sub-sectors and to accelerate modernization and
improve productivity of existing SSI units;
o     To provide selected technical assistance and skills to SSI units; and
o     To train NCBs' personnel in appraisal, supervision monitoring, etc., of SSI long-
term loans.
3.           Overall, the project satisfactorily achieved its objectives. The project assisted the
commercial banks in building their capability for project lending by training staff in appraisal and
supervision and by developing appropriate systems and procedures for loan processing,
procurement and disbursements. The project established the basis for development of
institutional arrangements for SSI financing using the commercial banks with their branch network
and close contact with small industrialists proved to be a sound arrangement. Commercial banks
with additional skills in project appraisal demonstrated their ability to select sub-project sponsors.
Commercial banks had the opportunity to transform some of their funds into long-term financing
by co-financing sub-projects. Thus SSI-II gave valuable exposure to commercial banks in long-
term lending. Overall, the SSI sector's access to industrial credit increased so that more than
1300 units were financed as a result of the SSI-Il credit.
4.           The credit line was quickly committed by PCIs; by end 1987 most of the funds
were committed. The disbursements were, however, slower than expected. There were large
scale cancellations. Besides, depreciation of the Pakistan Rupee affected the real utilization of
funds. Meanwhile, banks were given access to concessionary credit lines for financing locally
manufactured machinery by State Bank of Pakistan which proved to be another constraint. As a
result, the closing date had to be extended twice.
5.          IDA as well as the Apex Agency were actively involved in the monitoring of the
credit line. Pakistan Banking Council was also involved throughout this process and provided
valuable support.
6.           Notwithstanding the above, utilization of the credit line remained problematic on
many occasions. One of the problems was the slower utilization of funds beginning in 1987, as
discussed in para. 4 above. The second constraint was the lack of complete and correct data for



- 15 -
arriving at the utilization position of the credit line. This necessitated appointment of a
consultant in 1990 to reconcile the data with commercial banks/IDA.
7.           The major lessons learned from monitoring this credit line are as follows:
o     There should be strong M.I.S. and feedback systems at all levels for proper
monitoring and to cope quickly with changes;
o     IDA should not be involved in day-to-day operation (e.g., their prior approval of
sub-loans). This often proved to be an obstacle; and
o     The impact of utilization of the credit due to a rise in the exchange rate of
Pakistan Rupee in relation to SDR was under-rated.



- 16 -
PART HI: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.    Related Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit                                              Date of           Status/
Title                        Purpose                 Approval         Comments
Ln. 2380/Cr. 1439-PAK    To help GOP improve the credit       1/84           Closed on
First Industrial Investment   delivery system and focus on the               4/30/91
Credit                   institutional restructuring of PICIC &              PCR prepared
(IIC I)                  IDBP.                                              on 6/23/92
Ln. 2648/Cr. 1646-PAK    To support GOP efforts to promote    1/07/86        Closed on
Second Industrial        private industrial investment and                   6/30/92
Investment Credit        strengthen the financial markets.                   PCR is being
(IIC II)                                                                     prepared
Ln. 3019/Cr. 1982-PAK    To help GOP promote the growth of    1/31/89        Closing on
Third Industrial         equity markets, improve credit                      12/31/94
Investment Credit        delivery for industrial finance, address
(IIC III)                corporate finance issues and assist
PFIs' diversification.
Ln. 3029-PAK             To help GOP reform the financial     4/14/89        Second tranche
Financial Sector         sector: gearing credit allocation to               released
Adjustment Loan          market signals, improving health and
efficiency of banks, and creating a
more efficient Government debt
system.
Loan 2839-PAK            To provide SSI financing, expand     6/16/87        12/31/95 closing;
Third Small Scale Industry   NCBs' SSI funding capabilities, and            was restructured
Project                  develop export marketing system.                   in January 1993
(SSI III)
Loan 3318-PAK            To strengthen the capacity of        4/23/91       6/30/98 closing
Microenterprise Project    institutions in delivering financial, as
well as technical and/or social
services to microenterprises.



- 17 -
2.    Project Timetable
Item                  Date Planned           Date Revised             Date Actual
Identification/
Preparation                 October 1983                                   October 1983
Project Brief               January 1984                                   January 1984
Issues Paper                January 1984                                   January 1984
Decision Memorandum         February 1984                                  February 1984
Appraisal Mission           March 1984                                     March 1984
Credit Committee            April 1984                                     April 1984
Credit Negotiation          May 1984                                       May 1984
Board Approval              June 1984                                      June 1984
Credit Signature            July 1984                                      July 1984
Credit Effectiveness        October 1984                                   October 1984
Credit Closing              June 30, 1990         June 30, 1991            June 30, 1992
Credit Completion           December 31, 1987     December 31, 1988        December 31, 1990



- 18 -
3.   Cumulative Estimated and Actual Credit Disbursement
VP - SOUTH ASIA REGIONAL OFFICE
SOJTH ASIA: COUNTRY DEPT III
24610 - CaJNTRY OPER, IND & FINANCE DIV
PAKISTAN
PFPMR4 - Disbursement Information
(U.S. S MILLIONS)
(LOA Data as of 3/30/93 - MIS Data as of 05/13/93)
Project: 8PAKPA119 - SMALL SCALE IND. 11               Effective Date:  10/10/84
Approved Amount:      50.00                      Cancellations:         .00
Forma ILy
Fiscal     ActuaL Amt. Profile Amt. Revised Amt. Original Amt. Revised Ant.
Year      Cumutative    CuTulative    Cumulative        Cumulative    CuimLative
....  ..  .  ...    .  .    ......................  ---------  ............    -------  -------  -------
1984
Sep, 1983
Dec, 1983
Mar, 1984
Jun, 1984
1985
Sep, 1984
Dec, 1984                         1.50
Mar, 1985          2.48          3.00
Jun, 1985          5.55          6.00
1986
Sep, 1985          8.10          9.00                            .05
Dec, 1985         10.18          13.00                           .10
Mar, 1986         12.67          17.00                          1.35
Jun, 1986         17.32          22.00                          2.60          17.30
1987
Sep, 1986         19.45          27.00                          5.60          19.80
Dec, 1986         22.46         31.00                           8.60          22.30
Mar, 1987         29.60          35.00                         11.60          24.80
Jun, 1987         34.99         38.00                          14.60          27.30
1988
Sep, 1987         38.79         41.00                          18.10          30.30
Dec, 1987         40.18          43.00                         21.60          33.30
Mar, 1988         42.31          45.00                         25.10          36.30
Jun, 1988         46.70         46.00                          28.60.         39.30
1989
Sep, 1988         47.34         47.00                          32.10          42.30
Dec, 1988         48.34         48.00                          35.60          45.30
Mar, 1989         48.87         49.00                          39.10          48.30
Jun, 1989        49.66          49.50                          42.60          49.66
1990
Sep, 1989        50.14          50.00                          44.10          50.14
Dec, 1989         50.47         50.00                          45.60          50.47
Mar, 1990         50.47         50.00                          46.60          50.47
Jun, 1990        51.01                                         47.60          51.01
1991
Sep, 1990         52.37         50.00                          48.80          52.37
Dec, 1990                       50.00                          50.00          52.37
Mar, 1991         53.26                                        50.00          53.26
Jun, 1991        53.34                                         50.00          53.34
1992
Sep, 1991                                                      50.00
Dec, 1991                                                      50.00
Mar, 1992                       50.00                          50.00
JLn, 1992                                                      50.00



- 18a -
VP - SOUTH ASIA REGIONAL OFFICE
SOUTH ASIA: COUNTRY DEPT III
24610 - COUNTRY OPER, IND & FINANCE DIV
PAKISTAN
PFPMR4 - Disbursement Information
(U.S. S MILLIONS)
(LOA Data as of 3/30/93 - MIS Data as of 05/13/93)
Project: 8PAKPA119 - SMALL SCALE IND. II                Effective Date:  10/10/84
Approved Amount:      50.00                       CancelLations:         .00
Formatly
Fiscal     ActuaL Amt.  Profile Amt.  Revised Amt.  Original Amt.  Revised Amt.
Year      Cumulative    Cumulative    Cumulative         Cumulative    Cumulative
1993
Sep, 1992         53.42                                         50.00
Dec, 1992                                                       50.00
Mar, 1993                                                       50.00
Jun, 1993                                                       50.00



- 19 -
4.    Status of Covenants
Section                                       Activity                                           CompL iance
Develoament Credit Agreement
3.05 (a)                The Borrower shaLl review periodically the adequacy of level of    Unsatisfactory
Lending rates for smaLl industriaL projects and if determined
that such rates are not at positive levels in reaL terms, take
necessary measures to achieve levels satisfactory to the
Association.
4.01 (a) (ii)           The Borrower shall cause IDBP to consolidate the accounts of             Unsatisfactory
the participating banks with respect to the Project.
4.01 (c)                To furnish within six months, a certified copy of audited                Unsatisfactory
reports of participating banks and of expenditures and
withdrawals of the Project.
5.       Prolect  Results:   Maior  Technical  Assistance
TechnicaL                         Purpose as Defined                 Status               Impact of Technical
Assistance                           at AppraisaL                                             Assistance
muIa                       Inprove appraisaL and supervision        Completed        Limited impact because trained
Training of Staff          capacities of NCBs.                                       staff were not used for SSI
lending.
SICs of Batuchistan        Promote investments, identify            CompLeted        Recommendations were not
and NUFI                   prospective sponsors and assist                           implemented and sub-projects
Equipment, training        in project development and                                identified were not executed.
and consultancy            iipLementation.
SICs                       Improve SSI management                   CompLeted        PLanned Levels were not
Equipment training         performance.                                              accomplished.
and consultancies.
PBC                        Expand subcontracting linkage            Completed        Recommendations were not
Subcontracting             between large and smaLL                                   impLemented.
Study.                     industries.



- 20 -
6.    Use of IDA Resources
A. STAFF INPUTS (Staff Weeks)
Stage of
Proiect Cycle             FY82   fY8       FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88    FY89   FY90   FY91           FY92   FY93    TotaL
Identification             0.4    0.7                                                                                          1.1
Preparation/
Pre-appraisal                      3.9    24.9                                                                                28.8
Lending Development                         6.2             0.6                                                                6.8
Appraisal                                  22.4                                                                               22.4
Negotiation                                 1.8                                                                                 1.8
Supervision                                 0.3   17.7   11.2    6.9    7.8          5.2    3.3    4.5    13.7    0.2         70.8
PCR                                                                                                                  1.8        1.8
Total                      0.4    4.6    55.6   17.7   11.6    6.9    7.8            5.2    3.3    4.5    13.7    2.0    133.5
B.   ISSIONS
Stage of               Month/   No. of payisn  Soecialization    Performance
Proiect Cycle             YIea     Persons  Field       ReDresent        Rating Status                   Co wts
PreappraisaL             02/13/83      2     10       Economics                n.a       Project Brief was prepared based on
experience and lessons learned uider
SSI-I.
Appraisal                10/07/83      4     10       Devetopment banking    n.a
Supervision Missions   05/11/85        4    8
10/22/85     4    8
03/15/86      3    6
10/17/87     2    5
07/11/88      1    7         Development banking                The Dutch Goverruent by mistake
disbursed DFL 5 million (USS2.5
miLlion) to IDBP Instead of IDA's trust
fiund. The mission recommaended that the
amount be kept in IDBP nd used for
sub-loans.
10/02/89     2    2.5        Development banking    2           Collection performance was low but IDA
operation officer                  could not act because there was no
financial covenant under the Loan to
auspend the NCBs.
03/04/90      2    2.5       Development banking    2           Significant delay in the work to
operation officer                  establish proper recording and
monitoring of SSI-II loan at the
Resident Mission. The mission could
not determine the correct level of
commitments and disbursements because
of miscommumication between the Apex
Agency, HCBs and the Resident Mission.
Collection performonce of NCBs has
worsened. NCs blamed the flood end
unrest for the deterioration of the
portfolio. However, based on * mples
of sub-projects reviewed and visited,
it appeared that some of the reasons
might be inadequate appraisal of sub-
projects, lack of supervision after
disbursements and follow-up during
impLementation.
09/19/91     4     4.5       Development banking    3           High level of non-performing loana
SSI specialist                     IDA decided uider SSI-111 to suspend
the NCBs that were not collecting at
least 75X of their IDA's SSI-I and if
Loans.



- 21 -
7.1    Project Implementation
A. Summary Credit Characteristics
Estimated at
Actual              Time of SAR
(Rs/USS in millions)
Total No. of Projects Financed                             1,336                 1,450
Total Investment                               Rs      2,062.136
US$           103        US$       115
Total Amount Advanced                          Rs       1,299.146
US$          75.7
Funded by IDA                                  Rs        909,400
US$         53.0f         USS    4&00
Average Size of Project                        Rs          1,543
US$        81,210
Average Size of Loan                           Rs          0.972
US$        56,672
No. of Jobs Created                                       43,961               35,000
Average No. of Jobs per Project                            32.90                 24.14
Investment per Job                             Rs         46,908
USS         2,468        USS    3,286
Projects in Arrears
(Excluding Closed)                            137       10.25%
Closed Projects
(Identified as such)                          216       16.16%
Total in Arrears                               353       26.41%
New Projects                                             92.00%
Existing Projects                                         8.00%
Geological Distnbution of Jobs
Employment
No. of Workers in        Generated                  Actual             Under SSI I
(Percentage)
Punjab                     29,031                   66.04                 60.00
Sindh                      12,058                   27.43                 30.00
Baluchistan                  895                     2.04                  8.00
N.W.F.P.                    1,558                    3.54                  2.00
AJ. & Kashmir                 51                     0.12
I.C.T.                       368                     0.84
TOTAL                      43,961                  100.00                100.00
IDA disbursed SDR 44 milLion equivaleat to US$53.0 million. Total amount of the caedit w SDR 47 million which wa equivkat
to US$50 million when the crdit was approved.



- 22 -
Project Implementation (cont'd)
B. Sub-Sectoral Distribution
Disbursed
Sector                                   No.               Amount
(Rs in millions)
Textile                                     153              209.000
Surgical Instruments                          9                4.992
Leather Goods, Tannery                       32               34.587
Sports Goods                                  3                3.049
Light Engineering                           153              131.098
Furniture and Wood Processing                27               19.059
Oil Extraction                              137               90.132
Cotton Ginning                              212              259.956
Ice and Cold Storage                        169              114.092
Marble Processing                             5                2.880
Printing, Publishing and Packing             43               47.907
Poultry Farm and Feed                        57               54.148
Soap and Detergent                           16               14.510
Fruit, Vegetable, Food Process
Dairy Farming and Bakery                    70                74.479
Hotel                                        15               19.705
Rice, Flour and Dal Milling                  73               56.146
Miscellaneous                               162              163.406
TOTAL                                      1336             1299.146



C. Sectoral and Geographical Distribution                                                                                      L0
Consolidated Statement Showing Loans Approved and Disbursed Up to 30-06-1992                                                                                   n
(Rs In Millions)                                                                                             n
PUNJAB                          S1NDH                           NWFP                    EIALUCHISTAN                                                t9
LOANS                          LOANS                           LOANS                        LOANS                     TOTAL LOANS                  9
Approed       Disbursed      Approved         Disbursed      Approved         Disbursed      Approved      DIsbursed      Approved        Disbured 
6TErRTTsOt  No.   Amount  No.   Amount  No.   Amount  No.  hAnt    No.   Anount  No.  Amount  No. Amount  No. Amount  No.   Amount  No.   Amountt    o
SE-CTOR                                                                                                                                                                                             r
TEXTILE                                                                                                                                                                                             0
Weaving                              67    65.066   66    63.106    17    60.6e8    I6      46.37    2      1.228     2     1.228    0       0    0         0    e0   106.68a   53    103.703      P
Finishng                              S     3.993    3      3a.63     4      10.37    4     10.37    0          0    0         0    0         0    0        0    7      14.363    7     14.363
Readynede Gar mnts                   11    17.116   11      16.14   26      39.78   26      39.78    6        7.6    6        7.6    0        0    0        0   42      64.306   42     63.420     n
Specialized TextIlo                  12      8.426   12     *.419    0    19.095    9    19.096    0            0    0          0    0        0    0        0   21      27.621   21     27.614
SUBTOTAL                            03     4.6580   92    81.667  6s    119.93   64   118.616       7      8.728    7     a.728    0        0    0        0  16    213.247  163    20m.000         -
la.
SURGICAL NSTRUMENTS                    9     6.907    9      4.992     0         0    0         0    0           0    0         0    0        0    0         0    0      6.907    9       4.902
LEATHER GOODS. TANNERY                26    28.174   24    26.338      7     8.490    7      8.490    1       0.76    1      0.76    0        0    0        0   34      37.423   32      s4.687
SPORTS GOODS                           3     3.049    3      3.049    0          0    0         0    0           0    0         0    0        0    0         0    3      3.040    3       3.049
LIGHT ENGINEERING
Steel R0-f dlng/Galvmnw1             20    27.042   ts      24.60     a     8.631     9     8.631    0          0    0         0    0         0    0        0   29    3s.673   28       33.321
Fans                                 16     0.7se   16      9.7s0     0         0    0          0    0          0    0         0    0         0    0        0    s16     .706   16       s.706
Elecrical                            II    10.196   11      9.933     3       1.90    3      1.60    0          0    0         0    0         0    0        0   14      12.1U    14     11.923
Workshop    .                        36    27.618   36    2e.536    14    11228   14    11.228    6         1.661     6     1.861    0        0    0        0   66      40.307   66     30.827
Nuta&Cables.oft..                    12    14234    12    14.234      0         0    0          0     1     0.796     1    0.796    1    1.48       1      1.2   14     16.509   14      1e.229
Wires&Cables                          3       2.72    3       2.72    1     0.778    1      0.778     2       1.36    2      1.36    0        0    0        0    6       4u56     6       4.566
Agricultual Implements               13      0.794   13      0.794    7      4.048    7     4.948     1     0.602     I    0.802    0         0    0        0   21      16.344   21      16.344
SUBTOTAL                           110   102.202  100   U6.006    34    27.676   34    27.676    9         4.315    9     4.318    1    1.48      I      1.2  154    135.676  163    131.006
FURNITURE&WOOD PROCESSING             le    11.211    16    11.211     3     2.742    3      2.742    7      4.311     7     4.311    1   0.796     1   0.796   27       19.060   27     19.060
OIL EXTRACTION                       140    s2.108   132    56.3s7     5     3.746    6      3.746    0          0    0         0    0        0    0         0  146    06.941   137      90.132
COTTON GINNING                       197   237.401   199   246.473    12    13.093   12    13.993      1      0.49     1      0.49    0       0    0         0  210    261.584  212    250.s6e
ICE&COLDSTORAGE                      117    84.794   112    79.951   47    30.021   46    26.027    a    6.4786       9      5.481    3   1.733    3   1.733  176   122.0266  160    114.092
MARBLEPROCESSING                       3     1.315    3      1.316     0         0    0          0    2      1.605    2      1.665    0       0    0         0    6        2.88    5       2.J8
PRINTING. PUBLISHING & PACKING        21    24.107   21    23.726    19    18.078   19    15.078    3        6.104     3     8.104    0       0    0         0   43      48.289   43     47.907
POULTRYFARM & FEED                    36    34.357   33    27.858    17   1t.006   17    10.637    a         6.957    6      6.163    1      1.6    1      1.6   62       61.81   67     64.148
SOAP&DETERGENT                        12    12.652   12    12.652      4     1.771    3      t.S3s    1      0.419     1    0.419    0        0    0         0   17      14.742   16      14.61
FRUIT. VEGETABLE. FOOD PROCESS
DAIRY FARMING & BAKERY               22    23.n73    21    23.188    44    46.352   44 * 46.351    6         4.94    6       4.04    0        0    0        0   71      76.06e   70     74.479
HOTEL                                  7    12.113    7    11.713      5     6.192    6      6.192    2        2.2     2       2.2    1      0.6     1     0.0   16      20.105   15     19.706
RICE. FLOUR&DAL MILLING               22     24.51    18    20.176    62    29.258   61    28.766    4       7.106    3      7.106    1      0.1    1      0.1   79      61.303   73     66.148
MISCELLANEOUS                         87   s6.s3   857    85.463   5        61.411  35    60.643   1 7    12.225   16    I11.65       6   8.546     6   6.845  167    166.847  162    163.406
TOTAL                             021   568.948'8SN   542.052   363  _368.603  354   381 202    76   64.6006   7 1   63.119   13  13.063  t13  12,773 11373  1335.1846 1336   1200.146



- 24 -
Project Implementation (cont'd)
D.    Analysis of Data by Type of Business. Sub-Loan Terns. Sub-Loan
Amount. Value of Total Assets and Fixed Assets
TYPE OF BUSINESS ENTlTY
Private Limtet Comlpany                                243                18.19
Partnership                                            612                45.81
Sole Proprietorship                                    481                36.00
TOTAL                                                1336               100.00
MATURITY DATE OF SUB LOANS
Maturity Date <=5 Years                                 118                8.81
Maturity Date >5 & <=6 Years                           253                18.93
Maturity Date >6 & <=7 Years                           305                22.84
Maturity Date >7 & <=8 Years                           265                19.85
Maturity Date >8 & <=9 Years                            118                8.81
Maturity Date >9 Years                                 277                20.77
TOTAL                                                1336               100.00
VALUE OF TOTAL LOAN
Total Loan <= 200,000                                   73                 5.44
Total Loan = 200,001-500,000                           259                19.39
Total Loan = 500,001-1,000,000                         482                36.09
Total Loan = 1,000,001-1,500,000                       391                29.27
Total Loan = 1,500,001-3,000,000                        53                 3.98
Total Loan > 3,000,000                                  78                 5.83
TOTAL                                                1336               100.00
VALUE OF TOTAL ASSETS
Total Assets <= 200,000                                  5                 0.38
Total Assets = 200,001-1,000,000                       201                15.02
Total Assets = 1,000,001-1,500,000                     221                16.55
Total Assets = 1,500,001-3,000,000                     463                34.64
Total Assets = 3,000,001-4,000,000                      193               14.41
Total Loan > 4,000,000                                  254               19.00
TOTAL                                                1336               100.00
VALUE OF FIXED ASSETS
Total Assets <= 200,000                                  17                1.30
Total Assets = 200,001-1,000,000                       281                21.00
Total Assets = 1,000,001-1,500,000                     279                20.92
Total Assets = 1,500,001-3,000,000                     457                34.18
Total Assets = 3,000,001-4,000,000                      153               11.42
Total Loan > 4,000,000                                  149               11.19
TOTAL                                                1336               100.00



- 25 -
Project Implementation (cont'd)
E. Distribution by NCBs
ssI II                 SSI I
No.       Amount          %         %
(Rs in millions)
Allied Bank Limited                 131        114,388       8.80      11.00
Habib Bank Limited                  343       342,982       26.40      23.00
Muslim Commercial Bank              163        174,472      13.43      16.00
National Bank of Pakistan           403       384,317       29.58      23.00
United Bank Limited                 296       282,987       21.78      27.00
TOTAL                              1,336     1,299,146     100.00     100.00
Capacity Utilization in Operational Units                 78.00%
(For which information is available)
Profit Making Units (As a % of
operational units)                                       69.00%
Average Value Added Over Intermediate
Inputs in Operational Units (For which
information is available)                                 8.50%



- 26 -
Proiect Implementation (cont'd)
F.   ManDower Emplovment Size
HABIB BANK LIMITED
Up to 20 Workers                         147            64.285            18.70
20 to 50 Workers                         126           120.953            35.19
50 to 100 Workers                         59           123.034            35.79
Over 100 Workers                          11            35.460             10.32
SUB TOTAL                              343           343.732           100.00
NATIONAL BANK OF PAKISTAN
Up to 20 Workers                         101            58.704            13.89
20 to 50 Workers                           8            11.754             2.78
50 to 100 Workers                        263           255.549            60.47
Over 100 Workers                          67            96.4629           22.86
SUB TOTAL                              439           422.636           100.00
MUSLIM COMMERCIAL BANK LIMITED
Up to 20 Workers                          54            25.277            15.15
20 to 50 Workers                          69            70.742            42.41
50 to 100 Workers                         30            52.231            31.31
Over 100 Workers                           8            18.552            11.12
SUB TOTAL                              161           166.802           100.00
ALLIED  BANK OF PAKISTAN
Up to 20 Workers                          53            27.116            26.00
20 to 50 Workers                          64            55.098            52.00
50 to 100 Workers                         13            20.608            19.00
Over 100 Workers                           1             3.000             3.00
SUB TOTAL                              131           105.822           100.00
UNITED BANK LIMITED
Up to 20 Workers                         117            67.790            23.96
20 to 50 Workers                         141           120.196            42.47
50 to 100 Workers                         30            66.368            23.45
Over 100 Workers                           8            28.633             10.12
SUB TOTAL                              296           282.987           100.00
TOTAL
Up to 20 Workers                         472           243.172            18.39
20 to 50 Workers                         408           378.743            28.65
50 to 100 Workers                        395           517.790            39.17
Over 100 Workers                          95           182.274             13.79
TOTAL                                 1,370        1,321.979           100.00



ALLIED BANK OF PAKISTAN LIMITED
PROVINCE WISE POSMON OF LOANS SANCTIONED AND DISBURSED UPTO 30-06-1992
(Rs In Millions)
=~~ >
PUNJAB                        SINDH                       NWFP                    BALUCHISTAN                  TOTAL LOANS            rs
LOANS                        LOANS                       LOANS                       LOANS                                            n
Approved     Disbursed     Approved       Disbursed     Approved       Dilbured      Approved     Diubured    Approved        Disbursd        r
No. Amount No.   Amount  No.  Amount  No.  Amount  No.  Amount  No.  Amount  No. Amount No. Amount No.  Amount  No.  Amnount                      n
SECTOR                                                                                                                                                                               H
TEXTILE                                                                                                                                                                              rn
Weaving                             9    7.039   9      7.039    1     7.28    1       6.6                                                         10   14.319   10    13.U9 
Finishing                           2     3.69   2       3.69    1     0.14    1      0.14                                                          3      3.83    3       3.83     "t
Readymado Garments                  2    1.226   2      1.225                                                                                       2     1.226    2      1.226     r_
Specialed TexUle                    1     0.76    1      0.76                                                                                       1      0.76     1      0.76     O
SUB TOTAL                         14   12.704  14    12.704    2      7.42    2      6.64    0       0    0         0    0       0    0       0   16   20.124   16   19.344        o
SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS                                                                                                                                 0        0    0          0      tD
LEATHER GOODS, TANNERY              3    1.889   3       1.889    1      0.2    1      0.2                                                          4    2.010      4     2.089 
SPORTS GOODS                                                                                                                                         0        0    0         0
LIGHT ENGINEERING                                                                                                                                    0        0    0          0
Steel Re-roiling/Galvanizing        2     2.19   2       2.19                                                                                       2      2.19    2       2.19           -
Fans                                2    1.476   2      1.475                                                                                       2     1.476    2      1.476
Electrical                          1    0.163    1     0.163    1      0.7    1       0.7                                                          2    0.863    2      0.8s3
Workshop                            4    6.696   4      6.696                                                                                       4    6.569     4    6.56
Nuts & Cables. etc.,                3    4.938   3      4.938                                                                                       3    4.938     3     4.938
WIres & Cables                                                                                                                                      0         0    0         0
Agricultural Implements             3    2.001   3      2.001    2    0.642    2    0.642                                                           6    2.643    6      2.643
SUBTOTAL                          16   17.382  16    17.362    3    1.342    3    1.342    0         0    0         0    0       0    0       0   1S   18.704   18    18.704
FURNITURE & WOOD PROCESSING         2       1.8   2        1.8                                                                                       2       1.8    2       1.8
OIL EXTRACTION                     24   16.426  24    16.221                                                                                        24   16.426   24    16.221
COTTON GINNING                      13   16.209  13    16.200                                 1     0.49    1      0.49                             14   16.609    14   16.699
ICE&COLDSTORAGE                     6       2.8   6      2.779    4    2.697    4    2.697    1     0.44    1      0.44                             10    6.837   10    6.816
MARBLE PROCESSING                                                                                                                                    0        0    0          0
PRINTING, PUBUSHING & PACKING        1      0.8   1        0.8    3    1.276    3    1.276                                                           4    2.076     4     2.076
POULTRY FARM & FEED                  1      0.6   1        0.6    2    0.804    2    0.804    2    0.804                                             6    2.108    3      1.304
SOAP & DETERGENT                     1    0.431    1     0.431    1    0.669    1    0.669                                                           2      0.99    2      0.W0
FRUIT, VEGETABLE. FOOD PROCESS                                                                                                                       0        0    0          0
DAIRY FARMING & BAKERY              6    6.706   6      6.766    6    2.201    6       2.2                                                         10    7.966    10      7.986
HOTEL                               1       0.8    1       0.8                                                                                       1      0.8     1       0.8
RICE. FLOUR & DAL MILUNG            S      6.38   3       6.38    6    3.303    6    3.303                                                           8    9.683    a    9.683
MISCELLANEOUS                       8    7.342   9       7.692    S    1.676    2    1.426    2   0.601    2   0.601    2    1.28    2    1.28   16   10.898   16   10.898
TOTAL                                  91.208  97    91232   29   21.376   28   20.346    6    2.336    4    1.631    2    1.28    2    1.28  133  116.199   131   114.388



HABIB BANK LIMITED
STATEMENT SHOWING SECTOR-CUM-PROVINCE WISE POSMON OF LOANS APPROVED AND DISBURSED UPTO 30-06-1992
(Rs In Millions)
, .{5fc: ........ .. .:.;...w.:.:.x.:-::.2..: .:;.~:  >.  -o.t.
PUNJAB                      SINDH                       NWFP                  BALUCHISTAN                TOTAL LOANS
LOANS                       LOANS                       LOANS                    LOANS
Approvd      Disbursed       Approed        Disbursed     Approved    Disbursed   Approved    Disburwd     Approvd           Disbured
No. Amount  No.  Amount  No.  Amount  No.  Amount  No. Amount No. Amount No. Amount No. Amount No.   Amount   No.   Amount
SECTOR
TEXTILE
W"VIng                             24   17.264   24    17.254    a     31.92    6      31.92                                                   32     49.174    32    48.174
FlnIeNng                            1    0.303    1     0.303    2      6.73    2       6.73                                                    3      8.033     3      6.033
RPadymde Garments                   4       3    4          3   16    19.261   16    19.261                                                    19     22.261    1e    22.251
Specialized Textile                 6    3.676    6     3.676    3      7.15    3       7.16                                                    9      10.828    9    10.U28
SUB TOTAL                         3    24.23   36    24.235  28    64.061   28    64.0610            0  0        0o0         0  0         06 3       S.26    63    68.288
SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS                6      3.4    6        3.4                                                                                  5         3.4     6       3.4
LEATHER GOODS. TANNERY              6    3.374    6      3.374    2     4.834    2     4.834                                                    8       8208      a     8s208
SPORTS GOODS                        2    O.667    2      0.667                                                                                  2       o.07      2     066 7
LIGHT ENGINEERING                                                                                                                               0          0      0         0        co
Ste RP-rolilng/Galvanizing          I      0.9    1       0.9                                                                                   I        0.e     I        0.e
Fans                               10   6.137   10      6.137                                                                                  10      6.137    10      6.137
Eleti                               4    4.323    4     4.323    1        1.1    1       1.1                                                    6      6.423     6      6.423
Workshop                           1S  10.28    1s    10.289    9       6.116    9     6.116   2   0.662   2   0.662                           29      16.077    29    16.077
Nut a Cables tc..                   3    2.475    3     2.476                                                                                   3      2.475     3      2.476
Wlree& CAblb                        1      0.7    1       0.7                                  1   0.16   1    0.16                             2        0.s6    2       0.86
Agricultural tmplements             4    2.396    4     2.396    1        1.5    1       1.6                                                    b       3.896    6      3.8s6
SUBTOTAL                          41   2229   41    2229   11          7.716  11      7.716   3   0.822   3   0.822   0      0   0        0   65     36.767    66    36.767
FURNITURE & WOOD PROCESSING         3    0.766    3      0.766                                 1  0.337   1   0.337   1   0.796   1   0.796    6        1.u17     6     1.u7
OIL EXTRACTION                      24   16.604   24    16.604                                                                                 24      16.604    24    16.604
COTTON GINNING                     27   36.766   27    36.788    1        0.o    1       0.9                                                   28      36.686    2S    36.616
ICE & COLD STORAGE                 32   22.6    32    22.566    7       3.066    7     3.066   2   1.486   2   1.466   2    0.63   2    0.63   43      27.918    43    27.018
MARBLE PROCESSING                                                                                                                               0           0     0         0
PRINTING, PUBUSHING & PACKING       4    6.613    4      6.613    9    10.066    9    10.086   2   6.312   2   6.312                            16      20.01    16     20.91
POULTRY FARM & FEED                 10   12.469   10    12.469    3     2.244    3     2.244   1   2.46   1    2.4                             14      17.183    14    17.163
SOAP & DETERGENT                                                                                                                                0           0     0         0
FRUIT. VEGETABLE. FOOD PROCESS                                                                                                                  0           0     0         0
DAIRY FARMING & BAKERY              6    7.6es    6      7.6es    a    10.162    a    10.162                                                   13       17.73    IS     17.73
HOTEL                               3    6.151    3      h.161    1       0.3    1       0.3                                                    4       6.451     4     6.461
RICKE FLOUR & DAL MILUNG             6     3.62    a      8.62   10     4.036   10     4.036                                                    16      7.66    IS      7.866
MISCELLANEOUS                       27   32.353   27    82.363   17    21.923   17    21.173   2   1.103   2   1.103                            46     66.379    48    54.620
TOTAL                            232  201.2S2  232   201282   97   129.306   97   128.666  11  11.519  11  11.619   S   1.626   3   1.625  343    343.732  3.43   342.962



MUSLIM COMMERCIAL BANK LMITED
PROVINCE WISE POSTION OF LOANS SANCTIONED AND DISBURSED UPTO 30-06-1992
(Rs In Millions)
PUNJAB                      S1NDH                            NWFP                BALUCHISTAN                   TOTAL LOANS
LOANS                       LOANS                           LOANS                   LOANS
Appro-d       D.sbursd      Approwd         Disbursed       Approvd    Disbursed   Approvd      Disbursed   Approved        Disburoed
No.  Amont  No. Amount   No.   Amunt No.   Amount No. Amount No. AmoLt No. Anrount No. Amount No.    Amount   No.   Amourt
SECTOR
TEXTILE
Weoang                               4    4.325    4      4.326    1      0.76    1      0.75   2   122S   2   I 22                               7      0.303     I     6.30s
Finisng                              O             O                                                                                              1        4.6     1       4.6
RPad)made Grmnts                     2      7.06    2      7.06    S     4.716    3     4.715   4     7.3  4      7.3                             9     10.066     9    19.006
I  Spa   IdTextiIe                   0             0              3      6.246    3     6246                                                      3      6.246     3     6.246
StUB TOTAL                          6   11.375    6    11.376    8      1621    a      16.21   6   6.628   0   6.62   0        0   0       0   20      36.113    20    86.113
SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS                                                                                                                              O          0     0         0
LEATHER GOOODS TANNERY                3     2.02    3      2.02    2       1.54    2      1.64                                                    5       4.10     6       4.10
SPORTS GOODS                                                                                                                                      0          0     0         0
LIGHT ENGINEERtING                                                                                                                                0          0      0        0
Sl Re-wllingfGalwanling             4      6.61   4       6.U    S       1.4     3      1.46                                                     7       7.3J     7      7.33
Fens                                                                                                                                              0          0     0         0
Deawla                               3    3.416    3      3.416    t      0.19    I      0.10                                                     4      2.106     4     3.06
Wortop                               5    3.287    6      3.367    3     1.036    S     1.036  1   0.049  1   0.049                               9      4.471     9      4.471
Nus & Cdee  o ,..                    2      1.66    2      1.66                                                                                   2       1.66     2       1.66
Wk.e& comles                                                                                                                                      0          0     0         0
Aqbcultrd VwP      ts                       . 1    0.      66 1   0.63O           1      0.36                                                     2      a.v       2      O.m
SueTOTAL                            16   14.021   16    14.631    8     2.066    8      3.066   1   0.040   1   0.048   0       0   0       0   24      17.966    24    17.036
FURNITURE& WOOD PROCESSING            2     1.15    2       1.16                                1      0.5   1     0.6                            3        1.66    S       1.06
OIL EXTRACTION                        8    3.604    S     3.004                                                                                   8       3.04      8     3.604
COTTON GINNING                       19   21.26   19    21269    2         1.t    2       1.06                                                   21      22.490    21    22.940
ICE&COLD STORAGE                      9    5.094    9     6.094   11      6.666   11     0.660                           1   0.903   1   0.903   21      12.653    21    12.065
MARBLE PROCESSING                     2    0.747    2     0.747                                                                                   2       0.147     2     0.147
PRiNTING. PUSUSHING & PACKING         3    0.211    3     6.211    1        1.6    I       1.6                                                    4       7.711     4     7.711
POULTRY FARMS&rFEE                    S    4.486    3     4.486    2      6.102    2     6.1t2   1    0.33   1    0.33                            6       6.o7r     a     9.077
SOAP AND DETERGENT                    2        S    2         3                                                                                   2          3      2         3
FRUIT. VEGETABLE. FOOD PROCESS                                                                                                                    0          0      0         0
DAIRY FARMIANG &BAKERIY              2       2.3    2       23    6      8.447    6     6.447  2   2.627   2   2.627                              9     13.274     9    13.274
HOTEL                                                              1      1.467    1     1.407                           1     0.6   1      o.6    2      2.067     2     2.0oe
RICE FLOUR&DAL MILLING                1      0.9    1        0.9  16    11.6t1   16    11.819   1        2   1       3   1     0.1   1      0.1  16      16.419    1S    16.S10
MISCELLANEOUS                         0    0.767    6     6.767   12    16.066   12    16.066                          Is18                              22.813    18    22.61S
TOTAL                               S1   U4.333   81    84.33   67    73.602   67    73.002  12  14.034  12  14.034  3   1.60    3   1.003  163    174.472  lOS   174.42



NATIONAL BANK OF PAKISTAN
PROVINCE MSE POSmON OF LOANS SANCTIONED AND DISBURSED UPTO 30-06-1992
(Rs In Millions)
PtJNJAB                    SANDH                        NWFP                    BALUCHISTAN
LOANS                      LOANS                       LOANS                       LOANS                     TOTAL LOANS
Approved     Disbursed     Approvd        Disbursed     Approved      Disbursed     Approvd       Disburwd      Approved          Disburwd
TEXTILE_____________________  No. Amrount No.  Amount No.  Anmount  No. Amount  No. Anmount  No.  Amount  No.  Amount No. Amount  No.    Amount   No.   Amount
SECTOR
TEXTILE
Weaving                             21   19.621   20   17.671    6    4.23     3       3.7                                                           26      23.6e    23    21.371
Finishing                                                        0             0                                                                      0          0      0        0
Reedymade Grments                    2    1.569    2     0.62    1    0.491    1    0.491    1       0.2    1      0.2                                4       2.2N6     4     1.311
Spwcised TextIle                     4    3348W    4    3.341    2        b    2        5                                                             6       8.3418    6     8.341
SUBTOTAL                           27   24.664   26   211.32    8    9.726    6    9.191    1       0.2    1      0.2    0        0    0        0   36       34.49    33    31.023
SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS                  3    1.707    3    0.792                                                                                        3       1.707     3     0.792
LEATHER GOOOS. TANNERY               10   123t67    8    9.561                                                                                        10     12.387     8     9.661
SPORTS GOOOS                                                                                                                                           0          0     0         0
LIGHT ENGINEERING                                                                                                                                      0          0     0         0
Steel Re-rolWlnglGaJvanlaing         7   11.279    6    e.027                                                                                         7      11.279     6     8.027
Fans                                 2    0.84    2    0.894                                                                                          2       0.tt4     2     0.894
ElectIcal                            3    2.297    3    2.032                                                                                         3       2.297     3     2.032            O
Workdop                              2        1    2      0.32    1    0.095    1    0.096                                                            3       1.006     3     0.416
Nutb & Cab. etc..                    1    0.34    1      0.34    0             0              1    0.795    1    0.796    1     1.48    1      1.2    3       2.616     3     2.336
Wlrk& Cabes                          2     2.02    2      2.02    1    0.773    1   0.778    1       1.2    1      1.2                                4       3.996     4     3.909
Agricultural Implment                3    3.219    3    3.219    2    2.051    2    2.051                                                             5        6.27     6      6.27
SJB TOTAL                          20   21.040   19   16.862    4    2.924    4    2.924    2    1.905    2    1.906    1      1.48    1      1.2  27       27.44U    26    22.971
FURNITURE & WOOD PROCESSING           7    4.616    7    4.616                                                                                         7      4.616     7     4.616
OIL EXTRACTION                       62   41.736   64    36.13    1     0.06    1     0.05                                                            63      41.786    66     36l.18
COTTON GINNING                      118  146.522  120  154.694    2    2.22     2    2.226                                                           120    148.747   122   156.819
ICE & COLD STORAGE                   42   35.425   37   30.603   16   11.966   14   8.874    3   2.2336    3    2236                                  61    49.626    64    41.713
MARBLE PROCESSING                     1   0.6       1    0.66U                                                                                         1      0.668     1      0.668
PRINTNG, PUBUSHING & PACKING          6    6.ttt    6    6.616    1    0.76B    1    0.766                                                             7      6.666     6      6.284
POULTRYFARM&FEED                     11   11.030    a     4.64    4    4.040    4     3.69    3    1.966    3    1.966    1       1.5    I      1.6  19       18.643    16    11.685
SOAP AND DETERGENT                    S    2.181    3    2.181    1    0.232                  1    0.419    1    0.419                                 6      2.832     4        2.6
FRUIT, VEGETABLE. FOOD PROCESS                                                                                                                         0          0     0         0
DAIRY FARMING & BAKERY               7     6.44    6    6.866    6    3.021    6    3.021    1    03.t      1    0.11                               13      10.329    12     9.744
HOTEL                                 2    1.32    2    0.962                                1       1.5    1      1.6                                3       2.862    3      2.482
PICE.FLOURI&DALUILUNG                 9   12.115    6     7.4t    *    3.611    7    2.06     3    4.105    2    4.106                                20      19.731    14    14.674
IMISCELLANEOUS                       26  20.66    26   19.376    9    6.767    7    4U0    7   6.632    6   6.062    2    2.609    2    2.609   44            36.466    39    32.736
TOTAL                             26S  348.167  320  321.247   69   44"2l SI   266211   22  19.9076   19    19.24    4    6.499    4    6.200  430   417.7946   403   3e4 317



UNITED BANK LIMITED
PROVINCE WISE POSITION OF LOANS SANCTIONED AND DISBUSED UP TO 30-06-1992
(Rs In Millions)
="-PR  IN.E
PUNJAB                         SINDH                           NWFP                          BALUCHISTAN                   TOTAL LOANS
LOANS                          LOANS                           LOANS                           LOANS
Approved        Disbursed       Approved        Disbursed      Approved        Disbursed       Approved        Disbursed       Approved        Dlsbursed
No.   Amount  No.   Amount  No.   Amount  No.   Amount  No.   Amount  No.   Amount  No.   Amount  No.   Amount  No.   Amount  No.   Amount
SECTOR
TEXTILE
Weaving                              9      6.316    9      6.816    2        0.6    2        6.5                                                                   11    13.316   11    13.31e
Finishing                                                                                                                                                            0         0    0          0
Readymade Garments                   1      4.245    1      4.245    7    15.323    7    16.323                                                                      a    19.666    8    19.668
Specialized Textile                  1       0.65    1       0.65    1        0.7    1        0.7                                                                    2      1.35    2       1.35
SUBTOTAL                           11    11.711   11    11.711   10    22.523   10    22.523    0             0    0          0    0          0    0          0   21    34.234   21    34.234
SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS                  1        0.8    1        0.8                                                                                                   1        0.5    1        0.5
LEATHER GOODS, TANNERY                4     7.904    4       7.904    2      1.925    2      1.925    1      0.75    1       0.75                                    7    10.679    7    10.579
SPORTS GOODS                          1      2.382    1      2.382                                                                                                    1     2.382    1      2.382
LIGHT ENGINEERING                                                                                                                                                    0         0    0          0
Steel Re-roiling/Galvanizing         a      7.693    a      7.693    6      7.181    6      7.181                                                                   12    14.874   12    14.874
Fans                                  1      1.29    1       1.29                                                                                                    1      1.29    1       1.29
Electrical                                                                                                                                                           0         0    0          0
Workshop                             7      6.237    7      0.237    1      4.982    1      4.982    2       0.85    2       0.85                                   10    12.069   10    12.069
Nuts & Cables. etc.,                 3      4.931    3      4.931                                                                                                    3     4.931    3      4.931
Wires & Cables                                                                                                                                                       0         0    0          0
Agricultural Implements              2       1.58    2       1.58    1      0.376    1      0.375    1      0.602    1      0.602                                    4     2.657    4      2.657
SUB TOTAL                           19    21.731   19    21.731    8    12.538    8    12.638    3         1.452    3      1.452    0         0    0          0   30    35.721   30    35.721
FURNITURE & WVOOD PROCESSING          2       2.89    2       2.89    3      2.742    3      2.742    5     3.474    6      3.474                                   10      9.106   10     9.106
OIL EXTRACTION                       22    13.828   22    13.828    4        3.695    4      3.695                                                                   26    17.623   26    17.523
COTTON GINNING                       20    17.625   20    17.625    7        9.178    7      9.17t                                                                  27    26.803   27    26.803
ICE&COLD STORAGE                     29    18.907   29    18.907    9        5.745    9      5.745    3       1.34    3       1.34                                  41    25.992   41    25.992
MARBLE PROCESSING                                                                                     2      1.655    2      1.565                                   2      1.665    2      1.585
PRINTING. PUBLISHING & PACKING        8      5.685    8      6.685    5       4.45    5       4.46    1     0.792    1      0.792                                   14    10.927   14    10.927
POULTRYFARM&FEED                     11      5.874   11      5.874    6      7.737    6      7.737    1     0.388    1      0.388                                   18    13.999   18    13.999
SOAP&DETERGENT                        6       6.94    6       6.94    2       0.98    2       0.98                                                                   8       7.92    8      7.92
FRUIT, VEGETABLE. FOOD PROCESS                                                                                                                                       0         0    0          0
DAIRY FARMING & BAKERY                3       1.7    3         1.7  21    22.521   21    22.621    2        1.545    2      1.545                                   26    25.768   26    26.766
HOTEL                                 1        4.8    1        4.8    3      3.426    3      3.426    1        0.7    1        0.7                                   6      8.925    5      8.926
RICE. FLOUR&DAL MILLING               1      1.795    1      1.795   14      6.619   14      6.619                                                                   15     8.414   16      8.414
MISCELLANEOUS                        20    19.386   20    19.386   17           10   17         16    6      3.889    6      3.889    1     3.066    1      3.05e   U      42.331   44    42.331
TOTAL                              159   143.958  159   143.958  111   120.078  111   120.075   25    15.895   25    15.895    1           3.050    1       3.05a  296   282.987  296   282.987



- 32 -
7.3               COLLECTION PERFORMANCE TILL 1992 a/
ARREARS AT AMOUNTS FALLING  TOTAL                                 COLLECTON                          ARREARS AT
BEGINING OF    DUE DURING         DUES    AGAINST ARREARS IAcANSTNEWDtES                 TOTAL         THE END OF
YEAR          THE YEAR        (1+2)    AMOUNT  I % OF 1  AMOUNT |% OF 2 ?MOUNT   % OF 3 THE YEAR (3-9)
1               2             3          4         5         a        7        8        9           10
ALLIED BANK OF PAKISTAN
1988
Principal        14.926             17.366   32.292      11.929   80.00%                      11.929   37.00%          20.363
Interest         12.268             14.417   28.e65       9.347   76.00%                       9.347   35.00%          17.338
Total       27.194            31.783   58.977       21.276   78.00%                      21.276    36.00%         37.701
1989
Principal        20.383             17.882   38.245      15.381    75.00%                     15.381    40.00%         22.864
Interest         17.338              14.06   31.398       8.617   50.00%                       8.617   27.00%          22.781
Total       17.338              14.06   69.643      23,998    62.50%                     23.998    33.50%         45.645
1990
Principal        22.864             16.107   38.971       11.604    51.00%                    11.604   30.00%          27.367
Interest         22.781             13.314   38.095       5.400   24.00%                      .6400    15.00%          30.e95
Total       45.645            29.421   75.068       17.004   37.50%                      17.004    22.50%         58.062
1991
Principal        27.367             14.609   41.976       7.458   27.00%                       7.458    18.00%         34.518
Interest         30.695              12.91   43.596       4.951    1e.00%                      4.951    11.00%A        38.e46
Total        8.8062           27.519   85.572        12.409   21.50%                     12.409    14.50%         73.163
1992
Principal        34.518             12.808   47.32e      12.561    3e.00%                     12.51    27.00%          34.765
Interest         38.e45             13.593   52.238       3.900    10.00%                      3.900     7.00%         48.338
Total       73.163            26.401   99.584        1e.461    23.00%                    16.481    17.00%         83.103
UNITED BANK LIMITED
1988
Principal         0.386             3.849    4.235                                             1.647   39.00%           2.588
Interest          2.118             4.219    6.337                                             3.717   59.00%           2.620
Total        2.504              8.068   10.572                                            5.384   49.00%           5.208
1987
Principal         2.803              7.051    9.854                                            4.748   48.00%           5.108
Interest          2.724             8.963   11.687                                             6.204    53.00%          5.483
Total        5.527             16.014   21.541                                           10.950   50.50%          10.591
1988
Principal         5.908            14.048   19.956                                             6.327   32.00%          13.629
Interest          5.543             1e.138   21.681                                            7.317   34.00%          14.384
Total       11.451             30.186   41.637                                           13.844   33.00%          27.993
1989
Principal        13.829            24.622   38.251                                            20.436    53.00%         17.815
Interest         14.384            27.081   41.445                                            18.838   45.00%          22.607
Total       27.993            51.703   79.696                                            39.274   49.00%          40.422
1990
Principal        25.724            26.379   52.103                                            15.083   29.00%          37.020
Interest         31 .064           29.457   60.521                                            12.132    20.00%         48.389
Total       5e.788             55.8s3   112.624                                          27.215   24.50%          85.409
1991
Principal        37.020            82.325  119.345                                            28.178    24.00%         91.167
Interest         48.389            65.360  113.749                                            19.941    18.00%         93.808
Total       86.409            147.685  233.094                                           48.119   21 .00%        184.975
1992
Principal        82.243            28.984  111.227                                             7.711     7.00%        103.516
Interedt         85.187            21.094  108.281                                            14.286    13.00%         91.995
Total      167.430            50.078  217.508                                            21.997    10.00%        195.511
HABIB BANK LIMITED
1992
Principal        59.683            40.575  100.238                          31.678  78.00%   31.678    32.00%          68.560
Interest         28.476             19.264   47.740                         16.972  88.00%   18.972   3W.00%           30.768
Total       88.139             59.839  147.978                         48.850  83.00%   4s.650    34.00%          99.328
a/ Data were not received from National Bank of Pakistan and Muslim Bank; partial data were received frorn the rest.



paWxul53 -i-   IDnflV
IDeA JDDS9I
1661               0661                6961               9961                1961               9961                g261
1       -r--         -       I                  ~~~~~I     I                             0
....................................................................................................................  ....... . ............ -    0 1
.. . . .. .............................................                    .. .... .. .. .. . . . ...... .. . .       0     l
en.~...   .as
09
uoIllI $sn
SLN3II3SUfSSICI CU3LVtILS3 ANY WlVflLZV tZ



