Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3831-PA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 47.0 MILLION (USt5O.O MILLION EQUIVI
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A
SECOND SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
May 25, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
US$1           = Rs 13.5
Rs 1           = US$ 0.0741
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ABL        Allied Bank of Pakistan Limited
DSI        Directorate of Small Industries
GOP        Government of Pakistan
HBL        Habib Bank Limited
IACP       Investment Advisory Center of Pakistan
IDBP       Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan
IIC        Industrial Investment Credit
MCB        Muslim Commercial Bank
NBP        National Bank of Pakistan
NWFP       North West Frontier Province
PBC        Pakistan Banking Council
PSIC       Punjab Small 'Industries Corporation
SBP        State Bank of Pakistan
SIC        Small Industries Corporation
SID        Small Industries Department
SIDB       Small Industries Development Board
SIRD       Small Industries Refinance Department
SSI        Small Scale Industries
SSI I      First Small Industries Project (Cr. 1113-PAK)
SSI II     Proposed Second Small Industries Project
UBL        United Bank Limited
FISCAI, YEARS
Government of Pakistan  : July 1-June 30
Commercial Banks          : January 1-December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
SECOND SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Beneficiaries:           Allied Bank of Pakistan Limited (ABL)
Habib Bank Ltd. (HBL)
Muslim Commercial Bank (MCB)
National Bank of Pakistan (NBP)
United Bank Limited (UBL)
Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP)
Federal Ministry of Industries
Provincial Small Industries Corporations (SIC)
Pakistan Banking Council (PBC)
Amount:                  SDR 47.0 million (US$50.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard
On-Lending Terms:        The Government would relend the proceeds of the
credit through the Industrial Development Bank of
Pakistan (IDBP) to the five participating commercial
banks at terms which would provide a spread of
4%-5.25% to the banks and an administrative fee of
1.5% to IDBP, with an onlending rate of 11% to the
final subborrowers. The Government would bear the
foreign exchange risk. The participating banks would
repay their loans over 12 years, including a grace
period of five years. The proceeds of the credit to
be used for technical assistance would be passed on
to the executing agencies on IDA terms or, in the
case of federal ministries, as non-reimbursable
allocations under the annual development budget.
Project Description:    The project would provide credit to promote invest-
ments in promising small scale industries (SSI) and
to accelerate modernization and improve productivity
of existing SSI units. To complement the credit
scheme, technical assistance would be provided to
SSIs through the provincial Small Industries
Corporations and the federal Ministry of Industries
in project identification and investment promotion,
project preparation and extension services, and
management training. Present Government policies
augur well for continued growth in the industrial
sector generally and among SSIs in particular. The
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii-
main risk is thal: adverse political or external
economic factors could affect growth in the sector
and demand for SSI credit. The technical assistance
component is vulnerable to institutional weaknesses.
The experience accumulated under the first Project,
together with strong institution building inputs
through training and consultancy services, should
reduce this risk.
Estimated Costs
Local      Foreign        Total
---      US$ million--
Lending Component                                 86.00        30.00        116.00
Technical Assistance Components                    2.36         0.92          3.28
Total                                        88.36        30.92        119.28 1/
Financing Plan
Local      Foreign        Total
---------US$ million---------
IDA                                               19.08        30.92         50.00
Participating Commercial Banks                    21.54          -           21.54
Sub-project Sponsors                              47.00          -           47.00
GOP                                                0.74          -            0.74
Total                                        88.36        30.92        119.28
Estimated Disbursements:
FY35  FY86   FY87    FY88   FY89   FY90
-------------------US$ million---------
Annual                               2.6  12.0   14.0    14.0    5.0    2.4
Cumulative                           2.6  14.6   28.6    42.6   47.6   50.0
Appraisal Report: No. 5058-PAK dated May 11, 1984
Map: IBRD 16248R
1/ Duties and taxes are negligible.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN FOR A
SECOND SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit of SDR 47.0 million (US$50 million equivalent) to the Islamic
Republic of Pakistan to help finance a Second Small Industries Project.
The credit would be on standard IDA terms. The proceeds of the credit to
be used for subloans would be onlent to the participating commercial banks
through the Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP) dt terms which
would provide a spread of 4%-5.25% to the commercial banks, and an
administrative fee of 1.5% to IDBP, with an onlending rate of 11% to the
final subborrowers.  The commercial banks would repay their loans over 12
years, including a grace period of five years. The Government would bear
the foreign exchange risk. The proceeds of the credit to be used for
technical assistance would be transferred to the respective agencies on
IDA terms or, in the case of federal ministries, as non-reimbursable
allocations under the annual development budget.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      The most recent economic report "Pakistan:  Recent Economic
Developments" (No. 4906-PAK, dated February 24, 1984) was distributed to
the Executive Directors on March 13, 1984.
3.      Economic developments during FY83 were generally favorable.  GDP
grew by 5.8%, with value added in agriculture rising by 4.8% and in
industry by 8.3%. Continued stagnation in (fixed) investment, which
declined slightly from 13.6% of GNP in FY82 to 13.4% of GNP in FY83, was
among the few unfavorable events. National savings, on the other hand,
rose sharply from 10.9% to an estimated 14.1% of GNP. The declining trend
in the rate of inflation continued; as measured by the consumer price
index, the rate of inflation slowed from 11.5% in FY82 to 5.2% in FY83.
4.      There was a dramatic turnaround in the balance of payments in
FY83. The current account deficit, at US$554 million (1.8% of GNP), was
less than half the size of deficits in recent years. This outcome
reflected three main factors: a resumption in the growth of exports fol-
lowing a substantial decline in FY82; a slight decline in the value of
imports; and buoyant remittances from migrant workers. Exports grew by
13%, nearly regaining their FY81 level. The most striking feature of the
export performance was the growth of non-traditional exports, which
increased by over a third.  The drop in imports reflected, inter alia,
1/ Parts I and II are substantially the same as Parts I and II of the President's
Report P-3808-PAK (Command Water Management Project), dated May 4, 1984.



-2-
higher domestic production of oil and import-substitution in some key
commodities. The incipient recovery in world trade and delinking of the
exchange rate from the U.S. dollar in January 1982, with its subsequent
depreciation, contributed significant:ly to the improved balance of pay-
ments picture. Given the favorable outcome on the current account, normal
levels of net inflows of long-term capital, and net IMF purchases,
Pakistan's reserves more than doubled. At: the end of FY83, gross official
reserves stood at US$1,911 million, the equivalent of 3.5 months' of
imports of goods and non-factor services.
5.      Notable progress was made in many areas during the Fifth Five-Year
Plan Period (FY79-83). Real growth rates in national output (6.3%),
agriculture (4.4%), industry (9.1%) and exports (9.2%), though below Plan
targets, were all substantially above the rates achieved during 1970-78
and very respectable compared to the performance of other LDCs over the
same period. This growth - coupled with `Lncreased inflows of migrant
remittances - benefited large segments of the urban and rural populationi.
The output of all major crops reached record levels and self-sufficiency
in wheat and sugar was achieved. Encouraged by improved government
policies, private investment in manufacturing expanded by 8% p.a. in real
terms; this expansion was more than offset by the declining public invest-
ment in the sector, however.  The baLance of payments performance was
quite satisfactory: the current account deficit declined significantly
relative to GDP. Government fiscal and credit policies reduced budget
deficits and monetary expansion and inflationary pressures gradually
subsided. This progress was made despite a number of unforeseen events:
(a) world recession; (b) a 30% declirLe in the external terms of trade
after 1979; (c) the Afghan crisis, which necessitated increased outlays
for defense and refugee assistance; and (d) a continued decline in real
net aid flows.
6.      In recent years the Government has taken a number of initiatives
to improve agricultural, industrial and fiscal and credit policies. In
agriculture, particular attention has been given to improving farmer
incentives and input supplies. Support prices for all major crops have
been raised so that they are ncow closer to world prices. At the same
time, steps have been taken to reduce! the fertilizer subsidy. An
Agricultural Prices Commission has been set up to make recommendations on
appropriate changes in crop support and input prices on a consistent and
timely basis.
7.      The Government has formulatecl and begun to implement a new
agricultural policy based on the main recommendations of a UNDP study on
irrigated agriculture which emphasizes the need to improve the efficiency
of the water delivery system through the rehabilitation of canals and
better scheduling of water deliveries to the farmer, and to expand the
role of the private sector. Other programs--in pesticides, seeds,
agricultural credit, extension, research and farm power--have also been
strengthened.  These initiatives are still at an early stage and a



-3-
breakthrough from the problems of low productivity at the farm level is
yet to take place.
8.      Major changes have also been made during the past five years in
government policies in the industrial sector. The policies pursued in the
early and mid-1970s of extensive nationalizations, tight restrictions on
the private sector, and rapid expansion of the public sector to spearhead
industrial investment and growth have been gradually reversed. Most
agricultural processing and some industrial units have been
denationalized; constitutional safeguards have been provided to private
industry against further arbitrary government acquisitions; and the areas
open to the private sector have been widened.  A wide range of fiscal
incentives have been granted to encourage private investment and exports.
These have been supplemented by a liberalization of imports which has
improved the availability of inputs.  The investment sanctioning procedure
has been streamlined. These measures have led to an improvement in
private sector confidence and stimulated private investment, mainly in
small and medium-scale projects.
9.      At the same time, the Government has embarked on the difficult and
inevitably long process of reforming the public industrial sector, which
has been plagued by low efficiency and profits. Major studies have been
completed of the management and organization of the public sector, and the
performance of individual enterprises. In accordance with the recommenda-
tions of these studies, the Board of Industrial Management (BIM) has been
abolished, the number of sector holding corporations has been reduced, and
boards of directors have been established which have helped to increase
autonomy at the enterprise level. Some public sector units which have
little prospect of improved financial performance have been closed down.
These measures have helped to increase production and capacity utilization
substantially in the puiblic sector.
10.     Fiscal performance improved significantly over the Fifth Plan
period. The overall budget deficit and government borrowing from the
banking system, which stood at 8.8% and 4.3% of GDP in the first year of
the Plan, fell to 6.4% and 1.7%, respectively, by the final year. Reduced
levels of goveinment borrowing from banks, together with overall credit
restraint, led to lower rates of growth of the money supply and lessened
inflationary pressures; prices rose by 5% in the final year of the Plan as
compared with 8% in the first year. The improvement in fiscal performance
was, however, largely the result of expenditure restraint rather than
better revenue performance. Real expansion in current expenditures on
economic and social services barely kept pace with population growth and
development expenditures declined relatively to GDP. At the same time,
government revenues remained constant at 16% of GDP and public savings,
having risen in the first half of the Plan period from 1% to 3.8% of GNP,
amounted to only 1.6% in the last year of the Plan. Greater resource
mobilization by the public sector will be critical for the implementation
of the Sixth Plan.



-4-
11.     The developments in the Pakistan economy since 1977 represent
welcome steps towards the solution of a set: of problems which are essen-
tially structural and long term in nature. Notwithstanding these
improvements, further wide-ranging measuresl to address the main issues
are necessary if Pakistan is to sustain itEi recently improved economic
performance over the Sixth Five-Year Plan period (FY84-88). These issuee
include the farm-level factors affecting low productivity in agriculture;,
the structure and competitiveness of the industrial sector; the need to
restrain the growth of energy demand and improve the exploitation of
domestic energy resources; the factors lying behind continued rapid growth
in population; and the problems of resource mobilizations
12.     Agriculture remains the economy's mainstay, accounting directly
for roughly a third of GDP, employing about: 55% of the labor force and,
directly or indirectly, providing nearly two thirds of total exports.
Except in the important case of wheat, agricultural growth since the
mid-1970s has been the product of acreage expansion with little improve-
ment in yields. Because of the high cost of extending the irrigation
system, a switch to more intensive agriculture is essential. The achieve-
ment of higher productivity will require imaproved agricultural services
and increased efficiency of the irrigation system as well as continued
attention to producer incentives. Toward the latter part of the Fifth
Plan, some progress was made in reorienting expenditures towards projects
designed to rehabilitate and improve the operation and maintenance of the
irrigation system, increase the efficiency of water use, improve quality
of research and extension, and increase the supply of complementary
agricultural inputs. These efforts will need to be accelerated during the
Sixth Plan period. To encourage greater agricultural yields, the
Government must also continue to rationalize prices of agricultural out-
puts and inputs. In recent years, pricing decisions have been taken in a
more systematic and timely fashion based oni recommendations by the newly
formed Agricultural Prices Commission; procurement prices have been
brought more nearly in line with international prices and subsidies for
fertilizers and pesticides substantially r(educed. These efforts, too,
will need to be continued during the Sixth Plan period.
13.     Manufacturing contributes about 15% of GDP and during much of the
1950s and 1960s provided a major stimulus to growth. After a period of
stagnation during the period 1970-77, manufacturing growth has again
accelerated. To provide a solid economic basis for continued rapid
growth, incentives for greater private and public manufacturing enterprise
efficiency will have to be implemented.  Despite some success in reviving
the private sector and improving the performance of public enterprises,
much remains to be done to bring about a major restructuring of industry
and place it on a competitive basis. The efficient long-term development
of the industrial sector will require both a relaxation of government
controls and rationalization of' industrial incentives. To encourage
industrial growth more in line with Pakistan's comparative advantage, the



-5-
process of import liberalization initiated over the past few years must be
continued. In addition, the differential rates of protection given to
various domestic products need to be substantially narrowed. To provide
further encouragement for private investment as well as to attract risk
capital, the number of administrative regulations must be reduced. In
addition, the scope of price controls should be substantially narrowed,
especially the use of cost-plus pricing which discourages improvements in
efficiency and energy conservation. Further strong measures to increase
efficiency and self-financing capacity in the public sector are also
essential. The implementation of the Public Enterprises Signaling System
in FY84--which has set performance objectives for individual enterprises
and will provide bonus incentives for managers--should contribute toward
the achievement of these objectives.
14.     Energy shortages have become a significant constraint to rapid
economic growth in Pakistan. Power and gas shortages are common and the
country imports 90% of its petroleum needs costing over 26% of total
imports. Energy investments to improve the energy situation total over
33% of public investment in the Sixth Five Year Plan. The Government's
efforts to deal with the energy situation by adjusting domestic oil
prices, and by encouraging the substitution of other energy forms and the
exploration and development of domestic oil resources, have met with some
success. Growth of petroleum consumption has been restrained by the
development of hydroelectricity and natural gas resources as well as by
petroleum price adjustments. At the same time, activity in the oil sector
has been stepped up, in some instances through joint ventures with foreign
private companies. Nevertheless, due to a variety of technical, geologi-
cal and other reasons, progress on exploration of new fields as well as
the development of existing fields has been slow and Pakistan's con-
siderable potential in the oil and gas sector has yet to be realized. The
Government has begun to implement a number of reforms relating to such
matters as energy planning, pricing and organization in order to
accelerate progress.
15.   While it is clearly vital to sustain rapid economic growth, it is
also necessary to contain the rapid growth in population, currently run-
ning at about 2.8% p.a. Family planning programs have so far had little
effect and there have been few changes in the socio-economic environment
of a type that usually accompany declines in fertility. Rapid population
growth places severe burdens on government resources simply to maintain
education and health programs at their current inadequate standards.
However, without higher literacy rates, improved health facilities and a
reduction in child mortality, it is doubtful that population growth rates
can be much reduced. The Government has recently shown more awareness of
this problem.
16.     Policies that face the longer-term issues in both the productive
and the social sectors will take time to have an appreciable effect and
will have to be implemented in the context oi continued domestic and



-6-
external resource constraints. National savings averaged only 12% of GNP
over the Fifth Plan Period. To improve the budget and the balance of
payments, a fundamental improvement is required in the overall savings
levels in the economy, particularly in public savings. Given the size of
the public sector's domestic resource requirements, a comprehensive
strategy that utilizes all available instruments, including taxation
policy, greater reliance on user charges, curtailment of open and implicit
subsidies and improved self-financing of investment by public enterprises,
will be needed.
17,     The Sixth Five-Year Plan, initiated on July 1, 1983, represents a
pragmatic overall strategy for Pakistan's continued rapid development.
The Plan puts heavy stress upon improvements in economic policies as well
as on a public expenditure program. Recognizing the importance of a
dynamic private sector for rapid economic growth and the limitations on
public sector resources, it calls for reduced regulations on the private
sector, increased emphasis on market incentives for greater production and
efficiency and for increased participation in sectors where the Government
has previously played a large role. The size and composition of the
public sector development program is appropriate. While public develop-
ment expenditures would expand only as rapidly as gross domestic product,
this is a realistic target given projected available resources and the
demands for improved public services. To achieve such an expansion - a
reversal of the declining trend experienced under the Fifth Plan - and to
finance an increasing share from domestic resources will require a major
mobilization effort.  The largest increases in sectoral allocations have
gone to energy, agriculture and irrigation, and the social sectors. The
shift in the composition of the public; sector development program is
justified because of the threat to future growth posed by energy
shortages, the need to increase agricultural yields by improvements in
agricultural and irrigation/drainage services, and the past neglect of the
social sectors.
18,     The recent policy initiatives, which are to be continued during
the Sixth Plan, have improved Pakistan's creditworthiness for commercial
borrowing and for a blend of Bank and IDA borrowing. At the end of calen-
dar 1982, Pakistan's external public clebt (excluding the undisbursed
pipeline) stood at US$9.2 billion, of which US$4.8 billion was owed to
bilateral members of the Pakistan Consortium, US$1.3 billion to OPEC and
US$1.8 billion to multilateral agencies and the balance to other bilateral
and private lenders. In 1982, the Bank Group's share in Pakistan's exter-
nal public indebtedness was 15.2% and in external debt service was 12.1%.
According to Bank forecasts, provided recent policy improvements are
sustained, Pakistan's debt service ratio (debt service divided by exports
of goods and factor and non-factor services), which was about 13.7%
(including IMF charges) in FY82,, is likely to remain below 15% during the
1980s, even assuming substantial commercial borrowing.



-7-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
19.     The cumulative total of Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan
(exclusive of Loans and Credits or portions thereof which were disbursed
in the former East Pakistan) now amounts to approximately US$2.9 billion.
During its long association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been
involved in almost all sectors of the economy. This has included its
involvement with other donors, over a 20-year period, in the major program
of works to develop the water resources of the Indus Basin. Approximately
30% of total Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan have been for agriculture
and irrigation; 26% for industry including import program credits; 21% for
transport, telecommunications and public utility services; 14% for energy
including power, gas pipelines and petroleum; 4% for social programs in
education, population and urban development; and 5% for a SAL.
20.     Lending operations in Pakistan have three main objectives:  first,
to support the directly productive sectors of the economy; secondly, to
support the expansion of, and to improve the institutions which are
responsible for, the principal public services supporting economic growth;
and thirdly, to meet basic needs in the areas of rural and urban
development.
21.     In pursuit of these objectives, the Bank Group has placed special
emphasis on lending for agriculture, which is the mainstay of the Pakistan
economy. Projects in this sector are aimed at augmenting the supply of
essential inputs, principally irrigation water, fertilizer, seeds and
credit; strengthening research, extension and other agricultural support-
ing services; improving water management; reclaiming land by controlling
salinity and waterlogging; and providing essential facilities including
tubewells, livestock development and dairy processing. An important
purpose of this lending is to assist the Government's program to increase
the productivity of available land and water resources in the Indus Basin
through quick-yielding investments, as recommended recently in a
UNDP-financed study for which the Bank was executing agency.
22.     In industry, lending through DFCs and other financial inter-
mediaries which has been mainly for the private sector totals US$438.5
million. This includes eleven Loans/Credits for the Pakistan Industrial
Credit and Investment Corporation (PICIC), two Credits for the Industrial
Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP), one Credit for the National
Development Finance Corporation (NDFC), a Credit for Small Scale
Industries through five commercial banks, and a Loan/Credit for industrial
investment through five participating financial institutions including two
p            commercial banks.  Direct lending for industry has also included assis-
tance to three large fertilizer plants and a refinery engineering loan.
As of March 31, 1984, IFC had made investments in 16 Pakistan enterprises
for a total of US$182.4 million, of which US$170.8 million was by way of
loans and US$11.6 million by equity participations (these are shown in
Annex II). About US$55.1 million of these investments remained



-8-
outstanding. The enterprises assisted by IFC include three in the field
of pulp and paper products, two each in textiles, food and food
processing, and petrochemicals, and one each in cement, steel,
fertilizers, plastics, and wood processing. IFC is also a shareholder in
PICIC.
23.      The Bank has had a long standing involvement in the energy sector.
In power, the Bank Group has assisted t:he Karachi Electric Supply
Corporation (KESC) and the Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA)
with four and three projects respectively; the sector has also been
assisted by the construction under the Indus Basin Development Program of
Mangla and Tarbela Dams.  In petroleum, the two Sui gas transmission
companies have been assisted with five projects, while the Bank group is
financing two petroleum projects, for production and exploration, and is
playing an important role in strengthening the public Oil and Gas
Development Corporation. An IDA credit: to support a Coal Exploration
Project was recently approved. These efforts are assisting in the effi-
cient development and utilization of Pakistan's domestic energy resources
and in establishing a policy and instit:utional framework for increased
private investment in the sector. In addition, IFC has made three loans
in the petroleum sector.
24.      The focus of Bank Group lending for transport and communications
has shifted increasingly towards assist:ing Pakistan to better utilize
existing capacity by improving the efficiency of operations and
strengthening the institutions responsi.ble for these services, especially
the Karachi Port Trust, Pakistan Railways, the Telephone and Telegraph
Department, and federal and provincial highway agencies. IDA has financed
four projects in the urban and water supply sector, three of which are
currently being implemented.  Five creclits for education, totaling US$62.5
million, have assisted in upgrading primary, post-secondary and higher
technical and agricultural education, middle-level training of primary
teachers and agricultural extension agents.  A first population project
was approved in early 1983.
25.      In addition to financing specific high-priority projects in key
sectors of the economy, the Bank has from time to time supported
Pakistan's development through program assistance. A first structural
adjustment lending operation (SAL) was approved by the Executive Directors
in June 1982. This SAL program consisted of a number of significant
reforms in government development planning and in policies and programs in
the agriculture, energy and industrial sectors.
26.     Annex II contains a sumMaLry statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
as of March 31, 1984. Credit andi loan disbursements have been generally
satisfactory. Some projects have experienced initial delays due to protracted
government procedures for project approval, which are being addressed, and
to slowness in the procurement of goods and services. Rapid turnover of



-9-
managerial and technical staff, in part due to migration to the Middle East,
and budgetary constraints have been problems in the case of some projects.
27.     A number of further projects for Bank Group financing are currently
under appraisal or being prepared in Pakistan. These include projects for
power tranimission and generation, direct and indirect industrial investments,
oil and gas development, irrigation, agriculture and education. Pakistan
continues to have domestic resource constraints for the reasons set out in
Part I. To assist the Government to finance agricultural and other high-
priority projects which have a low foreign exchange component, financing
of some local expenditures in specific cases is justified.
28.     In addition to lending, economic and sector work provides the
basis for a continuing dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government
of Pakistan on development strategy, and for the coordination of external
assistance within the Pakistan Consortium.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR AND SMALL SCALE INDUSTRIES
Industrial Structure. Performance and Prospects
29.     In FY83, industryl/ accounted for about 23% of GDP, employed 19%
of the economically active population and accounted for 57% of total
exports, of which textile products accounted for 77%. Textiles and food
processing industries are estimated to account for more than half of
manufacturing value added; other major sectors are engineering and
chemicals. In large-scale industry, public sector enterprises (PSEs)
produce about 15% of value added and constitute a substantial share of a
number of key sub-sectors (cement, fertilizers, chemicals and heavy
engineering).
30.     During the 1970s, the Government nationalized a large part of
industry. The present Government, which took office in 1977, has taken
several measures to reverse these policies, and is committed to having the
private sector play a leading role in industrial development. In this
regard, the Government has already denationalized most agricultural
processing and a number of manufacturing units, introduced a constitu-
tional guarantee against nationalization, widened areas open to the
private sector, restricted public sector industrial investment to the
completion of ongoing projects and key investments for balancing,
rehabilitation and modernization, liberalized trade policy, and introduced
a range of export and investment incentives. As a result these measures
which have been supported by Bank Group sector work, the Structural
Adjustment Loan and industrial development projects, real annual growth
since 1977 has averaged 9% for industrial value added, 10% for private
1/ Including construction and mining.



-10-
fixed industrial investment, 10% for manufactured exports, and 4% for
industrial employment, with expansion occurring in all established sub-
sectors.
31.     Industrial Strategy and the Sixth Five-Year Plan (SFYP).  The
Sixth Five-Year Plan assigns a prominernt role to industry, with real
growth in industrial output expected to average 9% and the volume of
manufactured exports 11% annually.   The targeted sectors for higher
growth and output are engineering; products, agro-processing industries,
and agricultural inputs. Exports of manufactured goods will be promoted,
with particular emphasis on non-traditional, labor-intensive products.
Investment will be encouraged through government policies on deregulation,
simplified sanctioning procedures, rationalization of the incentives
structure and improvements in infrastructure. Continued investor con-
fidence is expected to result in an increase in the level of industrial
investment from 4.0% to 5.3% of G,DP during t'he Plan period. In total
figures, industrial investment for the five years is projected at Rs 83
billion, of which Rs 62 billion is expected to be contributed by the
private sector.
32.     The Plan provides for a premier role for the private sector in
investment and production; promotion of efficient import substitution
industries; rapid growth in exports of manufactured items; continued
improvements in the efficiency of public enterprises; and the provision of
infrastructural facilities and services required by both private and
public industrial enterprises. The success of the Plan, with respect to
industry, will depend largely on the Government's ability to further
address the weaknesses in industrial policy, regulations, and procedures,
and the rationalization of the tariff structure to provide a more uniform
degree of effective protection. The Government is aware of these issues
and it is expected that the positive steps already taken (paragraph 30)
will be followed by additional similar measures.
33.     Small Scale Industries (SSI) Sector.  In recent years, SSIs have
contributed close to 4.7% of GDP, 27% of industrial value added, and 30%
of manufactured exports. SSIs employ about two million workers in about
80,000 establishments. Small firms are generally less affected by
economic variations since they have greater flexibility with respect to
production schedules and employment of labor: are less vulnerable and
sensitive to political changes; generate a good portion of their capital
needs from the informal capital markets; and require less infrastructural
support than do larger firms. During the dil'ficult years of the
seventies, while output from larger firms declined, small scale industry



-11-
continued to grow representing 20% to 30% of total industrial investment
in the seventies versus 10% to 14% in the sixties.l/
34.     SSIs in Pakistan are more labor intensive and, generally, more
efficient users of capital than large scale units2/; SSIs have also proved
to be more efficient producers of goods, especially for the rural markets,
where quality requirements are less stringent. Compared to selected East
Asian developing countries,3/ SSIs in Pakistan are more labor intensive
and use capital more efficiently, but have a lower labor productivity
suggesting that Pakistan SSIs utilize less productive traditional
technology. There is substantial room for appropriate modernization to
improve labor productivity without sacrificing labor intensity and capital
productivity.
35.     The majority of SSIs are located in the provinces of Punjab and
Sind, with a smaller proportion in North West Frontier Province (NWFP) and
Baluchistan. This geographic distribution reflects population
concentrations, availability of raw materials and infrastructure, access
to markets and local entrepreneurship. Traditionally, SSI units con-
centrated on processing local raw materials. Recently, expansion has been
notable in food processing, engineering products and construction
materials. Other key SSI activities focused on exports on the basis of
adding value to imported raw material. Agro-industries, selected textile
products and light engineering are expected to continue to be the major
growth areas in the medium term.
36.     SSIs in the Sixth Five-Year Plan (SFYP).  Recognizing the impor-
tance and potential of the Small Scale Industries sector, the Sixth
Five-Year Plan (1984-1988) envisages a continuing prominent role for small
industry. The Plan envisages Rs 9.4 billion of direct private investment
in small scale industry during the five-year period. These investments
are projected to result in 350,000 new jobs, 7.3% real annual growth in
sector output, and 15% p.a. growth in sector export volume. In light of
the actual growth over the last five-years the target appears realistic
and attainable. These targets are also consistent with economy-wide
1/ These figures are only indicative of trends and relative
contributions, as only limited and not very reliable data on SSIs is
available in Pakistan.
2/ Investment cost per job is about US$1,800 compared with US$21,000
-               for a sample of larger private projects financed by the Pakistan
Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation. The average capital-
output ratio of SSIs was 0.8 compared to between 1.0 and 1.5 for large
scale industries.
3/ Philippines, Thailand, Malaysia and Singapore.



-12-
growth objectives, SSI potential, anticipated inflation and current inte
est in SSI investment as reflected in credit demand. To attain these
objectives, the Plan places particular emphasis on (a) the expansion of
agro-processing, adding value to exportable surpluses, (b) the forward
integration of the textile industry to produce high value articles for
export, such as ready-made garments and speciality cloth, and (c) the
adoption of subcontracting arrang;ements with SSI units by the large
engineering manufacturers. There is already some success in these areas
as evidenced by increasing exports of processed agricultural products and
made-up textile products.  However, much more needs to be done to develop
projects along these lines especially in the area of subcontracting. A
study in subcontracting would be undertaken under the proposed project to
develop measures in this area. Overall., the SSI sector still encounters
problems in production methods, labor skills, management capacity, tech-
nology modernization, product quality, and effective marketing. Increased
technical assistance and extension services will have to be provided by
Small Industries Corporation (SICs) and closer attention paid by the banks
to identify investors and prepare projects. The proposed project is
designed to assist the SICs and the banks in responding to these
requirements.
37.     Policy Environment and Development Strategy.  The Government's
policies for industrial development do not d:Lfferentiate between large and
small industry. Rather than protecting or subsidizing small firms, the
Government has maintained a strategy of increasing SSIs' access to credit
and technical services. SSIs are allowed to set up and operate with
little regulation, and market signals are the main determinants of SSI
investments and their viability. The Government's policy provides that
all SSIs be in the private sector. Subsectors with strong potential, high
value added, and limited economies of scale are promoted--but not
reserved--for SSI production. There is a push to develop SSIs in more
remote urban and rural areas, but this objective again is pursued by
promotion and provision of services, rather than through subsidization,
allowing SSIs to prosper or decline with the market.
38.     The promotional and technical assistance activities in support of
SSIs are a Provincial Government responsibility and are carried out by the
Punjab Small Industries Corporation (PSIC), the Sind Small Industries
Corporation (SSIC), the Small Industry Development Board (SIDB) of NWFP,
and the Directorate for Small Industries (DSI) in Baluchistan.l/
Traditionally, SICs focused their assistance to the sector on providing
physical facilities, developing industrial estates, building and equipping
service centers, and establishing training and production centers for
handicrafts. Insufficient attention was given to building effective
programs to promote viable new enterprises and to provide extension serv-
1/ The acronym SIC in this report refers to all of these agencies.



-13-
ices to existing firms. The first SSI Project (Cr. 1113-PAK) encouraged
the SICs to develop these services through subsector studies, project
development, and practical export promotion components. The SICs will
need to continue to build their capabilities in these and other "soft-
ware" aspects of SSI promotion. The technical assistance components of
the propcsed project are designed to assist in these areas.
Industrial Finance
39.     Structure of the Financial System.  The financial system in
Pakistan consists of nationalized and foreign commercial banks, and a
range of specialized financial institutions.  The State Bank of Pakistan
(SBP), the central bank, regulates and supports the financial system. The
Pakistan Banking Council (PBC) coordinates the activities of the five
nationalized commercial banks and serves as a communications link between
them and the Government
40.     With total assets of Rs 212 billion, or 90% of the assets of the
financial system as of June 30, 1983, and a network of around 7,000
branches throughout the country, the commercial banks play a dominant role
in the financial system. In the commercial banking system, the five NCBs
accounted for about 89% of deposits, 87% of advances, 82% of commercial
bank net profits. Since 1979, a number of steps have been taken to
improve the overall performance of the NCBs: branch expansion has been
limited; uneconomic branches are being closed down; hiring of staff,
except for middle level management, has been stopped; a staff performance
review and disciplinary system has been introduced; promotion is now based
more on merit than seniority; central training institutes such as the
Institute of Bankers are being strengthened; and NCBs will be allowed to
build up their capital to a prudent level, with the Government not requir-
ing dividends for the next three years. These actions resulted in a 91%
increase in NCB's profitability in FY82, with further improvements
projected in 1983.
41.     SSI Financing - Sources and Demand.  The nationalized commercial
banks have principal responsibility for SSI lending activity. Annual
targets for SSI lending are set by the State Bank of Pakistan based on the
Government's Annual Development Plan projections for SSI investments and
value-added and divided among the five banks according to deposit volume.
The targets are revised during the year in relation to actual credit
demand from SSI for investment and working capital.  With the availability
of long term resources from IDA, fixed investment loans to SSIs have
increased. Moreover, the first SSI project reinforced the banks'
capabilities in project-based term lending.
42.     Investments in SSI grew from Rs 725 million in FY79 to Rs 1,337
million in FY83, at an average annual rate of 17%. While this rate was
slightly lower than growth of investments in larger private industry, SSI
investment growth compared favorably with total investments in large



-14-
public industry which stagnated due tco contraction in investments in
public enterprises.
43.     As an indication of credit demand, for FY84, the State Bank of
Pakistan's target for net additional lending to SSIs totals Rs 1.6
billion, which is consistent with the Sixth Plan projections. Taking a
conservative approach to Sixth EPlan projections for investment and
reliance on institutional finance, the! average demand for institutional
credit for investment by the sector will be about Rs 1.1 billion for FY85
and FY86. Assuming a conservative 7% real annual rate of growth in
output, the requirements for incremental working capital financing from
the banks also could average Rs 1 billion annually, assuming that self-
finance would constitute 50% of working capital requirements.
44.     Recent levels of financing by the banking system and the pipeline
of SSI projects suggest sizable immediate credit demand. Since full
commitment of the subloan components cf the first SSI project in September
1983, the five commercial banks have sanctioned 277 more subloans amount-
ing to US$14.5 million equivalent.   These, together with a pipeline of
about US$20 million equivalent, provide the proposed project with the
prospect for a strong start-up.
45.     Islamization.  In recent years, the financial sector has expanded
rapidly at an average annual rate of 16%, in current values.  However, its
long term development is constrained on the resource side by the low level
of domestic savings, wlhich recently has been counterbalanced by the inflow
of foreign remittances from Pakistani workers abroad. On the lending
side, two important government policies are influencing the development of
the financial sector. The first is the use of commercial banks to provide
term financing to agriculture and industry. The second factor is that
since 1981, GOP has introduced a number of changes in the financial system
as part of its Islamization process. The objective of financial
Islamization is to shift from an interest-based financial system to one
operating on the principle of profit and loss sharing (PLS). Changes in
the financial system relevant to industrial finance include the introduc-
tion of: (i) PLS working capital loans (MuEiharika); (ii) participation
term certificates (PTCs) based on the PLS principle, to replace debenture
financing; (iii) Modaraba companies, which operate as investment funds in
accordance with Islamic tenets; and (iv) the conversion of a number of
specialized financial institutions, including National Investment Trust,
House Building Finance Corporation and Small Business Finance Corporation,
to a non-interest basis of operation.
46.     Since the process of Islamization is being implemented gradually
and pragmatically, it is too early to evaluate its full economic and
financial implications. However, indications are that, on the whole,
Islamization has so far had a positive impact. By not imposing restric-
tions on the terms and conditions whiclh can be negotiated between lenders
and borrowers using the new instruments, the Government is in effect



-15-
freeing financial rates of return. This applies in particular to term
financing through PTCs, and the arrangements for hire purchase and leasing
currently under consideration. However, since there are a number of
potential problems in the operation of a parallel interest and PLS-based
system, the Government will remain involved in the regulation of the
financial system for some time and may have to continue to resort to
direct intervention in financial markets to meets its macroeconomic and
developmental objectives.
47.     The Government is committed to maintain the application of inter-
est based financing where foreign funding is involved. As the
Islamization process is extended and experience gained, closer analysis of
the system may be required to see if it is necessary to adapt Bank Group
financing in any significant way.
48.     Credit Allocation.  In Pakistan, the credit allocation system is
used as a tool to achieve overall monetary policy objectives. Within the
country's total credit limits, annual targets are set for lending to the
priority productive sectors, industry and agriculture, to ensure adequate
credit availability. There is also a corresponding allocation of the
overall credit amounts to the commercial banks. However, allocations are
not made to specific industrial subsectors or to particular projects. An
analysis of the system of credit allocation has found that while the
remaining rigidities make it less than ideal, the system is administered
relatively flexibly, revised quarterly based on actual demand for credit,
and does not squeeze out the private sector. In fact, the proportion of
lending to the private sector has increased yearly. While allocations do
not represent a significant bottleneck at present, the system would con-
tinue to be the subject of dialogue and careful monitoring, during the
course of project implementation.
49.     Interest Rates.  The interest rates in Pakistan are set by the
Government through the State Bank of Pakistan (SBP). Current rates for
all industries are 11% p.a. for term loans for investments and 14% p.a.
for short term working capital loans. Foreign currency term loans for
medium and large industries, which are provided mainly by development
finance institutions, are also at 11% p.a. but a 3% p.a. foreign exchange
risk fee is charged by the Government which bears the exchange risk.
Since experience has shown that the majority of subloans for small
industries are applied to local expenditures, the Government does not
apply an exchange risk fee for term loan to SSI even where the source of
the funds are foreign. These current rates represent a positive return to
capital, given an inflation rate of 10.5% in 1982 and 6% in 1983. The
average inflation rate for 1984 is projected to be higher, as external
resource flows in the latter half of 1983 contributed to monetary expan-
sion which translated into higher prices in the first quarter of the year
(11% on an annual basis). With the Government's proposed reduction in
monetary expansion down to 13% from 26% and no visible structural infla-
tionary pressures, it is likely that inflation in the medium term will



-16-
remain below 10% and that lending rates wotuld remain positive in real
terms.
Bank Group Lending Strategies
50.     The Bank Group strategy for industry in Pakistan has focused on
effective transfer of financial resources to the private sector through
institution building of financial intermediaries, coupled with project
promotion and subsector analyses. In addition to the first SSI project,
other Bank Group operations in the industrial sector of Pakistan have
consisted of 14 loans and credits to three development finance institu-
tions for onlending to medium and large industrial projects, of which 13
operations totaling US$324 million were for the private sector and one,
amounting to US$30 million, for public sector projects. The recently
approved Industrial Investment Credit (IIC) of US$100 million equivalent
for financing of medium and large projects in the private sector will be
channelled not only through the traditional development finance institu-
tions but also through two commmercial banks with a view to broadening and
improving credit channelling to industry. Work on the overall policy
framework was furthered under the first Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL).
Within industry the SAL focused on progress in the reform of the incentive
structure, improvements in the efficiency of the public manufacturing
sector, and streamlining of investment: licensing procedures.
51.     The First SSI Project (Cr. 1113-PAK).  Prior to the first SSI
project, (SSI I), SSI lending was carried out jointly by Small Industry
Corporations (SICs) and the cominercia:L banks, an arrangement which
resulted in overlapping responsibilities, friction between institutions,
delays in loan processing and, finally, poor loan recovery performance.
Moreover, concerns with lending drew l:he SICs away from the other impor-
tant functions of SSI promotion and extension. SSI I succeeded in
rationalizing institutional roles by assigning the lending function com-
pletely to the commercial banks and reorienting the SICs toward promotion
and technical assistance. The project: assisted the commercial banks in
organizing and staffing appropriately for project-based SSI lending.
About 400 branches were designated by the five banks to process IDA sub-
loans and the banks, with the Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan
(IDBP) as refinance and monitoring agency and the Pakistan Banking Council
(PBC) as coordinator, have demonstrated their capability for SSI lending
by fully committing the $26 million subloan component of the credit more
than one year ahead of schedule. Disbursements to subprojects have
reached US$21 million and full disbursement is expected by December 1984.
Subloans averaging US$48,000 have been approved for 646 subprojects, with
fixed cost per job of US$3,250. Major subsectors financed have been
agro-industries, light engineering, textiles and garments, and wood
products. While most subprojects are still under implementation and
subloans have not yet matured, a random sample of subprojects already
operating indicates that lending decisions being made under the scheme are



-17-
sound, with a high quality of sponsor screening and good appraisal
techniques.
52.     To reorient the SICs toward promotion and extension services,
implementation of the technical assistance components was made their
responsitility. Implementation of the technical assistance components
other than the preparation of subproject proposals, however, has been
delayed, due to problems with civil works for the service centers, dif-
ficulty in locating and hiring appropriate consultants for the export
promotion and project promotion components, and indecision on onlending
terms by the Government for the subsector studies fund. Most of these
problems have now been resolved and new target completion dates have been
agreed with the concerned agencies. These dates are still within the
original appraisal estimate of project completion.
f
PART IV - THE PROJECT
53.     The proposed project, which builds on the experience and success
of the first Small Industries Project (Cr. 1113-PAK), would expand credit
and technical assistance to SSI's to promote investments in promising
subsectors and accelerate modernization and increase productivity of
existing SSI units. The proposed project would also continue to assist
the participating commercial banks in reinforcing organization and staff-
ing for SSI lending.
54.     The proposed project was appraised in October 1983.  Negotiations
were held in Washington, D.C. from April 30 to May 4, 1984; the Pakistan
delegation was led by Mr. Riyaz H. Bokhari, Secretary, Ministry of
Industry. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Pakistan - Second Small
Industries Project" (Report No. 5058-PAK, dated May 11, 1984) is being
circulated separately to the Executive Directors. A supplementary data
sheet is attached as Annex III.
Project Objectives and Scope
55.     The proposed project is designed to increase SSI's contribution to
industrial employment,exports and output by providing expanded financial
and technical services utilizing institutional arrangements and building
on assistance programs developed under the SSI I. As in SSI I, the
geographic scope would be nation-wide. The proposed project includes
increased technical assistance, especially in project promotion, for
Baluchistan and NWFP to help increase their share of SSI investments and
credit. All SSI subsectors would be eligible for financing on the basis
of established subproject eligibility and viability criteria (paragraph
69). Project profiles for selected promising subsectors, particularly in
new areas of investments and for Baluchistan and NWFP, would be used to
accelerate project development in these areas. Major subsectors demanding
credit would continue to be agro-industries, light-engineering, and tex-
tiles and garments. Subsector studies to be completed under SSI I would



-18-
be used in promoting investments in new areas such as in more advanced
agro-industry and engineering activities and new manufactured exports.
Assistance to be provided through technical information and extension
services and management training would stress modernization of SSIs to
improve productivity and promote growth of efficient small scale
production.
Proiect Description
56.     The major components of the proposed project are:
(a)  term loans to SSIs which meet the eligibility criteria
(paragraph 69) for fixed invest:ments and permanent working
capital through five participating commercial banks, with
review and partial refinance by IDBP using the proceeds of
the proposed credit. Coordinat:ion of the commercial banks
would be done by the PBC; and
(b)  technical assistance to the participating agencies and SSIs,
which would include:
(i)  training for staff of the commercial banks to improve
the quality of their SSI Loan officers, increase delega--
tion of the appraisal function and build systems for
credit and project supervision;
(ii) assistance to the Baluchistan DSI and the NWFP SIDB in
project promotion;
(iii)  a training program to improve SSI management
performance;
(iv)  assistance to subborrowers in project preparation; and
(v)  a study on subcontracting to identify measures for
expanding subcontracting linkages between large and
small industries.
Technical Assistance Components
57.     Technical assistance for training of staff of the participating
banks aims to enhance the banks" role in SSI financing by improving sub-
project selection and appraisal and improving SSI project lending
policies, systems and procedures, complementing their strengths in branch
networking and credit analysis. Training programs have been prepared by
PBC and IDBP in consultation with the participating banks.
58.     About 50 loan officers would be trained in project appraisal at
the Pakistan Banking Council's Development Banking Institute. Staff of



-19-
designated branches would be trained in project supervision at the same
Institute in a similarly organized program. The commercial banks would
meet all local costs. The cost of foreign lecturers would be financed
out of the proceeds of the credit. Thirty executives/managers would be
sent on short term overseas fellowships to visit other countries with
successful SSI programs to study their lending policies, systems and
procedures. All foreign costs associated with this fellowship program
would be financed out of the credit.
59.     The technical assistance components for SICs are designed to
continue re-orienting the SIC programs towards private sector assistance
and to supporting elements of programs in which SICs have comparative
advantage, i.e. investment promotion and project development, project
preparation, and management training.
60.     Technical assistance to Baluchistan (DSI) and NWFP (SIDB) would be
in investment promotion and project identification and development. This
would involve a promotional scheme to identify project possibilities,
prepare project profiles, promote investments, and attract entrepreneurs
to invest in these projects. In Baluchistan, an existing program would be
continued and a marketing study added, while in NWFP a unit similar to
that in Baluchistan would be established to carry out the program.
Equipment, foreign and local consultancy services and staff training for
the investment promotion scheme and consultancy services for the marketing
study would be financed out of the credit; local staff and administrative
costs would be met by SIDB and DSI.
61.     To carry-out the SSI management training program, the Government
proposes to establish an Institute for entrepreneurship under the federal
Ministry of Industry. The operating costs of the proposed program for the
first three years, including equipment and materials and the services of a
foreign training advisor, would be financed under the credit. Physical
facilities would be rented. To ensure continuity of the Institute beyond
the project period, an endowment fund of Rs 10 million would be estab-
lished with contributions of Rs 1 million each from the five commercial
banks, Rs 2 million each from Baluchistan and NWFP, Rs 2 million from the
Government and Rs 1 million from IDBP. Fifty percent of these funds would
be paid up in the first year of the project. The earnings from the endow-
ment fund would cover the operating costs of the Institute after the three
year period. The endowment fund and the Institute would be directed by a
Board of Trustees representing the contributors to the fund.
62.     Under SSI I, it was anticipated that some prospective
subborrowers, especially newer and smaller entrepreneurs, might have
difficulty in preparing project proposals, for both new and existing
projects, in a form required by the banks for appraisal purposes.
Accordingly, a subproject preparation fund was established under SSI I to
enable the SICs to undertake the function of assisting, without charge to
the user, prospective subborrowers. To date, more than 600 subborrowers



-20-
have been assisted by this fund. Funding for subproject preparation will
be continued under the proposed project usinig the procedures and schedule
of fees established under SSI I. On request by a subborrower or a banker,,
an SIC would undertake project preparation and, upon completion of the
subproject study and its acceptance by a bank, the SIC can claim 10% of
the fee. The other 90% would be paid only uipon approval of the subproject:
and subloan by the bank. As under SSI I, the subproject preparation fund
would continue to be administered by IDBP's Simall Industries Refinance
Department.
63.     In order to develop subcontracting between large and small
industries, a study of subcontracting in the engineering sector, to be
carried out by consultants, would be financed under the proposed project.
PBC would be the implementing agency.
Project Cost and Financing Plan
64.     Costs of the proposed project are estimated to total about US$120
million equivalent of which IDA would finance US$50 million equivalent
(SDR 47.0 million) or about 40%. Norwegian co-financing in an amount of
US$10 million equivalent is being actively sought. IDA financing would
cover 70% of subloan amounts while the commercial banks would provide the
other 30%, up from the 20% provided by commercial banks in SSI I; sponsors
would contribute, on the average, 40% of subproject cost. IDA's share in
financing a subproject would be about 40%, compared with about 50% in SSI
I. For the technical assistance components, IDA financing would cover
equipment costs, training, subproject preparation and consultancy amount-
ing to about US$2 million. The Government, SICs and the banks would fund
local administrative and staff costs estimated at US$1.3 million.
Participating Financial Institutions
65.     The five participating commercial banks would continue to be
responsible for appraisal, supervisioni, and collection of subloans under
the proposed project; they also would continue to bear the credit risks.
The five banks have demonstrated capabilities for selecting sponsors and
for appraising and implementing SSI subprojects. Under SSI I, Small
Industry Departments (SIDs) were established at the headquarters of each
bank to undertake project appraisal, and about 400 key branches were
designated to process subloan applications by undertaking credit analysis,
forwarding applications to the SIDs for appraisal, disbursing approved
subloans, and supervising subloan accounts. Under the proposed project,
appraisal would be decentralized from the bank's headquarters to circle
officesl/ where small SIDs, stafted with a credit/financial analyst and an
engineer/technical person, are already being organized. The
1/ The five participating banks have about 7,000 branches which, for
administrative purposes, are grouped under zonal offices. These zonal
offices in turn are grouped under circle offices.



-21-
financial/credit analysts of the circle SIDs are already in place and
recruitment of engineers/technical persons is being carried out. The 400
designated branches would continue to undertake the same functions as
under SSI I. However, as subloans under SSI I start to mature, special
attention would be placed on organizing the systems for end-use, project
supervision, and appropriate training for the branch staff concerned
(paragraphs 57 and 58).
Refinance and Monitoring Agencies
66.     The Small Industry Refinance Department (SIRD) of IDBP, which has
functioned effectively in subproject review, refinance, coordination and
monitoring under SSI I, would continue to undertake the same functions
under the proposed project.   SSI I proved that using the commercial banks
as the "retailers" and a development bank as the "apex" has resulted in a
good blend of commercial and development banking, with the commercial
banks providing geographic coverage and good credit analysis and the
development bank providing orientation in project-based lending. As the
SIRD is already fully organized functionally, an appropriate increase in
staff is all that is required under the proposed credit. IDBP has agreed
that SIRD would recruit four professionals, one for the subproject review
and monitoring section, two for the finance and disbursement section, and
one for the research and training section. The expansion of the finance
and disbursement section would allow increased attention to the end-use
function, especially ex-post review of commercial bank disbursement and
procurement documentation. As in SSI I, PBC would assist in coordinating
training and reporting and in monitoring the performance of the commercial
banks.
Credit and Administrative Arrangements
67.     SSI Credit Component and Training.  The proposed IDA credit of
US$50 million equivalent would be made to the Government of Pakistan on
standard terms. Under the proposed credit, US$48.15 million equivalent
would be on-lent to IDBP who would enter into a subsidiary loan agreement
with the Government. The signing of a subsidiary loan agreement, satis-
factory to IDA, between the Government and IDBP would be a condition of
effectiveness of the credit (Section 6.01(a) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). IDBP, in turn, would on-lend to the five commercial
banks, through participation agreements between IDBP and the banks,
US$48.0 million for SSI subloans and US$0.15 million for training of staff
of the participating banks. Signing of participation agreements and
approval and issuance of a statement of operating policies and procedures
acceptable to IDA, by at least two banks, would be a condition of effec-
tiveness (Section 6.01(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
68.     Technical Assistance Components.  The US$1.06 million of technical
assistance for the SICs would be passed on to the respective SICs on IDA
terms. The US$740,000 for the management training program component and



-22-
the US$500,000 for the study on sub-contracting would be made available to
the proposed training Institute and the PBC, respectively, as non-
reimbursable allocations.
69.     Subproiect Eligibility Criteria.  The proposed project would
continue to use eligibility criteria as a means for improving project
selection (Schedule 3, paragraph C.4, of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). Experience under SSI I has shorn that appropriate eligibility
criteria can serve as a good proxy for economic appraisal for small sub-
projects (free-limit subloans) for which detailed economic analysis would
be impractical. For subloans above the free-limit, the commercial banks
would be required to calculate domestic resource cost as a measurement of
economic viability. Criteria established under SSI I would be utilized
with some modifications. The National Credit Consultative Council has
revised the definition of small industry from Rs 3 million to Rs 5 million
of fixed assets, excluding land and buildings. This definition, which is
now accepted by the financial sector, the Provincial Governments, and the
Federal Government, will be used in the proposed project.  This adjustment
reflects inflation and devaluation since the previous definition of SS-I
was made in 1972. To avoid promoting artificial smallness, the definition
would be considered as a before-the-loan instead of after-the-loan basis
so that, under the proposed project, a small firm could use the loan to
graduate to a larger scale. However, a subloan would be limited to a
maximum of Rs 5 million to keep lending principally for SSI as defined.
The fixed cost per job criteriorL would. be increased from Rs 60,000 to Rs
100,000 in order to accommodate subloans for balancing and modernization
which may have low employment generation potential but are important in
improving productivity and assuring permanent workplaces. Moreover, since
most SSIs in Pakistan are labor--intensive (paragraph 34), this criterion
would be used as a flexible guideline to be reflected in the strategy
statements of the banks.  The free limit would be increased from
Rs 800,000 to Rs 1.5 million in recognition of appraisal quality demon-
strated under SSI I, and to align with the commercial bank's internal
"free-limit" structures. Based on experience under SSI I, the other
on-lending terms are considered adequate and it is proposed to retain
them, viz:
(a) subloans would be fEor the setting up of new units or for
balancing, modernization, replacement or expansion (BMRE) of
existing units in the industrial sector, including industrial
services and agro-industries;
(b) working capital financing would be allowed only as a part of
a fixed investment subloan and only for permanent working
capital needs;
(c) a minimum of 30% of subproject costs would be provided by
the sponsor in the form of equity; and



-23-
(d) at least 50% of the credit would be allocated to subloans
of less than Rs 1,500,000.
70.     Subloans would be applied to financing plant and equipment, fac-
tory buildings and permanent working capital. In order to discourage
over-investment in buildings, financing of factory buildings would be
limited to 15% of a subloan. Purchase of land would not be eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the credit.
71.     Onlending Terms.  IDBP would onlend US$48.15 million of the
proposed credit to the participating commercial banks at the same interest
rates charged to IDBP by the Government. As the refinance agent for the
subloan component, IDBP would receive a fee from the participating banks
of 1.5% to cover administrative costs and the financial cost of bridge-
financing. For subloans, the final lending rate by the banks to the SSIs
would be 11%, which is the current rate for local currency term loans to
industry, regardless of size. As in SSI I, to provide sufficient incen-
tive to the commercial banks to lend to smaller subprojects and to compen-
sate for higher administrative costs and risks of SSI lending, the commer-
cial banks would receive an interest spread of 5.25% for free-limit sub-
loans and 4% for subloans above the free-limit. The proposed final lend-
ing rate of 11% is positive in real terms and is expected to remain so in
the medium term. The inflation rate in Pakistan, which was 6% in 1983, is
expected to rise in 1984 because of monetary expansion resulting from
external resources flows. However, with the Government's proposed reduc-
tion in monetary expansion and no visible inflationary pressures, it is
projected that inflation in the medium term wil1 remain below 10%. In Lhe
event of increased inflation, the Government has agreed to review interest
rates under the proposed project and to take measures to ensure that
lending rates under the proposed project would be kept positive in real
terms (Section 3.05 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Since
the credit involves many subprojects, five participating commercial banks
and IDBP, the Government has decided to waive commitment charges by all
the institutions. However, participating commercial banks would be
allowed to charge commitment fees to their subborrowers according to their
normal practice.
72.     Foreign Exchange Risk.  Experience under SSI I shows that only
about 10% of subloans were used for direct foreign exchange expenditures.
Most of the subloans were applied to rupee purchase of locally manufac-
tured equipment or locally available imported equipment (55%), factory
building construction (20%) and permanent working capital (15%). While
local and foreign goods which are locally procured ultimately involve
foreign costs, it is administratively very difficult to separate these
costs for a large number of small subloans to SSIs. Both the subborrowers
and the participating institutions accordingly denominate these subloans
as rupee loans and the Government will therefore assume the foreign
exchange risk.



-24-
73.     Repayment Terms.  As in SSI I, subloan maturities would be for at
least three years and up to a maximum oE ten years, including a grace
period of up to 24 months. Since the maximum allowable maturity of sub-
loans is ten years, commercial banks would repay their loans on a fixed
amortization schedule of 12 years, inclusive of a grace period of five
years; banks would be allowed to use recycled funds arising from shorter
subloan maturities only for lending to SSIs which meet the eligibility
criteria.
74.     Refinance Arrangements and Revolving Fund.  Under the proposed
project, the proportion of subloan amounts financed by the commercial
banks would be raised from 20% financed under SSI I to 30%, thereby
increasing the potential number of subprojects financed. IDA's contribu-
tion would be roughly equivalent to the! direct and indirect foreign
exchange requirements of the whole subsector. All subloans which are
approved by the commercial banks and stLbsequently authorized by IDA are
eligible for refinance for up to 70% of subloan amounts (paragraph 64). A
commercial bank can claim refinarnce against subloan disbursements from
IDBP on a periodic (e.g. monthly) basis; by furnishing IDBP a certification
that disbursements have been made and required procurement procedures
followed. Each bank would keep, in a case-by-case file, documents
evidencing disbursements and procurement of goods. These files would be
open to inspection by IDA and IDBP review missions. Under SSI I, IDBP had
a line of credit of Rs 10 million from the ,tate Bank of Pakistan (SBP)
which served as a revolving fund from which refinance was made to the
participating commercial banks. The SBP line of credit would be increased
to Rs 50 million to accommodate expected refinancing needs under the
proposed project. IDA would advance US$2 million equivalent from the
proposed credit, once it has been declared efEective, to augment this
revolving fund. IDBP would refinance the commercial banks from the
revolving fund and, on a periodic basis, seek reimbursement from IDA.
These reimbursements would be used to replenish the revolving fund.
75.     Procurement.  Goods and services costing US$20,000 equivalent or
more per item, or US$50,000 equivalent or more per contract, would be
procured through international shopping on the basis of at least three
competitive quotations; for contracts of goods and services with single
items costing less than US$20,000, or combined items costing less than
US$50,000 equivalent, the commercial bank would ensure and certify that
these are reasonably priced and are suitable to the requirements of sub-
projects. Under existing procedures, the banks require their clients to
obtain three competitive quotations for fixed investment loans. For
subloans under the proposed project, the banks would be required to main-
tain records of the method of procurement, summarizing offers and awards
per subproject. IDBP would periodically review these records which are
kept in commercial bank branches. Based on IDBP reports on these reviews,
IDA review missions would examine these records on a sampling basis.



-25-
76.     Disbursement.  In view of the large number of subprojects and the
small size of subloans, the normal DFC procedure of disbursing against
expenditures of individual subprojects would be inappropriate. Thus, all
disbursements for foreign or local expenditures made by the commercial
banks would be financed equally at 70% of subloan amounts. Disbursements
would be refinanced against certified statements of expenditure for which
appropriate documentation would be retained by the commercial banks and
made available to IDBP/IDA review missions. In order to expedite payments
to the commercial banks a revolving fund would be set up using a line of
credit from the State Bank of Pakistan and an initial deposit from the
proposed credit (paragraph 74). IDA's reimbursement would be limited to
expenditures made by a subborrower not more than 180 days prior to IDA's
receipt of IDBP's request for reimbursement, except for those expenditures
to be retroactively financed (paragraph 77). For the technical assistance
components, IDA would disburse 100% of expenditures for consultants and
training; the CIF cost of imported equipment and supplies; and the ex-
factory cost of local equipment and supplies. For imported equipment and
supplies which are purchased locally, IDA would disburse 75%, giving a 25%
average allowance for taxes and duties. Withdrawal applications will be
submitted to IDA by the implementing agency. Disbursement of the training
funds for the commercial banks will be done through IDBP. The subloan
component is expected to be committed in three years and disbursed in six
years from the date of credit effectiveness.
77.     Retroactive Financing.  Despite full commitment of the proceeds
under SSI I, it was agreed with the commercial banks, IDBP and PBC that
subloan sanctioning should continue in order not to disrupt the momentum
the project had generated. Accordingly, the commercial banks continued
processing subloans, subject to availability of funds, and by February 29,
1984, had sanctioned 277 subloans amounting to US$14.5 million. To ensure
that investments in these subprojects are realized, retroactive financing
in an amount not exceeding $5 million equivalent is proposed to meet 70%
of the disbursements related to these subloans made after October 1, 1983.
Reporting, Accounts and Audits.
78.     The commercial banks would submit semi-annual progress reports on
commitments, disbursements, collections and arrears under the project to
IDBP who in turn would consolidate the report for transmittal to IDA. In
addition, the banks would maintain proper accounts for subloans, including
supporting disbursement and procurement documents, which would be audited
annually according to current practice.
79.     The technical assistance implementing agencies would prepare and
submit semi-annual progress reports direct to IDA. Accounts specific to
the components would be maintained separately and would be audited
annually according to current practice. Audit reports would be submitted
to IDA no later than six months after the close of the fiscal year.



-26-
Project Benefits and Risks
80.     Benefits.  The SSI sector has been an important segment of the
Pakistan economy and is expected to continue to play a major role in the
development effort under the Sixth Five-Year Plan. The proposed project
would tie in with the Government''s secitor strategy of making investment
and working capital credit more readily available to small industries, and
of providing them complementary support: through effective technical
services. The proposed IDA credit wouLd fill a significant portion of the
resource gap for SSI lending, especially for f'ixed investments, com-
plementing the short-term resources of the commercial banks available for
working capital lending.
81.     Application of project-based lending methodology by the commercial
banks is expected to improve project selection to ensure not only finan-
cial but also economic viability of subprojects. It is anticipated that
about 1,450 subprojects would be financed, resulting in an investment of
about US$115 million. Differential spreads according to the size of the
subloan would continue to induce the banks to give increased attention to
smaller subborrowers.  As in SSI I, it is expected that about 85% of the
subloan amounts would be for loans of below Rs 1.5 million. Direct
employment generated is projectecd to be about 35,000 full time jobs, with
fixed cost per job averaging about US$3,500. With the greater participa-
tion of the commercial banks in financi'ng individual subprojects
(paragraph 74), domestic resources mobilized for SSI lending would be
increased, thereby signalling in advance the gradual reduction of IDA
participation.
82.     The proposed project would continue the strong institution build-
ing aspects of SSI I. The lending component of the project would have
important effects in strengthenirng the credit delivery system for SSIs
through the commercial banks' network of branches. Capability for project
appraisal and supervision would c:ontinue to be improved not only at the
banks' headquarters but also in 45 circle offices and 400 branches. The
technical assistance components would build on the existing structure of
the SICs, enhancing their comparative institutional strengths and increas-
ing their interaction with, and relevance to, the private sector.
Overall, the complementary, but distinct, roles of SSI lending by the
commercial banks and technical assistance by the SICs would be more
clearly delineated and operationally effected under the proposed project.
83.     Increased attention given to th,e less developed areas of
Baluchistan and NWFP through more intensive project promotion activities
would assist in achieving the Government's objective of more balanced
development without resorting to distorting measures of allocation or
subsidization. The technology information and extension services com-
ponents are expected to have a significant impact in modernizing SSI
technology and improving productivity. Management practices in small



-27-
industrial enterprises would be upgraded through the management training
program for SSIs.
84.     Risks.  As is generally the case in industry, the SSI sector may
see its performance affected by present infrastructural deficiencies,
which could discourage investment, affect production, or reduce marketing
efficiency. The still limited capabilities of the SICs in terms of ade-
quately qualified staff and logistical support may also make it difficult
to extend project benefits as widely and deeply as desired. The proposed
project, through training and consultancy services, would continue to
assist the SICs to become more effective in promotion and extension
services.
85.     Inasmuch as the small industry sector is almost exclusively a
private sector activity, investment in the sector and the performance of
individual enterprise is subject to effects from overall economic and
political conditions. Should these suffer important changes or adverse
developments, the sector would naturally be affected, although to a lesser
extent than large industries which require greater investment and have
greater visibility.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
86.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Islamic
Republic of Pakistan and the Association and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
The execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and
IDBP, and the execution of Participation Agreements between IDBP and at
least two participating commercial banks together with the approval and
issuance by the Boards of such participating banks of a statement of
operating policies and procedures, satisfactory to the Association, would
be additional conditions of effectiveness. Special conditions of the
project are listed in Schedule III of Annex III.
87.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
88.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May   , 1984



-28-
ANNEX I
T A BLE  3A                                              PACE I
PAKISTAN                  - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PAKISTAN                                 REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) lb
/b          /b  RECENT                 LOW INCOMF              MIDDLE INCCME
1 96lb       1973-  ESTIMATS-            ASIA & PACIFIC             ASIA S PACIFIC
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM)
TOTAL                                  803.9         803.9        803,9
AGR ICLLTURAL                          2 2 8. 8     2 4 3 . 3     2533 2
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                        70.0        140.0        350,0                276.7                       1028.6
ENERGY CONSM   ION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)         143.0         209.0        224.0                398.4                        792.8
POPULATION AD VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   45851.0         60449.0       84501.0
URBAN POPULATION (X OF TOTAL)           22.1          24.9         28.7                 21.5                        32.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                  148.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                   410.6
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                  2150
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SO. KM.                           57.0         75.2         102.1               161.7                        260.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND               200.4        248.4,       324.1                363.1                       1696.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (X)
0-14 YRS                             43.8         46.3         46.3                  36.6                        39.4
15-64 YRS                             51.8         50.5          50.9                 59.2                        57.2
65 AND ABOVE                           4.4          3.2          2.8                   4.2                         3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (X)
TOTAL                                  2.3          2.8           3.0                  1.9                         2.3
URBAN                                  4.6          4.0           4.3                  4.0                          3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)            51.3          47.4         45.5                 29.3                        31.3
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)            24.3         19.9          15.8                 10.9                         9.6
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  3.7           3.5          3.1                  2.0                         2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)                ..      1908.1        1244.0
USERS (- OF MARRIED WOMEN)               ..                       6.0                48.1                         46.6
FOOD AM  NTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                           89.0        102.0         106.0                111.4                       125.2
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)          88.0         97.0         106.0                98.1                        114.2
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)              58.0         60.0         65.0                 56.7                         57.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PLLSE            23.0         20.0         20.0/e                13.9                        14.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE             25.4         21.5          17.3                 12.2                         7.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)           43.3          46.2         50.2                 59.6                         60.2
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)          161.5        143.0         123.2                 96.6                        68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                    . .       21.0          29.0/d               32.9                        37.1
URBAN                                              77.0          60.07W              70.8                         54.8
RURAL                                    . .        4.0          I 7.0/d             22.2                         26.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(% OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    ..         3.0           6.0/e               18.1                        41.4
URBAN                                   ..         12.0          21.07               72.7                        47.5
RURAL                                    ..           ..           ..                  4.7                        33.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              5400.0       4300.0/f    3480.0/f              3506.0                       7771.9
POP. PER NURSING PERSON              16960.0      10580.07o    5820.07d              4797.9                       2462.6
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               1790.0       1860.0       1900.0/c             1100.6                       1047.2
URBAN                                510.0        650.0         710.07             298.4                        651.1
RURAL                              22850.0      12480.0      11860.o7N             5941.6                       2591.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                ..           ..           ..                   ..                        27.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                  5.4           5.3 .3.                            .
URBAN                                  5.6          5.5            ..
RURAL                                  5.4           5.2           ..
AVERACE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                  3.1          2.8/R
URBAN                                  3.1          2.77j          .
RURAL                                  3.1          2.87           .
ACCESS TO ELECT. (% OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                              17.9..
URBAN                                  ..          54.4/g          .
RURAL                                   ..          4.9X.j
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --_ _  - - - - --_  - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --_-_ _-_ _-_- -_- -_-_ _-_ .-_- -_- -_-_ _-_ _-_- -_- -_-_ _-_ _-_- -_   _    _ _   _ _    _     _ 



-29-
ANNEX I
T A B L E  3A                                          PAGE 2
PAKISTAN                 - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PAKISTAN                                REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) ia
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT              LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOKE
1960-/b     1970-  ESTIMATE-_           ASIA & PACIFIC            ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                     30.0         40.0         57.0                96.1                       101.2
MALE                     46.0         57.0         81.0               107.8                       106.0
FEMALE                   13.0         22.0         30.0                82.9                        97.5
SECONDARY: TOTAL                     11.0         13.0         15.0                30.2                        44.9
MALE                     18.0         20.0         22.0                37.3                        50.0
FEMALE                    3.0          5.0          8.0                22.2                        44.6
VOCATIONAL (% OF SECONDARY)             1.0          1.5          1.3/h               2.3                        18.5
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              39.0         41.0        45.0                 34.4                        32.7
SECONDARY                            24.0         20.0         17.0                18.4                        23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                15.4         20.7/i       24.0                53.5                        72.9
CONSUM' ION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP             1.5          2.6          4.5/c               1.6                         9.7
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP            6.0         17.1         67.0                96.8                       113.7
IV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                ..          1.6          9.7                 9.9                        50.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPLLATION               13.2           *-         13.7                16.4                        54.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA         1.7          3.0/i        2.2                 3.6                         3.4
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)           14448.0      17364.0      23375.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                      8.6          9.3         10.3                33.3                        33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                61.0         59.0         57.0                69.0                        50.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   18.0         19.0        20.0                 15.8                        19.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                31.5         28.7         27.7                42.5                        38.6
MALE                                 55.2         50.4         47.2                54.4                        50.7
FEMALE                                5.7          5.5          6.0                29.8                        26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.5          1.7          1.8                 1.0                         1.1
INCOff DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS             20.3/j       17.8           . .               16.5                        22.2
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            45.3/j       41.8           ..                43.5                        48.0
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              6.4/f        8.0           ..                 6.9                         6.4
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS             17.575       20.2           ..                17.5                        15.5
POVERTY TARGET GROFPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..        68.0/i      176.0               133.9                       194.5
RURAL                                  ..         47.071      122.0               111.6                       155.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  . .        34.0/i      88.0                   ..                       178.0
RURAL                                  ..         22.071       58.0                  ..                       164.8
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (%)
URBAN                                  ,,         42.0/i       32.0                43.8                        24.4
RURAL                                  ..         43.071       29.0                51.7                        41.1
NOT AVAILABLE
d                       . NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960  refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970' between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1977; /d 1976; /e 1975; ff Registered, not all practicing in the country; /g 1973; /h 1978; /i 1972; /j 1964.
May 1983



-30-                                                      ANNEX  ~~~~I
Page 3
E01. .ll,oo, oedt  ate drol  Itte e          Z-l0c   40laraly    1 ,b O,   eo- l alt "I0      I'll  I'llrllelO   11  Ihdl   1,1,  SOOleze             lat l  be.s-oe             locly
oceoaoy.e  doali  00  I. tao of  laydldlea   tel oll 10, ~4 001008104  SO411 ItoIt  0011110  011 10105 oe 014    OSedala  te. h-011    100010 I
deC1_II   d_tr  00 C.ol.,O    I I.            rrd,al1,0              rt   .ol         b 40tro0,lteoolrOe
Th  llt    oop.ellleea                      tyr.           eo--orgydlOeooxp   ro.f10leoO--.                                        t CoflOtOcloeoolIoO                       -ooOO
IM    -d 00  9  001   fr00h  aaa'CI0lpoeetrl    ae   000   I0.o0Orl  d-Oaan   Ile  ot IoC.. a5                                                           fclogoco  o  LlIt 
.111lI.  1 (CSt oet              C.a .........y00te   .il%l    t   ooeIocIha   Ol0~oo,oefra01    0  40     401    01te   lol                                     oteo.olct 
1r    A 0cdl   oo1,   lOoo, 11c   O   oaao01oatoeao. .eIdote    aoe0   tl a...OIIrIldt  .0101.fIO.,clto   bto
aMO, lIIcJd0  01.11                                                                                            .lIcOelloyo lO11      oLe o...                            OllLlor
Irlooltoc -d licoh   oIal.loc    r.01    ,OrtIO    oetol                                                   a           .-colA.rlel,aeaar    .,1    lalolAsaS
far oopa,leelre.   loSe1 10  lIlIlondardOl 0  IL   1  110.-; 1950,                  roll.                                      1YlI   e
1410 10  0400  ata.                                                          ro.,,aloo ttl0011111 004     001.0  40010.era Ocal    rorlcll)r(10111
1910, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~cOI ed1.010110   yteI  retnor,0r  fIoollld
--------4111    -- (LOU- Sl   eo   1ael.nOa   bro    cllcxt                                                clll    b1110ea1000   eOa   o   pclllO101a 
a.lOlacdSo  as  000..lo   elodIa  000 004St e      :144S    alel                         Ot  lIc   0    llo, OcOaaar   ealeccerraetye. e
.41.194  co    Ol11.0  1   11   o   OOUa. OcSlCtleOol  15I000019ltO   l
11,711, I'll              -_""                                                 -~~~~0101   05lolda.Ile   50151.  0010 ItlOtheltb
lOION040L0p10  11 CpIa -Mo.....el                  oIA_Rld    rI  `oela                            elAlcllt   0    alcblreallIa-olce    01Oalld
oooteeytctj~  oca  codlIflle   11101a, cloot il Sd  Ooro. cole                         deltO    0.1.   ldl1.t101010LI                       o-a-1-1soodlc    n
.04celoeocI   leSohIlII10klcgr.e00oca  ecl,Lc0   .00010;                         Oled1       11010   rOc  hO50110   001 boc.  lt  lalelOa ,,leo
.052, 1411, cOd 0902 does.                                   orStO  IcIrlIdIl  00,1000e Aloe orlcollalgtotOaI  Ocerllall. cc4 roo
dcl..                                                                   Ion  Soerloale ololdod II~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l. t- bOb .1lds
OaO1ldlOle  100  110  ed  04   011                                                    11011  1,1of111001(01100do  Slalodl-110,  100.10=10
rooatOpoocore- thothld10110   O500   0   OlcOaI  Ol  0001.010leto
0.1.llceOcl,adtsce1C   tptaoreal   .-oa    1.                                                 cllgl    epotol     0e-lole=lL                             --rttcrllooboa.
dot.   h  fO seoerl6    lerel,Iso                                                              ...a.chretet  etI  0 .0.0  Itt
12,lbrPill  rralel,ol.010   aatled00 fl,lt                             151r00,Aale                                or   ct    eIo
lleOlOeclhtltlraalOlcOlrOOlollroyotoOlOraleolro                          ?00.011001.tOll   boaaO_teooleOrolOolO.  lllOdltol
Ieoa  0   O0,ttr111111   lOl. 1.   lOO.t                                                            01110   Ic     411   O   101    eo   e00005.A   tItlO
110IIIP      51   c   I 101   000   .l   01100  tldSra.l                                              0  ar   r01al  o,Ioot0 oclO   101oa 0I11,OO01
latl  1O'M00150   ,  O   ac    -0.d0  0   0=   ro                       -lo   I                             tr                                       ..01111   01Otc......a  o   roo,040000   0
...r...  ..  ...oatlelo,0   Ise.000101.0olecoOCt10r0.oOe                                                                                                a   cta1(.00
VeorAna Iaatp0010111c001  ceoad     Itt 000  lla  c1a, olc001locll 0ea000   0aototo 100    00101
11010  1540           .010      ,      _d 0d_0,.                                                   OOAalcol 0000 7c1    10             8 -r_:o  eoooo -0010
OooeoO    O0401t  01101       llde    0.A    ea,    0019a10 --0 otrotlo.   0oOoa,0000rlroao   00   0111lcted
OLOtar1,aodetloOOOt oaal,000001e  rtrOOSaOaOlll-w,cOt                                                         )   wClOaOealr lllIOloolyllIlO=
0.0,00100,11.Cod.0   ea fpa1Or00011cO    0  0-O .......Ot..tllOoo   11
* tlaLo4110  atipttlO      Ot1-  000   ral.cat   0   O0   I-Orly   104We0.-lt .t .. ....                                                       0rcho   0  0000   1   le=0
teat 0090la1100o  002,  1010, ba  090- oOt.                  0l1                                                       El11000
Io'-    z.l,,iso44cA      101   d   ylpt  Ooo,   olOd-e                                                 ocnlr001l'O10010,00000    -ltOOefIl
0a010100190,040,10  140011                                                                lOheallO    00~0'  100   .00-105000ealo.Olco ,htr-o   o
.001.                                                                                        1000100000000d.  lObOoOtbrl--        0   =0 -0111  000   ellcoLO  cdl
R"Lcl010l0k00,eaol0(t,o0iaooo.                                              -rrtlr                           oOla 0 0 0                      rtlTo,1001000a00-10cl
01Ob       0rorl4010    1c   ol1050   1101lel  0800                                                        0010-co  00    'o'o
Ifore                            IC h.;e   0   o    oo    Oll1l0-0001000OOOOdrOt
OcloOIcllOlo   010PI1T,oa  eer     lOloc0    fa-O0                                                     torllolo00000001.r.110    lloo    olOOtOOooor
010000   rr(0-1a000coo~10lb  000 (al  11  :00~10O00   011  0 :                          >0,0-                          00   0010r10.10 PI-1
c.lc.-OlaOAOaO   lOlOetOaOto...                              01f.010o0                         00010ll0l01000-00a0  0100.00`0
00010000L111.                                                                                        1,.>oI -rclf1000.1or'dlOP_P_0I-0001
00a000001r10.r1000a1110l  .,.0.r0.o'.:0                                                                                                .0. >4oOO.
100001  ytdOle-  IC             ooaeOre.    04=10lcOOettdO                                                 00100.12001    lcOOOltllO
rodlrd000 1e0c    at  010.AOacYOa00.00_00    1410.`                                                      l.-o100'tlOdIO  e P10e    la-OId00b                                  cdO0
alllool1010001ao10   .001  ea  4011IrO lort_   00000    19._0rCod-0,   O    10  10ll.001t10                                                              ooOOlroalo
codOet 001 001 Ira ota 10c141.   *lrelalo  oooaool 1.00 00 ealO  001.0001 10  0.001  .10100. ~          ~           I
0000400 OtI 00.0 000100   000.0010  OlO  c01001011000-tI. lO.,, 10Y 000



-31-
ANNEX I
Page 4
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN l987/83 /a                               ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (7, constant prices)
US$ billion         Z           1969/70-1974/75  1975/76-1980/81  1981/82  1982/83
GNP at market prices              31.45          100.0                3.5               6.8            3.8      7.3
Grcss domestic investment          4.86           15.4               -5.5               4.0            9.4     9.0
Gr,33  national saving             4.43           14.1              -2.1                6.9            5.0    20.3
Current account balance           -0.55           -1.7
Resource gap                      -3.18          -10.1
OUTPUT. LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1982/83
Value Added           Labor Force /b          V. A. Per Worker
$ Million              M Million    Z             US$       Z
Agriculture                       7,968      31         13.5      51               590     60
Industry /c                       6,333      24          5.4      20            1,173    120
Services                         11.566      45          7.6      29            1 522    156
Total/Average                  25,867    100          26.5     100              976    100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government Id                              Federal Government
(Rs billion)            % of GDP                 (Rs billion)          Z of GDP
1982/83 te    1982/83  1977/78-1982/83           1982/83 /e  1982/83  1977178-1982/83
Current receipts                    60.1           16.3          15.8                  46.8         12.7          12.4
Current expenditures                57.7           15.7          14.1                  45.0         12.2          10.6
Current surplus                      2.4            0.6           1.7                   1.8          0.5           1.8
Capital expenditures /f             28.2            7.7           9.3                  21.5          5.8           7.4
External assistance (net)            5.7            1.5           2.8                   5.7          1.5           2.8
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES
1973/74  1974/75  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81  1981/82  1982/83 La
(Rs billion)
Money and quasi money                   28.0     33.1      41.6      51.7     63.7      76.5      90.7    103.5    113.6       147.4
Bank credit to public sector           14.4      17.5      22.7     29.5      34.3      43.1     48.1      54.1      60.1      71.6
Bank credit to private sector          15.6      19.7      23.1     30.1      35.7      42.7     50.6      58.7      70.9      86.9
(percentages or index numbers)
Money and quasi money as Z of GDP    32.2        29.5      31.5     34.6      36.7      39.0     38.3      37.0      35.1       40.1
Consumer price index (1969170-100)  157.8    200.0    223.3    243.9    260.7    282.5    311.8    355.0    396.0             416.5
Annual percentage changes in:
Consumer price index                   30.0      26.7      11.7      9.2       6.9       8.4     10.4      13.9      11.5        5.2
Bank credit to public sector                     21.2      29.4     28.8      16.6      25.6     11.6      12.5      11.1      19.1
Bank credit to private sector                    26.3      17.3     30.3      18.6      19.6     18.5      16.0      20.7       22.6
/a Provisional.
Lb Projection for 1982/83. Does not include unemployed labor force.
/c Includes manufacturing, mining, construction and electricity and gas.
d  censolidated revenues and expenditures of Federal and Provincial Governments (excluding Federal-Provincial
Government transfers).
|e Revised budget data.
/f Excluding principal repayments of loans. Capital expenditures as defined in government budget include
certain current expenditures.



-32.-
ANNEX I
Page 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                          HERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGING 1978/79-1982/83)
1978179  1979/80  1980/81  1981/82   1982/83                                          US$ million          %
(US$ million)
Exports of goods, NFS                2,107    2,955    3,461       3,052       3,474          Rav cotton                       302.3         12.4
Imports of goods, NFS                4,485    5,709    6,466    6.679          6.655          Cotton yarn                      210.7          8.6
Resource gap (deficit - -)          -2,378   -2,754   -3,005   -3,627         -3,181          Cotton cloth                     252.3         10.3
Rice                            401.9          16.4
Interest payments                     -261      -285       -357      -320       -421          All otber commodities          1.277.4         52.3
Workers' remittances                 1,395      1,748    2,097    2,224        2,886             Total                       2,444.6        100.0
Other factor payments (net)             134       151       274       188        162
Net transfers                            ..        ..        ..        ..    _
Balance on current account          -1,110   -1,140        -991   -1,535        -554                    EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 1982
Direct foreign investment                ..        ..
Net MLT borrowing                                                                                                                       os$ million
Disbursements                         813    1,134        956    1,102       1,301
Amortization                        -235      -310       -516   _*492    _-389              Public debt, including guaranteed           9,178.3
Sub-total                            578       824       440        610        912          Non-guaranteed private debt /e
Transactions with IMF/a                 -14        78       315       358        413.            Total outstanding and disbursed          9,178.3
Other items n.e.i. /b                   238       600       546       318        331
Increase in reserves (-)                308     -362       -310       249    -1,102                  DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1981/82 If
Gross reserves (end year)/c             386       748    1,058        809      1,911                                                          %
Official Gold (year end;
million ounces)                       1.8       1.8       1.8       1.8        1.9
Fuel and Related Materials
Petroleum imports /d'                   530    1,079    1,535    1,710         1,610          Public debt, including guaranteed             10.2
Petroleum exports /d                     61       178       126       194         77          Non-guaranteed private debt
Total                                    10.2
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                  IBRD/IDA LENDING (December 1982)(US$ million)
Through May 11, 1972              From May 12, 1972-Feb. 15. 1973                                                                IBRD         IDA
US$1 - Re 4.7619                          US$1 - Re 11.00                               Outstanding and disbursed               339.7    1,051.0
Rs I - US$0.21                            Rs I - US$0.09                               Vndisbursed                              111.3       563,0
Outstanding including undisbursed   451.0    1,614.0,
From Feb. 16. 1973-Jan. 7. 1982    From July 1981-June 1982 Li;            From July 1182-June 1983 Le
US$ I - Rs 9.90                          US$l - Rs 10.55                   US$1 - Rs 12.75
Rs  1 - US$O.10                          Re 1 * DS$0.095                   Rs 1 - VS$0.078
/a  Including Trust Fund.
/b  Including net sbort-term borroving and errors and omissions.
/c  Excluding gold reserves of about 1.8 million troy ounces.
Id  Crude and derivatives.
le  Non-guaranteed private debt service is negligible.
If  Ratio of actual debt service to exports of goods, non-factor services and workers' remittances; debt service does not include
short-term or IMN chargea.
L   Effective January 8, 1982, the rupee is being managed with reference to a weighted basket of currencies.  The average
exchange rate shown is vis-a-vis 0S$ for the period shown.
April 198t



-33-
ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31. 1984) /a
(USS million)
Loan/                                                     (Amount net of cancellations)
Credit    Fiscal                                                                    Undis-
Number      Year    Purpose                                Bank   TW        IDA    bursed
Ninety-three loans and credits fully disbursed /b    781.4  32.0    936.1/f
620        1976   Seed Project                             --               23.0    4.4
630        1976   Second Lahore Water Supply               --               26.6    1.4
648        1976   Irrigation & Drainage (Khairpur)         --               14.0    5.1
1366T      1977   Punjab Livestock Development             --    10.0       --       4.4
678        1977   Third Education                          --               15.0    3.8
751        1977   Hill Farming Tech. Development           --                3.0    0.6
754        1978   Salinity Control & Reclamation           --               70.0   67.9
755        1978   Hazara Forestry                          --                1.7    1.0
813        1978   Punjab Ext. & Agric. Dev.                --               12.5    5.7
877        1979   Salinity Control & Recld  (Mardan)    --                  60.0   55.5
892        1979   Primary Education                        --               10.0    5.1
922        1979   Sind Agricultural Extension              --                9.0    6.8
968        1980   Third WAPDA Power                        --               45.0   12.9
974        1980   Third Highway                            --               50.0   28.8
1019       1980   PICIC Industrial Development             --               40.0    6.0
1109/e    1981   Vocational Training                       -                25.0   19.3
1113/e    1981   Small Industries                          --               30.0   10.5
1157/e    1981   Grain Storage                             -                32.0   24.9
1158/e    1981   Agricultural Research                     --               24.0   16.8
1163/e    1981   On-Farm Water Management                  --               41.0   23.4
1186/e    1982   Industrial Development (IDBP II)          --               30.0   16.1
2122       1982   Fourth Telecommunication                 40.0             --      29.2
2172       1982   Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation   38.5                 --     32.9
2247/c    1983   Reservoir Maintenance Facilities          10.2             --      10.0
2305/c    1983   Agricultural Dev. (ADBP V)                10.0             --      10.0
2324/c    1983   Fifth Sui Northern Gas Pipelines          43.0             --      43.0
1239/e    1982   Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation    --                    40.0   34.0
1243/e    1982   Baluchistan Minor Irrig. & Agr.           --               14.0   12.6
1256/e    1982   Technical Assistance                      --                7.0    5.6
1278/c    1982   Eleventh Railway Project                  --               50.0   46.9
1348/c    1983   Lahore Urban Development                  --               16.0   16.0
1350/c    1983   Population                                -                18.0   17.2
1355/c    1983   Coal Engineering                          --                7.0    7.0
1374/c    1983   Karachi Water Supply                      -                25.0   25.0
1375/c    1983   Fourth Drainage                           --               65.0   63.9
1380/c    1983   Agricultural Development (ADBP V)    --                    47.8   39.9
2218       1983   Refinery Engineering Project             12.0             --      10.2
2351/c    1984   Petroleum Exploration                     51.5             --      51.5
2374/c    1984   Second Toot Oil and Gas Development  30.0                  --      30.0
2380/c    1984   Industrial Investment Credit              50.0             -       50.0
1439/c    1984   Industrial Investment Credit              --               50.0   50.0
Total                                                   1,066.6  42.0  1,919.0  905.3
of which has been repaid                                490.7   0.5       32.1
Total now outstanding                                     575.9  41.5  1,886.9
Amount sold                    23.9
of which has been repaid    23.9                         --      --       --     --
Total now held by Bank and IDALd                          575.9  41.5  1.886.9
Total undisbursed                                         266.8   4.4    634.1  905.3
/a  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report
on all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
/b  Excludes the disbursed portion of loans and credits wholly or partly for projects
in the former East Pakistan which have now been taken over by Bangladesh.
/c  Not yet effective.
/d  Prior to exchange adjustment.
/e  IDA Credits under the 6th Replenishment denominated in SDRs.  The principal
is shown in US$ equivalent at the time of negotiation. Disbursed amounts are
computed at the market rate on dates of disbursements.
/f  By using the market rate on dates of disbursements, the current principal
for Credit 1066-PAK and Credit 1255-PAK (both fully disbursed) is
$42.5 and $77.5, respectively.



-34-
ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31 1984)
Fiscal                                                Amount  In US$   Million
Year    Obligor                Type of Business       Loan   Equity    Total
1958     Steel Corp of          Rolled Steel
Pakistan Ltd.         Products               0.63      --        0.63
1959     Adamjee Industries
Ltd.                  Textiles               0.75      --        0.75
1962-    Gharibwal Cement
1965     Industries Ltd.        Cement                 5.25    0.42        5.67
1963-    PICIC                  Development
1969-                           Financing               --      0.52       0.52
1975
1965     Crescent Jute
Products              Textiles               1.84    0.11        1.95
1965-
1980-    Packages Ltd.          Paper Products        19.38    0.84       20.22
1982
1967-    Pakistan Paper
1976     Corp Ltd.              Paper                  5.38    2.02        7.40
1969     Dawood Hercules
Chemicals Ltd.        Fertilizers            1.00    2.92        3.92
1969     Karnaphuli Paper
Mills Ltd.            Pulp and Paper         5.60    0.63        6.23
1979     Milkpak Ltd.           Food and Focod
Processing             2.40    0.37       2.77
1979     Pakistan Oilfields
Ltd. and Attock       Chemicals and
Refinery Ltd.         Petrochemicals        29.00    2.04       31.04
1980     Fauji Foundation       Woven Polypropy-
lene bags             1.78      --        1.78
1980     Premier Board
Mills Ltd.            Particle Board         2.70      --        2.70
1981     Habib Arkady           Food and Food
Processing            3.15    0.17        3.32
1982     Asbestos               Cement                 4.25      --        4.25
1983     Pakistan Petroleum   Chemical and
Ltd.                  Petrochemicals        87.71    1.56       89.27
Total Gross Commitments                    170.82   11.60    182.42
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales                126.30    1.02    127.32
Total Commitments Now Held by IF'C          44.52   10.58       55.10
Undisbursed (including participants)        86.74    0.34       87.08



-35-
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PAKISTAN
SECOND SMALL SCALE INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Supplementary Proiect Data Sheet
Section I:    Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project:
5 months
(b) Agency which Prepared the project:
The Government of Pakistan and participating agencies
(c) Date of first presentation to IDA and first IDA
mission to consider the proiect:
September 1983
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:
October 7, 1983
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:
May 4, 1984
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
September 30, 1984
Section II:   Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III:  Special Conditions
Government would periodically review the adequacy of the level
of lending rates for subloans under the project and as neces-
sary take measures to keep such rates positive in real terms
(para. 71).



-36-
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
The following would be additional conditions of effectiveness:
(i) The execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the
Government and IDBP; and
(ii)  The execution of Participation Agreements between IDBP and
at least two participating commercial banks, and the
approval and issuance by the Boards of such participating
banks of a statement of operating policies and procedures,
satisfactory to the Association (para. 67).



