-IP
IOFFICIAL7
DOFIC IN  CREDIT NUMBER 1499 PAX
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Small Industries Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                            ,1984


﻿CREDITMUMBER 1499 PAK
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    -        4     (Q            , 1984, between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTA act g by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
and
(B)   the Province of Sind, the Province of the Punjab, the
North West Frontier Province and the Province of Baluchistan
(hereinafter collectively called the Provincial Governments) as
well as IDBP and the Participating Banks (respectively defined in
Section 1.02 hereinunder) have agreed to carry out the respective
parts of the Project;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined A'n the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "IDBP" means the Industrial Development Bank of Pakis-
tan established by the Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan
Ordinance, 1961 as amended from time to time;


﻿-2-
(b) "Participation Agreement" means any of the participa-
tion agreements referred to in Section 3.08 of this Agreement;
(c) "Participating Bank" means any of the following banka
established and operating under the laws of the Borrower: Nation-
al Bank of Pakistan, Habib Bank Limited, United Bank Limited,
Muslim Commercial Bank Limited and Allied Bank of Pakistan
Limited,   which has entered into a Participation Agreement with
IDBP pursuant to Section 3.08 of this Agreement;
(d)  "Rupees" and "Rs" mean the currency of the Borrower;
(e) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
a Participating Bank in accordance with the provisions of this
Agreement and which is or proposed to be partly financed by the
proceeds of the Credit;
(f)  "Sub-project" means a sub-project for which a Partici-
pating Bank proposes to make or has made a sub-loan;
(g) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and IDBP pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement; and
(h) "Special Account" means the account to be established
pursuant to Section 2.02 (g) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the term and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various curren-
cies equivalent to forty-seven million Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 47,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of Sub-loans under Part A of the
Project, and in respect of reasonable cost of goods and services
required for Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿3v
(b) A free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan for a Sub-
project in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit which shall not exceed the sum of Rs 1,500,000 equivalent
when added to any other outstanding amounts financed or proposed
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit for such Sub-
project.
(c) When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit
Sub-loan) to the Association for approval, the Borrower shall
furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association, an applica-
tion in form satisfactory to the Association, together with (i) a
description and appraisal of the Sub-project, including the
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan,
including the amortization schedule thereto; and (iii) such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request.
(d) Each request by the Borrower to make withdrawals from
the Credit Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan shall con-
tain (i) a summary description of the Sub-project, including the
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, and (ii) the terms and conditions of the Sub-loan.
(e) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawals shall be made on account of expenditures made in res-
pect of Sub-loans more than one hundred eighty days prior to the
date on which the Association shall have received the applica-
tions and requests made pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs
(c) and (d) of this Section.
(f) Except as the Association and the Borrower shall other-
wise agree, applications and requests made pursuant to the provi-
sions of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this Section shall be present-
ed to the Association on or before December 31, 1987.
(g) Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower shall
establish or cause to be established a Special Account on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into,
and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accor-
dance with the provitions of Schedule 1 A to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. With respect to Parts A, B (1) and B (5) of
the Project, the Managing Director, IDBP, or his nominee, is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the


﻿-4-
provisions of Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement and Article V of
the General Conditions.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods shall be as follows:
(a) under Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall cause
to be established procedures to ensure that: (1) the goods pro-
cured locally, or goods procured outside the Borrower's territory
which are below the limits set out in subsection (2) hereof, are
purchased at reasonable and competitive prices, due account being
taken also of other relevant factors such as time of delivery,
quality and reliability of the goods and availability of mainte-
nance facilities and spare parts therefor; and (2) the goods pro-
cured outside the Borrower's territory and estimated to cost
US$20,000 or more per item or US$50,000 or more per contract
shall be let through international shopping on the basis of at
least three competitive price quotations; and
(b) equipment and materials to be provided under Part B of
the Project: (i) procured outside the Borrower's territory, shall
be let through international shopping on the basis of at least
three competitive price quotations; and (ii) procured locally,
shall be let in accordance with the procurement procedures of the
Borrower acceptable to the Association.
Section 2.05. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1990 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by-the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association  shall  reasonably  request;  (ii) Y    ut
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory      he
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreteent
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.


﻿-5-
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the.principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.08. Comnitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Feb-
ruary 1 and August 1 commencing August 1, 1994, and ending Feb-
ruary 1, 2034, each installment to and including the installment
payable on February 1, 2004, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.10. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project or cause
the Project to be carried out with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
industrial practices, and shall provide or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, staff, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
(b)  (i) The Borrower shall relend up to $48,150,000 equi-
valent of the proceeds of the Credit to IDBP as
shall be disbursed by the Association for Part A
and B (1) of the Project under a subsidiary loan
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and IDBP under terms and conditions which shall
have been approved by the Association, including,
inter alia, those set out in Schedule 3 hereto.
(ii) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to


﻿-6-
protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the
Credit, and except as the Association shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or
any provision thereof.
(iii) The Borrower shall make available to the Provin-
cial Governments up to $1,060,000 equivalent out
of the proceeds of the Credit for Parts B (2) and
B (5) of the Project, under terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Association
including the service charge and the amortization
to be equal to those under the Credit.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the project implementing
agencies in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall employ
or cause to be employed, consultants for Part B of the Project
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association, such consul-
tants to be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards inci-
dent to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall not take, or permit any of
its political subdivisions, or any of its agencies .or instru-
mentalities, or any agency or instrumentality of any political
subdivision, to take, any action which would prevent or material-
ly interfere with the carrying out of the Project or the perform-
ance by them or by IDBP or a Participating Bank of any of their
obligations under the respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement or


﻿-7-
Participation Agreement and shall take or cause to be taken all
reasonable action which shall be required on its part in order to
enable IDBP and each Pprticipating Bank to carry out their res-
pective parts of the Project and to perform their other obliga-
tions.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: (a) review periodically
the adequacy of the level of lending rates for small industrial
projects, and if it is determined that such rates are not at
positive levels in real terms, take necessary measures to achieve
levels satisfactory to the Association; and
(b) at any time the general level of interest rates in the
Borrower's territories is raised, make an appropriate increase in
the relending rate for Sub-borrowers under the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Association, promptly upon their preparation,
the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and pro-
curement schedules for the Project, and any material modifica-
tions thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain or cause to be main-
tained records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the
progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to
be derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in
the Project; (ii) enable the Association's representatives to
visit the facilities and Sub-project sites included in the Proj-
ect and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish
or cause to be furnished to the Association at regular intervals
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the
benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.


﻿(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association,' the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and ini-
tial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived
and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and
the Association of their respective obligations under the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause IDBP to:
(a) apply procedures and criteria satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation in IDBP's review of a Sub-project appraisal by a Partici-         0
pating Bank for a Sub-loan to be financed under the Project; and
(b) approve and finance a Sub-loan on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, including, inter alia, those set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall cause IDBP and each Parti-
cipating Bank to enter into a participation agreement on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including, inter
alia, those set forth in 8chedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) (i) The Borrower shall maintain or cause
to be maintained the accounts and financial statements of its
agencies and the Provincial Governments as well as IDBP and the
Participating Banks, adequate to reflect in accordance with con-           o
sistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the opera-
tions, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.
(ii) Without prejudice to the provisions of sub-paragraph (i)
above, the Borrower shall cause IDBP to consolidate the accounts
of the Participating Banks in respect of the Project.
(b) Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on tile basis of statements of


﻿-9-
expenditure; (ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditvre; and (iii) enable the Association's
representatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts and financial
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate .auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association, as soon
as available, but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, a certified copy of the report of such
audit by such auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested, including without
limitation to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors
in respect of the expenditures and records referred to in para-
graph (b) of this Section as to whether the proceeds of the Cre-
dit withdrawn from the Credit Account on the basis of statements
of expenditure have been used for the purpose for which they were
provided; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other inform-
ation concerning said accounts, records and expenditures and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that the Provincial Governments, IDBP or
the Participating Banks be able to perform their respective obli-
gations under the Project; and
(b) IDBP or the Participating Banks shall have failed to
perform their respective obligations under the Participation
Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified


﻿d
10 -
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof: the event specified in para-
graph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall
continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have
been given by the Association to the Borrower, IDBP or the rele-
vant Participating Bank.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been entered into in
accordance with the provisions of Section 3.01 (b) (i) of this
Agreement; and
(b) Participation Agreements have been entered into by IDBP
with at least two Participating Banks in accordance with the pro-
visions of Section 3.08 of this Agreement and the Board of Direc-
tors of each such Participating Bank has approved and issued a
statement of operating policies and procedures acceptable to the
Association.
Sectioi 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Association:
(a) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of the
Borrower and IDBP and is legally binding upon the Borrower and
IDBP in accordance with its terms; and
(b)  that the respective Participation Agreements have been
duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on
behalf of, IDBP and the respective Participating Banks, and are
legally binding upon IDBP and such Participating Banks in accor-
dance with their terms.
Section 6.03. The date               /0 /d   y   , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 o' the General Condi-
tions.


﻿d                                ~- 11 -              11
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan,
Economic Affairs Division is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government
of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad
Pakistan
Cable address:                       Telex:
ECONOMIC                          ECDIV- 05 -634
Islamabad
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 12
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
BY
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
B'A
Regional Vice President
South Asia
7777  -7f-


﻿-13-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amunts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Cateor                SDR Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1) (i) Sub-loans             21,620,000          70% of the
up to                                    amounts dis-
Rs 1,500,000                             bursed by the
each                                     Participating
Banks
(ii) Sub-loans            21,620,000
above
Rs 1,500,000
each
(iii) Initial               1,880,000
deposit into
the Special
Account
(2) Equipment, vehicles          170,000          100% of foreign
and materials                                expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 75%
of local ex-
penditures for
other iteme
procured
locally
(3) Consultants                  850,000          100%
(4) Training                     180,000          100%


﻿14-
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            Z of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)         to be Financed
(5) Operating costs              380,000           100%
of the training
institute under
Part B (3) of
the Project
(6) Unallocated                  300,000
TOTAL               47,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that the proceeds of
the Credit shall not be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of items in any Category decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, in-
crease or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to
such Category as required to be consistent with the aforemen-
tioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
SDR 4,700,000, may be made in respect of Category (1) on account


﻿-15-
of payments made for expenditures before that date but after
October 1, 1983.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be in-
sufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
diture for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Bor-
rower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿16-
SCHEDULE 1k
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the ters "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit as set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services rEiquired for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment; and
(c) the term "initial deposit" means an amount in Rupees
equivalent to the amount allocated to Category (1)(iii) and to be
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special
Account pursuant to the first sentence of paragraph 3 to this
Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Spec.ial Account shall be made exclu-
sively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provi-
sions of this Schedule.
3.   The Association shall, at the request of the Borrower, with-
draw on behalf of the Borrower from the Credit Account and depo-
sit into the Special Account the initial deposit. Thereafter and
on the basis of requests by the Borrower furnish to the Associa-
tion at such intervals as the Association shall specify, the
Association shall further so withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit into the Special Account such amounts as shall be re-
quired to replenish the Special 'Account with amounts equal to
payments made out of the Special Account for eligible expendi-
tures, but only to the extent that the amount of any such depo-
sit, together with any amount remaining on deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of such request, shall not exceed in the
aggregate the equivalent of the initial deposit. Except as the
Association may otherwise agree, each such deposit after the ini-
tial deposit shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Cre-
dit Account under Category (1)(iii), and in the respective equi-
valent amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence sup-
porting the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to para-
graph 4 of this Schedule.


﻿*1[
4.   Prior to or at the time of each request by the Borrower for
a deposit by the Association into the Special Account affter the
initial deposit, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association in
respect of each paymen; made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account such documents and other evidence as the Association
shall reasonably request, showing that such payment vas made for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Sched-
ule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by
the Association (a) when the Association shall have determined at
any time that all further withdrawals can be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance with the provi-
sions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement, or (b)
unless otherwise agreed by the Association, when the total un-
withdrawn amount of the Credit, minus the amount of any qualified
agreement to reimburse made by the Association and of any special
commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions, shall be equal to the equivalent
of twice the amount of the initial deposit, whichever shall be
sooner. Withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining un-
withdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower and
shall, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, be made
only after and to the extent the Association shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice have been or will
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   If the Association shall have determined at any time that:
(a) any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for
any expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to para-
graph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evi-
dence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association and,
unless otherwise agreed by the Association, prior to any further
deposit into the Special Account by the Association, deposit into
the Special Account or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified; or
(b) any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not
be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,


﻿- 18 -
and unless otherwise agreed by the Association, refund to the
.Association such amount then outstanding in the Special Account..
'IO
ii4


﻿-19-
SCHEDULE 2
Depcription of thp Project
The objective of the Project is to increase the contribution
of small scale industries to industrial employment, exports and
output by providing expanded financial and technical services.
The Project consists of the following:
Part A:   Sub-loans
Provision of term loans to small scale industries for
fixed investments and permanent working capital through the
Participating Banks with assistance by the Borrower, IDBP
and the Pakistan Banking Council.
Part B:   Technical Assistance
(1) Training for the Participating Banks to increase the
quality of their small scale industry officers, improve
delegation of the appraisal function, and build systems
for end-use and project supervision.
(2) Assistance to provincial small industries agencies for
project promotion, technical information dissemination,
extension services and training.
(3) Establishment of a training institute for small scale
industries.
(4) Assistance to    the Pakistan Banking Council in its
undertaking of study on sub-contracting.
(5) Assistance to Sub-Borrower through provincial small
industries agencies for Sub-project preparation.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1989.


﻿-  -
SCHDU    3,
Sabaidiary Loan Agreement and
Prticioation Agreemnts
A.   Terms f or Subsidiary loan Agreement (On-lending by Borrower
to the IDBP)
1.   Interest rates:       -   for Sub-loans up to
Rs 1,500,000 - 4.25% per
annum
- for Sub-loans above
Rs 1,500,000 - 5.5% per
annum
-   for training under Part B (1)
of the Project - 6.5% per
annum
2.   Amortization period: -    12.years inclusive of
5 years grace
- fixed repayment schedule
3.   Exchange risk:        -   to be borne by the Borrower
B.   Terms for Participation Agreements:
1.   Interest rates:       -   for Sub-loans up to
Rs 1,500,000 - 5.75% per
annum
for Sub-loans above
Rs 1,500,000 - 7% per annum
-~ for training under Part B (1)
of the Project - 6.5% per
annum
2.   Amortization period: -    12 years inclusive of 5
years grace
-   fixed repayment schedule


﻿-21 -                14
3.   Other:                 -   at least 50% of the proceeds
allocated to Part A of the
* .Project shall be utilized
by each Participating Bank
for Sub-loans up to
Re 1,500,000
C.   Terms for Sub-loans:
1.   Interest rates:            -   11% per annum
2.   Amortization period:       -   minimum 3 years to
maximum 10 years,
inclusive of a maximum
of 2 years grace
3.   Exchange risk:             -   to be borne by the
Borrower
4.   Eligibility Criteria:
-    the enterprise receiving the Sub-loan has fixed assets
of Rs 5,000,000 or less, before the Sub-loan, excluding
land and buildings;
-    Sub-loans shall be made only for activities in the
industrial sector, namely, manufacturing and industrial
services including agro-industry;
-    working capital will be eligible for financing only for
the permanent working capital portion of a project and
only when part of a fixed investment Sub-loan;
0-   at least 30% of Sub-project costs shall be provided by
the sponsor in the form of equity;
-    financing for land purchase shall not be eligible for
the Sub-loan; and
-    the cumulative principal amount of Sub-loans under the
Project to a single enterprise shall not exceed Ra
5,000,000 equivalent.


﻿O
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of    (4
O98
FOR SECRETARY


