Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY                                            Report No. 9981-KE
Report No.  9981-KE   Type: (SAR)
LI, V.       / X34204 / J10060/ AF2AG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KENYA
PROTECTED AREAS AND WILDLIFE SERVICE PROJECT
JANUARY 20, 1992
Agriculture Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distibution and msy be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officlil duties. Its contents may riot otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit              3      Kenya shilling (KSh)
KSh 20                     =      Kenya pound (K£) 1
US$1.00                    =      KSh 30.0
SDR 1.0                    -      US$1.35 (as  'November 19, 1991)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ha     =     hectare
km     =     kilometer
1     =      liters
m      -     meter
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AWF          -      African Wildlife Foundation
CITES        -      Convention on Trade in Endangered Species
COBRA        -      Conservation of Biodiverse Resource Areas
CWP          -      Community Wildlife Program
DRSRS        -      Department of Resource Surveys and Remote Sensing
ESAF         -      Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
EEC          -      European Economic Community
Fl)          -      Forestry Department
GEF          =      Global Environment Facility
GOK          -      Government of Kenya
EDA          -      International Development Association
ICB          -      International Competitive Bidding
KARI         -      Kenya Agricultural Research Institute
KEFRI        -      Kenya Forestry Research Institute
KFW          -      Kreditanstalt Fur Wiederaufbau
KWS          -      Kenya Wildlife Service
LCB          -      Local Competitive Bidding
MIS          -      Management Information System
MOTW         -      Ministry of Tourism and Wildlife
MPW          -      Ministry of Public Works
NEAP         -      National Environmental Action Plan
NGO          -      Nongovernmental Organization
NMK          -      National Museums of Kenya
ODA          -      Overseas Development Administration
PPF           -     Project Preparation Facility
SPPF         -      Special Project Preparation Facility
TSC           -     Technical Services Contracts
USAID         -     United States Agency for International Development
WCMD         -      Wildlife Conservation and Management Department
FISCAL YEAR
July 01 to June 30



KENWA                         FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROTECTED AEAS AD WILDLIFE SERVICES PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Credit and Project Summary ................... iv
I. BACKGROUND  ............... .   ............................   1
A. Project Background .1
B. Macroeconomic Setting.                                                                 2
C. Environmental Concerns ....                                                             3
D. Economic Significance of Wildlife Tourism                                              5
IL. THE WiLDLIE SECTOR.                                                                           6
A. Key Sector Development Constraints.                                                    6
B. Bank Group Assistance and Strategy ................................  11
C. Donor and NGO Activity in the Wildlife Sector ........................
D. KWS's Sector Objectives and Development Strategy .....................  14
ML. TB PROJECT .14
A. Project Objectives and Strategy .... .................. ..........  14
B. Sutmmary Project Description .............................. 14
C. Detailed Project Features   .....................................  15
D. Project Costs  .............................   21
E. Financing ..............                                                              22
F. Procurement .24
G. Disbursements .26
H. Special Account .28
I. AccountsandAudit .28
IV. ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT AND iMPLEMENTATION .,    29
A. Organization and Management ...................................  29
B. Implementation of Project Components ......   30
C. Management Information System and Donor Coordination  ......   32
D. Status of Project Preparation ....................................  33
E. Annual Plans, Mid-Term Review, Monitoring and Evaluation  ............          ...  33
report k based on the findings ot n approrail mission whloh visied Kn-yC In June t981i comprisIng Mesr. 0.
"dot, 0. Pathmanalhsn. P. Soch ond Mnes. A. Kho and V. L (lank) and J. Alloway and J. Il* (Coneultantl. The
Ion wa Joind by Us. 0. Mondobohon and Mr. 0. Shannon (ODA sonmuhants). Sorsterlet aseiano was provided
Mmne. L. Muohakhhu. M. Cornelro, B. Mudd and K. hxevan)a. Mr. Lee Talbot IAFTEN) w" Oh P"r Reviewer for
proeaot. The SO0 managing chief Mr. Shivskumar. Mr. F. Ahind ISection Chief, Nabiobi Offloe., and Mr. F. Lethem
Pojset Advisor) reviwed th proleot at the flPS, preappraisal and yellow cover SAR stag".
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without IFC authorization.



- ii -
Table of Contents (Continued)
V. FINANCIAL AND MARKET ASPECTS   ...............................  34
A. Financial Strategy . ................................... 34
B. Market and Revenue Prospects ......................I............  35
C. KWS Current Financial Situation .................................    36
D. KWS' Financial Viability ....................................    37
E. Conservation Financing ................................ ...  38
VI. BENEFlTS AND RISKS .................................... 39
A. Benefits .                                                                       39
B. Economic Analysis and Sensitivity Tests .40
C. Environmental Impact .41
D. Uncertainties and Risks .42
VH. AGREEMENTS, ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION .43
TABLES
Table 1       Project Cost Summary
Table 2       Proposed Project Financing
Table 3       Types of Expenditure Proposed for Donor Financing
Table 4        krocurement Method
Table 5       Major Disbursement Categories
ANNEXES
Annex 1       Technical Assistance
Appendix 1 - Terms of Reference
Appendix 2 - Technical Assistance for Institutional Development
Appendix 3 - Summary of Tecnnical Services Staff and Consultants
Chart 1   KWS Organizational Structure
Annex 2       Training
Annex 3       KWS Research Priorities and Project Listing
Annex 4       Infrastructure Development
Table 1 - Road Design Standards
Table 2 - Execution Program



- iii -
Table of Contents (Continued)
Annex 5      Project Cost Tables
Table I - Sumnnary Account by Project Component
Table 2 - Summary Account by Year
Table 3 - Project Component by Year
Table 4 - Financing Plan by Project Component
Table S - Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
Table 6 - List of Equipment, Machinery and Vehicles and Their Method of
Procurement
Annex 6      Summary Content of the Annual Work Plan
Annex 7      Monitoring of Project Implementation
Appendix I - Key Performance Indicators
Appendix 2 - Supervision Plan
Table I - Project Implementation Schedule
Annex 8      Revenue Prospects and Financial Impact
Table I - Cash Flow Projections
Table 2 - KWS Revenue Projections
Table 3 - KWS Operating Expenses
Annex 9      Economic Analysis
Table 1 - Economic Analysis: Park and Reserve Investment
Table 2 - Economic Analysis: Total Project Investment
Table 3 - Importance of Parks, Reserves and Forests for Biodiversity and
Tourism
Annex 10     Selected Documents in Project File
MAP IBRD No. 22970



- iv -
KENYA
PROTECTED AREAS AND WILDLIFE SERVICES PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:    Government of Kenya (GOK)
Beneficiary:  Kenya Wildlife Service (KWS)
Amount:      SDR 44.8 million (US$60.5 million equivalent)
Terns:       Standard, with 40 years maturity
Corinancing: EEC                  US$8.0 million
Japan               US$6.8 million
KFW                 US$6.3 million
Netherlands         US$3.4 million
ODA                 US$20.0 million
USAID               US$7.0 million
Project      The project is the first phase of a ten-year wildlife sector development
Objectives:   program. During this phase, the main project objectives are to halt the
decline of the country's wildlife and its system of national parks and reserves,
and to further develop a sound foundation for an environmentally sustainable
wildlife based tourism in Kenya. At the same time, the project would help
develop a comprehensive policy framework for a second phase project in the
sector.
project      The project would include investments for the following main components: (i)
Components: development of KWS institutional capacity through material support,
technical assistance and a substantial staff training program; (ii) rehabilitation
of part and reserve infrastructure by improving roads, office buildings,
workshops and staff housing; (iii) establishment of a Community Wildlife
Program providing community wildlife extension services, technical assistance
and funds and training to increase community benefits and to develop local
wildlife-related enterprises, and fencing to limit animal damage; (iv)
strengthening KWS planning capacity by financing preparation of integrated
regional wildlife and park/reserve five-year development plans, including
tourism policy studies and preparation of a Wetlands Master Plan; (v)
revitaltion of KWS scientfic research by strengthening research facilities,
providing expert assistance, and support for the elephant and rhinoceros
special conservation programs; (vi) expansion of the wildlife education
program by improving education facilities in parks, constructing visitor
centers in Nairobi and elsewhere, and developing conservation oriented school
curricula; and (vii) maintenance of an effective Widlife Protecion Unit to
control poaching and ensure. tourist security.



Denemis:     The project would assist Kenya to establish a lega', institutional and financial
framework to effectively manage its considerable wildlife resourc;:s.
Specifically, the project would: (i) reverse the serious threat to biodiversity In
Kenya by improving the management of its unique wildlife resources; (ii)
generate considerable ecological benefits by helping to protect Kenya's
protected areas system which serve as important water catchment areas; (iii)
generate substantial benefits to mainly rural communities living adjacent to the
wildlife dispersal areas; and (iv) create a sustainable and resilient wildlife
based tourism sector in Kenya by increasing the tourist absorption capacity of
Kenya's parks and reserves. The economic analysis based on benefits and
costs associated with the major parks (Nairobi, Lake Nakuru, Aberdares,
Tsavo East, Tsavo West and Mount Kenya) and major reserves (Masai Mara
and Samburu) generated an economic rate of return of 36 percent.
Risks:       The successful implementation of the program depends critically on a high
level of political commitment and policy focus. In the past two years the
Government has fully supported the sector's revival. While such support is
ensured in the future given the high economic importance of tourist earnings
and the implications of the sector's successful development for rural
communities, it is proposed that the Government's wildlife sector development
policy would be incorporated in the context of the broader environmental and
natural resource management and arid and semi-arid land programs, the
Forestry Master Plan, and the National Environment Action Plan being
developed with IDA assistance. The ins&tutional risk that KWS may be
unable to manage the investment program would be mitigated through: (i)
institutional strengthening elements, including technical assistance and training
and development of improved management and reporting systems; (ii)
appointment and maintenance of a core management team acceptable to IDA
throughout the project period and IDA approval of any replacement; (iii) early
launching of project start-up activities including the preparation of
procurement packages; (iv) heavy reliance on the private sector contracting
industry to implement and supervise the civil works program, and upon NGOs
for the community wildlife, education and scientific research components; (v)
a flexible investment approach and a mid-term impact evaluation to facilitate
corrective action during implementation. The financial risk would be
minimized by helping KWS strengthen its cost recovery mechanism, diversify
its revenue base, and create a steady stream of income to support its nonprofit
purely conservation based activities through the proposed Wildlife
Conservation Trust Fund. IDA would closely monitor annual budgetary
allocations for the project and revenue collection by KWS. If necessary,
major adjustments to the project can be made during the mid-term review.
The donor coordination isk would be contained by establishing a Donor's
Secretariat in KWS to coordinate donors' plans and actions and to diffuse
information among them. In addition, joint semi-annual donor implementation
review meetings would be held to ensure complementarity of activities.



- vi -
Estimated Project Costs a/
............. ................... .. 
Component                                             Local    Forefgn        Total
-- -USS million-
... .. ... ... .. ............. ............................ ... .... ...... .... .. .. ..... ......... .
A. Institur. Develop. & Management
1  Heeck4jrters Strengthening                        9.1        14.3        23.4
2. trsining                                          2.3         3.2         5.5
B. Perk Infra  *nd Devlop.                             19.0        31.5        50.5
C. Wildlife Service.
1. Commity Wildlife Program                         10.7         5.4        16.1
2. Education/ Visitors Center                        2.8         4.1         6.9
3. Policy/PlannIng                                   1.0         2.0         3.0
D. Scientific Services
1. Research & Spec. Conserv. Prog.                   3.4         4.5         7.9
2. Veterinary Services                               1.2         0.7         1.9
E. Reserves infea. *nd Develop.                         0.9         1.6         2.5
F. Wildlife Protection & Security                       2.4         3.9         6.3
Total Bese Cost                              52.8        71.2       12' 0
Physical Contirgencies                               3.9         5.9         9.8
Price Contingernies                                  2.5         6.7         9.F
Total Projact Cost                           59.2        83.8       143.0
a/ Includes taxes and duties of USS18.8 million
Financing Plan
..............
Cofinancier                               Local    Foreign        Total
--- US$ million.----------
IDA                                        17.3        43.2        60.5
EEL                                         5.8         2.2         8.0
Govt. of Japan                              1.1         5.7         6.8
KFW                                         1.4         4.9         6.3
Govt. of Netherlands                        0.8         2.6         3.4
ODA                                         3.1        16.9        20.0
USAID                                       2.4         4.6         7.0
Government of Kenya                        27.3         3.7        31.0
Total                                    59.2        83.8       143.0
.. ............. ............................ ...................... ............................... .......
Estimated Disbursements from IDA Credit          (USS million)
,...__............ ............................ ...........
IDA FY                   92        93        94        95        96        97       98
Annual                   1.8      6.7       9.7      14.5       9.7      12.1       6.0
Cutulative               1.8      8.5      18.2      32.7      42.4      54.5     60.5
Economic Rate of Return: 36 percent (for investments relating to the major parks and
reserves)
Map: IBRD No. 22970



KENYA
PROTECTED AREAS AND WILDLIFE SERVICES PROJECT
L BACKGROUND
A. Project Background
1.1       Wildlife conservation in Kenya dates back to 1898, when the earliest wildlife regulation
was enacted to control indiscriminate hunting. In 1907 a game department was established,
essentially to control hunting. But it was not nintil 1946 that the Nairobi National Park was set up as
the first wildlife park in East Africa. The park was under the management of the Kenya National
Parks Trust, which created several other national parks and advised the county councils on the
creation of national reserves. Today there are 56 protected areas-29 national parks and 27 national
reserves-(IBRD Map 22970). In 1976, after re-examining its wildlife management policy, the Kenya
Government combined the functions of the well-run autonomous National Parks Trust and of the
Game Department into the Wildlife Conservation and Management Department (WCMD).
1.2       At a time when the economic value of the wildlife sector was growing rapidly and
international and domestic conservationists were expressing deep concern for the protection of
Kenya's rich biodiversity, Kenya's wildlife sector was deteriorating. During the 1970s ktnd 1980s
populations of charismatic animal species such as elephant and rhinoceros were threatened with
extinction because of organized poaching and loss of critical habitats, park and reserve infrastructure
and management capacity deteriorated rapidly and communities adjourning wildlife habitats were
alienated through failed community development programs. The World Bank-financed Wildlife and
Tourism project (paras. 2.19 - 2.20), initiated in 1976, failed to reverse the sector's continuing
degradation.
1.3       Toward the end of the 1980s, the Government, alarmed by the sector's dismal
performance, acted decisively. It revamped the 1976 Wildlife Conservation Act and created a new
parastatal, the Kenya Wildlife Service (KWS), which was charged with all wildlife conservation and
management in Kenya. It is also responsible for wildlife research, education and extension, and has
been given the necessary legislative authority to retain revenues from gate fees and tourist lodge rents.
Its duties require close involvement with many other organizations, such as the National
Environmental Secretariat, the Forestry Department (FD, see para. 2.15 (b)), ministries covering
agriculture, energy, fisheries, water, and arid and semi-arid lands, the tourist industry and local
district govermnents (see para. 2.15(d)). KWS has taken bold measures over the last two years to
arrest the degradation of the wildlife sector. Poaching is now effectively controlled--only 52
elephants were lost in the last two years compared to an average of 5000 a year in the past. Revenue
leakages have been substantially reduced, and KWS revenues have more than doubled owing to a
combination of tariff increases and improved collection. Tourist confidence has been restored by
improvements in tourist security and by steps to reverse the infrastructure deterioration. And the



2 -
organization itself has been revitalized by the hiring of well-qualified staff, measures to streamline the
organization, and the introduction of a strong training program.
1.4       There is, however, still a large unfinished agenda for realizing the sector's growth and
development, and KWS is expected to play arn important role as a financially self-sustaining institution
firmly anchored to conservation principles. As a first step in realizing this, KWS initiated preparation
of a comprehensive Pb;i Frwnewe* ad lavesteat Program in mid-1990 as the basis of the
sector development slrategy over th; next decade. KWS was assisted in this task by a Special Project
Preparation Facility (SPPF) for US$160,000 and by Japanese Government grant financing from its
Environmental Grant F. kI.y, equivalent to US$600,000. In addition, the Overseas Development
Administration (ODAM and the European Economic Community (EEC) provided substantial technical
assistance in policy formulation and management. USAID played a lead role in helping KWS develop
its policies and investment strategy for the Community Wildlife Program.
1.5       The basic project strategy that evolved from the close interaction between KWS and the
international donor community was to support a subsector-wide investment program (estimated cost,
US$350.0 million) for wildlife development in Kenya over the next decade. The KWS submitted its
investment program to the donor community for review in October 1990, and in November 1990 a
joint IDA-donor identification mission visited Kenya. The joint appraisal mission in June 1991 agreed
with KWS that, taking into consideration KWS's gradually emerging institutional capacity, its
financial constraints, and implementation experience with past projects, the proposed investinent
program be financed in two time slices. The first phase investments would aim to (a) prevent further
deterioration of environmentally and economically critical park and reserve infrastructure, (b)
strengthen KWS's management capacity, (c) mobilize community support for the protection of
wildlife outside protected areas, and (d) carry out critical studies and establish a sound framework for
a second-phase wildlife development project.
B. Macroeconomic Setting
1.6       By the end of the 1980s the Kenyan economy was suffering from high and unsustainable
current account and budgetary deficits induced by aggregate demand pressures, inflationary
tendencies, and adverse movements in the terms of trade. To counter these pressures the Government
implemented an economic reform program with the support of the International Monetary Fund (IMF)
through the 1989 to 1991 Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF). Tbe program aimed to
achieve real GDP growth higher than the population growth rate, reduce inflation to the average of
Kenya's trading partners, reduce the current account deficit, and build up Kenya's official
international reserves.
1.7       According to the current Policy Framework Paper agreed with the Bank and the IMF, the
Government needs to give the highest priority to reducing fiscal imbalances, and continuing sectoral
reforms which improve productioii incentives and stimulate export expansion and diversification. At
present, tourism is Kenya's leading foreign exchange earner. Foreign exchange earnings from
tourism increased from US$116 million in 1977 to US$418 million in 1990, equivalent to about 38
percent of total exports (coffee and tea exports accounted for about US$191 million and about
US$273 million, respectively in 1990). Considering the price volatility of wor.d commodity markets,
it is clear that a diversified and resilient tourism sector is a necessary cushion against sudden sharp
deteriorations in Kenya's balance of payments position.



1.8        The 2SAF program did not fully achieve its objectives during its first yvar, when
inflation and the external current account deficit were both higher than planned. However, the overall
balance of payments was in surplus (SDR 50 million) because of larger than anticipated official capital
inflows. Performance during 1990 was also mixed. Real GDF growth at 4.5 percent was below the
program target while the inflation rate (18 percent rather than 7'.5 percent) and the budget deficit
(preliminarily at least 5.4 percent of GDP instead of 2.5 percent) were both higher than the target.
Tle current account deficit was near the target of 4.4 percent, but gross international reserves at year
end were half the target level of 2.6 months of nongovernment imports. The shortfall in achieving
program objectives was attributable largely to rapid monetary expansion in late 1989 and early 1990,
which financed the fiscal deficit. Meanwhile, the weak balance of payments position reflected a
further worsening of Kenya's terms of trade, the oil price shock, and strong domestic demand
pressures stemming from the expansionary fiscal stance.
1.9        During the November 1991 Consultative Group meeting, donors expressed concerns
about the extent of Governmpnt's commitment to major structural reforms, notably to reduce the
fiscal def ,it, and linked continued high levels of quick-disbursing assistance to concrete actions. This
project is designed ,) forward the thrust of the adjustment program by supporting parastatal reform in
the wildlife sector, increasing tourism earnings and reducing dependence on Government subventions
(para. 5.13) Although tlhe project would require about US$12.2 million of Govermnent contribution
over five years, this burden is expected to be bearable because of a projected increase in tourism
revenues. Since Kenyan park entrance fees have been grossly undervalued compared with other
countries in the region, there is plenty of room for increase (para. S. 11). External financing for the
project would be highly concessional, consisting of 46% bilateral grant and 54% IDA credit (Table
2). Recent initiatives in the wildlife sector give encouraging evidence of the Government's
commitment to make it: 3t.inable. These include changes in wildlife sector legislation and the
establishment of KWS as an .lutonomous agency, with wide-ranging powers to recruit staff, award
contracts, determine park entrance fees and retain revenues. While the project has been designed to
further strengthen KWS's marnagement capacity, it would largely confine itself to a supportive role in
such areas as wildlife extension, infrastructure development, and research activities. Private sector
development initiatives under the project include incentives to promote private game ranches, tourism
facilities outside protected areas, and wildlife-related enterprises.
C. Environme.atal Concerns
1.10       Approximately eight percent of Kenya's land area is set aside for nature conservation in
national parks or national reserves. These include significant parts of most of Kenya's habitat types
and contain wildlife and scenery of great diversity and appeal. They also formn the foundation of the
country's important tourism industry. However, the protected areas are not% self-sufficient
ecosyatems. Wildlife seasonally moves in and out, and human land use in surrounding regions has
many spill over effects. Large regions outside parks and reserves also harbor considerable wildlife;
in fact, it is likely that more wildlife live outside parks and reserves than inside. These unreserved
lands offer significant opportunities for expansion of tourism and other economic activities based on
wildlife conservation, and their prudent management is important for the sustainability of nearby
parks and reserves as well.
1.11       Kenya contains some of the world's most diverse and spectacular large mammal and bird
communities, and a spectrum of natural habitats ranging from mangroves and coastal estuaries
through semi-arid plains to highland forests and alpine tundra. During the past 20 years, however,



-4 -
Kenya's wildlite sector has deteriorate< badly, particularly because of population pressures on critical
wildlite habitats and orgarnized poaching. By the end of the 1980s Kenya's elephan population had
declinedl by H.5 percent (from 13Q,000 animals in 1973 to 16,000 in 1989) and the rhinoceros
pojulation by 97 percent (from 20,000 animals in 1970 to about 500 in 1989), severely endangering
the survival of the species. The calamitous decline of elephants prompted Kenya to spearhead the
rnovement to ban international trade in ivory through the Convention on Trade in Endangered Species
(CITF S) Kenva recognizes, however, that the long-term solution to protecting endangered species
lies in t-siahlishing a sustainable community wildlife program that provides local communities with
adeqLlate incentives for conserving animals.
1.12       The sheer diversity of Kenya's park and reserve system presents unique conservation and
management challenges. Two of Kenya's most important wildlife tourism areas are Amboseli
National Park and Masai Mara National Reserve, both imbeed&d in traditional pastoralist regions.
Amboseli's heart is its swamps, lying in the midst of semi-arid plains and fed by Mt. Kilimanjaro's
snows. Masai Mara's rolling grasslands are the northern extension of the Serengeti ecosystem in
Tanzania, seasonally holding hundreds of thousands of wildebeests, zebra, and other large ungulates.
The environmental degradation in both Amboseli and Masai Mara is now reaching crisis proportions
because of unregulated tourism and poor management. In addition wildlife population pressure has
incfeased within the parks as a result of the heavy poaching that was prevalent until recently around
both parks. Consequently, wildlife have tended to use the protected areas as "real sanctuaries,"
thereby aggravating the grazing pressures that exist in some parks as a result of illegal incursions by
pastoralists. The "elephant compression" in Amboseli is a case in point: the high density of elephants
and the resultant very heavy feeding on trees and shrubs have impoverished the habitat for other
wikl.ife, and increased the rate of soil erosion. In addition, a park with widening expanses of scrub
vege.>tion and few full-sized trees is less attractive to visitors, whose numbers have already declined.
1.13       Several of Kenya's mountain masses are protected as national parks. Its highest, Mt.
Kenya, is a popular alpine hiking and climbing site, while its middle elevation slopes are covered with
bramboo and indigenous forests and contain a tremendous variety of plants and animals. Wildlife
viewing lodges at salt licks in the forests on Mt. Kenya and in the nearby Aberdares National Park
offer visitors the sight of forest-dwelling mammals such as elephants, buffalo, rhino, giant forest hog,
bushbuck, and occasionally leopard. The tourism potential of Kenya's mountain parks is greatly
under-exploited and would be a focus of KWS's efforts to diversify tourism. Much of the montane
forest surrounding these parks and also Mt. Elgon National Park is under the jurisdiction of the FD
and does not offer the protection afforded by national parks. Intensive smallholder agricultural plots
abut adjoining natural forest in many areas, and there is an urgent need to improve the protection and
sustainable exploitation of these areas. At the same time the farms requiire protection from damage by
wildlife. KWS has initiated a collaborative program with the FD to protect natural forests (para. 2.15
(b)).
1.14       The difficult issues in managing wildlife resources in Kenya's extensive arid and semi
arid lands are well exemplified by the Tsavo East and Tsavo West National Parks These adjacent
parks--largest by far in Kenya--preserve natural ecological functions over a vast area. The Tsavos
have endured periodic drough(s and massive natural fluctuations in vegetation and wildlife
communities. They also have endured heavy poaching of their once abundant rhinoceros and elephant
populations, and increasing pressure for livestock grazing from adjacent pastoral communities.
Tourism has been restricted in remote sections to protect visitors, while opportunities probably exist
for expanding tourism in other sections. Despite all pressures and changes, the Tsavo ecosystem



-5-
retains its ability to adjust and recover, and its diverse wildlife, stark scenery, anid uXl)'rieuu o
wilderness maintain their appeal for visitors.
1.15       Kenya's wetlands include both permanent and seasonal ecosystems. (Coaqtai aid near-
shore areas including mangroves and coial reefs represent an important resource as bicehlinpi  g Iionnds
for fish and aquatic invertebrates and as tourist attractions. Major permanent river; (Sabakli, aTia,
Nzoia, Molo) provide essential water for wildlife and for human use, and support fishe,ii".  I Yio 
places support forests that are very different from the surrounding savannah vegetation, Ri% ,; a'k
threatened by deforestation of their watersheds, pollution, and diversion and overexploiiatiol) or thu
water. Permanent swamps such as those at the mouths of the Tana river, the Yala and Nzoia 1nr'
points into Lake Victoria, and the northern edge of Lake Naivasha, are highly productive. providil,g
food and cover for a rich biological community of plants and animals, many of them invportaw. to
local economies. Seasonal wetlands, including flood-plains and swamps, cover wide areas in ihe'
eastern part of the country (e.g., Tana basin) and provide vital breeding, rearing, and feeding habitats
for numerous species of migrating wildlife. The saline or alkaline lakes (e.g., Turkana, Nakw., .I,
Elementaita) are generally highly productive, supporting large populations of birds and irnporiani
fisheries. Overuse of water from inflowing rivers can pose a long-term threat to the ecolo&, of these
lakes. Pollution is in some cases an urgent threat, as the lack of an outlet leads to anl accumuLlation of
pollutants that can irreparably alter the basic ecosystem. This threat is exemplified by Lake Nakuru
National Park, where insufficiently treated domestic and industrial sewage and excessive inflows of
fresh water from Nakuru town threaten the fragile ecological balance of the lake. Currently, tlhe
Government is developing a project, with German Government assistance, to counteract Lake
Nakuru's environmental problems.
D. Economic Significance of Wildlife Tourism
1.16        Wildlife makes a significant economic contribution to Kenya's tourism induistry -- which
accounts for 38 percent of the valae of total exports and eight percent of formal sector employmcnt.
A recent Bank study estimated that the inclusion of a wildlife component in a package tour ensures
not only greater earning but also that a higher percentage of the earnings are retained within the
country than is the case with beach holidays. The foreign exchange earning and retention cap,acity of
wildlife tourism aside, the sector's development has significant linkages with other sectors of the
economy, generating income, employment, and government revenue. Wildlife-based tourism also
plays an important role in land use in many parts of Kenya's arid and semi.'rid land areas: 8C percent
of all the land protected under national parks and reserves is in these areas. To date, rural residents
in these areas have rarely received direct economic benefits from the wildlife that share their land and
little has been done to recognize or reduce the direct and opportunity costs from wildlife on their
lands. Acceptance of wildlife-tourism as a remunerative alternative land-use option is growin,g in
many parts of Kenya, as is the belief that some wildlife populations could support economical v
productive utilization that could directly benefit local residents.



- 6 -
11. THE WILDLIFE SECTOR
A. Key Sector Devl1opment Constraints
2.1        Weak Sedor Maqemext Capadiy. The Ministry of Tourism and Wildlife (MOTW)
has overall policy responsibility for the wildlife sector, while KWS has principal responsibility for
managing the sector. But ministry capacity to support wildlife development activities is very limited,
and tourism development has proceeded with little concern about its environmental and conservation
impacts. The Bank is currently assisting MOTW under the Export Development Loan (Cr. 2197-KE)
to review the performance of public sector tourism institutions like the Kenya Tourism Development
Corporation. There is, however, an urgent need to strengthen the analytical capacity of the ministry's
policy and planning division and to assist it in carrying out key studies with a direct bearing on
management of the wildlife sector. The proposed project includes some technical assistance resources
to strengthen MOTW's policy formulation capacity.
2.2        KWS, created in January 1989 under the Wildlife Conservation and Management Act as a
wholly government owned parastatal, has considerable autonomy in day to day management, award of
contracts, and hiring of staff. While KWS enjoys adequate legal and financial support to achieve its
operational goals, it is constrained by some major inherited weaknesses. Its organizational
deficiencies include: (a) weak linkages between implementation units; (b) absence of medium-and
long-term corporate planning and of a system linking planning, budgeting, and management
information; (c) low awareness of the institutional objectives, especially among lower-level staff; and
(d) a lack of commercial orientation in its operations. KWS management is committed to improving
performance in these areas with project support.
2.3        The two major areas of concern for KWS in the area of human resource development are
overstaffing and lack of trained staff. KWS was severely burdened by its large number of inherited
unskilled staff: of the 5,000 inherited staff, 95 percent were in the lowest five (mostly unskilled)
grades. KWS commissioned an independent consultant study to match job skills, identify areas of
overstaffing, and propose organizational streamlining. Based on its recommendations on staffing,
which were further substantiated by an internal KWS task force and cleared with the Government,
KWS reduced its overall staff by 1,600 people on July 1, 1991. The Government subsequently asked
KWS to reconsider its decision and prepare a phased staff reduction program which would include the
discharge of those nearing the age of retirement, disciplinary cases, and redundancy packages for the
remaining excess staff, estimated at 600 persons. The financing of severance benefits would come
from KWS's internal resources which would become available as a result of the donor recurrent cost
support under the proposed project (para. 3.3). Many of the existing staff are untrained since the
WCMD had paid little attention to training or career development. The lack of training, coupled with
low salaries and benefits, led to the erosion of staff skills. KWS management recognizes the inherent
institutional and management weaknesses and has taken some corrective steps. The proposed project
would provide further assistance to help KWS strengthen its staff development and management
capacity (paras. 3.3 - 3.5).
2.4        Lack of Comwawlty Supportfor WUiife Conservaion. The greatest threat to the
survival of wildlife in Kenya (as in other developing countries) is the increasingly hostile attitude of
rural communities adjacent to wildlife habitats. Most of them view wildlife as a nuisance and a threat
and often tolerate poaching. The people living in wildlife areas reap very little benefit to
counterbalance the sigdificant costs they bear because of the presence of wildlife and the allocation of
land for wildlife habitat. Very little of the benefit from wildlife tourism reaches the people who live



-7-
in wildlife areas, and the bans on hunting and trade in wildlife products established 1977 and 1978
eliminated the one source of local economic benefit from wildlife. It is no surprise, therefore, thai
the Government is under considerable popular pressure to contain and eliminate wildlife that threateni.
agricultural and pastoral activities and to permit the expansion of agriculture and other types of
incompatible land use into critical wildlife habitats.
2.5        The Government has taken some isolated initiatives to address the community aspects ol
wildlife resource management. In fact, Kenya was a pioneer in trying to gain local community
support for wildlife conservation. Community-oriented initiatives were established almost 20 years
ago in Amboseli anJ Masai Mara. B3oth reserves were placed under local (district level) ownership
and management, and a number of community facilities were provided for people living adjacent to
them. For several reasons, however, most such efforts failed. Community benefits intended to
generate local support were provided without clear purpose or direction; they were not well targeted
to the people living in wildlife areas nor were they clearly linked to the presence or conservation of
wildlife. Local communities had very limited opportunities for earning income from wildlife use,
since tourism revenues were capiured primarily by established commercial enterprises and by nationai
or district governments. Related opportunities for generating income such as handicraft marketing ov
service employment were realized by urban entrepreneurs rather than by rural communities. Also,
those who tried to make agreements with local communities could not ensure that commitments made
on either side would be met since the nature of community relations and interactions depended largely
upon the attitude and initiative of individual park wardens, whose direct responsibilities were limited
to the park boundaries.
2.6        Unpamed Toursm Devdopmnt. The failure to manage tourism--to hold it to
sustainable levels--has also led to severe ecological damage and growing dissatisfaction among
tourists. During high seasons in the most popular parks and reserves (particularly Amboseli and
Masai Mara) tourists far exceed the numbers compatible with environmental conservation and a
satisfactory experience. The problem is exacerbated by the lack of adequate visitor information, park
surveillance capacity, and road networks, which causes tourists to concentrate in relatively small areiT
in most parks and makes prevention of damaging behavior (e.g., harassment of wildlife and off-road
driving) difficult. Further, lodges and park headquarters tend to develop into small villages with
expansive residential, recreation, ano social service facilities with considerable visual and noise impFct
and inadequate disposal of large quantities of sewage and solid waste material. Poor tourism
management creates a disturbance to wildlife, a reduction in populations of sensitive species such as
cheetah, proliferation of vehicle tracks with damage to vegetation and soil, and reduction in the
natural quality of park landscapes.
2.7        Poor I'nvzstraure Facaies and Mainenance Capacity. Over the last decade the
deterioration of the infrastructure in the parks and reserves has impeded tourism and threatened the
environment and natural wildlife habitats The existing park/reserve road network in Kenya consists
of 8,768 km of roads and tracks. Of these, 3,243 km are primary roads connecting the Ministry of
Public Works access roads to lodges and airstrips, and 5,525 km are tourist and administrative road;
and tracks. This road syst.m has deteriorated significantly over the past decade. Some of the pavec,
and graveled primary roads need major reconstruction, while others require urgent rehabilitation to
avoid premature breakdown. Roads and tracks built of gravel and local earth materials become
hazardous water channels during the rains becauise of grossly inadequate drainage facilities. These
conditions slow traffic to a crawl and cause overcrowding in accessible parts of parks and reserves
In Amboseli, for instance, tourists convey into a small part of the park, creating a dust bowl that
chokes vegetation and creates driving hazards. Poor roads and lack of traffic control have encoural ,--



- 8 -
motorists to create their own tracks and to drive too fast on roads and flatlands, accelerating surface
degradation and causing significant ecological damage. An absence of roads in some areas has
seriously undermined the safety of tourists and allowed almost unhindered poaching. Under
conditions such as these, the Meru National Park, for example, has suffered an 80 percent decline in
its elephant population and lost its rhinoceros population, while tourist buses are subjected to sporadic
attacks by criminals. Lack of infrastructure also prevents a more balanced approach to tourism. For
instance, only 50 percent of Tsavo East and West National Parks have been fully developed, while
high potential eco-tourism and mountaineering sites like Mt. Elgon remain mostly untapped.
2.8       Other KWS infrastructure facilities are also in disrepair. Inadequately maintained office
buildings and staff quarters have damaged roofs and cracked walls, and some even lack basic utilities
such as power, water, and sewers. Most KWS workshops are out of commission because of a lack of
spare parts and operating funds. Cosdy equipment rusts away, while only cannibalization from other
pieces keeps a few of them functioning intermittently. The KWS has carried out, with assistance
from USAID, a complete inventory of its machinery and equipment, and is making strenuous efforts
to rehabilitate some of it. But the task is daunting, and rehabilitating machinery and acquiring
equipment to adequately maintain park infrastructure would require major investment. In numerous
locations adequate facilities are lacking and expansion as well as rehabilitation is essential. The
project would support the development of park and reserve infrastructure by concentrating on
rehabilitation, improvement, and maintenance of a limited economic network of roads, tracks, and
administrative facilities to support environmentally sound tourism expansion, increased security, more
cost effective antipoaching, and rigorous traffic control.
2.9       Inadequate Pwmnig. Kenya's ability to preserve its rich wildlife heritage has also been
seriously hampered by an inadequate management planning capacity, a shortcoming that has become
more damaging as the use of parks and reserves has grown, and land use pressures have intensified.
A Wildlife Planning Unit was established in WCMD with Canadian Government support under the
last Bank project (paras. 2.19 - 2.20), but while the unit helped produce fairly detailed management
plans for several parks and reserves, few plans were implemented. Among the reasons were the
several year delay in starting the planning unit and constructing the works and other aspects of plan
implementation, increasing financial constraints that hindered execution of planned investments, and
the general degeneration of management capacity, integrity, and morale. More important was the
lack of commitment to the plans by WCMD management and local communities, which had only
limited participation in preparing the plans. A major focus of the proposed project would be to
strengthen KWS's capacity to develop park plans that reflect the views of KWS staff and that fully
incorporate the concerns of communities in the wildlife dispersal areas.
2.10       Week Wldle Researc Capachy. Until the late 1970s, Kenya was a leader in terrestrial
ecology in Africa, in part because of the excellent research program of the former Kenya National
Parks and the smaller program under the Game Department. Under WCMD, however, research
activities deteriorated, and they had become moribund by the time KWS was established. The
research station in Tsavo East National Park and a smaller one in Masai Mara National Reserve had
been largely abandoned while central research facilities in Nairobi were not used or maintained. The
majority of research staff were inactive and demoralized, and scientific information had little influence
in the actual management of wildlife, parks, and reserves.
2.11      Coordination among Kenyan wildlife-related research institutions also has been poor in
recent years, in part because of the lack of initiative and leadership from the cerntral wildlife agency.
Several institutions have related research programs. The National Museums of Kenya (NMK) has a



strong interest in biodiversity and taxonomy; the affiliated Institute for Primate Research has some of
the specialized expertise and equipment needed for genetic, reproductive, disease, and forensic
research. Tbe Department of Resource Surveys and Re,note Sensing (DRSRS) conducts wildlife
ceosuses and vegetation and land use surveys and hac amassed considerable data from past years, and
the Kenya Forestry Research Institute (KEFRI) deals with monitoring and research on protected
forests. The Kenya Agricultural Research Institute (KARI) works on wildlife/livestock diseases and
Kenya Marine and Fisheries Research Institute (KEMFRI) carries out research in marine biology and
fisheries development. The proposed project would help KWS build up its research capacity, focus
its research efforts on priority activities, and improve the quality and cost-effectiveness of research,
taking into account ongoing research by other related organizations. While KWS's research capacity
is being strengthened it would take the lead in developing a national research strategy and
coordinating the role of other institutions and nongovernmental organizations (NGOs).
2.12        rf W lf Edwfion Progrxs. Over the long term the preservation and
sustainable use of wildlife depends critically on support from the Kenyan public. This support can be
built by well-designed and energetic public education programs directed at all sectors of the public.
Similarly, interpretive natural history services for park visitors can strongly improve the quality of
tourists' experiences and the reputation of Kenya's parks and reserves. It also can influence iourists
to obey rules necessary for conservation. The general public in Kenya knows relatively little about
wildlife or ecology and rarely visits national parks or reserves. The education program under the
WCMD offered limited services to expand public understanding and interest, concentrating on
presentations to school groups at an education center at Nairobi National Park and smaller centers at a
eew other parks.
2.13       As with other sections of the organization, education programs have suffered from
inadequate funding, leadership, training, and low morale. Parks provide virtually no basic park
information or interpretive material to visitors. The modest facilities existing at a few parks are used
only irregularly and have deteriorated. A major shortcoming has been the absence of educational
facilities to deal with the special conservation needs of marine parks and coastal environments. Under
the proposed project, KWS would develop an education program that would rely heavily on the
implementation abilities of NGOs whose demonstrated expertise and interest in wildlife education
have shown the valuable role they can play.
2.14      Delidet Sector Polcy Framewo*. Sustainable development of the wildlife sector
requires resotution of several interlinked policy issues related to Kenya's natural resource
management. However, responsibility for addressing most of these issues lies outside KWS. For
example, the Forest Act covers wildlife conservation in nature reserves, while the Land Control Act
regulates the use of agricultural land. Similarly, the Ministry of Arid and Semi-Arid Lands is
empowered to initiate development projects, including land use schemes, that may impinge on the
future development of the wildlife sector. KWS has commissioned a study, financed under the
Project Preparation Facility (PPF) to review the adequacy of wildlife legislation and to identify areas
of overlap with other laws. The results of this study would be an important building block for the
legislative and policy reform program to be readied by KWS as part of the mid-term review (para.
4.21).
2.15       GOK with IDA assistance recently initiated preparation of a comprehensive National
Environmental Action Plan (NEAP), which would address natural resource management issues in a
wider context. During the initial years of the proposed project, however, KWS would attach high
priority to four interlinked wildlife-related policy issues:



- 10 -
(a)      Lwd Use Confliets. The detrimental effect ot unplanned and uncoordinated
land use and development on wildlife lands outside parks and reserves is
becoming increasingly evident. Under the proposed project, KWS would
carry out studies on land use planning in collaboration with other relevant
ministries. These plans would also be discussed with communities adjacent to
parks and reserves. KWS would then prepare specific action plans, which
would be discussed with IDA during the mid-term review. An assurance was
obtained from GOK at negotiations that it would prepare and implement the
agreed action plans.
(b)      Protediox of Indigenous Forests. Indigenous forests, rich in biodiversity,
surround several important national parks and reserves but are outside KWS's
management (Mt. Kenya, Aberdares, Mt. Elgon, Shimba Hills). Other natural
forests in places like the Mathews Range and the Nguruman Hills also contain
important wildlife and tourism resources. Most of these areas are forest
reserves under the FD, although some are trust lands under county councils.
For full ecosystem protection and optimal development of tourism facilities,
management of these forests needs to be integrated with KWS's management
of nearby parks and reserves. The KWS and the FD recently concluded a
Memorandum of Understanding for a cooperative program to manage some
key indigenous forests. In addition, under the Indigenous Forest Management
and Conservation component of the IDA-financed Kenya Forestry
Development Project (Cr. 2198-KE), a KWS/FD liaison officer has been
appointed (with ODA financing) to ensure that management, planning, and
investment in indigenous forests are harmonized with KWS's interests.
Program development under the KWS/FD cooperative effort would be a key
monitoring target for the mid-term re Aiew.
(c)      Acecss Roads. About 150 km of access roads administered by the Ministry of
Public Works (MPW) are critical to tourist access to key parks and reserves.
Any serious breakdown of this network would be a severe impediment to the
management and viability of the parks and reserves. In the past the Ministry
has not given these access roads the attention they needed. GOK is currently
developing a highway sector program that would include the critical park and
reserve access roads in its priority investment program. In addition, the
Government agreed during negotiations that the high-priority tourist access
roads leading to Amboseli (60 kin), Meru (40 km), and Aberdares (20 km)
national parks would be included in MPW's annual budget estimates for
1992/93 and forward budget estimate for 1993/94.
(d)      Management of National Reserves. County councils view the reserves as a
significant source of general revenue, which they often divert to activities
unrelated to the reserves. As a result, infrastructure and services in key
reserves have deteriorated, management has been neglected, revenue-sharing
agreements with the communities are rarely honored, and unplanned tourism
development is contributing to environmental degradation. While the
proposed project identified two key reserves--Masai Mara and Samburu--
identified for priority attention because of their environmental and commercial
significance to the wildlife sector, project assistance will be available on a first



- 11 -
come first serve basis. However, because of inefficient use of investment
resources by reserve authorities under the previous Bank-financed Wildlife and
Tourism Project (paras. 2.19 - 2.20), project resources for reserve
development would be disbursed only where formal management agreements
and revenue-sharing arrangements with local communities, satisfactory to
IDA, are concluded. Conclusion of these arrangements is thus a condition of
disbursement for the project's reserve component.
2.16       ldu   Maawgemeit of Mixs and Wdetids Areas. The Wildlife Conservation
and Management Act (1976) covers marine parks and reserves, but no specific regulations have been
promulgated. Marine parks and reserves have been grossly neglected by KWS and its predecessors
which focussed their attention on terrestrial wildlife resources and habitats. The most important and
vulnerable of Kenya's marine and semiaquatic habitats are the coral reefs, which are threatened by
siltation, pollution, tourist damage, and illegal harvesting of coral, shells, and aquarium fish. Coastal
mangroves are also seriously threatened by salt-making activities and forest poaching. Marine parks
and reserves have suffered from inadequate management and enforcement, because of an acute
shortage of funds and of expertise in marine ecosystem management.
2.17       Kenya's terrestrial wetlands have had a low development priority despite their crucial
role in providing the base for many aquatic and terrestrial food chains and in maintaining the
availability and quality of water--an especially important consideration for wildlife development and
human welfare in the arid and semiarid parts of the country. Until recently, only a few wetlands
(Lake Nakuru, Lake Bogoria, the Amboseli basin) have been designated as protected areas. In 1990,
Kenya joined the Ramsar Convention, which conveys an obligation for the "wise use"
(environmentally sound management) of all wetlands. This has stimulated awareness of the need for
better understanding of the country's wetlands in order to arrive at a plan for the sustainable use and
protection of their biological diversity. The project would help KWS prepare for its expanded
responsibility for implementing the guidelines of the Ramsar Convention in Kenya (para. 3.14).
However, during the mid-term review the advisability of divesting this responsibility from KWS to a
specialized agency would be discussed.
2.18       Poor Secw*y for Vl e wad Towi. KWS's ability to contain poaching particularly
of elephants and rhinos, and to protect forests is also critically important to the development of
Kenya's wildlife potential. While recent anti-poaching measures have yielded visible benefits, the
momentum on anti-poaching activities needs to be maintained. This need would become particularly
acute when KWS begins to implement its wildlife consumptive utilization program on a pilot basis.
An offshoot of the poaching problem has been inadequate protection of tourists, particularly in the
reserves, which has adversely affected tourism in the parks and reserves. The project would help
KWS improve its wildlife protection activities and tourist security.
B. Bank Group Assistance and Strategy
2.19   E    fenee with Past Bank Lending. The Bank Group's involvement in the wildlife
sector began in 1976 with the Kenya Wildlife and Tourism Project (Ln. 1304-KE), which supported
development activities in three wildlife reserves and parks: Amboseli, Masai Mara, and
Samburu/Buffalo Springs. The project's diverse set of investment components included development
of facilities to increase tourist capacity, creation of game-proof barriers, establishment of a Wildlife



- 12-
and Fisheries Training Institute at Naivasha, provision of transport for the Wildlife Clubs of Kenya,
establishment and equipping of a Wildlife Planning Unit, policy and feasibility studies on wildlife and
tourist development, and support for antipoaching activities. The Project Completion Report of April
20, 1989 noted that the expected benefits in the form of improved visitor management in the wildlife
areas, reduced environmental damage, and wider sharing of tourism revenues remained unrealized.
The PCR also voiced serious doubts about project sustainability since planning and management of
wildlife resources and the allocation of funds for park operation and maintenance had seriously
deteriorated with completion of the project.
2.20       These concerns were confirmed by the Operation Evaluation Department's Project
Performance Audit Report (PPAR 8446) of March 17, 1990, which noted the poor quality of civil
works construction, less than satisfactory maintenance, and the large number of inoperative project-
financed vehicles because of inadequate financing to carry out repair and servicing. The PPAR also
concludfE that the institutional strengthening objectives of the project were not fully realized. The
reorganization of the WCMD did not bring about the expected efficiency improvement, and the cost-
sharing arrangements for the reserves, parks, and surrounding pastoral areas with county councils
were never introduced, while those for group ranchers proved unworkable. Three years after project
completion there was progressive deterioration of project-financed infrastructure, and a re-estimated
negative economic rate of return indicated limited sustainability of the project. The PPAR further
observed that the two factors identified in the Staff Appraisal Report as necessary for project success--
namely effective project management by ' CMD and a major supervision exercise by the Bank--did
not occur as expected, contributing to the disappointing results.
2.21       The PPAR implementation lessons, particularly those relating to sustainability, have
underpinned the preparation of this project. To that end the project would ensure that (a) a phased
investment approach is adopted that fits KWS's gradually emerging management capacity; (b) KWS
takes the lead at high management levels for implementing and supervising the project; (c) project
activities get off to a quick start through appointment of key staff and tenderinig for civil works and
equipment; (d) the Bank allocates substantial resources to ensure effective project supervision; (e)
project investments for reserve development come only after reserve authorities have prepared a
satisfactory management plan, including identification of investment priorities; and (f) revenue and
cost sharing arrangements with affected communities are properly designed and implemented. The
project incorporates a key lesson for development of the sector: the need to balance the project's
tourism and conservation aspects in a way that ensures that Kenya protects and manages its wildlife
resources and biological diversity, while reaping the financial benefits from increased tourism.
2.22       Recet Bon In  im. While KWS was preparing its strategy and investment program,
a small interim wildlife component was included in the Rural Services Design project (Cr. 1974-KE).
The subproject seeks to explore new approaches for strengthening wildlife management, facilitating
community participation, and advancing the sector's development. Implementation of the project was
delayed a year because of the need to reevaluate investment priorities with the new KWS
management. Under the revised implementation proposal agreed between KWS and IDA in
November 1990, KWS has initiated community wildlife activities in Amboseli, which is experiencing
increasing problems in gaining the support of adjacent pastoral communities. Upgrading key
infrastructural facilities in parks with a high tourist potential and establishing new initiatives for
undeveloped parks like Sibiloi, Kora, and Ruma national parks are other important aspects of the
project (Map IBRD 22970).



- 13-
2.23      In February 1991 the Steering Committee for the Rural Services Design project approved
the Masai Mara rehabilitation subproject, with the relatively limited objective of mobilizing
community support for the secter development policies initiated by KWS. The subproject focuses on
rehabilitating community and administrative facilities constructed under the previous Bank project
(para. 2.19), thereby reestablishing the badly eroded credibility of the wildlife development agency by
demonstrating to communities the tangible benefits of supporting wildlife. The lessons of the
subprojects were incorporated in the design of the proposed project.
2.24      R*o forIDA aWlxt. The proposed project directly supports several
important objectives of IDA's overall country strategy--assisting Kenya in protecting and managing its
valuable and unique resources, exploring new avenues for generating foreign exchange on a
sustainable basis, and improving the efficiency of parastatals. After the years of neglect and abuse of
the wildlife sector, substantial funding is needed to re-establish Kenya's capability to protect and
conserve its wildlife and critical wildlife habitats. IDA's involvement in this pioneering conservatit,
project should also demonstrate to other borrowers the feasibility of putting conservation efforts on a
sustainable basis by mobilizing related income-generating activities.
2.25      The Bank's experience with earlier wildlife projects in Kenya, its involvement with the
formulation of the Forestry and the Arid and Semi-arid Lands development strategies as well as the
comprehensive NEAP (para. 2.15), and its close association with preparation of KWS's five-year
policy and development program, provide a good basis for continuing Bank Group lending in this
important subsector. The IDA has also played an important role in assisting the Government in
coordinating other donors' inputs, which would represent substantial components within this project.
In recognition of the international significance of Kenya's biological diversity, a component has been
proposed for support by the Global Environment Facility (GEF), which the Bank is administering at
the request of the participating countries (para. 3.18). Finally, the proposed operation constitutes the
fi-st step in the development of a comprehensive strategy to protect Kenya'F wetlands. A wetland
master plan would identify concrete policy actions and investment needs in this important subsector.
C. Donor and NGO Activity in the Wildlife Sector
2.26      Several bilateral donors and national and international NGOs are making important
contributions to the conservation and management of Kenya's wildlife resources, parks, and reserves.
There are over 50 ongoing projects, supported by 17 donors, directly related to conservation of
wildlife and natural habitats; more than 40 of these receive support through NGOs. USAID is
supporting 10 of the activities, and others are funded by the World Bank, EEC, ODA, Japan, GTZ,
SIDA, and others. Project activities range from specific conservation programs and sanctuaries for
elephants and rhinos to park planning and management, antipoaching, community wildlife extension,
road construction, equipment purchase and rehabilitation, coastal zone management, education
centers, ecological research, and training fellowships for wildlife management. In some cases, where
an NGO's institutional approach and capacities are better suited to the task, bilateral donors help fund
NGO implementation of projects. One notable example is the African Wildlife Foundation's (AWF)
"Neighbors as Partners" community conservation project in Tsavo West National Park, which has
received substantial funding under the USAID Natural Resources Management project. KWS is the
primary implementation agency for many of the above mentioned programs, although some projects
provide support for other government agencies, for individual protected areas including parks, county
council-owned reserves, and private sanctuaries, for communities in wildlife areas, or for local
wildlife clubs.



- 14-
D. KWS's Sector Objectives and Development Strategy
2.27       KWS's development goals and strategy are contained in its five-year policy document
recently approved by its board of trustees. Its principal goals are to conserve Kenya's natural
environments and their fauna and flora for the benefit of present and future generations and as a
world heritage, and to use Kenya's resources in a sustainable manner for economic development and
for the benefit of people living in wildlife areas. The strategy for achieving these goals includes
measures to ensure that wildlife assume a positive role in the lives of the rural people who share the
land with them outside the protected areas and to develop the income-generating capacity of the sector
in a manner compatible with conservation and environmental concerns. The specific measures
proposed by KWS to implement this strategy form the basis for the project.
111. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Strategy
3.1           The project would support the first phase of KWS's ten-year wildlife sector
development program. The main objectives are to halt the precipitous decline of the country's
wildlife and its system of national parks and reserves and to develop a sound foundation for
enviromnentally sustainable wildlife-based tourism. The project would also help develop a
comprehensive policy framework for a second-phase project in the sector. The strategies for
achieving these objectives include: (a) strengthening KWS's management capacity, research and
planning capacity, organization structure, and staff skills; (b) improving KWS's financial position by
assuring its access to tourism receipts from parks and reserves and by providing support through the
establishment of a conservation endowment fund; (c) supporting investments to develop infrastructure,
such as roads and tourist facilities, in currently popular parks and in other parks and reserves with
tourism potential; (d) providing a stake for communities living in wildlife dispersal areas to promote
project objectives; (e) improving public education and visitor awareness of conservation issues; and
(f) analyzing and formulating policies relating to land use, tourism development, as".. the roles of the
private sector and KWS as consistent with GOK's parastatal reform program. By providing resource
to improve the efficiency and competitive environment of KWS and develop a strategy for private
sector involvement, the project would be in line with the parastatal reform program's objectives (para.
5.2(e)).
B. Summary Project Description
3.2           The project would finance institutional strengthening, training, civil works, vehicles,
equipment, and some incremental operating costs over a five-year implementation period. The project
comprises the following main components:
(a)    Development of KWS's insttonal capacy through material support,
technical assistance, and a substantial staff training program for management
and technical staff.
(b)    RehaijN&*n  of pa  and reservne inJiustn      by improving roads, office
buildings, and staff housing and related maintenance facilities.



- 15-
(C)       ishiet of a Commuxity Widfe Progrdm  by providing community
wildlife extension services, technical assistance, funds, and training to increase
community benefits and to develop local wildlife-related enterprises, as well as
fencing to limit animal damage.
(d)    EqAsion of the wilife education progrwx by improving education
facilities in parks and reserves, constructing visitor centers in Nairobi and
elsewhere, and developing conservation-oriented school curricula.
(e)    Strengthexii of KWS's plannin  cqaciy by financing the preparation of
integrated five-year development plans for regional wildlife parks and
reserves, including land use plans, policy studies, and socioeconomic surveys;
and preparation of a national wetlands master plan and technical assistance to
improve management of marine parks and reserves.
(f)    RevitlOizon of KWS's scientific researh on terrestrial, marine, and wetland
ecosystems by improving research facilities, providing expert assistance in
selected areas, setting up coordinating mechanisms with other ongoing
research in Kenya, and providing continuing support for special conservation
programs for elephants and rhinoceroses, and for the GEF-funded Tana River
Primate National Reserve Program.
(g)    Maintenance of the effeedw-eness of the WVdfe Pronedion Unit by fiDancing
vehicles and facilities.
C. Detailed Project Features 1/
Institutional Development (US$29.0 million)
3.3            Management *engtlening (US$23.4 min). The project would help KWS
strengthen its management capacity by providing funds to hire skilled personnel, train existing and
new personnel, and develop management systems. Since the main objective of the technical
assistance is to help KWS build up its own capability to manage its programs on a tustainable basis,
the project would finance about 148 person-years of technical services contract (TSC) staff. The TSC
positions would be filled by qualified Kenyans in line positions. Donor financing fo; these positions
would be on a declining basis. KWS has already hired qualified staff in key positions in accordance
with procedures for such contracts, which allow open recruitment for certain positions on a fixed term
contractual basis at private sector remuneration levels. Additional financing would be provided for
KWS to hire about 33 person-years equivalent of internationally recruited consultants to carry out
studies and to serve in advisory and line positions to assist with KWS's headquarter functions,
including its operations and commuiercial department, technical and financial services, and Community
Wildlife Program. To resolve the KWS's overstaffing problem (para. 2.3), the PPF resources are
being used to develop a phased staff reduction plan, including eligibility criteria, cost, financing, and
terms of the severance packages. The implementation of such a plan, acceptable to IDA, would be a
I/ AU financial amounts in this section are expressed as base costs.



* 16-
condition of project effectiveness. (A detailed breakdown of technical assistance staff positions to be
financed under the project is in Annex 1, Appendix IlI.)
3.4           The project would also finance purchases of vehicles and office equipment for KWS
headquarters, and the establishment of an effective radio communication link between headquarters
and field stations. KWS headquarters staff are dispersed across several locations, and its office space
is shared with the Nairobi National Park staff. Project financing therefore includes support for
construction of 2, 100 square meters of administrative facilities, office equipment, furniture and
supplies and architectur! d&ign and supervision services.
3.5           TraiaS (US$5.6 Mioi) would be the main vehicle for building KWS's long-term
institutional capacity. Accordingly, the project includes financing to support more than 2,000 person-
months of training for professional staff at headquarters and in the field. The training programs
(detailed in Annex 2) would range from short-term workshops to post-graduate studies in Kenya and
overseas for management and technical specialist training. Project financing is also included to
upgrade the physical facilities and provide operating cost support (such as for boarding and lodging
participants) for the Naivasha Wildlife and Fisheries Training Institute, where the bulk of KWS
training programs would be implemented. Training for the Wildlife Protection Unit would take place
at the training camp in Manyani which would be rehabilitated and expanded under this project. The
project's technical assistance package includes funding to hire the director of the Naivasha Institute,
KWS's training coordinator, and short-term consultants to assist with the design and implementation
of the training component.
Park Infrastructure Development (US$50.6 million)
3.6           The project's infrastructure program would emphasize rehabilitation and maintenance
of roads and buildings in the terrestrial and marine parks and reserves. The preliminary road
engineering has been carried out by local consultants under Japanese grant financing for project
preparation; further design work would be done under the PPF. The implementation schedule for the
major activities of each infrastructure program component has been agreed on for the first year, and
the program for the following four years has been prepared. The program would be updated
annually, with IDA agreement, based on detailed management and investment plans for each park and
reserve. The procurement package for the headquarters building and the first year's park roads and
buildings program have been furnished to IDA. Detailed investment activities would be carried out in
the following areas:
(a)    Road r     iao. The project would finance the rehabilitation and
reconstruction by private contractors of a limited number of high priority
roads and tracks. The proposed network, which is designed in circuits of the
most traveled roads and tracks covering all the main flora, fauna, and scenic
attractions, would distribute traffic more evenly in the parks and reserves.
Within key parks and reserves, about 475 km of primary roads-built 10 to 20
years ago and carrying about 100 to 200 vehicles a day-would be
rehabilitated on pavement width of 5-6 meters, with shoulders of 0.5 meters.
(b)    Ro&tn road cintenawe. The proposed KWS road maintenance program
includes small geographically dispersed spot improvements and simple routine
maintenance on about 5,000 km of tourist and service roads and tracks in the
parks and reserves.



-17 -
(c)    iVrWWAt 1    iiawiiand   iaJtaawbWa. Thiscomponent
would include construction (about 30,000 square meters) and rehabilitation/
maintenance (about 70,000 square meters) of facilities within parks and
reserves, including a headquarters building, maintenance workshops, offices,
guard camps, and staff houses. Once constructed, the maintenance workshops
would procure, service, and repair road and building equipment and tools.
(d)    MUaepar. Because of severe environmental degradation of marine parks
and reserves, the proposed project includes a major effort to improve the
functioning of these parks, especially KWS's enforcement capabilities.
Priority investments would include the purchase of motor boats, radio
equipment, and vehicles and improvements in marine headquarter and staff
housing. Technical assistance would support development and implementation
of management plans for integrating the conservation of protected areas into
the management of coastal zones as a whole, and a training program to ensure
that KWS would be able to continue to inanage marine environments.
Wildlife Services (US$26.0 million)
3.7            X _e  Plreg     (US$16.1 millioas). The primary aim of the
Community Wildlife Program (CWP) is to support wildlife conservation and the integrity of parks and
reserves over the long term by engendering a spirit of cooperation and partnership among
communities living in adjacent areas. This would be accomplished by reducing the negative impacts
of wildlife on the communities and increasing the economic benefits, through direct sharing of park or
reserve revenues, small-scale community development projects, and financial and technical assistance.
Because of KWS's limited experience in this area, the program would begin on a limited scale and
grow over time, as KWS's capacity expands. KWS has developed criteria for identifying priority
areas for revenue sharing and investment in conservation and community development. The initial
emphasis would be on wildlife dispersal areas that represent essential ecological extensions of key
parks and reserves. Design and implementation of the program would draw on the su^cessful
experience of NGOs, such as the AFW pilot program in Amboseli and the Friends of Conservation
efforts in Masai Mara (para. 2.26).
3.8          The assistance under the project for CWP is an integral part of the proposed US$7.0
million USAID Conservation o; Biodiverse Areas (COBRA) project to increase the socioeconomic
benefits from sustainable conservation and management of wildlife for communities living adjacent to
Kenya's parks and reserves. The proposed project would provide parallel financing for technical
assistance and short and long-term training to help KWS establish and operate an effective
Community Wildlife Service. Material support would include vehicles and their operating and
maintenance costs, and communications and other equipment. Infrastructure support would include
funds for rehabilitation and construction of station offices for the programs. A technical assistance
component would include long-term contracts to fill key community wildlife service support positions
at headquarters and short-term consultancies to assist KWS in such activities as formulating policy and
legislation and evaluating options for wildlife utilization. An extensive training program, carried out
in close cooperation with experienced NGOs, would train a corp of community wildlife wardens and
wildlife extension wardens and related technical experts, improve the knowledge and understanding of
basic principles of community conservation among KWS staff and the staff of interacting agencies and



- 18-
organizations, and offer community-level training to build local capability to identify, develop, and
manage wildlife-related enterprises.
3.9          The project would also provide initial financing for a Community Development
Facility, supported by a US$1 million grant by USAID and a matching contribution by IDA. The
facility is intended to assist communities in idenlifying and carrying out small-scale development
activities that are compatible with and supportive of conservation objectives. Such activities might
include development of tourism-related enterprises or the establishment of woodlots, watering points
or other resources that would substitute for resources set aside for conservation purposes. Technical
assistance resources would fund contracts with r. Os to help communities organize and position
themselve, to take advantage of wildlife management and related economic opportunities. The
Community Development Facility would thus serve as a means of building local community support
and cooperation for wildlife conservation by heiping those who must bear much of the costs derive
tangible benefits. Experience shows, however, the need to ensure close and continued linkage
between any development activities funded through the facility and conservation activities. This
would be accomplished by agreements between KWS and the communities, specifying the
responsibilities of each. Assurances were obtained from the Government during negotiations that
accounts for the facility would be established by June 30, 1992 and that the maximum amount to be
spent on each subproject would not exceed US$100,000 and all subprojects requiring financing of
over US$50,000 would be sent to IDA for prior approval. Furthermore, it was agreed that KWS
would submit to IDA before June 30, 1992, a copy of its Board resolution establishing the Facility,
and its operational rules. 'heir antiual outcomes would be reviewed (para. 4.23).
3.10         To combat the serious damage caused by wildlife to crops and housing, the project
would finance the construction and maintenance of approximately 550 km of fencing in key areas of
conflict, especially areas where elephant damage to crops and property is acute. Before fences are
erected KWS would assess the potential impact on wildlife populations and would negotiate an
agreement with the communities covering responsibilities for fence maintenance. The agreements
would require approval by the EEC, which would finance the fencing program. Finally, to encourage
wildlife management on private lands, KWS would permit, on a pilot basis, consumptive utilization of
wildlife and encourage the tourism industry to establish new facilities on private lands adjacent to the
protected areas by offering long-term concessions and other incentives.
3.11         Wlle liaawZou aasd Visor Services (US$6.9 milion). To build public support
within Kenya, raise environmental consciousness in supporting wildlife conservation, and increase
visitor satisfaction, financing for the education and visitor services program would cover (a) the
purchase of vehicles and office equipment, the incremental operating costs to support the Wildlife
Education Service, and technical assistance to help build up the division; (b) operation of visitor
information facilities at parks, with large centers in Nairobi planned as part of the KWS headquarters
comflex and Mombasa and smaller facilities in other parks; (c) set up and operation of field study
centers for residential courses for school groups and adults at four parks and cooperation with NGOs
in operating existing centers; and (d) promotion of increased use of wildlife education mateilals in
Kenya's primary schools, building on NGO experience in producing conservation-oriented books and
training of trainers. Specific project investments would include construction or rehabilitation of
visitor centers, production and distribution of wildlife conservation textbooks, teacher training, and
support for wildlife conservation activities by schools.
3.12         Nationl Park and Resenv Planning (US$3.0 mion). The project would finance
the establishment and operation of a Wildlife Policy and Planning Unit to provide technical expertise



- 19 -
for park management planning and conduct policy analysis. The unit would support KWS's three-
tiered management and decision-making plans: (a) a system-wide plan for all parks and reserves in
Kenya that expresses key policies concerning the protected areas system; (b) five-year management
plans for each park, reserve, and other wildlife area, setting specific objectives and providing detailed
guidance for the management of all programs; and (c) annual implementation plans for each area that
translate the five-year plans into annual work programs and budgets. Plans at each level and site
would incorporate the concerns of c6mmunities outside the immediate environs of the protected areas.
3.13          Project consultant resources would help support review of KWS's pricing policies,
and establishment of norrns for the construction of tourist facilities outside protected areas. Project
technical assistance funds would support studies by the Ministry of Tourism and Wildlife to develop a
tourism policy framework related to the wildlife sector. Project support for the Wildlife Policy and
Planning Unit includes financing for the purchase of data processing equipment, vehicles, professional
and technical training, specialized technical assistance, and the salary of the assistant director for
planning. KWS has already engaged consultants to help prepare planning procedures and draw up
management plans for Amboseli and Aberdares National Parks since tnese plans would be the basis
iur project activities in these parks for the first year of the project. Drafts of the plans were reviewed
at appraisal and furnished to IDA. The plans were acceptable to IDA and included a detailed
description of infrastructure investments in the parks.
3.14          This component is also designed to help KWS build its capacity to guide
environmentally sound management of all of Kenya's wetlands by building up an information base on
wetlands for planning and policy making. The project would include technical assistance, training
and related operational support for formulation of a national wetlands policy, a wetlands master plan,
and site-specific management plans for several high-priority wetlands areas. At least one site-specific
plan would be implemented with assistance from project resources. Specific activities to be financed
under the wetlands component include an inventory of Kenya's wetlands and a detailed assessment of
their functions and values, technical assistance and training to build a core of expertise on wetlands
within KWS, educational and outreach programs to raise government and public awareness of the
importance of and threats to wetlands, and exploration of alternative wetlands development
approaches.
Scientiric Services (US$9.7 million)
3.15          Research and Spedal Coservadon Progrw,  (USI7.9 mfiWon). KWS intends to
build its research capabilities to a high level of competence, and to develop a comprehensive wildlife
research strategy focused on management problems. (The detailed structure of the research activities
and priority study areas are discussed in Annex 3). The project would provide funds for equipping
and operating a significantly expanded Scientific Services Department, the major research stations at
Tsavo East National Park and Masai Mara National Reserve and field stations. Financing would be
provided for the purchase of vehicles and supporting operating costs to ensure mobility for
headquarters and field staff. The project also would finance essential technical assistance, including
the salary of the deputy director, scientific services. Short-term technical assistance funding would be
provided for research activities and for training Kenyan students abroad and in Kenyan universities.
3.16          The project would support the ongoing KWS elephant and rhinoceros conservation
programs. Under the elephant conservation program the project would finance monitoring surveys,
establishment of a research fund, technical assistance and training, vehicles and maintenance and
operating costs including the salary of a program coordinator. The research fund would be guided by



- 20 -
a KWS research committee chaired by the head of KWS's scientific research unit and with
representatives from the EEC, IDA, and NMK. KWS intends to establish arrangements with leading
foreign universities to train its iEaff in elephant management, Under the rhinoceros conservation
program, the project would help protect the black and white rhinoceros in Kenya by funding all costs
related to the protection of viable breeding populations of black rhinoceros in sanctuaries and the
establishment of a breeding population of white rhinoceros in the Lake Nakuru National Park.
Financing would also be provided for rhinoceros relocation, vehicles and surveillance equipment, and
operating costs including salaries and allowances.
3.17          Veifrira  Serices (US$1.8 mllion). Management of wildlife populations in Kenya
and elsewhere has been assumed largely by wildlife biologists, ecologists, and managers with little
input from the veterinary profession. The project would assist KWS in developing a small, highly
mobile veterinary services unit with the skills and ecological perspective needed to address the
complex threats to the health and diversity of free-ranging wildlife populations. The veterinary
services unit would be specifically responsible for caring for captive wildlife, responding to wildlife
veterinary emergencies, and capturing and translocating animals. Project financing would support
formal training for KWS veterinary section staff in exotic animal internships and wildlife health
training programs at world renowned institutions. Project funds would also be used to establish and
operate a small diagnostic laboratory.
3.18          7he Twr  Rver Ridverriy Projed, which is being considered for funding under the
GEF, would be closely associated with this project (costs are not included here). It would be
implemented by KWS in accordance with the same principles of reserve management. The GEF
project would be located at the Tana River Primate Reserve, which is known for its diverse and
specialized flora and fauna, including two endangered primate species. These rare resources are
under immediate threat because of human encroachment into the forests. Without separate GEF
funding the precious biodiversity resources at Tana River are unlikely to survive over the next five
years. The proposed C-EF project would provide the initial investment (preliminary estimates at
US$6.0 million) needed to upgrade the reserve infrastructure and facilities, and develop and
implement a management plan. At the technical review, the issue of rcsettlement was raised. Given
the small size and fragility of the reserve, there were doubts as to whether it could be viable if people
continued to live there. A socioeconomic study and a population viability assessment are now under
way to provide answers to those questions. Subsequently, a detailed project proposal would be
prepared and appraisal is expected in May, 1992.
Reserve Development (US$2.5 million)
3.19         While KWS is responsible under the Wildlife Act for managing both national parks
and :eserves, most reserves are operated by the county councils that own them. Many county
councls have failed to maintain the reserve facilities, and in some cases the environment is being
endangered. The need to rehabilitate the reserve infrastructure and other services in three
environmentally and commercially important reserves--Masai Mara, Samburu, and Buffalo Springs--
is urgent (para. 2.15 (d)). An assurance was obtained that project funds earmarked for reserve
development activities--civil works, management strengthening, and vehicles and equipment purchases
-would be disbursed only to reserves that demonstrate to IDA and KWS that satisfactory
arrangements have been made for reserve management and for revenue sharing.



- 21 -
Wildli. Protection and Tourist Security Program (US$6.3 million)
3.20                The project would supply the Wildlife Protection Unit with the adequate transport and
communication and surveillance equipment needed to build up a reliable intelligence network to
prevent poaching and increase tourist safety.  The project would finance the purchase of vehicles and
patrol boats and the construction, and furnishing of mobile field bases, mainly in Tsavo, Meru,
Lamu, and Mount Elgon, which have been identified as high-risk areas. To improve security, ODA
has provided financing for an efficient telecommunication system  in Tsavo Fast and West.  While the
proposed project includes funding for the development of a national park and reserve communication
grid (para. 3.4) the follow-up project would finance a detailed feasibility study for the expansion of
the park telecommunication system.
D. Project Costs
3.21                Total project costs, including taxes and duties during the five-year investment period,
are estimated at Ksh 4,560 million (US$143 million), with a foreign exchange component of about 58
percent. Taxes and duties are estimated at Ksh 588 million (US$18.8 million), so project cost net of
duties and taxes is estimated at Ksh 3,972 million (US$124.2 million). Detailed cost estimates are
presented in Annex 5 and summarized in Table I below.
Table 1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(in US$ 000)
KS11                                    US$                                 X TotMl
.. .....- .........................  X   Foreign       pase
Local    Foreign        Total         Local   Foreign        'iotal      Exchange       Costs
. ...... .............   ... .................  ................... . I......... ................ .  .    ...............................  .. ....... .... 
AO. INST. DEV. & MANAGEMENT
1. HEADQuARTERS STRENGTHEN.        248118.0   386089.3   634207.3           9147.8   14341.4   23489.2              60.9        18.9
2. TRAINING                         62380.3    87367.9   149748.2            2302.7    3243.5    5546.Z             58.3          4.5
.................................        ......  ........................................... -... .......... v.........................................
Sub-Total                               310498.3   473457.2   783955.5          11450.5   17584.8   29035.4              60.4        23.4
Al. PARK INFRA. & DEVELOPMENT          518117.8   847530.9  136564U.7          19070.0   31509.6   50579.6              62.1        40.8
A2. WILDLIFE SERVICES
1. COMMUNITY WILDLIFE PROG.        288593.2   146295.4   434888.6           10660.9    5446.0   16107.0             33.6         13.0
2. EDUCATIONIVISITORS CENTER         77157.9   109396.3   186554.2           2843.2    4066.2    6909.4             58.6          5.6
3. POLICY/PLANWING                   26638.9    53068.1    79707.0            984.0    1968.2    2952.1             66.6          2.4
............................ .......................................... ............... ....................... .-..---.....---------- .. ......
Sub-Total                               392390.1   308759.7   701149.8          14488.1   11480.4   25968.5              4.4.0       20.9
A3. SCIENTIFIC SERVICES
1. RESEARCH & SPEC, PROGRAAS        91956.7   121082.4   213039.1           3400.5    4489.8    7890.3              56.8          6.4
2. VETERINARY SERVICES               31385,2    18293.7    49678.9           1161.4      678.6    1840.0             36.8         1.5
..... .................. ...................  ..................................................  ......................
Sub-Totat                               123341.9   139376.1   262718.1           4561.9    5168.4    9730.3              53.1         7.8
A4. RESERVES INFRA L DEVELOP.           23395.0    43104.3    66499.3            858.5    1604.4    2462.9              64.8         2.0
AS. WILDLIFE PROTEC.&SECURITY           63951.8   105068.4   169020.2           2353.9    3906.1    6260.0              62.2         5.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                   1431695.0  1917296.6  3348991.6          52783.0   71253.8  124036.7              57.4       100.0
Physicst Contingencies               104503.8   160244.5   264748.4           3870.5    5935.0    9805.5              60.5         7.9
Price Contingencies                  355682.6   590521.3   946203.9           2506.0    6676.3    9182.3              72.7         7.4
.................................        .............................. .... ................ ........... ........................... ......... .........
TotaL PROJECTS COSTS                   1891881.4  2668062.5  4559943.9          59159.5   83865.0  143024.5              58.6       t1S.3
.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ........   ..............       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       ,_....,  ,,_,,_....... .. .. .
Values Scaled by 1000.0 - 12/2/1991  13:58
322                 Cost estimates are based on projected October 1991 prices and reflect recent
quotations and appraisal estimates. Physical contingencies of 10 percent have been applied to the base



- 22 -
cost of capital items. Price contingencies, amounting to US$9.2 million or 7.4 percent of total base
costs, have been estimated using annual rates of inflation consistent with the latest Bank projections.
For foreign currency a rate of 3.4 percent from 1992 on was used; for local currency the following
annual rates were used: 9.5 percent for 1992 and 7.5 percent for 1993-1996.
E. Financing
3.23         External financing of project costs would amount to US$112 million (90 percent of
total project costs net of taxes and duties), shared as shown in Table 2.
Table 2: PROPOSED PROJECT FINANCING
(US$ million)
Local       Taxes          Foreign                 % of Total
Source of               Currency        and         Exchange        Total       Cost Net of
Finance                    Costs       Duties           Costs       Costs       Taxes & Duties
IDA                         17.3           -             43.2        60.5         49%
EEC                         5.8            -              2.2         8.0          6%
JAPAN                        1.1           -              5.7         6.8          5%
KFW                         1.4            -              4.9         6.3           5%
NETHEIRLANDS                0.8            -              2.6         3.4          3%
ODA                         3.1            -             16.9        20.0          16%
USAID                       2.4            -              4.6         7.0          6%
Subtotal
Foreign                    31.9          0.0            80.1        112.0         90%
Donors
GOK                         8.5         18.8             3.7         31.0         10%
TOTAL                      40.4         18.8            83.8        143.0
3.24         The funds of all external donors would be provided as parallel financing. Financing
of the cofinanciers would be on grant terms. (A financing plan by component is shown in Annex 5).
The types of expenditure to be financed by each donor are shown in Table 3.
3.25         IDA, as the lender of last resort, would spread its financing over all components to
fill the gaps left by other donors. It would finance buildings, vehicles, equipment, technical
assistance, training, technical services staff, funds for research and enterprise development, and
operating costs on a declining basis. IDA funding also includes a PPF of US$600,000 and a SPPF of
US$160,000.



- 23 -
3.26             GOK contribution, net of taxes and duties, is estimated at US$12.2 million,
representing about 10 percent of total net project costs. GOK would finance about 50 percent of the
incremental operating costs.
Table 3: TYPES OF EXPENDITURE PROPOSED FOR DONOR FINANCING
Corimancier              Component                                 Category
EEC                      Headquarters strengthening                technical services staff
Elephant Conservation Program             vehicles
Wildlife Protection Unit                  equipment, technical
assistance, training,
research funds
Community Wildlife Program                fencing
Japan                    Park Infra. & Development                 plant & machinery
Wildlife Protection Unit                  plant & machinery
Research                                  vehicles
Veterinary Services                       vehicles
Reserves Infra. & Development             vehicles
KFW                      Park Infra. & Development                 roads
Reserves Infra. & Development             roads
Community Wildlife Program                vehicles
Netherlands a/           Training                                  vehicles, equipment,
technical assist.
Park Infra. & Development                 vehicles
Policy & Planning                         vehicles, technical
assistance
ODA                      Headquarters strengthening                vehicles, equipment,
technical assistance
Training                                  training, technical
assistance, equipment
Park Infra. & Development                 vehicles
Wildlife Protection Unit                  vehicles
Education                                 vehicles, technical
Policy and Planning                       technical assistance
vehicles
USAID                    Community Wildlife Program                technical services staff,
vehicles, equipment,
technical assistance,
training, community,
development fund,
operating costs,
Headquarters strengthening                operating costs
IDA                      All Components                            buildings, vehicles, equipment,
technical assistance, training,
research, community developmern,
operating costs.
a/ Mainly for wetland and marine parks program



- 24 -
F. Procurement
3.27         KWS has gained experience in handling procurement under the Bank-financed Wildlife and
Tourism Project (Ln. 1N04-KE) and is currently executing a component under the Rural Services Design
Project (Cr. 1974-KE). KWS engineering staff, though few in number, are competent and motivated.
However, to ensure that the large civil works building component is effectively implemented, KWS would
engage consultants to prepare designs and estimates of new as well as rehabilitation works, to prepare bidding
documents and to supervise construction. KWS would also recruit technical and managerial staff for field
supervision during the project period. Currently, the KWS Board has complete authority to award contracts,
and these are not referred to the Central Tender Board. KWS is committed to follow the Bank procurement
and consultants guidelines and is in the process of developing its internal procurement procedures. IDA would
provide technical assistance for this effort during project implementation through training and procurement
seminars. Project procurement methods are detailed in Table 4.
3.28         vil Works. The IDA-financed civil works would cover new buildings (estimated at US$20.5
million for a headquarter building at Nairobi, eight workshop buildings and staff houses) and building
rehabilitation (US$6.2 million). New construction plus rehabilitation projects located near each other would be
grouped in 11 packages of US$1 million or more using International Competitive Bidding (ICB) on a package-
and-slice basis. Domestic contractors would be allowed a margin of preference of 7.5 percent for these works.
To prepare for bidding, consultants would prepare detailed designs, drawings and estimates including details of
works for each building to be rehabilitated. Works that cannot be grouped in large packages suitable for ICB
because of their remote locations and yearly work program drawn on priority considerations--not to exceed an
aggregate amount of US$3.0 million-would be procured by Local Competitive Bidding (LCB). The
procedures for LCB would allow foreign firms to participate, an adequate bid period of not less than 30 days
and include local press advertising, public bid opening, and explicit bid evaluation and award criteria. KWS
would carry out some of the urgently needed road maintenance works by force account in areas where the cost
of mobilization by contractors is very high and they would be disinterested in such small works. IDA would
finance such force account works at an estimated US$300,000. The force account works would be performed
with utmost efficiency, meeting the required standards of specifications and quality. The cost of force account
would not exceed the market rates applicable. Separate accounts would be maintained for these force account
works. IDA-financed road rehabilitation in Amboseli, Aberdares, Lake Nakuru, Nairobi, Tsavo East/West and
Neru estimated at US$3.61 million would be grouped in appropriate slices. Action has been initiated to hire
consultants for completing the design and bill of quantities. The aggregate LCB for roads would not exceed
$0.66 million.



- 25 -
Table 4: PROCUREMENT METIHOD
(US$ Million)
ProJet Elmnent                                ICB         LCB         Other         NF a/        Total Cost
1.        WORKS
1.1       Roads b/                           2.95         0.66         0.30         6.68        10.59
(2.60)       (0.58)       (0.26)                    (3.44)
1.2       Buildings                         23.71         3.00                                  26.71
(21.16)       (2.64)                                (23.80)
2.        GOODS
2.1       Vehicles/Equipment                 7.98         0.50         0.10        35.80        44.38
(5.19)       (0.33)       (0.07)                    (5.58)
2.2       Airplanes                          3.74                                                3.74
(2.43)                                              (2.43)
2.3       Fences                                                                    6.17         6.17
3.        CONSULTANCIES cl
3.1       Design and Construct.                                        1.85         0.57         2.42
Supervision                                                 (1.85)                    (1.85)
3.2       Technical Assistance/                                        9.63        11.47        21.10
Training/Other Support Staff                                 (9.63)                    (9.63)
4.        MISCELLANEOUS
4.1       Operation & Maint.                                          12.97        12.87        25.84
(11.67)                   (11.67)
4.1.1     Spares                             1.30                                                1.30
(1.30)                                              (1.30)
4.2       Refinancing of PPF &                                         0.76                      0.76
SPPF                                                        (0.76)                    (0.76)
TOTAL                            39.68         4.16        25.61        73.56        143.01
(32.68)       (3.55)      (24.24)                   (60.46)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the Credit. Some totals do not add up due to rounding.
a/ Cofinanced in parallel by respective agencies and procured in accordance with their regulations in confomity with par& 1.4 of
World Bank Guidelines: Procurenent under IBRD and IDA credits (Washington D.C., May 1985). NIP: Not IDA Financed.
b/ Amount under 'Other" is for road maintenance, to be done by Force Account.
c/ Services should be procured in accordance with World Bank Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by
World Bank as Executing Agency (Washington D.C., August 1981)



- 26 -
3.29          Goo&s. In the first project year, procuremllenit would be 100 percent Ii'li for some
items and 50 percenit foi others. (The details of IDA-financed goods on an annual basis tot Iach
category along with procurement methods are in. Annex 5.) Contiacts estimated at US$lO0Q,N{}0 or
more would be bid by ICB. Contracts for less than that would be bid by LCB (with the agg-egate
amount not to exceed US$500,000) because adequate local competition exists for these items and
foreign firms would not be interested in them. Small contracts estimated at less than US$20,000 each
would employ '2ropping procedures (a minimum of three quotations), with the aggregate not to exceed
US$100,000.  Under ICB domestic manufacturers bidding for goods would be allowed a margin of
preference of 15 percent or the existing rate of im)port duty, whichever is lower, over the CWI price
of competing foreign bidders. Procuremenlt of a relatively large number of vehicles and of three
aircraft is justified by the need to transport men and materials to remote areas, some of which are
inaccessible by road, to improve supervision and wildlife protection. Most of the vehicle
manufacturers are represented in the country. Fuel, oil, and lubricants covered by the O&M costs
would be procured accordingly to normal KWS procedures, which are satisfactory.
3.30          Consulting Services. The Bank guidelines would be followed in the hiring of
consultants. (The details of services for the internationally and locally recruited consultants are
provided in Annex 1, Appendix III.) Their terms of reference and conditions of employment are in
Annex 1, Appendix I. KWS would furnish to the Association for its approval a detailed work
program for training as part of the AWP. The program would specify the qualifications of the
candidates, types, costs, training institutions, and period of training. KWS would also indicate
assignments to be given to the trainees on their return.
3.31          Procurement Review. All bidding packages for works and goods procured under
ICB, all civil works contracts estimated at US$200,000 or more and goods contracts estimated at
US$50,000 or more would be subject to IDA prior review procedures. The above review process
would cover more than 95 percent of the works and goods contracts. All contracts below these
thresholds would be subject to IDA post review procedures (one in four contracts).
3.32          Procurement Docunents and Records. KWS would prepare and submit for IDA
approval standard bidding and contract documents for works, goods, and consulting services based on
sample Bank documents. KWS would promptly report on contract awards and maintain proper
records for each of the cofinanciers. KWS staff received guidelines on these matters during appraisal;
close follow-up would take place during implementation. KWS would furnish to IDA quarterly
reports giving updated information on bidding packages and contracting.
G. Disbursements
3.33          The proposed project is a five-year time slice of a ten-year KWS investment program
in the wildlife sector to be supported by several donors (para 3.24). The KWS donor coordination
secretariat would advise the main implementing divisions on the specific disbursement procedures of
each donor. Since there is no standard IDA disbursement profile for wildlife conservation projects,
the disbursement forecast (Annex 5, Table 5) is based on two facts: (a) major investments would take
place in the first three years; and (b) there would be annual and mid-term project reviews and
reallocations. Disbursements of IDA funds would be made against the major categories, net of duties
and taxes, shown in Table 5.



- 27 -
Table 5: MAJOR DISBURSEMENT CATEGORIES
(net of duties and taxes)
Category            Item                                     Coverage
I                 Vehicles, Furniture &             100% of foreign expenditures
Equipment                         100% of local cost ex-factory or
60% of local expenditures
II                 Civil Works                       100% of foreign expenditures
60% of local expenditures
Hi                 Incremental operating costs        80% for the first three years
50% for the remaining years
IV                 Consultants' services             100% of total expenditures
V                 Studies and Training              100% of total expenditures
VI                 Reserve development
p~i)               Vehicles, furniture, plant        100% of foreign expenditures
and equipment                     100% of local cost ex-factory or
60% of local expenditures
(ii)                Civil works                       100% of foreign expenditures
60% of local expenditures
VII                 Community Development Facility    75% of total expenditures
VIII                Refunding of PPF and SPPF         100% of total expenditures
3.34         Disbursement categories have been designed to fit KWS accounts. However, the
items would be clearly marked and separated from other sources of funding so that statements of
expenditure may be linked to relevant ledger accounts and supporting documentation. Disbursements
for incremental operating costs, force account ar  local training costs would be made against monthly
statements of expenditure. Incremental operating costs would include expenditures incurred by KWS
for operating and maintaining project-financed buildings, offices, roads, vehicles, airplanes,
equipment (incluriing fuel and lubricants) and for a small amount of incremental salaries. For ease of
disbursement it was agreed that operation and maintenance expenditures would be financed in two
time slices, with an 80 percent disbursement over the first three years, declining to 50 percent for the
remaining project life. The KWS financial controller would certify that these statements are in
agreement with the relevant ledger accounts. The ledger accounts and supporting documentation
would, however, be retained for inspection by IDA and for audit purposes. Disbursements against all
other items would be fully documented except for contracts of less than US$50,000 equivalent for
which certified statements of expenditure would be used. (This threshold is in conformity with the
procurement arrangements in para. 3.31). Statements of expenditure would be certified by the KWS



- 28 -
financial controller, and supporting documentation would be retained by KWS and made available for
IDA review during project supervision missions. Final disbursement of the IDA credit is expected to
be made by January 31, 1998 or about four months after the project's closing date.
H. Special Account
3.35         To expedite project disbursements a foreign exchange special account would bt
established with a commercial bank through the Central Bank of Kenya on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA. At project effectiveness, IDA would deposit an initial amount of US$2.5 million
equivalent in the special account, representing about three months expenditures. Expenditures costing
less than US$100,000 equivalent shall be paid through the Special Account. Replenishment of this
special account would be requested in line with IDA guidelines. Replenishment claims to IDA would
be submitted by KWS on a monthly basis or when total expenditures amount to one-third of the initial
deposit, which ever is sooner. At negotiations, assurances were obtained that a special account
would be established and the above procedures would apply.
I. Accounts and Audit
3.36         KWS accounting systems are still being converted from a government to a conmiercial
accounting system. While the first year's draft accounts, including income statement, were prepared
within three months of the end of the financial year, the balance sheet items are incomplete and an
asset evaluation study financed by the PPF is under way. Assurance was obtained at negotiations that
by June 30, 1992, the KWS commercial accounting system would be in place to provide a firm basis
for preparation of the following year's final accounts. Accordingly, the proposed project would
provide further technical assistance funds to support development and implementation of (a)
computerized accounting to provide rapid data treatment and integrate accounting and management
information in a way that concurrently meets the needs of KWS managers and donors; and (b) a cost
center budget system that would facilitate program evaluation by enabling KWS and donors to account
for expenditures according to programs. Consultants would also help to train KWS accounting staff
in operating the improved systems.
3.37         During negotiations, assurances were obtained that: (a) KWS would maintain separate
accounts in accordance with sound and generally accepted commercial accounting principles and
practices acceptable to IDA; (b) records would be kept permitting identification of all receipts and
payments under the project; (c) financial statements, including a sources-and-uses-of-funds statement,
would be prepared at the close of each fiscal year; (d) a certified copy of the accounts, together with
auditors' report, would be submitted to IDA within six months of the close of each fiscal year,
including a separate opinion on the special account and on the records and accounts used to support
disbursements against statement of expenditures; and (e) KWS's accounts would be audited by an
independent commercial auditor as determined by the Auditor General (Corporations).



- 29 -
IV. ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
4.1          Oierwew. KWS is a young organization, with a broad conservation-oriented
mandate. While it has inherited the weaknesses of its predecessor agencies--overstaffing, insufficient
skills, impoverished assets, an unclear reporting structure and internal processes, and a work culture
that is still not fully compat.ble with its business development plan--it does have several important
assets, It has considerable policy and legal support. to manage its tasks, it is developing a strong core
management team, and most important, it can draw on international and domestic support for its
activities. With the institutional development support provided under the proposed project (paras.
3.3-3.5), KWS would have the capacity to implement a project of the nature and size of that
described in Section LII. Nevertheless, to minimize institutional risks, the implementation burden on
KWS would be reduced by (a) building on existing KWS programs of training, technical assistance,
and operational procedures; (b) tapping into the private sector contracting industry and NGOs in
implementing key project components such as the Community Wildlife Program, education services,
and research; and (c) decentralizing KWS's management and establishing a flexible annual planning
process based on monitoring and evaluation. KWS's newly developed organization and management
structure represents an improvement over the organization of WCMD and appears to meet KWS's
immediate and medium-term requirements. (KWS's organization structure is given in Annex 1, Chart
1).
4.2          Poliy Dicdion. KWS's board of trustees--consisting of representatives of key
Government agencies and the private sector, including wildlife groups--would provide overall policy
and implementation direction for KWS. The director of KWS, who is also chairman of the KWS
board, combines broad control with relatively close involvement in day-to-day implementation details.
With the strengthening of KWS's management team, the director is expected to devote most of his
time to formulating strategy, monitoring project progress and interacting closely with national and
international conservation-related constituencies. The heads of all KWS divisions would function as a
management board, together with one or two nonexecutive directors, to review KWS's operations and
annual plans and make any necessary adjustments.
4.3          Ma*gmeit aW  Saffig. Management at the headquarters office includes the KWS
director, deputy director of finance, commercial manager, training coordinator, and heads of
scientific, wildlife and technical services. Staffing these key positions with people whose
qualifications and experience are acceptable to IDA would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
GOK also agreed at negotiations that the team would be maintained throughout the project period but
replacements could be made after IDA approval. Almost three-fourths of the core management team
are expected to be Kenyans. At the park warden level, the structure is a holdover from the WCMD
period. The structure would be changed gradually to reflect KWS's decision to make the office of the
park or reserve warden the focal point of all wildlife-related activities, including community wildlife
activities, infrastructure development and planning. All donor-financed advisers would function
within the regular KWS management structure.
4.4          KWS's staff development strategy to build up a highly qualified and motivated cadre
of professionals involves recruiting qualified and experienced Kenyans for key positions at
competitive rates and upgrading staff skills through training. To maintain staff morale, KWS would
review its remuneration package to ensure its competitiveness with similar packages in the private
sector and other parastatals in Kenya. Therefore, during negotiations, it was agreed that KWS wou!d



- 30 -
hire consultants to review the adequacy ef salary levels and to propose an appropriate incentive
system. The results of these findings would be submitted to IDA by June 30, 1992 and implemented
thereafter.
/
B. Implementation of Project Components
4.5          Budget and Expeaditw  Contrd. As a parastatal created under the Wildlife
Conservation and Management Act (1989), KWS enjoys consideraole autonomy and is only nominally
linked to the parent MOTW except through the budget approval and expenditure process. Under
GOK practices relating to parastatals, all subventions including donor funding must be reflected in the
budget estimates for the parent ministry. During regotiations it was agreed that the budget allocations
for KWS will be stated in the Annual Estimates as a line item (instead of detailed breakdown) to
enable flexibility in expenditure programming in mid year. The two-tier expenditure approval levels
(Ministry and Treasury) often slows the contract award process and associated reimbursements. For
this project, financial commitment for KWS's contracts at the parent Ministry level would be on a no-
objection basis with objection conveyed within a week. Also during negotiations, assurances were
obtained from the Government that the KWS director would be appointed a signatory to IDA
withdrawal and replenishment applications (pat 3.35).
4.6          Management and Technied  Training. The substantial, multidisciplinary training
program under the proposed project would be implemented by a Training Unit established at KWS
headquarters. The unit would be headed by a training coordinator who would report through the
deputy director of personnel to the director on all training matters. The KWS training program would
be managed by five specialist trainers, including the principal, Naivasha Training Institute, who
would be selected from among KWS staff. The trainers would have expert knowledge in several
areas relevant to anticipated training needs and would also receive training in technical teaching
methods before the project starts. A broad training action plan was agreed with KWS, but
preparation of detailed training programs and schedules would await appointment of a training
coordinator and completion of a training needs assessment (funded under the PPF). Most KWS
training would take place at the Naivasha Training Institute, which is expected to become a regional
center of excellence in wildlife-related training, in association with the College of African Wildlife
Management in Mweka, Tanzania.
4.7          Pw* wd Reserve Infrasun   Development Progrm. To carry out its much
expanded infrastructure development tasks efficiently, KWS would establish a Technical Services
Division supported by field staff. To facilitate efficient supervision of the substantial infrastructure
program, a deputy director of technical services would direct all technical aspects. Experts would
assist the director in planning and supervising work and conducting cost-accounting studies to
determine maintenance team output and unit costs, and to develop indices for monitoring equipment
use and the progress of works. All rehabilitation and construction work and major reconditioning and
calibration of equipment would be carried out by private contractors, and private workshops. Routine
maintenance operations would be executed by force account. The Sub-directorate of Technical
Services, which would plan and supervise the regional work programs, would include four
subdivisions overseeing roads and fences, buildings and environment, equipment and
telecommunication, and aviation. Parks and reserves would be grouped into eight regions (Western,
Coast, Northern, Eastern, Nairobi, Mountain, Southern, and Rift Valley) and 24 areas. To take
advantage of economies of scale, plant, equipment, and machinery would te pooled at a regional
level.



- 31 -
4.8           Community W9lfe Progrw. This component would be implemented by the
Community Wildlife Service with assistance from the USAID adviser. It would essentially operate as
a wildlife extension service. Five high-level technical specialists would set policy and provide overall
guidance, training, coordination, and specialized assistance field staff. In each region, management of
parks and reserves would be integrated with comnmunity wildlife-related activities outside protected
areas under the senior deputy director for wildlife services, The backbone of the program would be
the community extension wardens, who would work on community development issues under the
supervision of the park wardens. The community extension wardens would work closely with
conservation and development-oriented NGOs, receiving on-the-job and other training through
participation in NGO wildlife extension projects.
4.9           Weds and Marin  and Coatl Zone Management. A small Wetlands Unit--a
senior adviser and three local staff--would be established within the headquarters Planning and Policy
Division to formulate a wetlands policy, prepare guidelines for environmental assessment of wetlands
development, and develop the wetlands master plan. The unit would also identify, oversee, and fund
related studies, which would be carried out primarily through contracts with specialized NGOs,
universities, and research institutions. A marine and coastal zone adviser would work directly with
the area wardens and park wardens to help develop and irnplement park and area management plans.
A wetlands specialist would be based at the Naivasha Training Institute to prepare and implement
wetlands-related aspects of the training component. The expatriate advisers for the wetlands and
marine component would be financed by the Dutch Government assistance for the proposed project.
4.10          Management of Park and Reserve Planning. The new Planning and Policy Division
headed by an assistant director, who reports to the senior deputy director for wildlife services, would
have overall responsibility for implementing the KWS planning functions. The division would consist
of a small headquarters staff (four to six professionals) responsible for supervision, methodology
development, and support to field staff in specialized subjects such as economics. Wardens in the
field would be responsible for their own area plans, so that they reflect needs and circumstances at the
most basic levels. In many areas the plans would also cover wildlife management on nearby lands,
and residents would participate in planning that affects their regions. The planning unit would also be
responsible for cooperative planning with the FD (para. 2.15(b)) and the preparation of the wetland's
master plan.
4.11          Resea. ch and Scentiflc Sernies. KWS would administer its research, veterinary,
and related scientific activities under a new Scientific Services Department, which would include the
Research Section, Veterinary Services Unit, Ecological Monitoring Unit, and Special Projects Unit.
The department, which would be headed by a deputy director who reports directly to the KWS
Director, would have a small headquarters staff of five senior scientists, the Veterinary Services Unit,
and two to four special projects scientists currently working on rhinoceros and elephant conservation.
Most research scientists and research and monitoring technical staff would be posted at parks,
reserves, or other field stations. At full strength, the department would be staffed with approximately
18 research scientists, 15 technicians, and six veterinarians. Other staff would include aerial and
ground monitoring teams, a marine unit, a wildlife capture unit, and support staff. In planning its
research priorities (Annex 3), KWS has paid particular attention to collaborating with other related
research institutions like the KARI, KEFRI and NMK.
4.12          Spedat Conserwaion Programs. The programs would be under the control of the
deputy director of scientific services, with day-to-day management remaining the responsibility of the
two coordinators. The elephant program coordinator would coordinate with the head of the Wildlife



- 32 -
Protection Unit on antipoaching activities and with the Commnunity Wildlife Service on fencing
activities. The Elephant Research Fund would be administered by a committee headed by the KWS
director and consisting of the deputy director of scientific services and the elephant prorram
coordinator. Although the fencing component is closely related to the EEC-supported elephant
conservation component of the project, fencing activities would be implemented by the Community
Wildlife Service because of their direct impact on the community. The rhinoceros program
coordinator would continue to manage the day-to-day activities of the rhinoceros conservation
program under the direction of the Rhinoceros National Management Committee. This committee,
headed by the KWS Director, would continue to review the program and recommend improvements.
Project-financed research activities related to rhinoceros conservation would be reviewed ar. 
approved by the head of research and managed by the program coordinator. Rhinoceros relocation
activities would be approved by the KWS director and managed by the coordinator.
4.13         The proposed Tana River Biodiversity Project would be implemented under the
direction of the KWS Subdirectorate of Scientific Research. Detailed implementation arrangements
would be specified at appraisal.
4.14         W     e Educatiox and Visior Sericn. The Wildlife Education Unit would
coordinate its activities closely with the Community Wildlife Service. The unit would be headed by
an assistant director who reports to the senior deputy director of wildlife services. By project
completion, the unit would be staffed with approximately 35 senior professional and technical people,
including educators at field centers, headquarters staff involved in designing and managing programs,
and specialists in materials development. The education and visitor services program would rely
heavily on expertise outside KWS for some activities. NGOs are expected to play a major role by
providing technical assistance, running their own education centers for school groups in coordination
with KWS, and preparing publications and maps. Wildlife and conservation courses would be
designed in close collaboration with school authorities.
4.15           YcW e Pretedion wd Tourt Securiy. The Wildlife Protection Unit would operate
as a specialized force of the KWS, with its head reporting directly to the director of KWS. It would
have four subunits. Field force subunits would be based in national parks and reserves where
poaching is most grave (Meru, Tsavo, and Kora). The heads of these subunits would report daily to
the warden, to ensure effective coordination of tourist security and antipoaching efforts. AL'ther
subunit, a highly mobile strike force, would handle security problems, intercepting poachers as they
approach protected areas. The strike force would operate within parks and reserves only at the
invitation of the warden and with the approval of the KWS director. A third subunit, a small special
operations force, would intervene in a variety of situations inside and outside parks and reserves with
the approval of the KWS director. A fourth subunit would control security in the marine parks and
would report directly to the area marine park warden.
C. Management Information System and Donor Coordination
4.16         M     g^eieat laJbfnuion System. KWS's information and accounting system is still
in the early stages of development. Basic data are now available on computers, but evaluation and
processing tools are still too rudimentary for comprehensive and decision-oriented evaluation. Much
of the data preparation for financial planning and control is still being done manually, and some
important planning data (e.g., financial projections, interest stru^ture of assets and liabilities) are not
readily available. KWS recognizes the need to improve its Management Information System  (MIS),



- 33 -
and it has already taken some steps. Monthly accounting records have been computerized, asset
inventories have been conducted, and recommended improvements in financial control procedures are
being implemented. The project includes consultant funds for developing a comprehensive MIS,
purchasing computer hardware, developing related software and training KWS staff in operating the
MIS.
4.17         D.or Coor&aagon. The project is more complex than most IDA projects and so
would require more intensive supervision (Supervision Plan, Annex 7, Appendix II). The large
number of ongoing donor programs and of NGOs active in the wildlife sector also create a need for
special donor coordination arrangements. Assurances were obtained that KWS would establish by
June 30, 1992 a Donor Coordination Secretariat responsible for processing the annual work program
and reaching agreement with donors on its content, ensuring compliance with procurement and
disbursement procedures, and monitoring, evaluation, and reporting formats, and overseeing
supervision missions and the mid-term review.
D. Status of Project Preparation
4.18         All donors participated in the appraisal, and their internal project preparation is
progressing satisfactorily. The USAID community wildlife subcomponent has been approved but not
yet signed, the Japanese Government completed its appraisal in October 1991, and ODA plans to
present its proposal to its board in late November 1991. The Netherlands and German Governments
are awaiting their annual consultations with GOK in December 1991 to finalize their participation in
the project. EEC has included its subcomponent for elephant conservation under the existing Lome
IV financial commitments. During the joint appraisal of the proposed project, donors indicated their
preferred areas of financing (Table 3) and physical implementation targets and requirements for
equipment, goods, and services were defined more precisely for the project period. The first year's
annual work program would also contain final detailed designs and tender documents for road
rehabilitation and other civil works to be undertaken in the first full year of the project.
4.19         Appointment of key project implementation staff is a condition of effectiveness (para.
4.3), and further recruitnent would follow specifically agreed timetables or annual implementation
schedulecs. Using PPF resources, KWS has already initiated action on the following key start-up
activities: (a) arrangement of a training needs assessment; (b) development of a MIS; and (c)
preparation oi' administrative, financial, and budgetary procedures. KWS has also completed the
procurement package for the first year's infrastructure program including the headquarters complex,
roads, and building rehabilitation. Ti, facilitate infrastructure planning and procurement activities,
KWS has recruited for its pre-implementation team, an architect/planner and a procurement specialist.
E. Annual Plans, Mid-Term Review, Monitoring and Evaluation
4.20          _Iui Wlok P>ro,ww. KWS would prepare an annual work plan (outlined in
Annex 6) that would include information on measures to: (a) strengthen KWS management, including
details on implementation of the training program (para. 3.5); (b) improve budget and management
information systems (para. 3.36); (c) increase revenues through tariff adjustments and diversification
(para. 5. 1I); and (d) share revenues with communities critical to wildlife management outside
protected areas (para. 5.12). To ensure that annual work plans are prepared in time, KWS
programming and budgeting systems would be upgraded to a computerized format that would tie in



- 34 .
with the accounting system (para. 3.36), the procurement system (para. 3.27), and the reporting and
monitoring system (para. 4.23). Assurance was obtained from GOK that an annual work plan would
be submitted to IDA for review no later than December I of the preceding year. Receipt of a first
year plan acceptable to IDA would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
4.21         Mid-Term Review. Considerable flexibility has been built into the project so that
KWS management can shift investment priorities for its programs--say for investments related to
community wildlife and visitor education activities, which are still in a formative phase--and respond
to emerging problems. For that reason, a comprehensive mid-term review of project implementtion
is planned to be carried out jointly by KWS and donors not later than December 31, 1994; the review
would also serve as a basis for making decisions on the preparation of the second time slice of the
KWS program. To facilitate the mid-term review, KWS agreed to hire outside consultants, no later
than September 30, 1994, under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA. The consultant reports would
be submitted to the Bank for comment and exchange of views on corrective actions, where necessary.
4.22         Among other areas the mid-term review would focus on: (a) progress oin the key
performance indicators (Annex 7); (b) institutional development, including staff training and staff
reduction measures (para. 3.3); (c) the impact of the technical assistance financed under the project
and the sustainability of arrangements after technical assistance is withdrawn_' ara 3.3); (d) the FD-
KWS cooperative program (para. 2.15(b)); (e) areas for legislative and pol%cy reform, identified in
studies to be financed under the project (para. 2.14); (f) appropriate institutional arrangements to
manage the wetlands development program (para. 3.14); (g) rationale and justification for preparing
the second-phase project (para. 1.5 (d)); and (h) KWS's financial performance (including the
effectiveness of its accounting and information system) and development of its perating and capital
structure plans, including a divestiture strategy (para. 5.14 and 5.5); and (i) proposals for resolving
land use conflicts (para. 2.15 (a)).
4.23         Monitorng and Reporin. To provide managers with timely information on the
progress of project implementation, KWS would hire a consultant by June 30, 1992 to design a
monitoring and evaluation system and train KWS staff to implement it. KWS would assign the
necessary number of staff within the information division to focus on monitoring project performance.
The system would: (a) identify institutional, technical and financial bottlenecks; (b) support annual
planning and adjustment; (c) compare the implementation of each component against the original
design; and (d) evaluate results of the operation. Special attention would be paid to the outcomes of
the Community Development Facility and the impact of the community wildlife program on local
communities (paras. 3.7-3.10). Semi-annual progress reports, to be finalized by March 31 and
September 30 each year, would be reviewed by the KWS board and by IDA. The format of the
progress reports would be discussed in detail during the first Bank supervision mission. Agreement
on the above was obtained at negotiations.
V. FINANCIAL AND MARKET ASPECTS
A. Financial Strategy
5.1          While KWS is striving to change its financial orientation from that of a government
department to one of a quasi-commercial parastatal organization, it is not expected to be fully self-
financing in the near or medium term because of the nature of its operations. From the start, KWS



- 35 -
has tried hard to gain financial independence from the government budget. It commissioned studies
on improved cost recovery measures, financial management systems, and ways of diversifying into
new income sources. The proposed project would strengthen this ongoing work.
5.2           KWS's financial objectives are to gain financial autonomy and to operate cost
effectively. To that end, KWS intends to do the following:
(a)    Strigthen ins reenue base by improving performance in collecting gate
receipts and lodge leases, linking charges more directly to costs, and
diversifying its revenue base by opening up new tourism areas and
concessions and solicitinig corporate sponsorships.
(b)    BU  or mers gradually as a buffer against any unforseen drop in revenues
and to meet future investment needs by adjusting its tariffs to cover operating
costs plus a surplus. (KWS anticipates that donor funding under the proposed
project would be on grant basis, to strengthen its capital base);
(c)   Improve cost-effediveness through measures to ensure transparency in
expenditure: a complete overhaul of its accounting systems on commercial
lines, introduction of cost center budget practices to clearly identify profit and
nonprofit operations, and a management audit to measure performance against
financial targets;
(d)    Develop addtional conservaion resources, as is its responsibility as a leading
conservation agency, by undertaking several investments with a long-term
gestation and with little or no revenue-earning prospects. While KWS plans
to support its strictly environmental activities through cross-subsidization,
additional financial support is needed from the Government and the
international donor community, which has a stake in helping preserve Kenya's
rich biodiversity. KWS thus intends to obtain government subvention for the
next three years, and to set up a Wildlife Conservation Trust Fund with a
steady source of income (para.. 5.15);
(e)    Broaden ownership, by eventually divesting its shares to other stakeholders
such as the private conservation interests, tourism industry, local councils
(owning reserves), and the public at large. To prepare for this eventual
privatization, KWS plans to substantially strengthen its financial position and
increase the commercial orientation of its activities. By identifying and
selectively privatizing its purely commercial operations, KWS would also
reduce its direct role in managing the sector.
B. Market and Revenue Prospects
5.3           Th Tourism Market. The number of tourists visiting Kenya increased at an average
rate of eight percent a year during the 1980s. Kenya offers tourists a unique combination of wildlife
safaris, beach holidays, and exposure to varied cultures, and visitors to. parks and reserves nearly
always visit Nairobi or the coast as well. Surveys have established that wildlife tourism is a major
attraction for visitors to Kenya. The largest number of wildlife tourists come from the United States



- 36 -
(25 percent), followed by Germany (15 percent) and UK (14 percent). Foreign tourists visit year-
round, but there is a low season from April to June. Local tourism is low, constituting only 30
percent of visitors to parks and reserves in 1989.
5.4          With proper management, Kenya's wildlife and other natural resources should ensure
continued high demand by tourists. KWS is developing a strategy to harness this demand so that it
does not contribute to environmental degradation. KWS has taken steps to increase the number of
high-quality tourist opportunities (for example, by providing attractive concessions in special areas)
and to improve the attractiveness of less popular areas by diversify-ng the range of activities. An
important area of market development would be to attract the large number of tourists who already
visit the Kenyan coasts to visit the marine and coastal parks and reserves.
5.5          Eistin an Poteial Revenus. Entrance fees account for about 90 percent of
KWS's revenue. Lease charges for lodges and hotels, the second largest revenue sources, are
expected to represent 5 percent of KWS's total annual revenue by 1995. Leases are extremely low
and do not reflect the market value to hoteliers operating in wildlife areas. Based on a legal review
of lodge leases, KWS has started to renegotiate these leases at a rate of 12.5 percent of lodging
income net of taxes. These new leases and improved collection are expected to boost annual lodge
rents from US$0.2 million in 1990 to US$1.3 million by 1995. Progress in this area would be
measured as part of the mid-term review of KWS's efforts to privatize its operations (para. 4.22).
5.6          KWS has also established a commercial department to develop and implement a
corporate marketing strategy. Some of the initiatives already identified by KWS for revenue
generation include expansion of the range of services provided and greater exploitation of
underutilized areas such as the mountain parks. Options include licensing and charging fees to
concessioners, charging camping fees in controlled areas in parks and reserves, and offering new
services and products. KWS also plans to promote corporate sponsorship and joint marketing
ventures with private businesses and to solicit contributions from Kenya's wildlife supporters. KWS
has already used corporate sponsorship to support some projects, and further sponsorship could be
sought to provide vehicles, plant, and other products at reduced prices, fund construction of education
or conservation facilities, license use of the KWS logo on products, or sponsor joint conservation
activities with KWS.
C. KWS Current Financial Situation
5.7          An accurate assessment of the past financial performance of the wildlife sector is not
available since revenue generated at the time of the WCMD went directly to the Government, and no
independent accounts were prepared. Available information shows that WCMD's annual expenditure
against recurrent cost averaged Ksh 94 million from 1980 to 1982 and Ksh 145 million from 1988 to
1990--a substantial drop in real terms. Over the same period, WCMD's capital development budget
dropped from Ksh 99 million a year to Ksh 15 million, falling to KSH 4.3 million for 1991-92.
These figures show that the Government's financial support for the management and conservation of
wildlife in Kenya has been declining over the past decade. The establishment of KWS as a parastatal
organization changed the financial status of wildlife management in Kenya: KWS was authorized to
retain all the revenue generated through its operations and to receive a government subsidy to cover
part of its operating costs.



- 37 -
5.8           Preliminary accounts for the first full year of KWS's operations, from July 1990 to
June 1991, show a dramatic improvement in revenue following an increase in tariffs and improved
revenue collection efforts from Ksh 78 million in 1989 to 1990 to Ksh 165 million in 1990/91.
Recurrent and capital expenditures increased from Ksh 180 million in 1989/90 to Ksh 260 million in
1990-91, with much of the increase coming from stepped-up antipoaching activities, across-the-board
revision of salary scales, and counterpart financing for donor-assisted development projects.
D. KWS' Financial Viability
5.9           Because there is so little historical financial information and KWS's commercial
accounting system is still being developed (para. 3.36), the appraisal assessed KWS's medium- and
long-term financial prospects only in terms of the adequacy of its internally generated resources for
meeting its current and planned operating cost commitments. The appraisal also considered KWS's
policy for reducing its dependance on government subsidies and building up sufficient reserves to
withstand fluctuations in tourism revenues and undertake capital investments. A base case scenario
was prepared to assess KWS's financial prospects following the proposed capital investment program
over the next five years. Under this scenario, KWS would be able to generate a positive net cash
flow both during and after the project (Annex 8, Table 1). The small amount of surplus funds--1995
cumulative cash surplus of US$6 million-would act as a reserve to strengthen KWS's overall
financial position and provide security against an unforeseen downturn in tourism.
5.10          Sensivity Analyss. Three of the factors most critical to KWS's viability are growth
in tourist numbers, price increases, and the development of new sources of revenue. To test the
robustness of the base case, sensitivity analysis was carried out for the following three scenarios: (a)
the number of visits increases by 1 percent a year rather than 3 percent; (b) the price for adult
nonresidents is fixed at the equivalent of US$15 rather than US$20; and (c) new revenue sources are
only 50 percent of base case projections. In all three cases, KWS would be in a position to meet its
operating expenses after project completion. While a lower level of new revenue sources would not
jeopardize KWS's ability to meet its financial commitments during the project, lower prices and fewer
visitors than expected would both result in negative cash flows. So would the Government's failure
to provide a subsidy during the first three years.
5.11          KWS's rvew  projecdions for the base case assume a conservative 3 percent annual
increase in revenues from tourist visits to parks and reserves between 1990 and 1995, and a stable
level thereafter, and an increase in the adult nonresident entrance fee from US$7 to US$14 in 1992
and US$20 by the end of the project (in constant 1991 prices). The assumption of modest tourist
growth reflects the anticipated growth in lodge accommodations in parks and KWS's marketing
strategy to reduce visits to overused parks and diversify into newer areas. The proposed entrance fee
increases take into account the fact that the fees have not been adjusted for several years and that even
the revised base rate of Ksh 220 (US$7) is an enormous jump. Nevertheless, the revised rates
represent only about 4 percent of the cost of a tourist's wildlife safari to Kenya, and they are
comparable with prices in Tanzania and Botswana (US$15 and US$20), although significantly higher
than those in South Africa and Zimbabwe. While the KWS board and the tourist industry have
approved these price increases, future adjustments need to be made on a more rational basis. It was
therefore agreed that KWS would carry out an in-depth pricing study by June 30, 1992 followed by
consultations with IDA about tariff adjustments. The pricing recommendations would be implemented
no later than September 30, 1992.



- 38 -
5.12          KWS's operatig expses include existing financial commitments and incremental
operation and maintenance expenses resulting from the five-year investment project (Annex 8, Table
3). Also included is a contribution to capital costs primarily to cover the taxes and duties incurred on
locally purchased goods. Under its Community Wildlife Program, KWS would also distribute part of
its entrance fee collections to local communities in 1991, with a moderate increase based on each
year's expanding revenue base thereafter. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that from July
1, 1992 until the completion of the project, KWS would set aside not exceeding 25 percent of its
tourist-entry revenues for distribution to communities directly affected by wildlife. KWS has
contracted an NGO to work out details of the allocation, which would be included in the annual work
plan.
5.13         Doxor ad Gowvrnment Coxtibuaons. Donors would provide grant financing to
support all investment costs net of taxes and duties and a decreasing proportion of incremental
operating expenses. During appraisal, the Government confirmed that the IDA credit resources would
be transferred to KWS as equity to assist KWS to gain greater financial autonomy in the future and in
recognition of the importance of protecting biodiversity in perpetuity. Moreover, the Government
would continue to provide KWS with a subvention for the next three years on a declining basis
(Annex 8, Table 2). The foregoing commitments were confirmed during negotiations. In line with
its parastatal reform policy, the Government considers the injection of substantial equity into KWS a
one-time expedient to underwrite KWS's long-run financial sustainability. It is important, however,
that the KWS board develop concrete policies on profit sharing, reserve requirements, and capital
investments. These would be developed using the project's technical assistance resources and
reviewed at the mid-term review (para. 4.21).
5.14         In the immediate to mid-term, severe measures are proposed to instill financial
discipline into KWS's operations and to ensure transparency in expenditures. KWS would engage
consultants to accelerate its ongoing work on developing a commercial accounting system that would,
among other things, enable KWS management to identify the costs associated with its nonprofit
operations. KWS would also arrange for an annual management audit by a qualified firm acceptable
to IDA; during negotiations it was agreed that the audit results would be discussed and corrective
actions agreed with IDA during discussions of the annual work plan. An annual corporate plan would
be developed to establish KWS's five-year business objectives and financial projections. It would also
help KWS link its investment priorities to its sources of funds (internally generated cash, external
financing, government subventions). During negotiations, assurances were obtained from KWS that it
would prepare and submit its annual corporate plan to IDA for review and comment by March 31 of
each year, including its financial targets, investment pregram, forecast of profitability, projected
balance sheet, and thereafter implement it, taking into account IDA's views.
E. Conservation Financing
5.15          The first phase the KWS development strategy is to concentrate the bulk of the
investment resources in commercially viable parks, while ensuring the environmental integrity of the
remaining protected area system with minimum human and financial resources. Given its resource
base, KWS cannot be reasonably expected to effectively tackle the wide range of emerging wildlife-
related conservation tasks. To generate additional financial resource flows, establishment of a
Widife Coaservaon Dus Fuwd is proposed, to finance conservation activities that have a long
gestation period and require a sustained effort to reap the benefits. Similar trust funds have been
successfully set up in Bolivia, Costa Rica, Madagascar, and more recently in Belize and Bhutan. The



- 39 -
Kenyan Attorney General's Office has confirmed the legality of the proposed fund, with an offshore
and domestic bank account.
5.16         The proposed trust fund would be structured to represent the diverse interests of a
variety of stakeholders including donors, government agencies responsible for natural resource
management, the tourism industry, and domestic and international NGOs engaged in conservation and
environmental activities. The IDA contribution would represent financing for the KWS headquarters
(para. 3.4), which would be owned by the trust fund at a book value of US$3.0 million. Rental
payments by KWS, conservation-oriented NGOs, and concessioners would help capitalize the fund in
its initial years. Several donors and NGOs have indicated a strong interest in making direct capital
contributions to the trust fund.
5.17         The trust fund would be managed independently by professional investment managers
abroad and in Kenya. To ensure transparency in expenditures, KWS would maintain a separate
account for expenditures incurred out of the trust fund. To do this, KWS would need to develop, on
a priority basis, a cost-center accounting system that clearly identifies costs by activities (para. 3.36).
Trust fund earnings would be used for a variety of conservation programs implemented by KWS and
other organizations, including NGOs, the FD and the Ministry of Arid and Semi-Arid Lands.
Examples of programs that could be financed with trust fund resources include:
(a)    establishment and management of protected area networks that are
commercially unviable in the medium-term but essential for conserving
habitats, ecosystems, and landscapes that support diverse flora and fauna;
(b)    Community-based programs reaching beyond traditional conservation activities
inside park and reserve boundaries to address the needs of local communities
living outside the boundaries;
(c)    special efforts to conserve biodiversity and support international conservation
initiatives;
(d)    public awareness campaigns and wildlife conservation and environmental
education programs in schools; and
(e)    components of the second phase KWS project.
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
6.1           KWS program would help Kenya build a legal, financial, and institutional framework
to manage the country's wildlife effectively. The incentives offered to rural communities under the
Community Wildlife Program would encourage autonomous and sustained wildlife management. In
addition, public sector decision-makers would be more aware of key environmental issues and what
needs to be done about them.



-40 -
6.2           The proposed project's major benefit would be to arrest ecological damage in Kenya.
The benefit from the investments under the proposed project arise from preserving the country's
natural resources. Not all benefits can be quantified, but some can be assessed quantitatively. The
project would, for instance, help secure and improve the management of Kenya's protected areas
system, which serves important enviromnental functions such as preserving biodiversity, improving
water catchment and hydrologic control, moderating local climate effects, and augmenting the
production of essential natural resources (e.g., fisheries). It would sustain Kenya's tourism industry
and promote wildlife-based enterprises as an alternative source of economic development in
agriculturally marginal areas, particularly arid and semi-arid lands, where crop cultivation or intensive
livestock husbandry may lead to environmental deterioration through soil erosion and loss of
vegetative cover.
6.3           Diodivniy Conservaieo. The project would have a strong emphasis on biodiversity
conservation that takes into account the global benefit of maintaining biodiversity that goes beyond the
role of wildlife as a national resource (Annex 9, Table 3). A key feature of the project is its elephant
and rhinoceros conservation programs. There is an intrinsic value to ensuring that these two mammal
species survive and thrive in Kenya in their natural habit.lcs. These species would be in danger of
disappearing if actions are not taken to preserve their habitat and control their exploitation. To this
end, the project would support increased stocking of rhinos and elephants in selected parks and
reserves. Similarly, the GEF project for conservation of the Tana River National Primate Reserve
(para. 3.18) would protect a unique ecological site that is critical habitat for numerous plants and
animals, including two species of highly endangered primates.
6.4           Towurm I:cnec. Revenue from tourism represents a major share of Kenya's export
income (para. 1.16). The project would help ensure the existence of a sustainable and resilient
wildlife based tourism sector in Kenya. Clearly there is a positive advantage for the Kenyan economy
if tourism in parks and reserves is increased. The project would do this by increasing the tourism
capacity of the parks and reserves without significant adverse ecological damage and by making the
parks and reserves more accessible 'better roads and services and wildlife viewing facilities) and safer
(improved security arrangements). Maintaining biodiversity wvould, therefore, also contribute to
economic benefits by ensuring the continued existence of rare wildlife.
6.5           Coemunly Ievedopmeat. The project would generate substantial benefits to
communities living adjacent to wildlife areas since they would be both partners in conservation and
beneficiaries of wildlife-based rural development programs. Rural communities would benefit from
new jobs created in park and reserve infrastructure, operations and maintenance activities, and
tourism. The small-scale wildlife enterprises that would be identified and prepared with technical
assistance from the Community Development Fund would result in sustained increases in incomes of
participating communities.
B. Economic Analysis and Sensitivity Tests
6.6            Econoc Analysis. In estimating the cost stream only the investment costs
(including headquarters overhead costs) associated with the major parks (Nairobi, Lake Nakuru,
Aberdares, Tsavo East, Tsavo West, and Mount Kenya) and major reserves (Masai Mara and
Samburu) were included. This is justified because these are the investments that would yield
quantifiable returns. (Details of the economic analysis are given in Annex 9).



- 41 -
6.7          The main parameters for calculating the benefits are: (a) With the project, the net
earnings from wildlife-based tourism (estimated at US$42.0 million in 1990) would increase by 3
percent annually during the first 10 years and then remain stable for the remaining 10 years of the
20-year estimation period; (b) Without the project, the rate of increase in the net earnings from
tourism would decline from 3 percent in the first year of the project to 0 percent in year five, stable
in years 6-10, and then decline by 2 percent annually for the remaining 10 years of the estimation
period; (c) The foreign exchange component of costs and benefits has been adjusted by a standard
conversion factor of 0.92. Based on the assumptions, the project's economic rate of return (ERR) is
36 percent. For the purpose of comparison, the ERR is 13 percent when the total costs of the five-
year project are taken into account.
6.8         S&u*iuy Resal*. The ERR for the major parks (para. 6.7) is robust under the
fbllowing scenarios: (a) if only gate fee receipts are attributed to the project, the ERR falls to 16
percent; (b) if the benefits are only 75 percent of those anticipated from park and reserve revenues,
the ERR falls to 22 percent; (c) if the project were to have no impact on visitor numbers for the first
five years (i.e., if the numbers increased by 3 percent annually with and without the project), the
ERR falls to 26 percent; (d) if costs are projected to increase by 20 percent, the ERR falls to 19
percent.
C. Environmental Impact
6.9           Since the project is expected to have significant positive environmental benefits
overall, it has been classified as a "D" category project, exempting it from the requirement for
environment impact assessments as a discrete activity in project preparation. Some specific risks,
however, have been noted and taken into account in project preparation, and these must continue to
be addressed during implementation. For example, while wildlife-based tourism depends on
maintaining an intact natural ecosystem and is generally expected to be environmentally benign,
poorly planned or managed tourism can have negative environmental impacts such as deforestation,
depletion or contamination of water sources, establishment of infrastructure that interferes with
wildlife movement, tourist harassment or injury to animals, damage to soil and vegetation through
off-road driving, damage to coral reefs through walking or anchoring, etc. A number of these
problems are already evident in some heavily used parks. The project would address these issues by
supporting improved planning and implementation of tourism management and monitoring of tourism
impacts (para. 3.12). KWS would reduce the risk of overuse of key areas by promoting tourism
development on private lands and creating incentives to redirect some tourism to new or underutilized
parks and reserves. It would also emphasize visitor education as a means of reducing damage from
violAtion of park rules. Finally, any infrastructure development supported by the project (particularly
any new road construction and fencing) would be identified and designed as part of carefully prepared
park management plans that emphasize ecological integrity. Drainage structures would be provided
with inlet and outlet structures to prevent erosion and protect wildlife habitats. Borrow pits, local
earth material deposits, and cuts and embankment slopes, as well as diversion points (where necessary
to divert roads or tracks) would be seeded with natural indigenous grass, shrubs and trees to prevent
soil erosion and preserve the ecological balance. The feasibility studies would include an
environmental impact assessment in line with the Bank's policies.
6.10         A second potential issue is the impact of the project on communities living in or
adjacent to protected areas or areas that may be included in the protected areas system in the future.
In many cases the people in these communities are marginalized rural populations highly vulnerable to



- 42 -
a loss of access to land or natural resources. Bank policy requires that local populations that may be
affected by a project have the opportunity to participate in decisions that affect their welfare and in
the seection and implementation of measures to mitigate any harmful effects. Under the project this
would be accomplished by ensuring local community input into the process of developing park and
reserve management plans. This would be the responsibility of the park and area wardens, who
would work through the community wildlife wardens and wildlife extension wardens.
D. Uncertainties and Risks
6.11         The proposed project aims to build up a policy, institutional, infrastructural, and
management capability in Kenya to manage, preserve, and exploit the country's significant wildlife
resources in an ecologically sensible way. It is therefore essential that the Government's commitment
and policy focus be firm and unwavering. In the past two years the Government has fully supported
the sector's revival. Continued support is ensured by the economic importance of tourist earnings and
the implications of the sector's successful development for rural communities. It is further proposed
to incorporate the Government's wildlife sector development policy in the context of the broader
environmental and natural resource management to be undertaken through the arid and semi-arid lands
programs, and implementation of the forestry master plan being developed with IDA assistance. The
institutional risk that KWS may be unable to manage the proposed investment program effectively
would be mitigated by (a) institutional strengthening measures, including considerable inputs of
technical assistance and training and the development of improved management and reporting systems;
(b) appointment and maintenance of a core management team acceptable to IDA throughout the
project period and IDA approval of any replacement; (c) early launching of project start-up activities
including the preparation of procurement packages; (d) heavy reliance on the private sector to
implement the infrastructure program, and a leading role for NGOs in implementing the Community
Wildlife Program and education components; and (e) a flexible investment approach and a mid-term
review to facilitate early corrective action during implementation.
6.12         Given the uncertainty of the macroeconomic situation (para. 1.9), KWS may in the
short term confront some difficulties in meeting the increases in its recurrent cost requirements.
KWS's emphasis would be on improving cost recovery, substantially expanding its revenue base,
gradually reducing its reliance on direct government subventions, and creating a steady stream of
revenues for its nonprofit, conservation-based activities through the Wildlife Conservation Trust Fund
(para. 5.15). IDA would monitor the situation closely through reviews of annual work plans that
would include budgetary allocations and targets for revenue collection (para. 4.20). If necessary,
major adjustments to the project can be made during the mid-term review.
6.13         Finally, there is some environmental risk associated witl. development activities
supported under the project through the Community Wildlife Program (para. 3.7). Wildlife
populations could be directly threatened, at least in some areas, by piiot projects involving
consumptive wildlife utilization. This risk would be mitigated by KWS's assessment and ongoing
monitoring of any such projects, with the project providing technical assistance and training to
strengthen KWS capabilities in this area. Consumptive utilization projects would involve only a
limited number of nonthreatened species. Permission for projects would initially be awarded by the
KWS director on a case-by-case basis, after submission of an acceptable management plan supported
by reliable data on wildlife populations and an evaluation of the (private or communal) landowner's
capability to implement that plan. The project would also support development of legislation and
regulatory instruments to formalize these requirements to encourage environmentally sound wildlife



- 43 -
utlizatlon on a larger scale. Small-scale development projects proposed for support under the
Community Development Fund would also be evaluated for potential environmental impacts and
consisteocy with KWS's conservation objectives.
VII. AGREEMENTS, ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1         Tie following are waIibas of ct efirtiw.
(a)    Complete implementation of a staff reduction plan acceptable to IDA (para.
3.3);
(b)    Appointment of a core management team comprising director, deputy director
of finance, commercial manager, training coordinator, and heads of scientific,
wildlife, and technical services, with qualifications and experience satisfactory
to IDA (para. 4.3).
(c)    Submission of an acceptable annual work plan, acceptable to IDA, for the first
year (para. 4.20).
7.2          The following agreements were obtained dwixg xegotuious.
(a)    That GOK would include the rehabilitation of key tourist access roads in the
1992-93 annual budget est-mates and 1993-94 Forward Budget of the Ministry
of Public Works (para. 2.15(c)).
(b)    KWS would prepare action plans for resolving land use conflicts, which would
be reviewed at the mid-term review and agreed with IDA. GOK would
subsequently implement the agreed action plans (para. 2.15(a) and para. 4.22).
(c)    Accounts for the Community Development Facility would be established by
June 30, 1992 and that the maximum amount to be spent on ec;h subproject
would not exceed US$100,000 and ail subprojects requiring financing of over
US$50,000 would be sent to IDA for prior approval (para. 3.9). KWS would
also submit to IDA before June 30, 1992, a copy of its Board resolution
establishing the Facility and its operational rules.
(d)   A commercial accounting system would be established by June 30, 1992
(para. 3.36).
(e)    Audited annual accounts, financial statements and reports, including a separate
auditor's opinion on the special account and statements of expenditures, would
be prepared by an independent commnercial auditor and made available to IDA
within six months of the close of each KWS fiscal year (para. 3.37).
(f)   the KWS core management team would be maintained throughout the project
period but replacements could be made after IDA approval (para. 4.3);



(g)    KWS would hire consultants to review the adequacy of salary levels of its
staff and propose an appropriate incentive system. The results of these
findings would be submitted to IDA for review by June 30, 1992 and
implemented thereafter (para. 4.4).
(b)    A comprehensive mid-term review of the project would be carried out jointly
by KWS and donors not later than December 31, 1994 (para. 4.21). The
mid-term review would evaluate actual performance against agreed indicators.
Specific attention would be given to evaluating technical services contracts
positions (para. 3.3); staff training (para. 3.5); implementation of the staff
reduction plan (para. 3.3); progress with price structure adjustments (para.
5.1 1) and development of the KWS commercial accounting systems (para.
3.36); proposals for resolving land-use conflicts (para. 2.15 (a)) and KWS's
corporate plans, including financial targets, income statements, and balance
sheets (para. 5.14). To facilitate the mid-term review KWS would hire
consultants, with terms of reference satisfactory to IDA, not later than
September 30, 1994 (para. 4.21).
(i)    GOK would open a special account and appoint the KWS director a signatory
to IDA withdrawal and replenishment applications (paras. 3.35 and 4.5).
(i)    KWS would establish a donor coordination secretariat under the director's
office by June 30, 1992 (para. 4.17).
(k)    Draft annual work plans, including budgetary allocations and targets for
revenue collection, would be submitted by KWS to IDA for its comments no
later than December 1 each year for the following year's program (para.
4.20).
Q)    Semiannual progress reports, in a format acceptable to IDA, would be
prepared by KWS and submitted to IDA by March 31 and September 30 each
year (para. 4.23);
(m)   KWS would hire a consultant by June 30, 1992 to design a monitoring and
evaluation system for the project and train KWS staff to implement it. KWS
would assign the necessary number of staff within the information division to
focus on monitoring project performance (para. 4.23);
(n)    KWS would carry out a pricing study by June 30, 1992. On the basis of this
review and after consultations with IDA, KWS would adjust its price
structures no later than September 30, 1992 (para. 5.11).
(o)    KWS would, from July 1, 1992 until completion of the project, set aside up to
25 percen. of its gross annual revenues for distribution to communities
affected by wildlife conservation activities. The plans for allocating these
funds would be included in the annual work plan to be reviewed by IDA,
(paras. 3.7, 4.i0 and 5.12).



- 45.
(p)    GOK would transfer the IDA funds to KWS as equity. The Government
would pay subventions to KWS on a declining basis for the next three years
(para. 5.13).
(q)    Each year KWS would prepare and submit to IDA for review and comment
by March 31 of each year its annual corporate plan, which shall include
financial targets, investment program, a forecast of profitability, and the
projected balance sheet, and thereatter implement it, taking into account IDA's
views (para. 5.14).
7.3          As a special aabdke of  wrat of the funds related to each of the three
reserves, each such reserve would need to have concluded management arrangements to operate the
reserve and revenue sharing arrangements, both satisfactory to IDA (para. 3.19).
7.4          With the above assurances, agreements, and conditions, the proposed project would be
suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 44.8 million (US$60.5 million), to be passed on to KWS by the
Government of Kenya as equity.



- 46 -
Annex1
Appendix I
Page 1 of 11
KENYA
PROTECTED AREAS AND WILDLIFE SERVICES PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
No. 001
COMMERCIAL MANAGER
DURATION (MONTHS): 42
POSITION LOCATED IN
KWS ORGANIZATION UNIT: Commercial Subdirectorate
REPORTING TO: Director
DUTIES:
The Commercial Manager is a key senior manager in KWS. He/she is responsible
for presenting the commercial opportunities to the organization that will lead to the realization
of benefits. Particular duties include:
1.  Explore commercial opportunities available to KWS, based on existing
activities and contracts and on new markets and activities.
2.  Develop the optimum business strategy for KWS, taking full account of its romit,
all its assets and its aim of achieving commercial viability, and gain commitment
to this from the Board of Trustees and KWS management.
3.  Plan and monitor the implementation of the KWS revenue generating strategy.
Identify bottlenecks within KWS delaying the realization of commercial
opportunities, develop plans to address these and seek approval and cooperation
of senior colleagues in implementing the desired changes.
4.  Monitor and evaluate the cost-effectiveness of ongoing revenue generating
activities.
5.  Form and manage an effective and efficient sub-directorate whose tasks include:
commnercial policy formulation, product development and marketing, sales and
delivery planning, generation of maximum benefit from donors and
sponsors, business management of brands, products and existing contracts,
provision of negotiating skills, and identification and effective use of specialist



- 47 -
Annex I
Appendix I
Page 2 of 11
resources that confer commercial advantage.
6.  Participate with Deputy Directors in policy formulation for KWS.
7.  Carry out other relevant duties as requested by the Director.
8.  Train, encourage and advise Kenyan nationals in commercial and marketing
skills.
KEY RESULT AREAS:
1. Report on commercial opportunities, risks and potential rewards to the Director
of KWS within six months.
2.  Approved and committed 5-year commercial strategy within 1 year.
3.  Achievement of targeted income from new initiatives.
4.  Commercial subdirectorate 80 percent staffed and operating smoothly within one
year and ready for hand-over from the incumbent within three years.
QUALIFICATIONS:
i.  Record of crea.ing markets for products, preferably internationally.
2. Understanding of principles of marketing and sales.
3.  Ability to enthuse and convince colleagues.
4.  Experience in a large successful commercial organization.



- 48 -
Annex I
Appendix I
Page 3 of 11
No. 002
DEPUTY DIRECTOR, SCIENTIFIC SERVICES
DURATION: (MONTHS) 58
POSITION LOCATED IN
KWS ORGANIZATION UNIT: Scientiric Services Subdirectorate
REPORTING TO: Director
DUTIES:
The incumbent is the chief scientific officer of KWS. He/she will be responsible for
the sound scientific basis of KWS's work, particularly in conserving Kenya's unique bio-
diversity of natural resources. Particular duties include:
1. Clarify KWS's scientific needs and gain the Board's and senior management's
commitment to a program to accommodate these.
2. Develop the Scientific Services resources through recruitment, organization,
training, and management so that it has the required competence in the fields of:
conservation research including the ability to lead internationally vital special
projects (e.g., elephant and rhino), veterinary services, and ecological
monitoring.
3. Develop and implement a system to track wildlife research undertaken in Keriya
and establish KWS as the leading force in a national review committee
influencing the direction of wildlife research.
4.  Develop collaborative wildlife research programs with other institutions in Kenya
and elsewhere.
5 Liaise with the Wildlife Services subdirectorate to ensure that research serves
their needs for planning and monitoring. Ensure that research findings are fully
integrated into the work of the Planning Unit. Collaborate with and provide
quality cont:ol support to their field research and monitoring activities.
6. Establish a system of monitoring and controlling scientific services so that the
resources used are accounted for in relation to agreed programs and priorities.
Submit periodic reports on the achievements and expectations of KWS and
external relevant research projects.
7. Participate with other Deputy Directors in policy formulation for KWS.



- 49 -
Appendix I
Page 4 of 11
8. Carry out relevant duties as requested by the Director.
KEY RESULT AREAS:
1. Gain agreement by the Board to the subdirectorate's program within twelve
months.
2. Operate effectively with at least 20 staff in post widtin twelve months.
3. Ensure that two research findings on new elephant studies are presented by KWS
at international venues within eighteen months.
4. Veterinary protocols for intervention established within two years.
QUALIFICATIONS:
1. Doctorate or veterinary degree in a relevant discipline.
2. Extensive experience in wildlife research, including administration and management.
3. Evidence of substantial publications in reference journals.
4. Familiarity with Kenya wildlife issues.
S. Good presentational competence.
No. 003
SENOR DEPUTY DIRECTOR, WILDLFIE SERVICES
DURATION: (MONTHS) 60
POSMION LOCATED IN
KWS ORGANIZATION UNIT: Wildlife Services Subdirectorate
REPORTING TCO: Director
DUTIES:
1. Deputize for the Director when required.
2. Refine, implement and monitor the KWS strategy for wildlife in Kenya. Ensure
that Regions, Areas, Parks and Reserves and special facilities are managed
according to agreed plans.



50 -
Annex 1
Appendix I
Page 5 of 11
3.  Direct the resources of KWS devoted to delivering wildlife services throughout
Kenya. These services include: the conservation and management of parks and
reserves, promotion and control of wildlife outside parks and reserves, a wildlife
education program and a community wildlife program.
4.  Establish management structures and procedures that encourage both acceptance
of responsibility by Wardens and other middle managers and excellence in the
delivery of services.
5.  Represent field resources in top management deliberations.
6.  Cooperate with the other subdirectorates to ensure that KWS draws on all its
strengths to develop into a well integrated and sustainable institution.
7.  Ensure that all income due to KWS in the field is collected and proper accounts
rendered in timely manner to headquarters.
KEY RESULT AREAS:
1. Launch agreed plans for two parks within nine months.
2.  Gain Board approval for Wildlife Systems strategy within two years.
3.  Ensure that 95 percent of key management reports are produced on time.
4.  Achieve effective reorganization of five areas within two years.
5.  Deliver major new education and community wildlife products across three Areas
within one year.
QUALIICATIONS:
1. Thorough knowledge of KWS parks, reserves and wildlife.
2.  Ability to motivate a large and disparate subdirectorate and to champion their
interests at senior management level.
3. Ability to work cooperatively with senior colleagues from other disciplines.
4.  Military training sufficient to manage disciplinary code to armed personnel within
the subdirectorate.
No. 004



- 51 -
Annex 
Appendix I
Page 6 of 11
TRAINING COORDINATOR
DURATION: (MONTHS) 30
POSITION LOCATED IN
KWS ORGANIZATION UNIT: Personnel
REPORTING TO: Personiel Manager
DUTIES:
The Training Coordinator will be responsible for the identification and coordination of
training throughout KWS. Particular duties include:
1. Liaise with other departments and sections concerning training, particularly with
the Commandant on armed wing training and with the Principal of the Naivasha
Institute on the provision of courses within KWS.
2.  Establish and implement procedures for monitoring skills within KWS and for
relating these to organizational needs.
3. Identify managers and individuals responsible for initiating training and ensure
that these responsibilities are being fulfilled.
4. Review the range of options available for meeting pre-service and in-service
training needs including in-house courses, external courses both local and
foreign, home study, mentoring and on-the job training. Maintain a strategy for
applying this range in the most cost effective manner.
5.  Administer KWS overseas and other training not the responsibility of the
Principal of the Naivasha Institute.
6.  Establish a system for monitoring effectiveness of training instruments and use
the resulting information to improve training.
7.  Submit periodic reports on the achievements of and expected improvements in
training operations.
8.  Participate with other Deputy Directors in policy formulation for KWS.
9.  Carry out relevant duties as requested by the Director.
KE3Y RESULT AREAS:
1. With the Technical Assistance planned, complete an initial training needs
assessment of KWS within four months.



- 52 -
Annex 1
Appendix I
Page 7 of 11
2. Complete the detailed training program element of the work plan agreed with
donors for the remainder of FY 91/92.
3. Identify and allocate staff to all overseas training posts agreed by the Director for
the year 1992/93.
QUAIMICATIONS:
1 . A degree in one of the applied natural sciences.
2. Extensive experience in personnel and in the management and delivery of
training.
3.  Experience of working in an organization of at least 1,000 staff.
No. 005
DEPUTY DIRECTOR, TECHNICAL SERVICES
DURATION: (MONTHS) 60
:POSMTION LOCATED IN
KWS ORGANIZATION UNIT: Technical Services Sub-directorate
REPORTING TO: Director
DUTIES:
The incumbent is the chief officer of KWS in charge of technical areas. He/she will
be responsible for the sound application of engineering, technical and related skills within the
service. Particular duties include:
1. Develop the Technical Services resources through recruitment, organization,
training, and management so that it has the required competence in the fields of:
mechanical and telecommunications, land and buildings, roads and fences and
aviation.
2. Use external consultants, contractors and force account resources to optimize the
long term cost-effectiveness of Technical Services. Operate a system to
encourage continuous improvement in the cost-effectiveness of technical services.



- 53 -
Annex I
Appendix I
Page 8 of 11
3. Oversee the planning, financing and monitoring of all KWS technical work. This
includes studying technical options at the request of the Director.
4. Establish a system of monitoring and controlling technical services so that the
resources used are accounted for in relation to agreed programs and priorities.
Submit periodic reports on the achievements and expectations both of projects
and of recurring work programs. These systems should cover job costing,
maintenance and inventory control.
5. Produce technical specifications and other contract documentation required by
KWS so as to allow for timely procurement and disposal.
6.  Paricipate with other Deputy Directors in policy formulation for KWS.
7. Act as the chief safety officer for KWS on behalf of the Director.
8. Carry out relevant duties as requested by the Director.
KEY RESULT AREAS:
1. Develop a detailed work program for the remainder of the FY 91/92.
2. Operate effectively with at least 500 staff in post within twelve months.
3. Complete regrading of targeted length of park roads within twelve months.
4. Place contracts for the construction of five area offices within twelve months.
QUALIFICATIONS:
1. Degree and preferably membership of professional body in Civil or Mechanical
engineering.
2. Ten years experience in engineering and technical field duties including extensive
periods in managerial positions with labor force of at least 200.
3. Three years experience in developing country, preferably Kenya.
4. Evidence of an analytical approach to problems.



- 54 -
Annex I
Appendix I
Page 9 of 11
No. 006
DEPUTY DIRECTOR, FINANCE
DURATION: (MONTHS) 30
POSITION LOCATED IN
KWS ORGANIZATION UNIT: Finance Subdirectorate
REPORTING TO: Director
DUlrES:
The incumbent is the chief financial officer of KWS. He/she (or she) will be responsible
for the sound short term financial basis of KWS. Particular duties include:
1. Clarify KWS's financial structure and independence, and propose any
improvements that will facilitate KWS in conserving Kenya's wildlife.
2. Develop the Finance Subdirectorate's resources through organization, procedures,
training, and management so that it has the required competence in the fields of:
financial recording, reporting and control, project accounting and management
accounting. Work closely with the Information Manager to ensure the effective
application of computers to finance.
3. Develop existing systems so as to allocate, monitor and report on donor funds.
4. Liaise with other sub-directorates and the Commercial Department to ensure that
Finance serves their needs for planning and monitoring and control of funds.
This is likely to include the distribution of headquarter costs. Ensure that
financial limits are fully integrated into the work of the Planning Unit.
5. Ensure that adequate systems are being applied to separate functions where
required by financial probity. Liaise with the internal and external auditors and
advise the Director on the implementation of their recommendations.
6. Submit periodic reports on the achievements of and expected improvements in the
financial operations.
7. Participate with other Deputy Directors in policy formulation for KWS.
8. Carry out relevant duties as requested by the Director.



- 55 -
Annex I
Appendix I
Page 10 of 11
KEY RESULT AREAS:
1. Produce financial report for FY 91/92 within two months of year end.
2. Operate effectively with the three main financial officers and at least 20 staff in
post within six months.
3. Ensure that the plan agreed with donors for the remainder of FY 91/92 is
properly costed and that the cash flow is compatible with the available funding
and procurement procedures in place or being implemented.
4. Through example, training and mentoring ensure that the necessary attitudes,
skills and motivations are available within the sub-directorate to hand over the
management to in-house resources within thirty months.
QUALIFICATIONS:
1. Professional qualifications in Accounting.
2. Extensive experience in finance, administration and management, preferably at
director level with a profit making organization.
3. Interest in management accounting.
4. Experience in project accounting.
No.007
ASSISTANT DIRECTOR, COMMUNITY WILDLIFE
DURATION: (MONTHS) 48
POSMON LOCATED IN
KWS'S ORGANIZATION UNIT: Wildlife Services Subdirectorate
REPORTING TO: Senior Deputy Director
DUTIES:
1. Recruit and lead staff in the new Community Wildlife Departnent.
2. Establish organization and procedures for the effective operation of the
Department and for providing tht technical and social lead in community



- 56 -
Annex 1
Appendix I
Page 11 of 11
wildlife services throughout KVVS.
3. Manage and be accountable for the headquarters resources devoted to
Community Wildlife Services.
4. Establish and control work programs so that community wildlife services
play a major role in the future effectiveness of KWS in preserving the bio-
diversity of Kenya's wildlife.
5. Raise issues related to community education regarding wildlife that might
affect GOK policies and seek with colleagues to resolve these expeditiously.
KEY RESULT AREAS:
1. Staff Department with ten key senior grade staff within eight months.
2. Agree priority program with Director for inclusion in work program for remainder of FY
91/92.
3. Agree line of 30 km fencing within the first six months.
4. Establish extension work in three areas within twelve months.
5. Oversee relations with NGOs and ensure optimum cooperation in the context of KWS's
objectives.
QUALUICATIONS:
1. MSc in social sciences, environmental or natural resources field.
2. Five years successful professional work experience in community related service.
3. Ihree years experience of management and supervision.
4. Experience with Kenyan wildlife or other natural resource issues.



- 57 -
Annex I
Appendix 11
KENYA
PROTECTED AREAS AND WILDLIFE SERVICES PROJECT
Technical Assistance for Institutional Development
Under the proposed project the following technical assistance would be provided for the
implementation of KWS institutional development.
(a)    Develop computerized commercial accounting systems including cost center
budgeting (12 person-months).
(b)    Review and redesign of a new corporate planning system (6 person-months).
(c)    Design and conduct annual work plan (32 person-months).
(d)    Assess KWS management information needs and design a management information
system - MIS (3 person-months).
(e)    Design appropriate computer software for the MIS, train staff in its use, and evaluate,
review, and redesign software following initial operations (10 person-months).
(t)    Conduct a training needs assessment (4 person-months).
(g)    Design a comprehensive training program (6 person-months).
(h)    Identify and describe career paths for key occupational specialties (12 person-months).
(i)    Design an appropriate incentive package and system for the management (6
person-months).
(j)    Prepare reports and analysis for mid-term review (2 person-months).



KENYA - PROTECTED AREAS AND WILDLIFE SERVICES PROJECT
Tedhnical Services
Comonent: Headquarters Strelgthening
91192   22t29   29L34   9I21M    25/    Llta
Intermal Auditor                                              0.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    4.00
Commercial Manager                                            0.00    0.50    1.00    1.00    1.00    3.50
Dept. Dir. Technical Services                                 1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    5.00
Dept. Dir. Finance                                            0.00    0.00    0.50    1.00    1.00    2.50
Dept. Dir. Pers. & Admin.                                     1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    5.00
Sr. Department Director Wildlife Services                     1.00    1.00    0.50    0.00    Om0    5.
3.00    4.50    5.00    5.00    5.00   25.00
Legal Advisor                                                 1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    5.00
Donor Liaison Officer                                         0.90    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    4.90           1
Commercial Assistant                                          0.50    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    4.50           c
Chief Eng. Mech. & Tel.                                       1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    5.00
Chief Eng. Built Env.                                         1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    5.00
Chief Eng. Roads and Fences                                   1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    5.00
Chief Pilot                                                   1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    5.00
Information Manager                                           1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    5.00
Procurement Manager                                           0.00    0.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    3.00
Project Accountant                                            1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    5.00
Fencing Engineer                                              0 50    1. I      00    1.00    1Q      4.50
8.90   10.00   11.00   11.00   11.00   51.90
Compnonent: Policy Planning
Assistant Director                                            0.50    1.00    I 0      100    I 00    4 50         > >
0.50    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    4.50
D x
o x-4
'-4Q



KENYA - PROTECTED AREAS AND WILDLIFE SERVICES PROJECT
Technical Services
Comgont: Sdentific Services
Sr. Marine Biologist                                         0.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    4.00
Rhino Proj. Researcher                                       0.00    0.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    3.00
Elephant Prog. Researcher                                    0.00    0.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    3.00
Senior Vet. (Capture)                                        0.50    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    4.50
Senior Vet. (Orphanage)                                      1.00    1.00    Lo     la      i10     50
1.50    3.00    6.00    6.00    6.00   19.50
Marine/Wetlands Ecologist                                    0.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    4.50
Ecologist                                                    0.00    1 00    i       I 00    I 00    400
0.00    2.00    2.00    2.00    2.00    8.50
Component: Training
Naivasha Inst. Principal                                     0.60   10      1. LO00    4 60
0.60    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    4.60
Wetlands Trainer                                             0.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    4.00
Wetlands Trainer                                             0.00    I       L 10    I i0   1      4.00
0.00    2.00    2.00    2.00    2.00    8.00
Component: Education
Assistant Director                                           0.70    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    4.70
NAIR. Center Manager                                         0.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    4.00
Senior Ed. Officer                                           0.50    1.00   .L0      10   .         4.5
1.20    3.00    3.00    3.00    3.00   13.20
t     X



KENYA - PROTETE)AREAS AND WILDLIFE SERVICES PROJECT
Technical Services
Componnt: Com. Wild Life
Assistnt Director                                              0.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    4.00
CW. Training                                                   0.30    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    4.30
Assistant                                                      aQ      Li0    1i.        Lo    Lo      iSO
0.80    3.00    3.00    3.00    3.00   12.80
>>
OQ~ lu
0ox
l,
e >I-4I-
1-4; 



'Covamwone  HeadquanT I                              Aen
Commercial Manager                                           1.00    1.DO    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.00
Architect                                                    0. 80    l.W    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.80
Training Coordinator                                         gm      i.     1a      am    aQm 0
2.30    3.N    1.00    0.00    0.00    6.30
Componenat PdumLPAM 5a
TechnaiS Assi   - PO1i;    F1 <                              0.50    1.00    0.50    0.00    0.00    2.00
Co4/M&tt- Mvptr                         'Ff0.50    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    4.50
lljutmn  A                                                      so0    I 0L  1.00    1.0     1.00    4.50
1.50    3.00    2.50    2.00    2.00   11.00
Dejiut nrectof                                               0.80    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    4.80
Str. Eologist                                                0.50    1.00    0.50    0.00    0.00    2.00
Elephan; Prog. Coordin;.or                                   1.30    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    5.00
Rhino Proj. Coordinator                                     Il3     L00    I.0   i 00    00
3.30    4.00    3.50    3.00    2.00    15.8
OQ~ la
tD
4- CL
I-s.I.-
O x
1-4
H-



- 62 -
KENYA                      Annex 1
PROTECTED AREAS AND WILDLIFE SERVICES PROJECT   Chart I
KWS ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
LL,  15~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-.          U
au
4s, L.
&4*'
IAi 



- 63 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 5
KENYA
PROTECTED AREAS AND WILDLIFE SERVICES PROJECT
Training
Backgond
1.    For more than a decade a little or almost no attention appears to have been paid to
training on an organized, formal basis. Many courses that were held provided, with a few
notable exceptions, a low level of training and were not organized as part of a properly
coordinated program. The net result is that currently in KWS there is a serious shortage of staff
with specialized organizational, supervisory and management skills at middle and senior levels.
Steps have, however, recently been taken by KWS to remedy the situation by appointing training
staff and by initiating some ad hoc training programs. Accordingly, an expanded training
program for all levels of staff has been designed under the proposed project. In the initial project
implementation stages priority will be given to the training of middle and senior management
levels. At the same time training for staff in the lower job groups will also be expanded and up-
graded.
2.    The excessively large numbers of low calibre staff and unfocujssed training programs have
had a number of negative results which include a: (a) lack of skills in staff at all levels; (b)
failure to attract staff of high quality with a potential to acquire skills; (c) <iilure to retain high
quality and skilled staff. The management of KWS considers training to be of vital importance
and attaches high priority to it.
Recent Training Efforts
3.    As stated above, little or no training has been given in management skills and wildlife
research. "One-off" courses have been and are being mounted. A course for Rangers in how to
communicate with the public was recently held at the Elsa Trust Centre, a NGO near Naivasha.
Proyosed Training Strategy
4.    The broad training objectives and the proposed strategy are summarized in the KWS
'Policy Framework and Development Program 1991-1996". This program recognizes that an
intensive training program is required to enable the organization to be transformed as an effective
conmmercially oriented wildlife management entity. The first priority is, therefore, to provide
training to support the reorganization and introduce new management systems, working methods
and attitudes. Another important element of the strategy is for KWS to develop an in-house
capacity to conduct specialized training for its staff on a regtlar basis. Finally, in planning
programs and courses it will first of all be necessary to assess the particular training needs of: (i)
KWS as a whole; (ii) individual trainees and groups of trainees; (iii) areas where the training is
targeted; (iv) groups at which the training is targeted; i.e. - detailed training needs assessment
exercise should be undertaken at the start of the project.
5.    Taking the above into consideration the KWS training strategy should include the
following main elements:



-64 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 5
(a)    Ierim training programs. This would cover areas where there is a need for
urgent action to help staff cope with an increasingly demanding work
environment: (i) informing and reorienting staff about the aims and objectives
of KWS and of areas in which KWS intends to be radically different from the
WCMD; (ii) Up-grading middle and senior staff in level management skills; (iii)
re-raining lower level staff in essential basic technical skills; (iv) community
wildlife training in support of the new Community Wildlife Service; (v) training
of trainers courses to build up a corps of competent trainers within KWS (this will
include training in specialized subject matter).
(b)    Long-term programs would focus on developing the skills and disciplines required
to sustain the objectives of KWS both during the project and after project life.
(c)    The establishment of a strong Training Unit at Headquarters, which would be
headed by a Training Coordinator and who would have under him a team of
trainers trained in:(i) teaching methods; (ii) certain specialized subjects relevant to
the needs of KWS.
(d)    Fortal dZg=  (first and higher) and diploma training at recognized universities
and institutes and in-formal training at Naivasha and KWS education and training
centers in the field.
Training Needs A_          a _a
6.    KWS must attach high priority to initiating a training needs assessment, so that training
impact can be regularly evaluated against baseline features. At the present KWS does not have
the capacity to undertake this task internally. It is, therefore, strongly recommended that financial
and technical support be provided for this purpose, prior to the start of the project. Since the
numbers of persons trained is of little importance as a statistic, as a first step the training needs
should be assessed by: (a) assessing trainees' jobs i.e. the information (knowledge) and skills
which different individuals and categories of staff require in order to efficiently carry out their
duties; (b) assessing trainees i.e. the knowledge (of information) and practical ability (skills)
which different individuals and categories of staff presently possess.
Organization of Training and Facilities
7.     The proposed organization of training will include the following main features:
(a)    To ensure that training is well coordinated and integrated there must be, within
KWS, a structure and staff with authority and responsibility for all training
matters. Thus, KWS will establish a Training Unit which will be headed by a
Training Coordinato (TC) whose job description is given in Annex 1. The TC
will be based within the Unit but at the Naivasha Wildlife Training Institute, there
will be five Specialist Trainers (ST). The ST's will be selected from existing
KWS staff who have demonstrated an aptitude for training, but who need not
necessarily have received training in teaching methods. A priority activity to be
undertaken, prior to project start up, will be that ST's attend a short (3 months)
course in technical teaching methods at a recognized institltion.



- 65 -
Annex 2
Page 3 of 5
(b)    The ST's will teach centrally at Naivasha and also as a mobile team in the field.
At Naivasha they will provide in-house training and training for outsiders.
Central in-house training at Naivasha will cause less disruption to KWS field work
but will be more expensive in terms of transport costs for trainees. As a mobile
team ST's will provide in-house and other training at centers in the field (see
below). Included here will be basic teaching methods for selected KWS staff.
This will cause more disruption to KWS field work (more staff on training at one
time) but will not involve high transport costs for trainees. ST's transport and per
diem in such cases will be charged to the recipients' budgets.
S.     KWS proposes to use a range of training facilities including: (i) Naivasha Wildlife
Training Centre; (ii) Ngong Centre; (iii) Field study centers, reserve information centers and
visitors' centers; (iv) Manyani for Rangers and the Wildlife Protection Unit; (v) Universities and
colleges in Kenya and elsewhere; (vi) Other suitable training institutions in Kenya and elsewhere.
9.    Trainers resource will be provided by: (i) KWS-ST's and field staff in basic park
management; (ii) NGO's such as Friends of Conservation, Utalii College, National Outdoor
Leadership School, The Elsa Trust and Wildlife Clubs of Kenya; (iii) External Specialists from
Kenya and elsewhere where in-house expertise is not or may not be available such as marine
wildlife, telephone and radio communications, identification of birds, flowers, trees and shrubs,
and community development.
Prbsd Training Progrms
10.   A wide range of types of training courses will be developed by KWS an indicative list is
given below: (a) Pre-service and in-service; (b) Re-training and refresher; (c) Up-grading
and promotion; (d) Induction; (e) Formal (at recognized institutions awarding degrees and
diplomas); (f) Informal (no formal qualifications awarded); (g) Graduate and non-graduate.
11.   The tentative programs envisaged at this stage, subject to change following a more
detailed KWS training needs assessment include the following:
(a)    Training of trainers
(i)    For ST's as a priority activity; suitable 3-month training courses are
available in the United Kingdom;
(ii)    For selected Headquarters and field staff in basic training methods;
training provided by ST's;
(b)    Induction:
(i)    In-house training for all staff recruited to KWS;
(ii)    Rangers-six months at Manyani; course content to include first-aid, gate
keeping duties, dealing with visitors, wildlife tasks and bush craft.
(iii)   Senior staff-one to two weeks on KWS policies and objectives rather than
specific tasks



- 66 -
Annex 2
Page 4 of 5
(iv)   For all KWS staff-one or two day sessions tG brief staff on the aims and
objectives of KWS.
(c)    Management and Supervisory Skills Up-grading
This is especially important for senior management staff at Headquarters who will
be assuming positions of responsibility in a parastatal rather than a previously
government organization. Topics would include:
management systems, organizations and structures, supervisory skills and
personnel and financial management for senior staff;
park management, planning, financial procedures, public relations,
educational/visitor services, community conservation and security for senior park
staff;
business consideration including basic exposure to managing profit oriented
ventures;
(d)    Specialized technical trainirg: For all directly involved staff at all levels in a
particular functional stream. Training subjects would cover:
(i)    Marine biology and marine park management; undertaken overseas for
senior park staff;
(ii)    Mountain rescue techniques; this could be provided by the National
Outdoor Leadership School at Naro Moru;
(iii)   Community wildlife skills for wardens and assistant wardens; the
possibility of using in-country facilities, including eventual in-house
training should be investigated;
(iv)   Ranger and driver/guide training in:
-      codes of conduct in parks and reserves;
-      flora and fauna identification;
-      understanding of wildlife;
-      communicating with the public;
-      procedures for gate staff;
-      supervising construction and repair/ maintenance of buildings and
roads, through force account i.e. civil works; all such training
must be essentially practical and job oriented and would be mainly
in-house training;
(v)    Planning, finance, computer and secretarial skills; using external
assistance for certain topics initially but again aiming to build up an in-
house training capacity.
(e)    Researc  in-house training for technicians will be provided; progression to
M.Sc. and Ph.D. training will depend on capability and motivation.



- 67 -
Anngx 2
Page 5 of 5
(f)    Career Growth:
(i)    For staff who are identified for greater responsibilities and/or higher/new
posts;
(ii)    Courses will need to be carefully designed to meet the specific skills needs
of individuals and their units;
(iii)   Length of course will depend on training needed.
(iv)   Staff originally recruited as diplomates from Egerton College and Mweka
College of African Wildlife Management and who have since had a
number of years field experience could be sent to appropriate universities
for first and higher degree training as steps towards promotion; such
'graduates' are considered to be more valuable than those with first
degrees recruited straight from University.
(g)    Community Wildlife: Ideally these would be in-house courses but initially it is
likely that external assistance will be required. Existing and new staff will need
to be trained. Topics covered will include: (i) wildlife extension; (ii)community
organization; (iii) development of community based tourism projects; (iv) wildlife
utilization techniques; (v) supervision of wildlife utilization projects.
(h)    Media Training: Chiefly for Wildlife Education and Visitor Services' staff;
excellent training facilities exist at the Kenya Institute of Mass Communications;
OJDiC will include the use and production of, where appropriate, television, radio,
films, videos, slides, newspapers and magazines, leaflets and posters and foreign
media; the United Kingdom's ODA have a video production project in the
Ministry of Agriculture who may be able to assist with videos.
(i)    Rggular Annual Training:
(i)    Once the urgent training prog.ams have been implemented (by end year 3)
all staff should have the opportunity to undergo a one to two week
refresher/up-grading course each year;
(ii)    This will be in-house and should be mainly practical and j3b oriented;
0)    Trainine for Outsiders: (i) Using KWS staff and facilities; (ii) For Fisheries, tour
operators etc.; (iii) On a cost only basis or as a means of earning revenue.
(k)    Eormal Degree Training courses in wildlife and/or relevant biological sciences are
available at Universities in Kenya. Where possible, KWS should make use of
these in its training program either by recruiting graduates direct from these
institutions or by up-grading Egerton and Mweka diplomates who have several
years' field experience. Close links should also be established with a view to
possibly 'tailoring' course content to better suit KWS' staff requirements.



- 68 -
Annex 3
Page 1 of 9
KENYA
PROTECTED AREAS AND WILDLIFE SERVICES PROJECT
SCIENTIFIC SERVICES
KWS RESEARCH PRIORITIES AND PROJECT LISTING
EFFECTS OF HUMAN ACTIVITIES ON ECOLOGICAL INTEGRITY OF INLAND
WILDLIF1E AREAS
Problemf:
1.    The rapid population expansion in Kenya and the resultant land use demands has led to human
encroachment in crucialwildlife areas and unsuitable development of marginal land leading
to environmental degradation.
2.    rTe increase in tourist numbers and their concentration in a few popular parkcs has led to
environmental degradation and probablc deciines in wildlife populations.
Obiective:
1.    Monitor the impact of KWS management changes aimed at maintaining ecosystem integrity
and tourist satisfaction.
2.    Investigate other human activities that may be having an adverse impact on the envirori-nent
and wildlife.
Projects:
1.    Off road driving
(a)   Impact on land (e.g. erosion), vegetation and animals (e.g. cheetah).
(b)    Effects of improvement of road system and stricter enforcement.
(c)    Regeneration time for road tracks closed off in different habitat types.
(d)    Environmental impact of balloon operations.
2.    Wildlife dispersal areas
(a)    Effects of various land-use strategies in dispersal areas on wildlife distribution,
migration and ecosystem integrity
(b)    Determine and monitor wildlife migration patterns (e.g. Laikipia Plateau Elephant
Project). Relate to changing land use.



-69 -                          Annex 3
Page 2 of 9
(c)    Effect on migratory animals of closure of migratory routes.
(d)    Evaluate impact of new encroachment into wildlife dispersal areas.
3.    Tourist Lodges
(a)    Environmental impact gaibage disposal, sewage, general pollution, support facilities
(e.g. park villages), etc.
(b)    Wildlife pest problems resulting from habituatiion, tourists feeding animals and open
refuse disposal.
(c)    Introduction of exotic vegetation.
(d)    Effect of salt licks, leopard baiting and other forms of animal attraction for tourist
viewing on animal behaviour and movements.
4.    Human/Wildlife conflicts
(a)    Crop and property destruction - primates, elephants, bushpigs, quelea.
(b)    Effectiveness of fence barriers in high conflict areas.
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF PARK MANAGEMENT STRATEGIES
Problem:
In addition to the general deterioration of Kenyvas Parks and Reserves from neglect and inadequate
funding many experts believe that park and wildlife management str.t.egies need to be changed to
address new wildlife threats. Likewise routine management stra&cgies need to be continually
monitored and evaluated.
Obiective:
Innovative management strategies have been proposed such as decentralisation and fencing. As such
procedures are implemented, their impact must be closely monitored and different management
strategies compared. All park management systems will be monitored.
Projects:
1.    Impact of fencing on animal movements, densities and vegetational changes.
2.    Regional planning and management - research components will need to be defined and
implemented as activities are initiated. They will vary in different parks, reserves and regions
and care will be taken not to duplicate the same study in different areas unless direct
comparisons are desireable.
3.    The impact of fire management to open up land or control undesirable vegetation.



70-                         Annex 3
Page 3 of 9
EFFECTS OF ECOLOGICAL ISOLATION (ISLAND BIOGEOGRAPHY)
Problem:
Regardless of procedures taken, or degree of success, Kenya's parks, reserves and other ecological
units will become increasingly isolated and/or fragmentf due to the land demands of a rapidly
expanding human population. This will necessitate increasingly interventive management strategies,
the knowledge for which is largely lacking.
Objective:
Prepare a data base on the effects of ecological isolation and opportunistically monitor the effects on
the flora and fauna when such circumstances arise with the aim of ascertaining management solutions.
Proiects:
1.    Lake Nakuru National Park (totally enclosed) - monitot the impact and correlation of
population densities, overgrazing, inbreeding and prevention of migration.
2.    Fenced Rhino Sanctuaries - Lake Nakuru studies (above) to provide a model and proving
ground for other sanctuaries, monitoring browse vegetation, competition with other browsers
and genetic management will be especially crucial in all fenced rhino sanctuaries.
3.    Coastal Kayas - extremely small islands of high botanical diversity. Monitor vegetation
changes and regeneration.
4.    Tana River Primate Reserve - restricted and unique riverine forested area in which riverine
forest species are geographically isolated by semi-arid land and agricultural development up
and down stream.
5.    Saiwa Swamp National Park - isolated sitatunga population and perhaps other species.
Nothing is known about the degree of genetic isolation and inbreeding.
6.    Western Kenya Forest Patches - vast areas of western Kenya have been converted to
agricultural production with the exception of tiny forest pockets along waterways where the
slopes are too steep to cultivate. These pockets contain small numbers (< 10/group) of
colobus, blue and DeBrazza monkeys. Significant migration is unlikely and inbreeding an
almost certainty.
FOREST ECOSYSTEM
Problem:
Forests are addressed separately because this biotype is underrepresented in KWS protected
areas and the present skills and knowledge for wildlife management and tourism development
are minimal.



- 71 -                        Annex3
Page 4 of 9
Obiective
Undertake biological surveys and inventories in select forests and identify conservation priorities and
tourism potential.
Projects:
1.    Coastal Forests (including Kayas) - continued documentation of current status and
development of protection strategies.
2.    Survey of elephant and rhino populations in forested areas, including the development of
appropriate survey techniques.
3.    Impact of elephants on Shimba Hills in relation to park management, fencing and tourism
development.
4.    Evaluation of the Aberdares lion problem, resulting from earlier introductions, in relation to
visitor safety, prey, other predators, and lion movement out of the reserve into areas of
human habitation.
SUSTAINED WILDLIFE UTILIZATION
Poblem:
A considerable amount of Kenya's wildlife is found outside parks and reserves on private. communual
and governnent land. If it can be made to contribute substantially to the people owning the land or
living there and become a valuable economic resource, it will be saved. If not most will eventually
be destroyed through agricultural encroachment and other incompatible land uses. Consequently, to
preserve wildlife in key non-protected areas, we must develop ways to make it an economically viable
option. At present this is not the case.
Qbecive:
The KWS Report and Community Wildlife Annex outline KWS management's intention to promote
ways to make wildlife pay while being congnizant of the potential political and tourism backlash of
too agressive an approach.
PEoiects:
1.    The ecological impact of varius multiple land use projects on private and communal land that
will be promoted by KWS.



- 72 -                        Anne"3
Page 5 of 9
2.     Monitor political impact (effect on tourist opinion) of pilot consumptive use projects on
private land and the effect on animal populations for setting or revising quotas.
3.    Compare the effects of different harvesting regimes on animal numbers and the population
dynamics of various species. Develop computer models for each species to assist KWS
management decisions on cropping/removal proposals by private land owners and
cooperatives.
4.    Evaluate different harvesting techniques in relation to general population disturbance and
stress on individual animals.
5.    The effect of predator or prey removals on community ecology.
6.    The impact of revenue sharing on local communities and attitudes about wildlife.
COASTAL ECOSYSTEMS
PJroblem:
Coastal development has placed considerable pressure on Kenyas' harrier reefs, bea;hes, and marine
flora and f4una.
Qhective:
Asess the impact of tourist development and other human activities on the marine ecosystem.
1.    Impact from sale of shells to tourists and direct export. Monitor faunal changes in Kilifi
District where recently banned.
2.    Environmental impact of tourist development on coastal beaches and reefs.
3.    Assessment and evaluation of the causes and consequences of marine pollution.
4.    Evaluate and monitor lobster levels and population impact from touristdemand. Feasibility
study on establishment of protected areas as breeding grounds for lobster and crabs.
5.    Evaluation of impact of salt production plants north of Malindi in respect to future tourism
development and their impact on mangrove forests. Undertake environmental impact
assessments before establishment of new plants.
6.    Evaluate stas of mangrove forests with the aim of establishing large protected areas and the
promotion of sustainable use policies.



-73 -                          Annes
Page 6 of 9
7.     The ecology of coastal sea grasses and the effect on beaches of the practice of burying washed
up grass in the sand.
8.     The ecological impact of river silt (Sibaki and Tana) on coastal reefs and beaches.
WETLANDS
Problem:
The importance of the wetlands ecosystems has only been internationally recognised relatively recently
and is under represented in the protected areas of most countries, including Kenya. Furthermore little
is known about the wetlands ecosystem and management needs.
Objective:
Identify the significant wetland areas of Kenya and undertake biological inventories. Investigate
threatened wetland areas.
PrQiects:
1.    Lake Nakuru as a wetland in relation to flamingo, urban effluent, and fresh water dilution.
2.    Impact on wildlife by wetlands development activities at Yala Swamp.
3.     Census and evaluation of coastal wetland areas and the impact of upriver development
activities (e.g. dams, irrigation, agricultural development).
4.     The ecology and utilization of waterholes, streams and dams in parks and reserves.
5.     Assess the impact of red ced river flow, from upstream activity, on the Tana Delta and its
long-term sustainability.
6.     The role of wetlands as key production areas in arid and semi-arid lands.
WILDLIFE DISEASE
Pobkm:
1.     Wildlife share many of the same diseases with domestic animals and to a lesser extent with
humans. In areas of overlap, which are increasing, there is a significantly greater risk of
disease transmission in either direction.



~ 74 -                        Annex 3
Page 7 of 9
2.     As wildlife are restricted to increasingly small and isolated areas, the resultant effects, such
as high density, increased stress and inbreeding, can lead to lower resistence to disease.
Objective:
l.    Monitor the major known wildlife diseases that are considered to be a threat to wildlife,
liv .stovk, or humans and collaborate closely with scientists working in these fields.
2.     Estabiish a veterinary field team that can ins stigate disease outbreaks or unexpected deaths
in wildlife populations.
Projects:
1.    The epidemiology of economically important diseases (e.g trypanosomiasis, MCF, rinderpest)
in areas of wildlife/ livestock co-habitation.
2.     The feasibility of vaccinating highly endangered species against known disease threats (e.g.
wilddogs - rabies, distemper, panleukopenia).
3.     Monitor parasite loads of wildife in enclosed parks and compare to the same species in the
areas.
4.    Investigate the disease tbreat of bovive tuberculosis to wildlife populAt nS.
5.     Study the natural distribution and infection rate of nonhuman primate diseases of potentiai
human health significance (e.g bilharzia, retroviruses, filoviruses).
6.    The risk of trypanosome infection to highland rhino translocated to endemic areas (i.e.
lowland sanctuaries).
SPECIES CONSERVATION TECHNOLOGY
Problem:
The successful management of wildlife rests upon our understanding of natural biological systems,
and physiological processes. And yet amazingly little is known ana scientific techniques and expertise
need to be developed. In the long run, these will become crucial to the management of isolated and
endangered populations.
Objective:
To develop the basic scientific expertise within KWS, thro gh training and collaboration, to be in the
position to apply the knowledge and techniques to wildife management. To develop forensic research
capabilities.



" 75> fi                      Aninex-3
Page 8 of 9
Genetic mardgement of r   is in enclosed sanctuaries.
2      Repro luctive control in ek ,hants and possibly other species (e.g. predators).
3.     Phbolog.fnetic relationships cl various wildife species, especially in relation to subspecies and
hybriJiation concerns.
4.     Th'. impact of stress and oil .'r physiological processes on the health (and survival) of wildlife
with restricted ranges.
5.     Assessment of genetic varianility of fragmented and isolated wildlife populations.
6.     Genetic studies of migrator, vs non-migratory wildebeeste.
7.     Genetic and reproductive stv Jies of the Tana River Crested Mangabey and Red Colobus.
S.    The effect of nutritional /mineral deficiencies in Lake Nakuru National Park on wildlife health
and reproduction.
9.     Tle utilization of non-interventive monitoring of reproductive :ycles and pregancy
d&terminations through faeca and urine steroidal analyses as a wildlife management strategy.
10.    Embryo tran,plant, artificial insemination and germplasm recovery studies (long-term, not an
immediate management requirement).
TOURIST ASSESSMENT
Problem:
Part of the KWS management strategy is to reach and educate the tourist and to enhance their visit
experience.
Obiective:
Establish a database on tourists (i.e. origin, characterists, areas visited, attitudes, demands and wants).
From this, evaluate the effectiveness of KWS management and educational strategies aimed at the
tourist and make recommendations on how to improve.
hQis:
I.    Attempt to establish a level of tourist satisfaction in relation to individual parks and reserves,
access roads, tours and congestion, dust, etc.



l                                      - ~~~~~~~~~~76 -
Annex 3
Page 9 of 9
2.     Monitor effectiveness (through tourist awareness) of compaibns to discourage practices such
as off-road driving and feeding of animals.
3.     Monitor the levels of tourist satisfactien as [-ark management strategies are implemented and
the number that intend to return.
4.     Monitor the number of tourists visiting less popular parks and private tourist facilities.
5.     Comparative analysis of responses among the different parks and reserves.
6.     Evaluate the effectiveness of publicity and public
relations campaigns.
7.     Solicit suggestions from tourists of what steps could be taken by KWS which would have
improved their visit.



- 77 -
Annex 4
Page I of 7
KENYA
PROTECTED AREAS AND WILDLIFE SERVICES PROJECT
Infrastructure Development
Background
1.           Durih.g the past decade, the deterioration of the infrastructure in the Parks and Reserves
has become an impe4iment to tourism development and poses a serious threat to the environment and
natural wildlife habitats. Some paved and engineered graveled primary roads have significantly
deteriorated to the extent that rehabilitation/reconstruction is necessary while others require urgent
resurfacing to avoid premature breakdown. Most tourist and administrative roads and tracks built of
gravel and local earth materials have become hazardous water channels during rainy seasons with grossly
inadequate or non-existent drainage facilities. The lack of traffic control has encourage motorists to
indulge in over-speeding on roads and tracks on flat terrains, causing accelerated surface erosion and
significant ecological damage. Office buildings, staff quarters and workshop facilities have also not been
maintained: they have leaky roofs, cracked walls and lack sewer facilities. The lack of spare parts and
funds have left workshop and road maintenance equipment idle. The latter is tusting in various locations
in the Parks and Reserves, only cannibalization keeps a few of them functioning intermittently.
Project Preparation and Design
2.           In view of limited resou.ces (organization, manpower and finance), an eight-year Program
has been designed covering the priority needs of KWS in infrastructure development.The Program will
concentrate on the maintenance, rehabilitation and reconstruction of a limited high priority network of
roads, tracks, office buildings, staff quarters and workshop facilities. The selected road network
comprises about 8,700 km of roads and tracks draining Parks and Reserves. This network consists of
3,200 km of primary roads, and 5,500 km of scenic, tourist and administrative roads and tracks. The
network is designed in circuits (including one way systems) of most trafficked roads and tracks covering
almost all major fauna, flora and scenic attractions; canalizing and distributing traffic more evenly to
avoid overcrowding; and allowing for a broader utilization of Parks and Reserves areas. The network of
office building, staff quarters, workshops and other administrative facilities follows the circuits of roads
and tracks. The Project, presented below, covers the first five years of the Program.
3.           Preliminary engineering has been carried out on the road and track network by local
consultants under a Japanese Grant for project preparation. KWS has carried out, with assistance from
USAID (Project No. 615-0253), a complete inventory of existing equipment and evaluated needs for
workshops and road maintenance. To improve KWS management and enhance security and anti-poaching,
ODA has carried out a study and provided financing for equipping Tsavo East and West with an efficient
telecommunication system. ODA has extended this study to cover all priority Parks and Reserves. KWS'
engineers have prepared preliminary studies for the rehabilitation of buildings and construction of new
office facilities at headquarters. A PPF (US$600,000) has been provided under the Project for the
preparation of detailed engineering and bidding documents for the construction of KWS headquarter
facilities and the first year of road rehabilitation. ne proposed project will provide funding for detailed



- 78 -
Annex 4
Page 2 of 7
engineering, preparation of bidding documents for the remaining four years and supervision of works.
4.            Roads and tracks design standards (Annex 4 Table 1) have been chosen to protect the
environment, control traffic, prevent off-road driving and over speeding. Drainage structures will be
provided with inlet and outlet structures to prevent erosion and protect wildlife habitats. Borr¢w pits,
local earth materials deposits, and cuts and embankment slopes will be seeded with natural indigenous
grass, shrubs and trees to prevent soil elosiori and preserve tthe ecological balance. Office buildings, staff
quarters, workshops and other administrative facilities will be build as economically as possible with local
materials within architectural forms in harmony with the area environment.
Road Rehabilitation and Fencing
5.           This Project component includes the rehabilitation of about 475 km of primary roads,
including air strips and construction of 550 m of fences. These roads ware built 10 to 20 years ago and
carry about 100 to 200 vehicles per day. During the past decade mainLenance has been spotty oi non-
existent. Some pavements have deteriorated to the extent that reconstruction is necessary while others
need protection to avoid premature breakdown. They will be rehabilitated on pavement widths ranging
from 6.0 m to 5.0 m with shoulders of 0.5 m. The works consist of (1) improvement of drainage, (2)
repairs and rehabilitation of bridges and culverts, (3) regravelling of shoulders, (4) patching, resealing
and construction of new wearing courses of treated local soil materials, or gravel, or if economical,
single surface asphalt treatments on some sections, (5) rebuilding of some subgrades on other sections,
(6) construction of new base courses of crushed rock, or gravel, or treated local soil materials, and (7)
construction of new wearing cources of treated local soil materials, or gravel, or if economical, double
surface asphalt treatments. These works will be carried out by contractors under the supervision of
consultants. This component is estimated to cost US$15.0 million including physical and price
contingencies and consultants services for design and supervision.
Maintenance of Roads and Fences
6.           The proposed Project component includes the maintenance of about 1,000 km of primary
roads and spot improvements and maintenance of about 4,000 km of tourist and service roads and tracks
and maintenance of existing fences in the Parks and Reserves. Some of these roads have not been
maintained during the past decade and others are only tracks on which traffic is impeded during the rainy
seasons due to inter alia. lack of adequate drainage, steep grades, low spots and sharp curves. Works
proposed include: (1) clearing of shoulders, (2) cleaning of existing ditches and culverts, (3) opening up
of new ditches and laying of new culverts, (4) construction of irish bridges (submersible slabs), (5) minor
repairs of bridges, (6) easing, widening and regravelling of sharp serves, (7) limited improvement of
grades, (8) raising and selective regravelling of low spots, (9) filling of potholes and '10) maintenance
of existing fences. These works are small and geographically dispersed. They will be carried out
economically by force account, since the cost of mobilization by contractors way outstrips the cost of
these works. Spot improvements will be carried out by equipment-based brigades located in the regions,
while routine maintenance will be carried out by labor-based teams located in the Parks, Reserves and
stations. These brigades and teams will also carry out emergency works when necessary and economical.
This Component is estimated to cost US$4.21 million including physical and price contingencies.



- 79 -
Annex 4
Page 3 of 7
Improvement of Administrative Facilities
7.            KWS facilities are in state of dis:epair. Workshops, office buildings, staff quarters and
other administrative facilities have not been adequately maintained in the past decade so that they have
leaky roofs, cracked walls and even some lack basic utilities such as power, water and sewer. Under the
Project existing facilities will be maintained and rehabilitated and new ones provided. The proposed
Project component includes: (1) 42,500 sq m of construction and/or extension of facilities within Parks
and Reserves including office buildings, staff quarters, workshops and other administrative facilities, (2)
6,000 sq m of construction of KWS' headquarters and 2,100 sq m of maintenance/rehabilitation of
administrative facilities in Nairobi, and (3) 67,500 sq m of maintenance/rehabilitation of workshops and
selected office buildings, staff quarters and other administrative facilities. All construction and
rehabilitation works will be carried out by contractors under the supervision of consultants. Some minor
maintenance works on isolated facilities will be economically carried out by force account. TIle
construction of new facilities is eatimated to cost about US$22.38 million including consultants services
for design and supervision; while the maintenance and rehabilitation of the existing ones are estimated
to cost about USS8.73 million.
Maintenance Centers
8.            KWS equipment and tools have also not been adequately maintained in the past decade
due to lack of spare parts and operating funds. And very few, if any, are operational. Costly road
maintenance equipment is rusting in various location in the Parks and Reserves and only cannibalization
from others keeps a few of them functioning. Under the Project, workshops rehabilitated, expanded and
constructed (para. 7) will constitute maintenance centers. With adequate funding, these centers will
procure and maintain all KWS vehicles, road equipment and plants, aircraft, telecommunication,
workshop, office, and laboratory equipment, tools, furniture, spare parts, fuel, oils, lubricants, materials
and supplies. Equipment specialized reconditioning and calibration will be carried out by specialized
private workshops. While routine overhauls, servicing and preventive maintenance will be carried out
economically by force account. The capital cost of the new equipment is estimated at about US$48.43
millign; while the operation and maintenance of the fleet is estimated to cost US$17.94 million.
Trafric Management
9.            To efficiently manage and control traffic, a traffic policing function will be added to the
anti-poaching and security units. These units will be given the necessary manpower, equipment, financing
and training for this purpose The cost of its equipment is included under the maintenance centers (para.
8).
Organization and Implementation
10.          The creation in January 1990 of KWS as a para-statal organization gives it independence
to focus on the rehabilitation and maintenance of the infrastructure. To carry out these tasks efficiently
KWS has established a Sub-Directorate of Technical Services and field level *mplementation capacity at
the regional, Areas, Stations and Reserves levels (Organization Chart Annex 1). The main features of this
organization and implementation arrangements are as follows.
(a)    At the Headquarter level there would be a Sub-Directorate of Technical Services to be



- 80 -
Annex
Page 4 of 7
charged with policy formulation, planning, and supervision of the regional work
programs. It will manage rehabilitation and improvement works on roads and buildings
and construction of fences carried out by private contractors under the supervision of
consulting firms. The Sub-Directorate of Technical Services will be headed by a Deputy
Director, an experienced engineer. It will include four Divisions, roads and fences,
buildings, mechanical and telecommunication,and aviation. The Divisions will be headed
by chief engineers and a chief pilot respectively; and
(b)    Parks and Reserves would be grouped into eight regions including Western, Coast,
Northern, Eastern, Nairobi, Mountain, Southern and Rift Valley and 24 Areas.
Equipment-based units will be set up in the regions, while labor-based units would
operate within Areas, Parks, Reserves and stations. The regional units w.il be headed by
engineers/senior foremen, while Areas, Parks and Reserves units will be managed by
senior foremen and technicians.  Adequate personnel, equipment, workshops and
financial resources will be placed directly under these units to carry out routine
maintenance operations of roads and fences, minor spot impiovement works on the scenic
and tourist network, repairs of administrative facilities and emergencies. Labor for force
account work will be hired on a temporary basis. These units will also carry out routine
overhauis, servicing and preventive maintenance of equipment; whiie major equipment
overhaul, specialized reconditioning and calibration beyond KWS capacity will be carried
out by private specialized % orkshops or dealers. This organization used to satisfactorily
carry out these operations when it was an autonomous organization from its inception in
1948 to 1976 when it was absorbed into the Ministry of Tourism and Wildlife. Some
professionals who used to run these operations are still in KWS . Maintenance operations
run by KWS under its own financing have so far been satisfactory. This improvement
could be sustained if KWS remains financially autonomous and operates on a commercial
base.
Training
11.          To carry out the infrastructure rehabilitation and maintenance program, KWS will recruit
qualified staff and train existing ones in the required skills. Thesa will include 4 senior engineers and 1
chief pilot heading the Sub-Directorate of Technical Services (para. 10), 6 senior civil work technicians,
15 senior mechanics,pilots and equipment operators, 8 senior carpenters, 7 senior masons, and 53
accountants and store clerks. They will be trained in foreign and local institutions. The detailed training
program will be prepared by a training coordinator and agreed with IDA in the context of annual
discussions of the work program. It will include the qualifications of trainees, types and cost of training
as well as the training institutions and an indication of assignments to be given to the trainees on their
return.
12.          While the training of personnel (para. 11) is being carried out, consulting services will
be needed for the execution of the Project. The needed consulting services are as follows.
Preparatlon and Supervision of Contracted Works
13.          KWS will need consulting services for: (a) preparation of detailed engineering,
construction plans and bidding documents for road and building works for the last four years of the



- 81 -
Annex 4
Page 5 of 7
Project; and (b) supervision of works for both components of road rehabilitation and building
improvement and construction.
Tedhical Assistaee
14.          KWS will also need 60 man-months services of a technical expert to assist in the
management of the Sub-Directorate of Technical services, and 240 man-months services of 2 chief civil
engineers, I chief mechanical engineer and a chief pilot to run the divisions of roads and fences,
buildings, .anechanical and telecommunication, and aviation and to assist in the implementation of the
infrastructure components of the Project. The experts will assist in (1) managing works carried out by
contractors and private firms, (2) planning works and supervision of brigades and teams; (3) carrying out
repair and maintenance of equipment, (4) procuring equipment, tools, spare parts, materials and supplies,
(5) carrying out cost-accounting to determine equipment and brigades and maintenance teams output, unit
costs, and indices for monitoring equipment utilization and progress of works, and (6) on-the-job training
of staff and technicians. The details on technical assistance will be found in Annex 1.
Implementation Schedule and Key Performance Indicators
iS.          The expected overall implemen.ation schedule for major activities and key performance
indicators (Annex 4, Table 2 and Annex 7, Table I) have been agreed upon. The first year's
implementation schedule for the major activities of each infrastructurelcomponent is firm. The program
for the following four years has been prepared and agreed upon. This program will be updated annually
during the implementation period and executed annually, with MDA agreement, based on detailed
management and investment plans for each Park and Reserve.



- 82 -
Annex 4
Page 6 of 7
Table l
KENYA
pROTECTED AREAS AND WILDLIFE SERVICES PROJECT
Road Deaign Standards
Roads                               prim-ary        Tourist
Roads          Roads
Maximum design speed  (km/h)         60              40
Minimum radius for
horizontal curves      (m)           160 (40)*       70 (30)
Minimum radius for
vertical curves
Crest                  (m)           800             400
Sag                   (m)            1,200           800
Maximum grade          (%)           12 (14)         15
Transversal slope
Pavement              (%)            4               4
Shoulders             (%)            4               5
Pavement width         (m)           5 to 6          4
Platform width         (m)           6 to 7          5
Maximum permissible
axle load              (t)           10             10
* Figures in parentheses indicate values adopted in
exceptional cases for specific short sections either in very
mountainous terrain or in other particular difficult
conditions.



- 83 -
Annex 4
Page 7 of 7
Tab2le 2
KEEY
PROTECTED AREAS AND WILDLIFE SERVICES PROJECT
Infrastructure Development
Execution Program
91/92  92/93  93/94  94/95  95/96  Total
Boadg
Rehabilitation (km)    38    114    114    119        90    475
Maintenance (km%       300    700   1000   1500   1500   5000
Building
Construction (sqm)   4850  14550  14550   9700   4850  48500
Rehabilitation (sqm) 6960  20880  20880  13920   6960  69600
curipment
Procurement ()10                30     30      30     --    100



KENYA
PROTECTED AREAS AND WILDLIFE SERVICES PROJECT
SLiry Accamt by Project Coanpit
KSH
IfAOW?MT               PARK
ERS               INFRA. & COCMITY  EDUCATION              RESEARCH VETERIIAR  RESERVES  WILDLIFE
STRENICTE           DEVELOPRE  VILDLIFE /VISITORS POLICY/PL  & SPEC.       r      INFRA &  PROTECAS
M.     TRtAINING    NT      PROG.      CENTER    ANIING   PROGRAMS  SERVICES  DEVELOP.  ECLRITY       Total
Uttzt..zs.s5tsfSesu: StClstttn2Us=-== =555=====t-W5 =55=tS3fl3S;WT-tttStUUsS SSSS*gSSinn
1. INVESTNENT COSTS
................... .
AO. CIVIL WORKS
1. BUILDIIGS                    61808.2   39666.3  359444.1   43573.6   49921.1        0.0       0.0       0.0   27366.5   63247.1  65tO26.8
2. RO&IS                            0.0       0.0  186396.4       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0   13683.3        0.0  200079.?
Sub-total                         67808.2   39666.3  545840.5   43573.6   49921.1        0.0       0.0       0.0   41049.8   63247.1  851106.5
Al. VEHICLES                     106753.0    7675.2  111243.9   49457.3   26000.1   10544.7   17450.0    3767.6   11776.0   3752Z.9  382250.6
A2. EQUIPMENT/MAIERIALS          194527.1   10339.7   26438.5    9852.0   54693.9    4147.6   10721.0    3038.5    8204.1   20927.4  342889.9
A3. PLANT, MACHNiERY                  0.0       0.0  358883.1       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0    5469.4   11850.3  376202.9            >
A4. FENCING                           0.0       0.0       0.0  140263.7        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0  140263.7          0
AS. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE          7140'.t   47849.4       0.0   30128.8    5793.9   39347.7   64153.4    6812.3        0.0        0.0  265489.7
A6. LOCAL CONTRACT STAfF          57704.9    9994.7       0.0   10838.7   10437.2    4373.3   15242.7    9232.6         0.0       0.0  117824.0          >
Al. IRAINING                          0.0    4069.2   17000.4   17651.4        0.0    7088.5   28782.2    4087.4       0.0        0.0   78679.1          >
A8. RESEARCH FUND                     0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0   27000.0       0.0        0.0       0.0   27000.0    oo
A9. CMUINITY DEVELOP. FUND            0.0       0.0       0.0   55242.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0   55242.0
..........--.-----.-------. ..-- ....... -.----.--.- . . . .-...---- .-.-........
Total INVESTHENT COSTS           498197.3  119594.5  1059406.5  357007.6  146846.1   65501.8  163349.3   26938.4   66499.3  133607.7 2636948.5                 t
11. RECURRENT COSTS
AO. OPERATIONS * MAINTENANCE                                                                                                                             _
1. CIVIL WORKS 0 AND M          11843.6    3538.6   37909.2       0.0    7400.4        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0    5970.0   66661.8    c 
2. VEHICLES 0 AND N             42194.1    3070.1   36510.9   13693.0    9336.2    4431.3    6189.2    1507.0        0.0   13353.5  130285.3    at
3. EQUIPKENT 0 AND N            79002.3       0.0    4472.7   13693.0   22971.4    2294.9    5550.7    1458.5         0.0    9571.4  139015.0 o
4. PLANT 0 AND M                    0.0       0.0  172263.9       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0    6517.7  178181.6
5. FENCING 0 AND H                  0.0       0.0       0.0   50494.9        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0   50494.9
sub-total                        133040.0    6608.7  251156.8   77881.0   39708.0    6726.2   11739.8    29L5.6        0.0   35412.5  565238.7
Al. TRANSLOCATION                     0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0    9000.0       0.0       0.0    9000.0
A2. SALARIES AID ALLOWANCES           0.0    5625.0       0.0       0.0       0.0    6750.0   28500.0    8775.0        0.0       0.0   49650.0
A3. ROADS HAINTENANCE                0.0        0.0   55085.4       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0   55085.4
A4. TRAVEL/ALLO0ANCES              2970.0   17920.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      729.0    9450.0    2000.0       0.0       0.0   33069.0
-.....-    -...-..-.    ---.---..---.-....-.---------..----------.------..    .--.--.-...---------...-.---------.-..--.  .....-------- . 0
Total RECURRENT COSTS            136010.0   30153.7  306242.2   77881.0   39708.0   14205.2   49689.8   22740.6        0.0   35412.5  712043.1
Total BASELINE COSTS             634207.3  149748.2 1365648.7  434888.6  186554.2   79707.0  213039.1   49678.9   66499.3  169020.2 3348991.6
Physical Contingenmies          48064.7   11959.4  111449.2   35700.8   14684.6    6550.2   13634.9    2693.8    6649.9   13360.8  264748.4
Price Contingencies            142440.8   39279.7  426688.5   90807.2   61150.5   23695.9   62938.9   12636.1   42150.5   44415.9  946203.9
Total PROJECT COSTS              824712.9  2007.3  1903786.3  561396.6  262389.3  109953.1  289612.9   65008.8  115299.7  226796.9 4559943.9
Taxes                          139385.4   13844.3  265912.2   36741.4   46698.4    6895.2   13384.3    3153.8   20943.8   41927.4  588886.3               0 °>
Foreign Exchange               502685.4  120447.2 1203254.7  195460.0  156792.0   75150.8  169817.6   24512.8   77597.4  142344.6 2668062.5 .J
Valwes Scaled by 1000.0 12/3/1991  12:10



KEnYA
POTECTED ARS  AID SWLDLIFE SERVICES PROCT
St_ry Accounts by Teer
Totals tnctudifn  Contingncies                                     Totals Includiww  Contln lfeis
. ....  .... ......... ....................... .. .... ... .. .. .... ... . ... .... ... .   --------- ......*. . .................................... ... .
01        02        03         04        05      Total           01        02         03        04         05     Totel
I. INVSTHEUT COSTS
A. CIVIL MKS
t. Rl7tOtIlNS                  64993.4  301436.7  257580.7  159785.5   93727.3  897523.6         3147.9   10394.4    8309.1    438.S    7266.0   285h7.
2. RoAOS                       17910.9   54353.0  tt8248.1   57110.8   36651.6  284274.3          663.4    1874.2    3814.5    1516.4       893.9    82.4
Stb-totat                        102904.3  355789.7   75828.1  216W96.3  130378.9 1131798.0         3811.3   12268.6   12123.5    6024.9    318.0   37408.3
D. VEHICLES                        355Z.4  305550.7  140700.7   47717.1    9481.9  507002.7          131.6   10536.2    4538.7    1325.5       231.3   16763.3
C. EOUSP9ENTIN1ERIlALs            11120.4  242064.1  143123.7   36593.8   27682.6  460584.7          411.9    8347.0    4616.9    1016.5       675.2   15067.5
D. PLANT, MACHINERY               40813.4  145325.7  154169.3  179182.1    5137.1  524627.o         1511.6    501l.2    4973.2    4977.3       125.3   16596.6
E. tENCING                        16393.4   71443.8   95970.2        0.0        0.0  183807.5        607.2    2463.6    3095.8        0.0        0.0    6166.6
F. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE           71588.3   97354.1   73071.4   64002.4   59157.0  365173.1         2651.4    3357.0    2357.1    1777.8    1442.9   11586.3
G. LOCAL CONTRACT SIAFF           16550.5   30177.8   36463.6   38463.8   40387.0  162042.8          613.0    1040.6    1176.2    1068.4       985.0    4883.3
R. TRAINItG                       14327.5   24724.7   27606.9   25447.9   18830.0  170937.0          530.6     852.6      e90.5     706.9      459.3    3439.9
J. RESEARCH FUND                   5737.0    6250.9    6718.0    7284.9    7857.5   33848.2          212.5     215.5      216.7     202.4      191.6    1038.7
J. CO UIlY DEYEtOP. FUND           7596.9   15198.4   15202.9   15207.5    7606.0   60811.8          281.4     524.1      490.4     422.4      185.5    1903.8
Total INVSY1NET COSTS            290584.1  12879.9  1068855.4  630795.9  306518.0 3590633.3        10762.4   44616.5   34479.2   17S22.1    7476.0  114856.3oc
it. RECURRENT COSTS
A. OPERATIONS & HAINTEHANCE
1. CIVIL IWIRKS 0 AND N         1826.4   11403.3   19648.1   25682.5   29756.0   88316.4           67.6     393.2      633.8     713.4      725.8    2533.8
2. VEHICLES 0 AND H             3177.8   285.9   40872.6   50307.5   57302.2  180246.0            117.7     985.7    1318.5    1397.4    1397.6    5216.9
3. EQUIPMENT 0 AND t            4236.6   32577.4   41665.0   51647.6   61696.2  191822.8          156.9    1123.4    1344.0    1434.7    t504.8    5563.7
4. PLANT 0 AND N                5603.7   26052.6   49435.6   80300.5   91467.9  2S2860.4          207.5     8.4    1594.7    2230.6    2230.9    7162.1
5. FENCING 0 AND N              1503.1    5150.7   17397.3   18351.6   19269.2   64671.7           55.7     281.1      561.2     509.8      470.0    1877.7
Sub-Totst                         16347.6  106769.9  169018.6  226289.7  259491.5  m917.3            605.5    3681.7    5452.2    6285.8    6329.1   22354.3
S. TRANSLOCATION                   1928.9    2091.9    2232.6    2355.1    2472.8   11081.3           71.4      72.1       72.0      65.4      60.3      341.3
C. SALARIES AND ALLOAUt CES        4581.1   10198.2   14511.8   16289.1   17103.6   62683.8          169.7     351.7      468.1     452.5     417.2    1859.1
0. ROADS MAINTEWANCE              12876.3   14029.0   15076.1   16343.3   17622.7   75947.3          476.9     43.8       486.3     454.0      429.8    2330.8
E. TRAVEL/ALLOANCES                7051.4    7051.1    9806.1    8456.7    9315.7   41680.9          261.2     243.1      316.3     234.9      ?27.2    1282.7
-------------- ----   -.--.  .--.   ..-  -.-...- -----.- ---.-...   ..  -- -----  ....... ............ ...................... .   ......... _... .. __
Total RECURRElNT COSTS            42785.3  140140.1  210645.2  269733.8  306006.Z  969310.6         1584.6    4832.4    6795.0    7492.6    7463.6   28168.2
Total PROJECT COSTS              333369.4  1434019.9  1279500.6  900529.7  612524.2 4559943.9      12347.0   49449.0   41274.2   25014.7   14939.6  143024.5
Vatues Scaled by 1000.0 12f3/1991 12:04
I~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



KENYA
PtOTECTED ARS AID WILDLIFE SEltVICES PROJECT
KSN
Project Coqmpnts by Tear
so" Costs                                      Total
..................................................... ................................................................    ......... ..
01         02          03         04          05     KSIN       ust
A. INST. DEV. * NA_AGENUT
1. NEADOMTER$S STREIGTtNEN.        55565.6   352939.3   122716.6   52834.4    50129.4  634207.3    23489.2
2. TRAINING                        17277.6    58433.8    384.5    17576.2    17576.2   149748.2           5546.2
......... ............... __,........ ....... ............ .... ...... ............ ...............
Sub-total                             72843.2  411373.1   161603.1    70430.5    67705.6   783955.5    29035.4
S. PARK INFRA. & DEVELOPMENT         120617.1   362664.5   427245.6   314330.9  1407v0.6  136568.7   50579.6
C. WILDLIFE SERIVICES
1. CORUtlTY WILDLIFE PROG.         37298.4   156201.6   161160.6    471S7.7    33070.3   434888.6    16107.0
2. EDUCATION/VISITORS CENTER       16262.5    56451.9    45255.1    38458.2    30126.4   186554.2        6909.4
3. PfLICYIPLAtNINC                 10988.3    28083.0    15361.2    1258.7    12689.7    79707.0          2952.1
............. ....................... _..... ........ _.................. ..........  ..................
Sub-total                             64549.2   240736.6   221777.0    98200.6    7S86.4   701149.8    25968.5
D. SCIENTIFIC SERVICES
1. RESEARCI & SPEC. PROGRANS       27611.7    54290.8    54474.9    42711.6    33950.1   213039.1        7890.3
2. VETERINARY SERVICES              7180.0    14592.2    11180.1       9046.1      7680.4   49678.9       1840.43
Stb-total                             34791.7    61883.0    65655.1    51757.7    41630.5   262718.1         9730.3
E. RESERVES INFRA & DEVELOP.              0.0        0.0         0.0    35575.5    30923.8    66499.3       2462.9
F. WILDLIFE PROTEC.&SECWRITY          4013.8    67508.8    69401.9    17899.5    10196.3   169020.2        6260.0
---....-..    .---.-.-.-.-.-....    -.    ---.    -----.------------..---....    ...--------..                                               00
Total BASELINE COSTS                 296815.0  1151166.0   94568Z.7  588194.7   367133.3  3348991.6   124036.7
Physical Cmtingencies              24530.0   103615.8    78375.3   40321.4    17905.9  264748.4           9805.5
Price Contingencies                12024.4   179238.2   255442.7   272013.7   227485.0   946203.9        9182.3
Total PROJECT COSTS                  333369.4  1434019.9  1279500.6  900529.7   612524.2  4559943.9   143024.5
Taxes                              24163.3   243771.1   169733.2   100282.3    50936.3   588886.3    18804.1
Foreign Exchange                  198130.8   863436.3   731765.4  535185.3  339544.6  2668062.5    83865.0
.  ...    ......... .................................... ...- - -- -- - -- -- - -- -- - -- - --.- - -- -- - -- -- - -- -- - -- -
Vatues Scaled  iy 1000.0 12/3/1991  12:04



XENYA
PkOTECTED AIEAS AM WILDIFE SERVICES PROJECT
finereKn Pion by Project Coopnents
US$
WOVERMIhT OF    INTL. OEVELoP                        GMt of       EUMOPIAW  ECON.
USAZO             QDA            JAPAN          ASSOCIATION         EFV           NEFOERLADS       co iltty
.... .... .............................. ........................................  ....................... ..............................................,. ............................. _.
Amsmt            Am %t   XAms*    I                Aaomt    I      AX,lt    S       Amount    1       llwt    t
AG. NEADOMATERS STREJ61NET.       236.1    0.9   5742.4   21.4        0.0    0.0  13985.1   52.0       0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0    134.2    0.5
Al. TRAINING                     1214.6   19.0    878.8   13.8        0.0    0.0   2174.2   34.0        0.0    0.0   1)73.6   18.4       0.0    0.0
A2. PARK INFRA. a                 ?48.1    1.3  10955.3   18.6   5574.7    9.5  22666.2   38.4   5202.6    8.8         86.5    0.1       0.0    0.0
A3. cosmtY UttILOLIFE PROC.      4722.3   26.1       0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0   3545.3   19.6   1125.7    6.2        0.0    0.0   6166.6   34.1
A4. EDUCATIOWVISITORS               0.0    0.0    736.7    9.2        0.0    0.0   5138.4   64.0        0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0
AS. POLICV/PLAI5ING                91.1    2.7    185.5    5.4        0.0    0.0    949.4   27.8        0.0    0.0   1727.8   50.5       0.0    0.0
A6. RESEA*CN I SPEC.                0.0    0.0    576.0    6.5    495.8    5.6   4906.6   55.0         0.0    0.0    404.8    4.5   1221.2   13.7
AT. VETERINARY SERVICES             0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0    105.6    5.2   1447.7   71.4         0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0
AS. ItESERVES INFtA                 0.0    0.0    123.4    4.1    439.6   14.6   1896.6   63.1          0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0
A9. WEIOLIfE                        0.0    0.0    840.4   11.6    182.6    2.5   3776.8   51.9         0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0    484.5    6.7
total Disbursewnt                7012.2    4.9  20038.5   14.0   6798.2    4.8  60486.5   42.3   6328.4    4.4   3392.8    2.4   8006.4    5.6
Values Scaled by 1000.0 12/2(1991 13:59
OD
0
..' l



KEIUA
PIOTECTO AREAS MU AMUIIFE UEICES PtOJECT
Firncmin Pten by Project Copomnnts
sovernmnt          Totat                 Local
---- ------------ ------ -----------    for.    CExcl.   Outles
AMwt    S       Asmt    S         Exch.   Taxe)   & Tax.
Suamso    ugm-uaumsu mzu m
A0. EAWOUTEUS SThEITUEN.        67M5.9   25.2  26S3.6   15.8  16S29.1   5693.2   4661.2
Al. TtAININU                     945.5   14.8   6386.7    4,S   3846.6   2073.7    466.4
A2. PAK IOFRA. 5               13756.7   23.3  58990.1   41.2  37282.8  13377.5   8329.8
A3. COUNITY WILUIFE PUiO.       2528.4   14.0  1606.3   12.6   6376.9  10496.3   1215.1
A4. EDucATIo/visitons           2154.0   26.8   6029.1    5.6   4105.1   1781.5   1442.5
AS. POLICVPLAMINS               467.3   13.7   3421.1    2.4   2335.1    850.6    232.5
A6. RESEAMC  & SPEC.            1310.5   14.7   6915.1    6.2   S295.9   3183.0    436.1
A7. VETERINART SERVICES          474.2   23.4   2027.4    1.4    790.9   1133.1    103.4
AS. RESERMES INFIA £             547.6   18.2   3007.4    2.1   2022.6    437.0    547.8
A9. WILDLIFE                    1991.3   27.4   7275.7    5.1   4576.9   1329.4   1369.4
................... ..............................................
Total O abursment              30961.S   21.6  143024.5  100.0  83865.0  40355.4  18804.1
Vatus Sceled by 1000.0  12/2/1991  13:59
cL
aD -



- 89 -
mex S
Page 6 of 7
tubte S
KENYA
PROTECTEO AREAS AND WILDLIFE SERVICES PROJECT
... ... . ....... ......
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements /a
............................. ..............................................
IDA                                          Curulative        Disburse. Rate      Country Profile
Fiscal Tear                Disbursements    Disbursements      Used for Project /b for Alt Sectors
-------------   mitlion -------      -       --X of Tote -----------------
1992
2nd Semester                 1.8               1.8                 3.0                0.0
1993
1st Semester                 1.8               3.6                 6.0               3.0
2nd Semester                 4.8               8.5                14.0                6.0
1994
lst Semnester                4.8              13.3                22.0               14.0
2nd Semester                 4.8              18.2                30.0               22.0
1995
let Sinster                  7.3              25.4                42.0              30.0
2nd Semeter                  7.3              32.7                54.0              42.0
1996
ist Semester                 4.8              37.5                62.0              54.0
2nd Se ester                 4.8              42.4                70.0               62.0
1997
1st Semester                 7.3              49.6                82.0              70.0
2nd Semester                 4.8              54.5                90.0              82.0
1996
lot Semester                 6.0              60.5               100.0              90.0
Project Completion Date: March 31, 1997
Project Closing Date:     September 30, 1997
ot Some numbers do not add up due to rounding.
b/ The disbursement rate is expected to be stightly faster than the regionaL profile
btecae soe of the technical assistance and project staff are already In piace.
Procureant packages for the headquarter building and the first year's park roads
snd bufldfng program bave been completed.



- 90 -
Annex 5
Page 7 of 7
Table 6
KENYA
PROTtCTED ARZAS AND WILDLIFE SERVICES PROJECT
List of Equipment, Machinery and Vehicles and Their
Method of Procurement
Item                     Quantity           Total Cost         Method of
Net of Taxes      Procurement
and Duties
US$000
1 Bicycles                       111              26.7           LCB
2 Motorcycles                     42              121.4          ICB
3 Cars (4*2)                      22              370.7          ICB
4 4x4 Hard Top                     2               57.8          ICB
5 6x6 Pickup                      12              866.7          ICB
6 4x2 Micro Bus                    4               67.4          ICB
7 4x2 Tourist Bus                  4               86.7          'CB
8 4x2 Large Bus                    9              433.3          ICB
9 4x2, 3-ton Trucks               21                455          ICB
10 4x2, 7-ton Water Tankers        18              606.7          ICB
11 Water Drilling Rigs              2             314.8           ICB
12 4x2 Wheel Tractors               7              155.6          ICB
13 4x4 Wheel Tractors               6              155.6          ICB
14 5-ton Non-Tipping Trailer        5               15.7          LCB
15 1000 Lt. Fuel Trailers          16               45.4          LCB
16 1000 Lt. Water Trailers         39               85.9          LCB
17 1-ton Ped Vibro Rollers         21              198.4          ICB
18 1 M Cum Concrete Mixers         16              125.9          ICe
19 Lawn Mowers                     37               58.2          LCB/Shopping
20 Grass Mowers                    13               48.2          LCB/Shopping
21 Power Saw                       10               15.7          Shopping
22 Power Vibrators                 20                6.3          Shopping
23 Bitumen Sprayer.                15                4.7          Shopping
24 Water Pumps                      8                 63          LCB/Shopping
25 Generator set                   35              324.1          ICE
26 Static Engine                    3               27.8          LCB
27 Auger Bit                        1                0.4          Shopping
28 6-seater Aircraft                1               95.6          ICB
29 16-18 Seater Aircraft            1             1333.4          ICB
30 6-7 Seater Helicopter            1             1037.8          ICB
31 Misc. Office Equip.            Lot                 80          LCB/Shopping
32 Research Equip/Materias        Lot                726          LCB/Shopping
Total                                         8010.9
Shopping not exceeding $100,000
LCB not exceeding $500,000



- 91 -
Annex 6
KENYA
PROTECTED AREAS AND WILDLIFE SERViCES PROJECT
Summary Contents of the Annual Work Plan
A.    1.    Implementation of all project components would be carried out on the basis of an
annual work plan prepared by KWS by mid-October each year. Each year's AWP would
be discussed with IDA not later than by December 1.
2.    The AWP would include:
(i)          A statement of specific objectives (quantified targets) to be
pursued during the year and a description, by components, of the
activities to be undertaken in order to achieve those objectives.
This shou!d be cross-referenced to the relevant sectors of the
Development Credit Agreement and Grant Agreements as well as
the Staff Appraisal Report;
(ii)         A progress report on the development of KWS's commercial
accounting and MIS system;
(iii)        A detailed assessment of long term (and thereafter annual) training
needs and plans for conducting the training;
(iv)         Propose adjustments in the tariff rates based on the pricing study
to be completed by June 30, 1992; and measures to increase
revenue collection;
(v)          Plan to share revenues with communities and proposals to finance
subprojects out of the Community Development Fund;
(vi)         Procurement plans for purchases, works and services scheduled in
the AWP, including type of procurement/bidding and timetables;
(vii)        Comment on observations by management audit, and corrective
measures;
(viii)       Prepare Annual Corporate Plan including projected income
statement and balance sheet for next year.
3.    The annual planning and budgeting system, to be practical, should form part of an
integrated planning, financial control/accounting and monitoring/reporting system. This
system would be established and operationalized during the first project year and should
be computer-based.



- 92 -
Annex 7
Appendix I
Page 1 of 9
KENYA
PROTECTED AREAS AND WILDLIFE SERVICES PROJECT
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
1. WORK PLAN: SCIENTIFIC SERVICES
NEAR 1 I/
1.    Recruit Chief Scientist.
2.    Evaluate current KWS research personnel in relation to program needs.
3.    Develop KWS research strategy and define research priority areas.
4.    Draft research plans (1,3 and 5 years) for priority parks, reserves and non-protected areas and
distribute for comments.
5.    Recruit core scientific staff and students to initiate research in defined priority areas.
6.    Sponsor 4 graduate students for advanced academic training (2 MSc and 2 PhD) in priority areas.
7.    Initiate discussion on establishing formal cooperative links and research collaboration with
relevant institutions and NGOs.
8.    Establish a research review committee.
9.    Define proposed KWS procedures for evaluating research proposals and distribute for comments.
10.   Review current and historical KWS research literature, reports, etc. and catalogue and archive.
11.   Develop procedures to promote information exchange between research and management
including quarterly meetings in various protected areas.
I First full project year from July 1991 to June 1992.



- 93 -
Annex 7
Appendix J
Page 2 of 9
yeteriga
1.    Recruit Chief Veterinarian.
2.    Review current KWS veterinary staff in respect to program needs in the field and HQ.
3.    Review and refine current Nairobi Animal Orphanage management strategies.
4.    Sponsor 1 Kenyan veterinary graduate for specialized training in wildlife clinical medicine.
5.    Draft proposed KWS policy on guiding principles and protocols for veterinary medical
intervention, translocation and reintroduction of wildlife and distribute for comments.
6.    Initiate dircussions with Kenyan and overseas university officials regarding the establishment of
wildlife veterinary training programs.
Ecological Monitoring
1.    Recruit Senior Ecologist.
2.    Recruit and train personnel required for HQ, field and marine ecological monitoring teams.
3.    Define baseline monitoring methodologies, including GIS, to be adopted by KWS for priority and
non priority areas.
4.    Initiate discussions with NMK, Departnent of Resources Survey and Remote Sensing, and other
relevant institutions on the establishment of standardized ecological monitoring program for
Kenya which acconunodates KWS needs.
S.    Begin baseline monitoring programs in priority management areas such as Amboseli, Aberdares,
Shimba Hills and the coast.
6.    Finalize KWS ecology research plan, which will include ongoing identification, recruitment and
training of scientific personnel.
PhYsical EailitieA
1.    Finalize building plans for research and veterinary facilities at HQ and initiate construction.
2.    Review research laboratory, herbarium and banda designs for field research stations and initiate
construction at Aberdares, Amboseli, Nakuru, Shimba Hills and one marine park.
3.    Begin rehabilitation of Tsavo East Research Station.
4.    Order office, laboratory, veterinary and field equipment and supplies. Order required wildlife and



- 94 -
Anpex 
Appendix I
Page 3 of 9
scientific journals and reference texts.
S.    Sponsor short term consultant in zoological park design to _valuate KWS Animal Orphanage
designs and arrange for KWS architect to visit established zoological facilities in other countries.
YEAR 2
Resarh
1.    Finalize KWS priority research areas, develop research strategies to address and initiate studies.
2.    Identify and sponsor 7 additional graduate students (3 MSc and 4 PhD) for graduate training.
3.    Adopt agreed upon standardized research application review procedures n,ld implement.
4.    Formalize cooperative links and collaborative research programs with appropriate NGOs and
institutions.
5.    Finalize 1,3 and 5 year research plans for each of the priority parks, reserves and non-protected
areas and begin their implementation.
6.    Continue training and secondment of research officers to priority field sites.
7.    Draft research plans for second priority parks and reserves.
8.    Initiate undergraduate summer scholarship program and sponsor 2 students.
9.    Evaluate effectiveness of management information exchange procedures and adjust accordingly.
Yeterinar
1.    Establish Capture/Translocation, Investigative and Captive Management Divisions, each to
eventually be headed by a senior veterinarian.
2.    Ensure that training has been initiated for each of the above positions, including the sponsorship
of 2 additional veterinary graduates in wildlife health and clinical medicine.
3.    Finalize wildlife policy protocols and submit to executive board for approval and implementation.
4.    Participate and assist in developing a KWS research focus which addresses wildlife disease and
parasitology infestation concerns.
F3cological MQnitoring
1.    Complete recruitment and training of personnel for KWS ecological monitoring teams.



- 95 -
Annex 7
Appendix I
Page 4 of 9
2.    Finalize standardized monitoring methodologies, including collaborative arrangements with other
institutions, and implement in all priority areas.
3.    Implement KWS ecology research program and continue staff identification, recruitment and
training.
PhWA Eili
1.    Monitor progress of HQ research and veterinary and field station facility construction.
2.    Finalize Animal Orphanage design modifications.
3.     Continue to order and receive equipment and supplies.
4.    Finalize plans for field station construction at second priority field sites.
5.    Reach formal agreement with NMK regarding Ololua wildlife laboratory, finalize building plans
and begin construction.
YEAR 3
I1.    Cornpi;te initial training of research officers, their assignment to priority field sites (Aberdares,
Amboseli, Nakuru, Shimba Hills and 2 Marine Parks) and implement work programs.
2.    Identify and sponsor 2 additional MSc students.
3.     Sponsor 4 undergraduates in summer scholarship programs.
4      3 year assessment of KWS research activities and evaluation of whether they are addressing
wiloatife management needs.
5.    Host international wildlife management and research conference (either early year 3 or late year
2 - but before three year review).
6.     Prepare research plans for project years 4-8, including detailed budget and training requirements.
1.    Return of year I clinical medicine trainees to take up posts in appropriate veterinary programs.
2.     Formalize postgraduate wildlife veterinary training program.
3.    Prepare revised plans and budgets for project years 4-8.



- 96 -
Anne7
Appendix I
Page 5 of 9
4.    Sponsor 1 veterinary graduate for advanced training.
FDco         Mnitrd
1.    Completion of recruitment and training of basic ecological monitoring teams.
2.    Provide 3 year evaluation of ecological impact of KWS park and community wildlife management
techniques.
3.    Assess impact of phased park management strategies over time.
4.    Evaluate effectiveness of monitoring techniques and revise accordingly.
hysical  cilities
1.    Complete HQ research and veterinary facility construction.
2.    Complete rehabilitation of Tsavo East Research Station.
3.    Complete construction and equipping of field research stations at Aberdares, Amboseli, Nakuru,
Shimba Hills and one marine park.
4.    Begin construction of second priority field stations at Kora and remaining marine parks
YEAR 4
Rearcl
1.    Identify and sponsor 1 additional MSc student.
2.    Sponsor 4 undergraduates in summer scholarship program.
3.    Complete PhD training for the two students sponsored in year 1.
4.    Formalize cooperative agreements and programs with NMK, KARI, KEFRI and select overseas
institutions.
5.    Publication of wildlife conference proceedings.
Veterina
1.    Complete Animal Orphanage renovation into educational facility.
2.    Complete overseas veterinary training (total 4).



- 97 -
AMPXa 7
Appendix I
Page 6 of 9
1.    Strmngen monitoring in non-priority areas, including those being promoted for tourism
divasification.
1.    Complete laboratory construction at Ololua.
YEAR 5
1.    Complete training of 4 PhD students sponsored in year 2. (Total PhD students sponsored-6)
2.    Complete all of original MSc students sponsored (8).
3.    Sponsor 4 undergraduates in summer scholarship program.
4.    Full implementation of research programs, including assignments of research personnel in each
of the 8 inland and 4 marine parks.
Ylwdna=
I.    Complete assignments of senior veterinarians to lead each of the 3 veterinary divisions with full
delegation of responsibilities.
Ecologic  Monlturing
1.    Full implementation of intense ecological monitoring programs in all 8 inland and 4 marine
priority parks.
EhWiA Emi
1.    Complete second priority field research station construction at Kora and remaining marine parks.
n. EDUC         AND VISIR SERVICES BY E1p OF PROJ ECT YEA  3
A.    Eduatn t
1.    Aquarium feasibility study completed and, if viable, construction to be included in second phase
project.
2.    Nairobi Visitor Centre constructed, partially equipped and partially operational.



-98 -
Annex 7
Appendix I
Page 7 of 9
3.    Field study contres at Voi (fully operational) and Nakuru (building work complete, centre
opetational).
4.    Visitor/infrtmation centres in Tsavos (fully operational) and Amboseli (building
work complete, partially operational).
5.    Simple information centres established in all the "priority tourism parks", with nature trails
established in three of them.
B.    Mapwer developme
1.    Core headquarters Education and Visitor Services unit established and equipped, with at
least 4 of the key positions filled with staff of appropriate calibre.
2.    Staff training programs designed and initiated.
3.    At least two man-years of overseas training completed.
C.    Materials production, exhibits and events
1.    Developed capability to produce materials ready for printing.
2.    Initi2ted production of guidebooks, newsletter, materials for information centres and
materials for special conservation programs.
3.    Significant improvements in show presentations.
D.    Other progrm
1.    Links established with printed media, radio and te'evision.
2.    Stronger links between KWS and conservation education NGOs.
3.    Support to specific Wildlife Clubs of Kenya programs initiated.
4.    Agreement with the education sector on broad area for curriculum intervention and
initiation of one joint specific curriculum development activity.
S.    Increased park visits by school groups, assisted by KWS transport or subsidy.
HI. PLANNING TARGETS BY PROJECT YEAR 3
A.    Ma=er developmen
1.    Headquarters planning department fully staffed and equipped.



_99 -
Annex
Appendix I
Page 8 of 9
2.     Staff training program 'esigned and initiated (for planning staff and wardens).
3.     Three man-years of training abroad completed.
4.     Long-term technical assistance in post, assisting development of specialist capabilities in
wetands and coastal planning.
B.    Pak and reserve syem plan
1.    Dispersal areas and other key areas for retaining wildlife outside protected areas defined
and land-use options analyzed.
2.     Memorandum of understanding with Forestry Department on joint forest management
signed and priority forests identified.
3.     Priority wetlands identified and studied.
4.     National reserve for partial or complete degazettement identified.
5.     Park and reserve system plan drawn up, on the basis of the above preparatory work and
substantial inter-sectoral discussion.
C.    Eimm  managmntDlm
1.    Five-year planning procedures refined on the basis of initial experiences and a manual
written up.
2.     Full plans prepared for the five of the priority tourism parks and all the marine parks.
These plans will be gradually modified to be plans for the entire "areas" concerned, not
just the park.
3.     Tentative, skeleton plans prepared for all other parks (sections on basic objectives and
strategy only).
4.     Plans prepaued jointly with Forestry Department for at least three of the forests to be
managed jointly.
D.    A       Annal   pet
1.    AnnUal planning process refbrmned and linked to five-year planls, where these exist.



- 100 -
Annex7
Appendix I
Page 9 of 9
KENYA
PROTUCTUD ARUAI AND WILDLIYX UERVXCBE PROJECT
Infrastructure Development
Key Performance Xndicators
91/92   92/93   93/94   94/95   95/96
*         Rehabilitation (%)        8      24       24      25       19
;Maintenance (t)         6       14       20      30       30
iuildiang
Construction (%)        10       30      30       20       10
Rehabilitation t%)
f=ipMnt.P
Procurement (%)         10       30      30       30       --
Availability (%)        20       40       60      70       80



- 101 -
AnMeg 7
Appendix It
Page I of 4
KENYA
PROTECTED ARFAS AND WILDLIFE SERVICES PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN
1.     hank Supervsion Input. The staff input indicated in the table below is in addition
to regular supervision needs for the review of progress reports, procurement actions, and
correspondence (estimated for this project to require four vtaff weeks during the first three
project years and two staff-weeks per 3 :ar thereafter).
2.    Borrower's Contribution to Supervision
(a)    Arnual Work Plans (AWP) and Budgets are to be submitted as follows:
(i)     in the form as outlined in Annex 6;
(ii)     by December 1 each year for the following year's prograi"
(iii)     by the Donor Coordination Secretariat (KWS Director's
Ofrice), which would --ordinate the AWP.
(b)    Progress reports are to be submitted as follows:
(i)     in a format, acceptable to IDA, to be discussed in detail
during the first supervision mission after project effectiveness;
(ii)     semi-annually by March 31 and September 30 of each year;
(iii)     by the Donor Coordination Secretariat (KWS Director's
Office).
(c)    The Annual Corporate Plan is to be submitted as follows:
(i)     as a five-year business pklt including financial targets,
investment program, a forecast of profitability and the
projected balance sheet;
(ii)     by March 31 of each year;
(iii)     by the Finance Office, KWS.
(d)    Project monitoring and coordination will be the responsibility of the KWS
Director's Office with inputs from the relevant implementing divisions.
Review meetings wth the participation of the various divisions will be held
normally in October of each year. The meetings will be chaired by the KWS
Director.



- 102 -
Annex 7
Appendix II
page 2 of 4
(a)    Tho Donor Coordination Socretariat will be responsible for coordinating
arranemenu for Bank and other donor supervision missions, and for
providing information required by missions.
(f)    Minion briefing meetings on arrival and wrap-up meetings will normally be
chaired by the Director of KWS with the participation of representatives of
WF.



- 103 -
Annex 7
Appendix 1I
Page 3 of 4
BANK SUPERVISION INPUT INTO KEY ACTIVITIES
Approximate
Dates                                           Expected Skills          Staff Input
(Month/Year)  Activity                          Requirement              (Staffweeks)
__________________--____________-_________________________________________________
12/91          Review tender documents          Procurement                      3.0
2/92           Project Launch Workshop          Financial analysis              12.0
(review staff reduction          Procurement
plan, first year AWP, ACP &      Disbursement
training needs assessment)       Institution-building
4/92           Review bid evaluation            Procurement                      3.0
7/92           Supervision Mission              Financial analysis              10.0
(review start-up, implement.     Conservation
of org. arrangements,            Information &
progress with MIS & account.     accounting systems
system, research program,        Sociology
revenue sharing with local       Procurement
communities, education curr.
development, fencing program,
tariff study & action plan)
12/92          Review AWP, ACP, progress        Financial analysis               2.0
of commercial accounting
system
1/93           Supervision Mission              Civil works engineering          6.0
(review infra. development,      Conservation
training program, wetland        Sociology
development, community wildlife
program)
Review tender documents          Procurement                      2.0
7/93           Supervision Mission              Financial analysis               9.0
Conservation
Sociology
Review bid evaluation            Procurement                      3.0
1/94           Supervision Mission              Financial analysis               3.0
(review AWP & ACP)



- 104 -
Annex 7
Appendix II
Page 4 of 4
6/94           Supervision Mission               Financial analysis               5.0
(review wetland masterplan Q     Conservation
institution. arrangements        Accounting
for wetland managme nt,
progrosu with comercial
accounting, elephant conserv.
program, Forestry-Wildlife
cooperation. Initiate
measures to prepare for
mid-term review)
12/94          Mid-term review                   Financial analysis              14.0
Conservation
Institution-building
Procurement
Disbursement
Sociology
6/95           Supervision Mission               Financial analysis               4.0
(review progress of actions      Institution-building
agreed at mid-term review)
Review tender documents           Procurement                      2.0
1/96           Supervision Mission               Financial analysis               9.0
(review AWP, ACP & Community     Institution-building
Wildlife Program)                 Sociology
Review bid evaluation             Procurement                      2.0
6/96           Supervision Mission               Financial analysis               9.0
Civil works engineering
Conservation
1/97           Supervision mission               Financial analysis               8.0
Institution-building
7/97           Supervision mission, inc.         Financial analysis              12.0
preparation of PCR                Institution-building
Civil works engineering
Sociology
Conservation



-  105  -                                  Tablc I
KEtiVA
PROTECIED ;iE;C AMC WILOLIFE SEtVICEIS PROJtCI
...........................................
Project invaentotito  Sch"ul
...........................     ..............................
Ifrec 14tn      P. Yr i         P  Yr 2           I           fr  yr 4      0  Yr
|wPojct  }tttlit IV  It it,li     1\1 It 11111y ItV   I I  IV  It 11 lit IV
PR11:tlWW CMIF  NTS AO  TWI_R
PAl ACTIV)t1iS
....,.........................
1  INSTITUTIOM.  TREROTNlfIMI
a    cruitment of Staff
b. Staff Traim In                   -                                                              -
ora.m  t o    cowtin#                 f        ...      .     ............
b,tablishloptegrs HU1 
;      sri Of aLObICt
2. PAIDK INFRASTRUCTIA
-"- e4port Cchool pr"r               ............ _                     _~~.........
b. SuItdng Prog.                                                                                             ........... 
a. workt  ixp                                                                                 .........      .   ............
3. CONM ITY PuVuLOaM T
a. Zstebtish cis                                    ____    _____
Al apera ts CW                                         -                             
~.WILDLIFE EDUCATION
A. Establish Visitor Centrei____________
b. Oewop Trainims  *ateria                       *_____               -
a.  tupport School program                                      ..........
S. PARK/REIIVE PLANNING                                                                        ..................-
6. SCIENTIFIC RISSAIcH                                                                                        ............____  -
T. 114115W OEVWLGPNIIT
c viom
Mid- frll
Ctteotiwo  and C. elss  g
I April 192
2)d     m Re tw       tivity
3) ...... grat  phf"tan  out



- 106 -
Annex
Page 1 of 5
KENYA
PROTECTED AREAS AND WILDLIFE SERVICES PROJECT
REVENUE PROSPECTS AND FINANCIAL IMPACT
1.    Financial projections for the base case scenario are given in Table 1, and the revenue and
costs assumptions (Tables 2 and 3) are summarized below. These projections are for a ten year
period and allow for the investment activities planned within the five year project.
2.    The assumptions for the base case scenario are as follows:
Operating Revenue:
Numbers of visitors: A conservative annual increase in Park/Reserve visitor days between 1990 and
1995 of 3% per year and constant growth thereafter.
Entrance Fees: Real increases in all fees. Most significantly, the entrance fee for adult non
residents is to rise ftom its current level of US$8 (Ksh 220) to US$20 during the life of the project
involving substantial increases in Kenya shilling terms. The assumed schedule for price increase
expressed in US$ at 1991 prices is as follows:
1991          1992         1993          1994          1995
8            14            16            18            20
lhese estimates are based on the current charging system which allows visitors to stay for a
maximum of one night and two days for the payment of one entrance fee. On this basis the average
number of entrance fees paid per person per park is 1.1.
Lodge rents: From a very low base, revenue is projected to increase sixfold as the result of
improved collection and re-negotiated leases. KWS is re-negotiating on the basis of a rent of 12.5%
of lodge income net of taxes. It is assumed that revenue will increase in years 1, 2 and 3 to 25%,
75% and 100% respectively of the potential based on existing lodges. From year 3 onwards, the rent
from new lodges is assumed to counterbalance revenue lost from old lease that prove difficult to re-
negotiate.
New Sources: These are projected to contribute US$8 million per year by year eight but to develop
gradually with very low levels in the first few years.
Govermnent Contribution
3.    The Government is expected to continue its subvention on a declining basis. It is assumed
that the amount provided in years 1, 2 and 3 will form 100%, 75% and 25% respectively of the
current Kenya Shilling contribution of Ksh 116,300.



- 107 -
Annex 8
Page 2 of S
It is assumed that aWl investment funds are provided on a grant basis and no allowance has therefore
been made for interest or amortization payments.
It Is sumed that the Government will grant KWS exemption from import taxes and duties in all
capita items procured. However, KWS will pay value added taxes on goods procured locally.
Opeating Expene
4.    Recurrent costs have been categorized into existing costs which include estimates of staffing
requirements and incremental costs which include operation and maintenance of vehicles, plant and
equipment procured by the project. Salvage revenue is to be obtained when old vehicles, equipment
and plant are sold on being replaced.
S.    The donors are to provide for all capital investment costs net of taxes and duties and 52% of
total incremental operating costs on a declining basis. The donors contribution to incremental
operating costs will decline over the five year project.
6.    KWS is committed to sharing part of its revenue with local communities. In 1991, 25% of
adult non-resident entrance fees are to be redistributed. In subsequent year there will be a moderate
increase in the amount although the percentage will decline, as the nominal amount of the fund
increases.
National Reserves
7.    The National Reserves have not been included because the timing and size of their
contribution to operating costs and revenue is not yet known. Since the revenue collected is expected
to at least match the operating costs, their inclusion will not adversely affect the cashflow projections.



KENYA
PROTECTED AREAS AND WILDLIFE SERVICES PROJECT
CASH FLOW PROJECTIONS 1990191 - 2000/1
(USL '000s at 1991 prices)
PROWISIONAL  Y1      Y2     Y3      Y4      Y5     Y6       Y7        Y8     19      Y10
1990/1  1991/2  1992/3  1993/4  1994/5  1995/6  199617  1997/8   1998/9 1999/2000 2000/1
INFLOW
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUE (a)  6,105  10,019  14,686  17.721 20.775  23,664  26,043    28,445  29,706  29,7(16 29,706
GOVERNMENT SUBVENTION       4,307  3,597   1,727    460
TOTAL INFLOW                  10,412  13.616  16,413  18.181  20.775 23,664 26,043    28,445  29,706  29,706 29,706
VUTFLOW
OPERATING EXPENSES (b)      10,624  11,368  13,709  15,530  17,037 18,732 20,412    20,412 20,412  20,072 20,072
REVENUE SHARING                     1,475  1,685   1,959  2,246  2,393  2,393        2,393   2,393   2,393  2,393
TOTAL                         10,624  12.843  15,393  17,488 19,283 21,124 22,805    22,805  22,805  22,465  22,465
NET CASN FLOW                   (212)   m    1,019    693  1,492  2,539  3,238         5,641   6,901   7,241  7,241
_ A
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U



IENYA
PROTECTED AREAS AND WILDLIFE SERVICES PROJECT
XMS RVENUE PROJECTIONS FOR 1991/2 TO 1998/9
(US$ '0008 at 1991 prices)
Yi      Y2      Y3       Y4      Y5       Y6      Y7   YB onwards
1991/2  1992/3  1993/4  1994/5  1995/6  1996/7  1997/8   1998/9
Entrance Fees                    9,180  13,108  15,157  17,146  18,163  18,163  18,163        18,163
Season tickets                     239      246     254      261     265     265      265        265
Camping Revenue                     200     206     212      219     222      222     222        222
Lodge Rents                         318     838   1,481   1,712   1,722   1,722   1,722        1,722
i.-
Nairobi Visitors Centre                                              211      537     ass      1,11e
New sources                         82      287     616   1,438   3,081   5,134   7,188        8,215
GRAND TOTAL                     10,019  14,686  17,721  20,775  23,664  26,043  28,445        29,706



KEnYA
PROTECTED AREAS AND WILDLIFE SERVICES PROJECT
KWS OPERATING EXPENSES 1990191 TO 2000/1
(USS 'OO0S in constant 1991 prices)
ACTUAL  Y11       Y2      Y3      Y4      Y5      Y6      Y7      Y8      Y9      Y10
1990/91 1991/2 1992/3 19'33A i9i4;5 199516 iV9677 1997/6 1998/ 1999/2000 2000/1
COSTS
1. IECODRENT COSTS
INCREIENTAL COSTS
Operations 4 Maintenance          3,000  4,485   6,717   7,828  8,001  8,001   8,001   8,001    8,001   8,001
Lo.at contracted staff              734   1,007   1,160   1,190   1.208   1,208   1,208   1,208   1,206   1,206
Office expenses                      37      50      58      60      60      60      60      60       60      60
Contingencies                       373     549     788    902    921       921    921    921        921    921
SUBTOTAL                          4,14"   6,092  8,723   9,980  10,190  10,190  10,190  10,190   10,190  10,190
EXISTING COSUITNENTS
Staff Costs               7,489  7,236   8,142   8,142   8,142  8,142  8,142  8,142  8,142    8,142  8,142
Office expenses             197    362      407    407    407    407    407    407    407            407    407
Training                                                                    820    820    820        820    820
Operations and Mtce.      2,939   2,939   2,509  2,080   1,650  1,650   1,650   1,650   1,650    1,650   1,650
SUBTOTAL                 10,624  10,536  11,058  10,629  10,199 10,199  11,019  11,019  11,019   11,019  11,019
TOTAL RECtRRENT COSTS    10,624  14,680  17,151  19,352  20,179 20,389 21,209 21,209  21,209   21,209 21,209
SALVAGE REVENUE                                                                     797     797    797    1,137   1,137
NET OPERATING COST               10,624  14,680  17,151  19,352  20,179 20,389 20,412 20,412  20,412   20,072  20,072
CAPITAL ITEMS                               417  2,041   1,412    850    380                                                                                      e
TOTAL OPERATING BUDGET           10,624  15,097  19,192 20,763 21,029 20,770  20,412  20,412  20,412   20,072  20,072                                       0
0
DONORS                                    3,729  5,483   5,234  3,992  2,038
KWS                              10,624  11,368  13,709  15.530  17,037  18,732  20,412 20,412  20,412   20,072  20,072
- -- -U--- - - - - -- - - . .   - . . - - . . . . - . - - . - -   . .   - - . . . - - . -   . - . . -.



- Ill -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 10
KENYA
PROTECTED AREAS AND WILDLIFE SERVICES PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Introduction
1.           One of the major benefits of the project is its impact on the tourism industry. Kenya's
unique attraction as a tourist destination is dependent on its reputation as a country with considerable,
and easily viewable wildlife resources. Admittedly, many tourists visit Kenya's beach resorts but it is
the prospect of wildlife viewing that sets Kenya apart from other possible tourist destination. Hence
Kenya's tourist industry is critically dependent on its wildlife parks and reserves and from a
macroeconomic point of view the project would have a critical impact on Kenya's ability to earn
foreign exchange on a sustainable basis in the long term. This assertion forms the basis for estimating
the economic impact of the project. In calculating a rate of return, the economic benefits accruing to
the tourism sector from the project have been estimated. No attempt has been made to quantify the
additional environmental benefits that are not reflected in the returns to the tourism sector.
Economic Benerits from the Tourism Industry
2.           The project is designed to improve policy making and institutional performance in the
wildlife sector. This is expected to strengthen the wildlife tourism industry and te impact on the
following:
(a)   the average amount that each wildlife tourist contributes to the economy. The project
is intended to improve the quality of a visitors' experience by upgrading the standard
of Park management and increasing the range of services and facilities provided.
KWS is planning to increase its entrance fees from the current value of US$° to
US$20 during the project so that they better reflect the value that visitors attach to
wildlife viewing. This level of increase is supported by a recent revenue study and
discussions with the tourism trade which indicate that visitors will be prepared to meet
the cost. For this analysis the proposed increase is used as an indicator of the benefits
that will accrue to the economy. This is justified on the grounds that the increase
would not be possible without the proposed investments. Since, the charge is a
relatively small proportion of the average cost of a safari holiday and will not
significantly reduce Kenya's competitiveness, the increase is unlikely to affect
adversely tourism numbers or result in a decrease in expenditure on other items.
(b)   the number of tourists visiting Kenya's parks and reserves. Without the project,
tourism is expected eventually to decline due to deteriorating infrastructure and low
standards of protected area management in the face of growing competition. With the
project, the number is likely to continue to increase as Kenya would be in a position
to benefit from the continued expansion of the eco-tourism market.
3.           Sensitivity analysis has been carried out on the likely trends. For the base case it is
assumed that with the project, visitor numbers will rise at 3% per year for a ten-year period and be



- 112 -
Annex 9
Page 2 of 10
stable thereafter. This is conservative based on average rises in visitor numbers to Kenya in the 1980s
of 8% per year, which wildlife tourism has made an important contribution to. Although Kenya is
likely to face growing competition from other wildlife destinations, this project should enable it to
maintain its comparative advantage in wildlife viewing. This level of increase would mean a rise in
the number of Park and Reserve visitor days of about 30% from approximately 980,000 to 1,270,000
over the twenty-year period. Kenya's capacity for wildlife tourism is likely to exceed this level
provided the planned initiative to improve the distribution and management of tourists is put into
effect. Without the project it is assumed that the rate of increase will steadily decline from 3% in the
first year to 0% in year five; be stable from years five to ten; decline by 2% per year thereafter.
4.            The benefits have been calculated as follows:
(a)   the benefit from increased expenditure as a result of the improved quality of wildlife
viewing is calculated assuming that visitor days increase by 3% a year for the first ten
years and that each visitor contributes an additional US$3 in year 1, US$8 in year 2,
ez   US$10 in year 3 and US$12 from year 4 onwards in line with the planned price
increases.
(b)   the benefit resulting from the project's positive effect on the number of wildlife
tourists has been determined based on the net contribution made by wildlife tourism to
the economy and the trends in visitor numbers outlined above. The net contribution
for wildlife tourism for 1991 was estimated to be US$42 million and was determined
as follows:
(i)      An estimate of gross tourism receipts is produced by the Central
Bureau of Statistics each year based on a sample of returns from
tourism related businesses. In order to assess the reliability of this
source, estimates for 1989 have been considered in the context of
other known information: tourism receipts formed 52% of all income
received by the related national accounts category Trade, Restaurants
and Hotels and were equivalent to US$42 per visitor day. This is not
unreasonable but suggests that tourism receipts may be
underestimated. The gross receipts for 1990 were approximately
US$400 million at the current exchange rate.
(ii)     Wildlife based tourism is an important element of the tourism market.
In 1990 about 10% of bednights spent in hotels in Kenya was in Park
and Reserve lodges. In addition, tourists visiting Kenya for wildlife
viewing generally spent time in Nairobi and Mombasa. For this
analysis, it is assumed that a wildlife tourist stays in Park and Reserve
lodges for 25% of the time. On this basis 40% of hotel bednights
would be occupied by wildlife tourists. Due to limited reliable data,
no allowance has been made for the fact that tourists on wildlife and
combined wildlife and coastal holidays have been shown to spend
more than coastal holiday makers. On this basis 40% of gross tourism
receipts are attributable to wildlife tourism.
(iii)     As an indicator of the percentage of gross wildlife tourism receipts
that are a net benefit to the economy, the percentage of gross receipts



_ 113 -
Annex 
Page 3 of 10
from the Trade, Restaurants and Hotels sector that are included in the
national accounts as an operating surplus was determined. In 1991 the
percentage was 43% excluding intermediate consumption and labour
costs. On the assumption that capital depreciation accounts for 10%
of value added and that 25% of gross returns are repatriated, the net
returns to the Kenyan economy from the tourism sector are 25% of
gross returns.
S.            In calculating the net contribution from tourism in this way, no allowance has been
made for the benefits associated with employment creation which would be positive due to there being
some unemployment but difficult to quantify.
Costs
6.            In estimating the cost stream for the economic analysis only the investment costs
associated with the major parks (Nairobi, Lake Nakuru, Aberdares, Tsavo East, Tsavo West and
Mount Kenya) and major reserves (Masai Mara and Samburu) were included in the main analysis.
ITese costs account for about 55 percent of the total costs of the project. This is justified given that
the main thrust of the project is to assist KWS develop the revenue earning potential of the major
parks and eventually the major reserves. The revenue earning potential of these parks and reserves
would critically impact on the financial viability of KWS and on the economic benefits to Kenya from
wildlife based tourism, given that about 95 percent of all wildlife viewing visitors to Kenya go to
these major parks and reserves. The success of these parks and reserves in generating revenues by
increasing visitor satisfaction as a result of improved park and reserve management would ultimately
underpin KWS's other programs from which benefits are not so easily quantifiable (such as education
services, community wildlife program, elephant and rhino protection programs and fencing).
7.            The costs include capital investment and replacement costs, and incremental operating
expenses for the range of activities detailed in the Staff Appraisal Report. For this anal) .;is,
investments in tourism are assumed to include all costs associated with Park and Reserve
management, KWS security operations and protected area plannirg including a proportion of
headquarter overhead expenses. This excludes a range of KWS activities including educational
services, the community wildlife programme, research and fencing. In practice there is some overlap
between these two sets of activities: park and reserve management includes some investments that are
not justified purely in terms of tourism; similarly aspects of the community wildlife and research
programmes are important for the survival of the tourism industry. However, in broad terms, the
distinction drawn provides a useful indication of the investments that are required to service the
tourism industry.
8.           Ta calculating the costs, no allowance has been for the opportunity costs associated
with restricting land-use options in protected areas and maintaining wildlife on private land. There is
no reliable data on which to base such an estimate for the country as a whole. In the arid and semi
arid lands, which contain 86% of the protected areas, studies suggest that in many places the



- 114 -
Annex 9
Page 4 of 10
opportunity cost of wildlife on private land is low because the most suitable land use is a combination
of extensive livestock rearing and tourism. I/ Due to the growing pressure fo r
land in the high and medium potential agricultural areas, there is, however, a significant opportunity
cost associated with the Parks and Reserves in these agro-ecological zones.
Economic Rate of Return
9.            The cost and benefit streams are given in Table 1. Based on the above assumptions,
the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) works out to 36 percent. For the purpose of comparison the
ERR, taking into account the total costs of the five year project (i.e not restricting the costs to only
those associated with the main parks and reserves) works out to 13 percent (Table 2). The foreign
exchange component of costs and benefits have been adjusted by a standard conversion factor of 0.92
to reflect the scarcity of foreign exchange to the economy The calculations suggest that the
investments directly related to the tourism industry are economically viable.
Sensitivity Analysis
10.          Sensitivity analysis carried out suggests that the ERR for the main analysis is
acceptable under a range of scenarios.
11.          There is inevitably some uncertainty regarding the size of the project's impact on the
tourism industry. The results are sensitive to the level of increase in expenditure by tourists as a
result of improvements in wildlife viewing. If the benefits were only 75% of those anticipated
(which would be equivalent to US$8 for each park visitor day) the rate of return would be 22%.
Changes in the assumptions regarding trends in tourism numbers also have a significant impact on the
rates of return. If the project were to have no impact on the number of visitors during the first five
years so that numbers increased by 3% per year both with and without the project, the rate of return
would fall to 26% for the tourism-related activities. If these two scenarios were combined so that the
benefits from improvements in wildlife viewing were only 75% of those anticipated and the project
had no impact on visitor numbers for the first five years, the rate of return would be 17%. Sensitivity
analysis has also been run with higher than planned investment costs. The project does not include
the cost of investing in the access roads to the major tourism areas, which is likely to be important for
improving the quality of a visitor's experience. If the 330 kilometres, which have been identified as
priority by KWS, are included in the investment costs, the ERR falls to 26% for tourism related
activities. If the costs were 20% more than anticipated throughout the project, the ERR would fall to
19%. If this 20% cost increase was combined with the scenario where the benefits from improved
wildlife viewing were only 75% of those anticipated, the rate of return would be 13%. This
sensitivity analysis confirms that the park and reserve investments are likely to be justified by the
returns from tourism.
I/ Studies include (i) Douglas-Hamilton 1. & Associates (1988) "Identification Study for
Conservation and Sustainable Use of the Natural Resources in the Kenya Portion of the Mara-
Serengeti Ecosystem," European Development Fund, and (ii) Annex 6 of KWS's Policy
Framework and Development Program 1991-96 (1990) on "Community Conservation and
Wildlife Management outside Parks and Reserves."



- 115 -
Annex 2
Page 5 of 10
Environmental and Social Benefits
12.          There are environmental and social benefits associated with this project which are not
fully reflected in the tourism returns. Although no attempt has been made to attach a monetary value
to these benefits, an indication of their importance can be obtained from a review of the various
contributing factors:
13.          Rural Development. Land-use is sub-optimal because local communities
underestimate the economic value of wildlife due to the limited opportunities for them to earn income
from this source. This is demonstrated by recent studies of the areas surrounding Maasai Mara and
Amboseli which demonstrate that gross income from tourism per hectare far exceeds that from other
sources and that only a small proportion is received by local communities. This is being addressed by
the Community Wildlife Programme which is seeking to improve the opportunities for local
communities to generate income from tourism. In addition, the improvements in informatior on the
economic value of wildlife and the requirements for its maintenance are likely to improve the quality
of Government decisions regarding land-use. The resulting improvement in land-utilization is
partially reflected in the tourism benefits. However, there are additional benefits associated with
improved income distribution, a reduction in environmentally damaging agricultural practices and a
reduction in the environmental pressure caused by tourist activities being largely limited to protected
areas.
14.          As a result of improved wildlife management, KWS expects to be a position to re-
introduce controlled consumptive utilization which will be an additional source of rural income. This
will initially involve the granting of game cropping licences on a pilot basis. There will be additional
benefits associated with the fencing programme which will reduce the loss of income, property and
life caused by wildlife damage.
15.          This project will also ensure that the protected area system contributes to the
environmental well-being of the country by protecting water catchments, limiting soil erosion and
reducing vulnerability to climatic change.
16.          Non Consumptive Use Value. Tourism receipts underestimate wildlife's non-
consumptive use value because they are not indicative of the value visitors attach to using the resource
(the consumer surplus) and do not include the benefits derived from species through mvdia such as
film, video and television. A recent survey of wildlife tourists suggests that visitors would be
prepared to pay an average of US$100 towards wildlife conservation if it provided a guaranlee that
the elephant population would be maintained at the current level. Z/ At current visitor leveis, it is
estimated that this willingness to pay would amount to US$25 to US$30 million per year.
17.          Option and Existence Values. Table 3 provides an indication of the importance of
Kenya's protected areas for maintaining biodiversity. There are option values attached to the
maintenance of biodiversity because it allows Kenya and the international community the option to use
the animal or plant species for productive purposes in the future. There are also existence values
which people attach to the knowledge that species or habitat exist regardless of whether they have the
a/ Brown G.(1989) 'Ihe Viewing Value of Elephants" in "The Ivory Trade and the Future of
the African Elephant," Ivory Trade Review Group, volume 2, technical reports.



- 116 -
Annex 9
Page 6 of 10
opportunity to visit, These are likely to be particularly significant for some of Kenya's large mammal
species such as elephants and rhinos, and various cats.
18.           When the above environmental and social benefits are taken into account, there is a
strong case fbr sugesting that the economic rate of return of 13% for the total project is acceptable.



EDOlUC UfYSIS: Ft MI) IEM IUbIIIIT
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~............................................................................. .............................................. ............................................... .............. ...................  . ........ ...........___
P91    PV2   PY3    PY4    Pl5    PY6    P7    P18    P19    PY10    711   P72         1    P114  1915    716    MT17   9              P9 FM  F
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .... ......................................................................................................  __ ...   ----------------------------  -_-
CaGts   Mn PrIws:-
Project Csts: Cqital  d Iraw talt        '.54  24.58  23.1   15 56   9.11   0.10   O.D   0.O0   0.0   0.00   0.0   0.130   0.00   0.00   0..t        0.30   0.00   0A.0    O.0D  0.10  -T.*
Pst toJwt CoAts: Ilnal   r               or.eo o.t 0.00   0.    040   0.0D   0.00   2.82  2L2   2.2   4.02   4.02   4.02   4.02   4.0    4.    4.02   4.0*   4.0    40    4 * 4.    4.0
Eq pwt rq laPt    0.00   0.00   0.00   o.eo   0.           5.77   5.77   5.77   5.77   5.77   5.77   5.77   5.77   5.77   5.77   5.77   5.77   5.77   5.77   5.7n   0..0
Total                                    2.54  24.58  ZDAI8  15.56   9.11   8.59   8.59   8.59   9.79   9.79   9.79   9.79   9.79   9.79   9.79   9.79   9.79   9.79   9.79   9.79  -3.X
CSs usirW  9iw  Exdw   Rote:-
,faeilg edW e  et                        1.35  13.09  11.08   8.29   4.05   5.62   5.62   5.62   6.01   6.01   6.01   6.01   6.01   6.01   6.01   6.01   6.01   6.01   6.01   6.01  -2.56
Locat c0t                                1.30  12.54  10.61   7.94   4.64   3.41   3.41   3.41   4.26   4.26   4.26   4.26   4.26   4.26   4.        4.26   4.26   4.26   4.26   4.26   0O.I
0.ao   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.ao
Cost   crv  fior semitiity anslysis      0.00   O.0   o.ao   0.0   o.a  o.          0.00   0.00 o.0o   o.ao   0.00   0.00   0.00   o.ao   o.0o   0.00   0.00   o.eo   oo   0.00   0.110
0.00   O.C0   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
Total.                                   2.65  25.63  21.70  1623   9.50   9.04   9.04   9.a4  10.27  10.27  10.27  10.27  102   10.27  10.27  10.27  10.27  10.27  10.27  10.27  -3.3
8IEFITS f.R  WItDULFE TOAI-I
Widh Projet:
knal X Oi e in the *Awr of Tarists          3X    3X    3X       31      3X     31     31    3X      3X     3X    tl       OX     CX     ax     CR    Ct       C      CR     (t    CR a           I
Met Irfmnital Tarign Receipts (a)        1.80   3.65   S.56   7.53   9.56  114  13.79  16.01  18.29  20.63  20.63  20.63  20.63  20.63  20.63  20.63  20.63  2063  20.63  20.63  20.6
Reie fran qnprad itdiife Viewinrg (b    2.92   8.02  10.32  12.76  13.14  13.53  13.4  1436  14.79  15.23  15.23  15.23  15.23  15.23  15.23  15.23  15.23  15.23  15.23   523  15.23
S9*total                                 4.72  11.67  15.8B  20.29  22.70  25.18  27.73  30.36  33.07  35.87  35.87  35.87  35.87  35.87  35.87  35.87  35.87  35.87  35.87  35.87  h8
withlit Project
rtl XOwae in the Amber of Tarists           31     31    Z3      12      ax     CR     ox     ax     a      at    -Z3    -23    -23    -ZX    -Z.    -V.   -.3    -.3       -23   -.3    -2
Met Ircmwetal Taris. Reeipts             1.80   3.65   4.93   5.58   5.58   5.58   5.58   5.58   5.58   5.58   4.26   2.95   1.72   0.49  -0.72  -1.91  -3.07  -4.21  -53   -6.42  -7.49
TOTAL (Oarket prices)                      2.92   8.02  M.96  14.71  17.12  19.60  22.16  24.79  27.50  30.29  31.60  32.89  34.15  35.35  36.59  37.78  38.94  40.fw  41.19  42.29  43.36
TOTAL CAtlairg fw Iwbi Exdwe Rate)         3.17   8.71  11.91  15.99  18.61  21.30  24.08  24.94  2.89  32.92  3435  35.75  37.12  38.46  39.77  41.06  4232  43.56  44.77  S5.95  47.13
ET EIEFITS                                 0.52 -16.92  -9.79  -0.24   9.11  12.27  15.05  17.91  19.62  22.65  24.08  25.48  26.5  28.19  29.50  3D.79  32.05  3329  34.50  25.69  50.57
Ecs ic Rate Of ReturJ                     36.Z
met Pat vain at 1at .:                   100.32
(a) This refes to dwes in nut receipts a a reiAt of dw      in dhe naber of visitos  d Is b      n
edstilrg     diui   Iat u.
(b) Ihis reflts ies in mwe   dint we a rest of hier epaditme lewets foltladrg  hpxuws
in the qmLity of witdtife vin.ir
CD



llIC f.SIS: T1DAL J.DAET IiliAui
Pn     PY2    Pm3    P74    PVS    P76    PV7    PIS    P99    PnO   Pn1   Pn2    713   P14   PfUs   P6   "1    Pns   Pn9  s9   PV0
O at NMus Price:-
Proect Gon: Cwittl md kutat              1130  43.53  33.72  24.22  15.50   o.eo   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.0o   0.00   0.00   o.0o   o.0o   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.0a   0.00  -12A3
Pwt Projct Costs: limtl  t                o.aot 0.00   0.00   0.00   O.O 0.00   4.98   4.93   4.98   7.11   7.11   7.11   7.11   7.11   7.11   7.11   7.11   7.11   7.11   7.11   7.11   7.11
Eqipt rqpilt            0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.0o  10.19  10.19  10.19  10.1   10.19  10.19  10.19  10.19  10.19  10.19  10.19  10.19  10.19  10.19  10.19   0.00
TotdA                                    113D  43.53  33.72  24.2  15.50  15.17  15.17  15.17  1730  17.30  17.30  17.30  17.30  17.30  17.30  1730  1730  17.3   17.30  17.30  -5.72
Ostwirs Uesbi Exdw  Rate:-
Foreign adww ccst                         6.02  23.19  17.96  12.90    .26   9.93   9.93   9.93  10.62  10.62  10.62  10.62  10.62  10.62  10.62  10.62  1042  10.62  10.62  10.62  -4.52
Lesat et                                  5.76  22.2)  17.20  123    7.91   6.03   6.03   6.03   7.52   7.52   7.52   7.52   7.52   7.52   7.52   7.52   7.52   7.2   7.52   7.52  -1.57
Cost Irumes for semitivity alysts        0.00   o.0o   0.00   o.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   O.O0   0.00   o.0o   0.00   0.00   O.OD
Toutl                                    11.78  45.39  35.16  2S.25  16.17  15.9S  15.96  15.96  18.14  18.14  18.14  18.14  18.14  18.14  18.14  18.14  18.14  18.14  18.14  18.14  -6.08
EFITS FR  UIIDLIFE maRIS
_._...........................
With Projet:
Aut Y. Qe in the &bew of Tarists             3X     35     3X      3X     3X     3X      3X     3X     3X      3X     oX     CX     OX      OX     Ox    (a       oX     oX     cm     ox      0'
Uet Ircruutal TaIrim Receipts (a)         1.80   3.65   5.56   7.53   9.56  11.64  13.79  16.01  18.29  20.63  20.63  20.63  20.63  20.63  20.63  20.63  20.63  20.63  2D.63  20.63  20.63
Reume  raf    ro lodp  ildtife VieAre (b)   2.92   8.02  10.32  12.76  13.14  13.53  13.94  14.36  14.79  15.23  15.23  15.23  15.23  15.23  15.23  15.23  15.23  15.23  15.23  15.23  15.23..
9.htotal                                  4.72  11.67  15.88  20.29  22.70  25.18  Z7.73  30.36  33.07  35.87  35.87  35.87  35.87  35.87  35.87  35.87  35.87  35.87  35.87  35.87  35.87 :
ithLs Project
at Xhaw eIn the 1Ate  of To.rists            3X     3X     2X      1X     0      oX     OX      OX     OX uo    -2X    -X -2               -2     -       -2     -a    -23     -      -2X    -2
Net lnm:tal TaLris Receipts               1.a0   3.65   4.93   5.58   5.58   5.58   5.58   5.58   5.58   5.58   4.26   2.9s   1.72   0.49  -0.72  -1.91  -3.07  -4.21  -5.33  -6.42  -7.49
TOTAL Obrket prices)                        2.92   8.02  10.96  14.71  17.12  19.60  22.16  24.79  27.50  30.29  31.60  32.89  34.15  35.38  36.59  37.78  38.94  40.08  41.19  42.29  43.36
TOTAL (Ati0r0 for ta- kw EDwhoe Rate)       3.17   8.71   11.91  15.99  18.61  21.30  24.08  26.S4  29.as  32.92  34.35  35.75  37.12  38.46  39.77  41.06  42.32  43.56  44.77  45.96  47.13
NET  BEFITS                                -8.61  -36.67 -23.25  -9.26   2.44   5.34   8.12  10.98  11.74  14.78  16.20  17.60  18.97  20.31   21.63  22.92  24.18  25.42  26.63  27.82  53.21
,..........
Eacimc Rate of Return                      12.8X
Net Prest Value at 10k                     19.90
Po s:
.t) This refrs to dues In ret receipts as a remAt of dwres in the nuer of visitors and is lbae on
existir NwdIWre patt;m.
(b) This reflects ircres in remim that ae a resAt of hiier eqwditre lewets fottowirg iapvewits
in the qality of wildlife vieiire.
00
aRt



- 119 -
Annex 9
Poge 9 of 10
Table 3, Page 1
KENYA
PROTECTED AREAS ANW WILDLIFE SERVICES PROJECT
IMPORTANCE OF PARKS, RESERVES AND FORESTS FOR BIODIVERSITY AND TOURISM
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . ... ... ....... ............ .... ...... ..... ........ ..........................................
bae            lUS     Investments      Tourism           High       Endangered/rare sp cies     Representation   Management
Natiofal Parks   Nanao gent 5 yrs £ yrs Present - Potential Diversity Elephants   Other  nt. - Locrl    in system         Pressure
................ y............------------.  .. ---------...... ..--------------................. 2----------2-------------------------------------------..................
Ambos*eI              Y         2             H         H                      2        2                          2/1              2
Central Island        Y                I      L         L
Chyutu                Y         I      I      L         H                      2                                                    1
Nalles Gate           Y         1             N         N
lisfte Marine         V          I            L         N4            2                                                             2
lore                  Y             1         L        L/M                     2                                                    1
Lake Nekuru           Y         2             H         H             2                              2               1              2
.  !e:rirA       Y          2           N/H        H             2                                                             2
lka Marl            Y               1       L         L                     2
Y         1     1      L          u            2        2         2                                          1
ru                  Y         1     1       H         H                      2                                                    t
Narfnr        Y         2            H/H        H                                                                          2
)n            Y          1     1      L        N/H            2        2        2                                           2
(a            Y          2           Y/H         H            2        2        2                                           1
rPowt           Y         I            L/N       N/H
i                         2             H         H                     2         2                                          1
.~. metan             V                ¶      L         L
O  Doinyo Sabuk       Y                1     L/N        N
Rum                   Y          1     1      L         N                      2        2            2               1              1
Saiwa Swamp           Y                1      N         N            2                               2               2              1
Sibilof               Y          1     1      L         L                                                                           1
South Island          Y                I      L         L
Tsavo East            V         2      1      N         H                      2        2                                           2
Tsavo West            Y         2      1      N         H                      2        2                                           2
Forests (gazetted)
Arabuko Sokoke       E/R         I            L         H                      2        2                            1              2
Nas_ngs              E/R         1     1      L         H             2                 2                                           1
Ngong hills          E/R         1            L         M             2
Rau                  E/R         I     I      L         H             2        2        2                                           2
National Reserves
Arawale               N                1      L         L                      2        2
Iflsnadf              N                I      L         L                      2
Boni                  N                1      L         L                      2        2
Buffalo Springs       N                2     N/H        H                      2                                                    1
Dodori                N                I      L         L                      2                                     2
7                   N         1      1      N         N             2                 2             2              2              2
KIwarok               N                       L         L                      2                                                    1
Kerfo Vallty          N                1      L        L/N                     2
Klung HarIne          N                1      L         L             2                 2                                           2
LakelBogorfa          N          1     2      N         H                                             2              1
Losad                 N                I      L         L                      2
NaMsa  Mora           N                2      H         H                      2        2                                           2
aralal Sanctuary      N                      L/N        N
Narsabit              V          1     1      L         N             2        2        2                                           1
H"ea                  N                I      L         L                                                                           1
Maselot               E          1     1      L        L/N                     2
North Kituf           N                       L         L
Rahole                N                1      L         L                      2
Saahuru               N                2      HN                               2        2                                           1
Shaba                 N                2      L        N/H                     2        2
Shimba HIlts          r         2             N         H                      2        2             2                             2
South Kitul           N                       L        L/H
South Turkna          N                1      L        L/N                     2
T     Rver Pri_ t    e        GEF             L         N                      2        2                                           2
Wsta  arlne           R                1    H/H   N                   2                                                             2



- 120 -
Annex 9
Page 10 of 10
Table 3, Pag 2
NOTE
This is a preliminary assessment using readily available information and expert opinIon.   The feportanee of these
protected ares wtll be critically examined in the preparation of the system plan.
KEY
KIdS *enag emnt
Y - yes
E - Expected shortly
R - Responsibilities shared
Investurts:
2 - priority attention
I - investment activities
GEF - Global Envirorment Facility
minimtl Input
Tourism: f rtsne
H - M7g
N - medium
L - low
Diversity of plant/animtl species:
2 - particularly high
Endangered peifes
2 - present
- not present
Internationally endangered/rare species (exluding elephants):  ammals include Rhino  Bongo, Hunter's
Antelope. Jackson's Hartebeest Tana River Red Colobus monkey, Tana Crested "angabey monKey and dugong.
Ther* are also mwny plants, and some reptile and bird species.
Locally ndangered/rare mameals: Sable, Roan Antelope. Sitatunga, Greater Kudu and other monkeys.
Representation of biotic coemumities in system
(based on classification in Annex 4 of KWS' five year investment programm)
2 - minimal (Represented In only one protected areas)
I - inadequate (Represented In two protected areas)
- adequate (Represented in 3 protected areas or more)
Mnagement Pressure from inside and/or outside protected area
Z - serious pressure
i - some ioportant management issues to be addressed



- 121 -
Annex 10
Page 1 of 2
KENYA
PROTECTED AREAS AND WILDLIFE SERVICES PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
Project Preparation Phase
1.    KWS - Five Year Policy Framework and Investment Program
2.    Park and Reserve Roads Study by Kabururu, Okello and Partners
3.    USAID Park Rehabilitation and Management Project Document - July 1990
4.    Mara Conservation Project - EEC Financing Report April 1989
5.    The Wildlife (Conservation and Management) Amendment Act December 6,1989
6.    A Proposal for the Establishment of the International Trust for Kenya Wildlife
Service, by Turner, Kenneth, Brown Consultants, London, England, dated March
1991.
Appraisal Phase
1.    Conservation of Biodiverse Resources Project - USAID Project Document August
21,1991.
2.    Draft Project Proposal Wetlands and Marine Development component - Government  of
Netherlands Consultant Report dated June 27,1991
3.    Wildlife Projects in Kenya - World Bank, April 1991
4.    Department of Resource Surveys and Remote Sensing Project Proposal, December 8,
1990
5.    Appraisal Mission Working Papers (July 1991)
(a)    KWS Institutional Analysir
(b)    Community Conservation and Wildlife Management
(c)    Priorities for the Community Wildlife Program
(d)    Park and Reserve Area Management Planning
(e)    Wildlife Education and Visitor Services
(f)    Scientific Services
(g)    Naivasha Wildlife and Fisheries Training Institute
(h)    Elephant Conservation and Management
(i)    Wetlands and Marine Parks
6.    EEC Draft Financing Proposal "Elephant Program" August 1991



- 122 -
Annex 10
Page 2 of 2
Sectoral Pagers
1.    Kenya Tourism Study by Thea Sincla -, 1990 World Bank Consultant Study.
2.    Kenya's Legal and Institutional Structure for Environmental Protection and Natural
Resource Management - Susan Bragdon, December 1990, EDI, The World Bank.
3.    Elephants, Economics and Ivory by David Pearce at al, 1190
4.    Economics of Protected Areas by John Dixon and P. Sherman, 1990



SUDAN                                   /                                                          KENYA
,  >  WILDLIFE AND PROTECTED AREAS
MANAGEMENT PROJECT
,\  ~~~~~~~~~0
UGANDA                                                                                                                     WI
40~~~~
0         CITIESD A N  TON    j                                                                                                                  ;,t  /  , 
4 \ X X X | ~~~SAO,AWA                                         MtIIL  IA
ROD                                     MOP                 KEIV&E             OTtO          I
4S NAIN  IROT                                  OOOOAT
. INYNTOA                     --POT  AEPISLO            LWX   \                          1 O                                                      ,
,>    1   \     I     ( I v         ~~~ ~~                   ~          ~~~~~I { \,  I                     5 A
N A I  B           0000
-- ~ RrVPR                     AOEIALP                                                                         --01  MOO--AS
,r-AREASOFMAJORLAN     EORANSCONFLICT          ,,3\0000
WILDLIFE DISPERSAL AREAS/CCRRIDORS                     ~                                 
fAREAS OF POTENTIAL FUTURE LAND USE CONFLICT)5Ji \...............)
,        NATIONAL PARKS                                                  }                               ~     gMktD           
-t MARINEOPARKS                                                                   -   U                                ;
LNATONAL RESERVES        N           tIOSAPUI    p _S   .A              1 10
N f                              1 rONALSANCTUARY  00  000010           ,0           R                                                                - r
ATN.  (0 IS00.        NATIO-1.0 10ER ,E  IMPALr                                                                                  Nc
*         CIIE  AND TOWNS                                IrSA91O IO L  MSOB
NATIONALOCAPITEONAL   1E    i    UNA EL          ,  SUF- OSRKISMA        iE               
ROADS ~      ~        ,  HERGAT              KEROALOUE         MRNRSRS(                                                        \        I..
INE NAIOALAJRPRT      ,, FEPTEt 6-DL        LIK BMV/EAXl  A,L.
KRILOkFRS                   ,.   IOIOSdK         .MSI MIAPA             ML-D
nNENTOA BO x>         LJNDARIES  ..               fAXE4I      S MUHKIU         vAGM                                                .-
l   I   I  I    I   I     I    .] ~~~~~~IWS AMBS   *X          WOI FUNLT RSRGE
D  1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I.1                                             WFOCES F AETEAElT  



